 LEVERAGING 
OUR STRENGTHS
ANNUAL REPORT 
& ACCOUNTS  
2014
EVERY DAY 
EVERYWHERE
LEVERAGING OUR STRENGTHS  ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 Alent will leverage its competitive 
advantage, its global market leadership 
and its financial strength to consistently 
outperform its core markets.
GLOBAL MARKET LEADER
Alent is a global supplier of specialty 
chemicals and engineered 
materials with #1 and #2 
global market share positions. 
COMPETITIVE 
ADVANTAGE
Our competitive advantage 
is our OEM-focused strategy 
backed up by our R&D 
capabilities and our global 
manufacturing footprint.
We build long-term, 
collaborative relationships 
with our customers, working 
with them to gain a deep 
understanding of their 
manufacturing processes 
and future material needs.
We add quantifiable 
value to their businesses 
by providing specialty 
chemicals and engineered 
materials which allow 
them to increase the 
efficiency and quality 
of their operations and 
products – both existing 
and next generation.
Our leading technologies 
are supported by “copy 
exact” production, “just in 
time” supply, outstanding 
technical service and 
global R&D resources. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 01  
CONTENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
02 Key Highlights
04 Chairman’s Letter
06 Chief Executive’s Statement
08 Our Business
09 Our Markets
12 Our Goals, Culture and Strategy
13 Our Strengths
14 Global Marketplace
16 Business Unit Review
20 Our Business Model
22 Our Strategy
24 Our Key Performance Indicators
26 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility
31 Risk Management and Internal Controls
34 Financial Review
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
42 Our Board
44 Corporate Governance
63 Remuneration Report
80 Directors’ Report
83 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
84 Independent Auditor’s Report
86 Group Income Statement
87 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income
88 Group Statement of Cash Flows
89 Group Balance Sheet
90 Group Statement of Changes in Equity
91 Notes to the Financial Statements
127 Company Balance Sheet
128 Notes to the Company Financial Statements
134 Five Year Summary
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
136 Glossary of Technical Terms
138 Shareholder Information
140 Advisers
FINANCIAL 
STRENGTH
Alent is an asset light, 
strong free cash generative 
business that is delivering 
continuous improvement.
OUTPERFORMANCE 
OF MARKETS
Our position as a global 
market leader, our 
competitive advantage 
and our financial 
strength will result in our 
outperformance of our core 
markets through the cycle. 2014
2013
2014
2013
2014
2013
2014
2013
2014
2013
2014
2013
02 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
Net Sales Value (NSV)
(1)
£413.0m 
2013: £420.1m
KEY HIGHLIGHTS
Good performance in improving markets; continued outperformance.
413.0
420.1
9.00
8.60
95.1
94.1
Adjusted operating profit
(2)
£95.1m
2013: £94.1m
94.0
102.8
Adjusted cash generated from operations
(5)
£94.0m 
2013: £102.8m
Full year dividend per share
9.00p
2013: 8.60p
Operational growth
Financial discipline
Adjusted cash generated from operations/EBITDA 90.2%
Return on capital employed 20.9%
Net debt/EBITDA and interest cover 1.0x and 30.7x (post 
the payment of £42m in the form of a special dividend)
NSV
(1)
 margin
23.0%
2013: 22.4%
23.0
22.4
Adjusted earnings per share
(4)
25.0p
2013: 24.1p
Adjusted profit before tax
(3)
 £91.5m
Statutory profit before tax £73.4m
Statutory earnings per share 17.0p
25.0
24.1 2014
2013
2014
2013
2014
2013
2014
2013
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 0 3  
Investing for growth
Corporate social responsibility
1. NSV is revenue less commodity metals (tin, silver, gold). NSV margin 
is calculated as adjusted operating profit divided by NSV.
2, 3, 4.  Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted profit 
for the year and adjusted earnings per share are, where 
appropriate, each stated before: exceptional items; amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets; deferred tax on acquired intangible 
assets and goodwill; utilisation of deferred tax assets (where initial 
recognition was as an exceptional item); acquisition costs; the 
impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments; and 
profits or losses arising on business disposals.
5.  Adjusted cash generated from operations is equal to cash 
generated from operations after adding back £0.2m (2013: £4.8m) 
of demerger cash costs.
Customer complaints 0.22%
On-time deliveries 96.0%
Energy consumption (MMbtu) 280,368
15.2/3.7
22,862 0.60
16.0/3.8
26,004 0.68
Research and development (R&D) spend 
and R&D as a percentage of NSV
£15.2m/3.7%
2013: £16.0m/3.8%
11.7/129
13.7/152
Capital expenditure (CAPEX) and CAPEX 
as a percentage of depreciation
£11.7m/129%
2013: £13.7m/152%
Greenhouse gas emissions (CO 2e)
22,862MT
2013: 26,004MT
Total recordable injury rate (TRIR)
0.60
2013: 0.68
For more information and more detail on our KPIs
See PAGES 24-25 04 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
Dear Shareholder,
Overview 
2014 has been a year of excellent progress. Alent has 
delivered a robust set of results, with good growth in sales, 
profits and margins together with strong cash generation. 
Our key end-markets of electronics and automotive 
showed return to growth during the year and we 
continued to outperform those markets. Our position as 
a global market leader, our competitive advantage and 
our financial strength enables us to outperform those 
markets that are core to Alent. 
The strategy for Alent remains unchanged, and we set out 
in this Report how we will continue to further develop and 
deliver on that strategy. The key elements are to: 
• focus on high unit growth end-markets; 
• build on our differentiated value-add customer strategy; 
• continue to develop higher-margin products; 
• improve mix and operational efficiencies; 
• further invest in R&D to expand our market, technology 
and innovation leadership; and
• utilise our financial strength to support organic growth 
and acquisitions.
Further detail on our strategy, and on its execution during 
2014, is set out within the Strategic Report on pages 22 - 23.
Delivery of profitable growth
Alent delivered a robust set of results in 2014, with 
good progress in all key financial metrics. Net Sales Value 
showed a very creditable organic growth at constant 
currency of 4.6%; adjusted operating profit grew 7 .6% and 
adjusted EPS by 11.1%, both on the same basis. NSV was 
£413.0m (2013: £420.1m), adjusted operating profit was 
£95.1m (2013: £94.1m) and adjusted EPS was 25.0 pence 
(2013: 24.1 pence). NSV margin increased to 23.0% (2013: 
22.4%). Cash generation from operations was again 
extremely strong, and net debt at year end was £108.3m 
(2013: £96.5m) despite the payment of a special dividend 
of £42m during the year. 
PETER HILL, CBE 
Chairman  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 05 
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2014 of  
6.0 pence with a total dividend per share for 2014 of 9.0 
pence. This is an increase of 4.7% on the prior year and in 
line with the Group’s progressive dividend policy of full year 
dividend growth expected to be at least in line with 
earnings growth, and targeting a dividend cover in the 
near term within a range of 3.0 to 2.8 times. The final 
dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting,  
will be paid on 19 June 2015 to shareholders on the 
register at 15 May 2015.
The Board is committed to maintaining a capital structure 
that is both efficient and balanced between investment 
for growth, both organically and through acquisitions, and 
returns to shareholders. In October 2014 we assessed our 
expected future cash generation and the capital required 
to support our ongoing growth plans, normal dividend 
payment and potential bolt-on acquisitions and 
announced a special dividend to shareholders of 
15.0 pence per share, representing a return of £42m. 
Health, Safety, Environment  
and Sustainability (HSES)
The Group remains committed to the continuous 
improvement of its performance in respect of health, 
safety, environment and sustainability. Our performance in 
this area of our business continues to be of a high industry 
standard. Nevertheless, we remain vigilant in monitoring 
and improving our processes and activities which impact 
upon the safety of our people and the environment.
Governance
Strong governance is integral to the long-term success  
of Alent and the Board is committed to ensuring that the 
business continues to be governed and managed with 
openness, honesty and transparency. Our Governance 
Report on pages 44 - 62 sets out the approach we  
take and highlights the key focus areas of the Board  
during 2014. 
Board development
In September 2014, Steve Corbett stood down as Chief 
Executive. Steve played an important role in developing 
the underlying business and overseeing Alent’s transition 
into becoming a publicly traded, specialty chemicals 
Company. We wish him success in his future endeavours. 
Andrew Heath was appointed Chief Executive, joining 
Alent on 21 February 2015. Andrew’s knowledge of and 
successful track record in delivering innovation and new 
technology to demanding global customers in the US, 
Europe and Asia will be of enormous benefit to Alent.  
His operational and corporate development expertise  
will bring valuable experience to our Board. Andrew will 
provide strong leadership to our well established senior 
management team and we look forward to working with 
him to take the Company forward.
I would also like to thank Rick Ertmann, President of our 
Assembly Materials business unit, who has been an 
extremely effective Interim Chief Executive.
Jan Oosterveld, Non-executive Director will be retiring 
following the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2015.  
Jan joined the Board of Cookson Group plc in 2004  
and was an inaugural Director of Alent. The Board thanks 
Jan for his very strong contribution and wishes him all 
future success. 
Our people
Our progress in delivering against our strategy is only 
possible through the significant efforts and dedication of 
our people, while their calibre and commitment continues 
to impress. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all 
of our people for their continued efforts as together we 
focus on executing our strategy and taking Alent forward. 
PETER HILL, CBE 
Chairman 
2 March 2015 
“ 2014 has been a year of excellent 
progress. Alent has delivered a 
robust set of results, with good 
growth in sales, profits and 
margins together with strong  
cash generation.” 06 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STATEMENT
Introduction
I am delighted to be presenting this, my first update as Chief 
Executive of Alent plc. Alent presents a great opportunity. 
The Company has strong products, with leading positions 
in global markets where demand will only continue to grow 
in the long-term. The fundamentals of our principal end-
markets, electronics, automotive and industrial, remain 
robust. The Company delivered good growth on a constant 
currency basis in 2014, with profitability increasing ahead of 
NSV, and cash generation remaining strong; all of which 
are very attractive and a credit to the management team.
Initial observations
Since my appointment was announced in November 
2014, I have taken the opportunity to visit a number of our 
facilities, in Asia, Germany and the US, prior to me joining 
officially. This has meant that I have already met and 
spoken with many people, which has greatly helped in 
gaining an understanding of the fundamentals of the 
business. I have also spent time with the Board and senior 
management team to understand the strategy.
My first impressions of the business have reinforced my 
view that Alent is a strong business with good prospects 
for the future. The 2014 results are testament to that. While 
the principal end-markets showed modest improvement, 
supported by signs of better consumer confidence, 
Alent continued its track record of outperforming these 
markets. Strong relationships with OEMs, alongside a 
comprehensive global technical service presence and 
fast-cycle R&D driving ongoing product innovation, have 
enabled Alent to grow its market share. 
During my site visits. I had the opportunity to see the 
strategy in action and I can tell you that what I have seen 
as I travel around the business matched what I read and 
was told before I joined. Here are just a few examples:
• in Germany I met with the technical support team 
who explained what they have done to support and 
develop a long-term relationship with one of Europe’s 
largest suppliers of plating on plastics for the 
automotive market;
• in Asia I saw the benefit of having local, fast-cycle 
R&D to support the development of new applications 
for customers, such as molded interconnect devices 
for mobile phones and advanced protective coatings 
for printed circuit boards; 
• in Singapore I also witnessed the benefit of our OEM 
relationships pulling through a new polymer sintering 
product, Atrox, which is a disruptive technology for 
the semiconductor market currently in the approval 
process; and 
• in the US I was impressed by the developments 
in fundamental and disruptive technologies. 
The development in Argomax, the silver nano paste 
for high voltage, high temperature applications, 
and development in the leading technology nodes for 
copper damascene were particular highlights. 
Alent clearly has some leading technology – I’ve been 
impressed with the technical capability within the business, 
from both a fundamental chemistry and material science 
perspective. This is vital in developing higher margin 
products and accessing the high unit growth end-markets. 
Last, but by no means least, I have been impressed with  
the people I have met. They have been knowledgeable 
and passionate about the business, enthusiastic about 
what they do and focused on delivering on behalf of  
our customers. 
My priorities
Alent has demonstrated that its competitive advantages 
enable it to outperform its end-markets. It is clear to me, 
and the Board, that Alent’s strengths will enable it to 
continue to do so in the future, but also that there is more 
that can be achieved here. 
So my focus is on growth, and in determining where and 
how Alent will grow in the long-term, and where capital 
will be allocated to deliver enhanced shareholder value. 
Opportunities exist to leverage our strong cash generation 
and balance sheet, to grow organically and through M&A.
My first priority, then, is to fully understand Alent. To evaluate 
the strengths of the business model and strategy, and the 
opportunities facing the business. Over the next few months 
I will visit the remainder of the Company’s operations to fully 
appreciate how we operate, and continue to meet the rest 
of the team. I will also be visiting customers to see our 
products in action and talking to them to understand the 
performance of the business from their perspective. I will 
also prioritise meeting investors, to intently listen to their 
respective views of Alent. I will take all these views on board 
in determining where to drive the growth.
Investment for growth 2015 - 2016
As I’ve said, there is momentum in our business and in our 
end-markets. Industry experts are forecasting both the 
electronics and automotive markets to grow between 3 - 4% 
CAAGR from 2014 - 2018. Within those markets, there are 
attractive higher growth areas that present specific 
“I am excited to have been 
asked to lead Alent. It is a strong 
Company with great prospects 
and I am eager to start working 
with the senior team in driving 
Alent through its next phase of 
growth and development” . STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 07  
opportunities for Alent such as tablets and automotive 
semiconductors, which are expected to grow around 7% 
and 9% respectively.
The improving end-market trends and the business 
performance in 2014 has reinforced our confidence in  
our strategic direction. Consequently, the Board and I feel 
the time is right to invest now, to extend our competitive 
advantage and accelerate future organic growth. 
Consequently, during the course of 2015 and 2016,  
we are embarking on a targeted investment programme; 
strengthening routes to market, product development, 
manufacturing and R&D. 
Our customer-led, “fast-cycle R&D”, and technical service 
model is key to our outperformance. We will, therefore, 
invest up to £7m during 2015, increasing headcount 
by around 100 people in these areas. The focus is on 
accelerating share gains, developing new products and 
new markets. We have a winning formula in this area and 
we will continue to build on this, ensuring we have the 
right people, in the right place, to take advantage of the 
opportunities we can see ahead with customers. 
We will increase OEM sales headcount, particularly in Asia, 
to achieve key approvals and build customer intimacy. 
Headcount will be added to supplement our R&D teams, 
in support of both new and existing customers. Scientists 
and engineers will be recruited to increase product 
development, primarily in India and the US. We will also 
expand our global technical services capability to 
enhance support to customers. 
Additionally we will increase capital expenditure during 
2015 to 1.5 – 1.8x depreciation, focusing on upgrades to 
our manufacturing and R&D facilities, to support new 
processes, entry to new higher growth markets and the 
development of our high margin products. Specifically,  
we will be upgrading the copper damascene and wafer 
level packaging process lines in the US, and the powder 
manufacturing capability in Asia. Investment in R&D 
RICK ERTMANN 
President, Alpha
ANDREW HEATH 
Chief Executive
DAVID EGAN 
Finance Director
RICK REAGAN 
P r e s ide n t , En t h o ne
equipment will be focused on high-margin products such 
as die-attach, LED, nano silver and performance coatings 
in our research centre in India. In the US, equipment will  
be added for advanced wafer fabrication research,  
and coating development equipment will be added for 
both decorative and performance coating applications  
in Europe. 
We expect to see benefits starting to come through next 
year, with the full NSV growth benefit being delivered in 
2017 . Alent is a technology Company and it is essential 
that we innovate for the future if we are to remain 
ahead of the game. We will be mindful of end-market 
performance and will maintain discipline through the 
structured investment programme. 
Outlook
As ever, while visibility remains limited, we expect to make 
continued progress over the course of the year, with our 
normal seasonal improvement in the second half. As 
things stand, we anticipate that our core markets will 
continue to grow at a similar rate to 2014, on a global 
basis, during the course of this year and that Alent will 
continue to outperform its key markets.
We are confident our targeted investment programme 
will accelerate growth and margin improvement and that 
we are well placed to take advantage of improving 
market conditions.
Conclusion
I am excited to have been asked to lead Alent. It is a 
strong Company with great prospects. I am eager to start 
working with the senior team in driving Alent through its 
next phase of growth and development. I look forward to 
updating you on progress in next year’s Annual Report.
ANDREW HEATH 
Chief Executive 
2 March 2015 08 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
OUR BUSINESS
Alent is a global supplier of specialty chemicals 
and engineered materials with #1 and #2 market 
share positions.
BUSINESS UNITS
Assembly Materials
 
 
Predominantly electronics market focused
Our Assembly Materials business is the global leader in the 
development, manufacturing and sales of interconnect 
materials, primarily into the electronics market.
Surface Chemistries
 
 
Serving mainly the electronics 
and automotive markets
Our Surface Chemistries business is a global supplier of 
high performance specialty chemistry, coatings and 
materials to the electronics, automotive and surface 
finishing industries as well as other industrial end-markets.
Product line
Surface Mount Assembly
• solder paste, 
wire, preforms 
Wave Solder Assembly
• bar solder and flux 
Microelectronics
• electronic polymers, 
solder spheres, die- 
attach, pv ribbon
Other
• water treatment, 
reclaim business
NSV
£204.9m
Adjusted operating profit
£57.6m
Product line 
Performance Coatings
• decorative/wear/
corrosion resistant 
coatings
Electronics Chemistries
• printed circuit board 
chemistries, interconnect 
electroplating 
chemistries, copper 
damascene
Other
• equipment sales
NSV
£208.1m
Adjusted operating profit
£44.6m
Global presence
Strategically positioned 
close to industry-defining 
customers
Manufacturing
Europe
• Langenfeld, Germany 
• Budapest, Hungary
• s-Hertogenbosch, 
Netherlands
• Naarden, Netherlands
Asia
• Shanghai, China
• Shenzhen, China
• Chennai, India 
• Sihung City, Korea
• Singapore
• Taoyuan, Taiwan
Americas
• Manaus, Brazil
• Sao Paulo, Brazil
• Mexico City, Mexico
• Monterrey, Mexico
• Pennsylvania, USA
• Connecticut, USA
• Illinois, USA
R&D
Europe
• Langenfeld, Germany
•  s - H er t o g enb o s ch, 
Netherlands
Asia
• Shanghai, China
• Bangalore, India
• Hiratsuka, Japan
• Singapore
• Taoyuan, Taiwan
Americas 
• Connecticut, USA
• Georgia, USA
• New Jersey, USA STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 0 9  
OUR MARKETS 
END-MARKETS FOR OUR PRODUCTS
Electronics
 
 
Personal Computers
10-15% of Group NSV
Mobile & Infrastructure
10-15% of Group NSV
Microelectronics & Semiconductors
10-15% of Group NSV
Automotive Electronics
10-15% of Group NSV
Other Electronics
10-15% of Group NSV
Automotive/Industrial
 
 
Automotive Electroplating
10-15% of Group NSV
Water Treatment
5-10% of Group NSV
Other Electroplating 
10-15% of Group NSV
OUR FOCUS
• We focus on high unit, long-term growth markets. 
• We have a broad exposure to the automotive and 
electronics industries, and our products are used in 
essentially everything with an on/off switch.
• In our non-electronics performance coatings business, 
although primarily focused on the automotive market, 
there are many other markets that require decorative 
coatings and also wear- and corrosion-resistant coatings.
OUR OFFERING
• A global supplier of specialty chemicals and 
engineered materials.
• Enabling applications serving fast-growing segments in 
the electronics, automotive and industrial end-markets.
• Technically advanced products which enable customers 
to produce next-generation devices.
• “Just in time” delivery from a global manufacturing base.
OUR PRODUCTS
• Semiconductor fabrication materials, such as copper 
damascene electroplating chemistry which provides the 
“wires” within a semiconductor integrated circuit chip.
• Semiconductor packaging materials, including 
solder spheres for ball grid arrays and chip-scale 
packages, die-attach adhesives and copper pillar 
electroplating chemistry.
• Interconnect materials, principally electroplating 
chemistries for fabrication of printed circuit boards.
• Assembly materials, comprising solder in a variety of 
forms, including bar, wire, paste and preforms. 
• Corrosion-protection and wear-resistant coatings 
used primarily in automotive applications, including 
environmentally-friendly processes that optimise quality, 
increase functionality and extend product life. 
• Decorative finishes engineered for durability and style, 
including a distinctive range of “green” finishes used in 
building/hardware and automotive applications. 10 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CASE STUDY
OUR COMPETITIVE.
ADVANTAGE. 
IN ACTION.
The Opportunity
• To align with other world regions,  
remain competitive and meet customer 
expectations, Asian automotive OEMs 
have been extending corrosion 
warranties to vehicles manufactured 
within the region.
• Extended warranty periods 
have resulted in the rapid transition 
from conventional zinc plating to 
advanced zinc alloy plating systems 
that are production-proven to provide 
superior corrosion performance for 
automotive applications. 
• The steady growth in Chinese consumer 
vehicle demand has coincided with the 
ever-increasing zinc alloy process 
requirements of Chinese OEMs and their 
Tier 1 plating applicators. Failure to meet 
the terms of the extended warranties 
directly impact profitability and brand 
loyalty of consumers.
• A major Chinese subcontractor 
responsible for plating millions of brake 
calipers each year required high 
performance zinc alloy plating chemistry 
that met current and future technology 
roadmaps and design specifications of 
their OEM customers. 
• Enthone identified the opportunity and 
partnered with the subcontractor to 
demonstrate the ability to deliver 
cost-effective, high efficiency brake 
caliper plating that would consistently 
meet OEM performance requirements.
The Solution
• To verify the performance of our newly 
developed zinc-nickel system, Enthone 
R&D, product development and 
applications engineering teams installed 
a brake caliper sample plating line in 
our state of the art manufacturing plant, 
laboratories and customer research 
centre in Shanghai. 
• Zinc-nickel and post-treatment 
processes were optimised to meet the 
high performance corrosion target, 
as set by some of the world’s leading 
automotive OEMs.
• Following extensive testing, we 
were able to demonstrate to the 
subcontractor how the Enthone  
zinc-nickel systems, backed by 
local technical service teams, could 
reliably exceed OEM corrosion 
protection requirements. 
• The technology was installed at our 
partner’s new, high volume plating 
facility just north of Shanghai. 
The Benefit
• Production parts approval process 
quickly followed with leading OEMs 
granting applicator accreditation 
using the Enthone chemistry. 
• The current production run rate at the 
subcontractor exceeds 5 million brake 
calipers each year.  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 11 
Brake calipers each year
+5million
Investment in our state of the 
art manufacturing plant, 
laboratories and customer 
research centre in Shanghai
£20m 12 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
OUR GOALS, CULTURE  
AND STRATEGY
We will be the industry’s preferred supplier of 
specialty chemicals and engineered materials, 
delivering leading technology represented by 
our innovative products, processes and people.
Our Goals and Culture 
Our vision
• Our vision is to be the industry’s preferred supplier 
of specialty chemicals and engineered materials. 
• We will achieve this vision by equipping our people  
with the training and resources to provide a significant 
competitive advantage. 
• By promoting a culture that emphasises our values, 
we ensure a brighter and better future for our people 
and our Company.
Our mission
• We will exceed our customers’ expectations by providing 
specialty chemicals and engineered materials, 
delivering leading technology, supported by superior 
applications expertise to our target markets.
Our values
• Customer- and market-oriented innovation.
• Teamwork and collaboration.
• Enthusiasm and passion.
• Results- and people-oriented.
• Flexibility, responsiveness and agility. 
 
Our objectives
• We will be a customer- and market-driven Company that 
our customers rely on and prefer to do business with.
• We will be an innovative Company that develops 
high-value, innovative products in a timely manner.
• We will create an organisation that has deep 
technical competence.
• We will continue to invest in our people by providing 
training and resources that drive high performance, 
creating a significant competitive advantage.
Our strategy 
1. Focus on high unit growth end-markets 
For Alent, it’s all about growth and delivering 
outperformance. We continue to target high unit 
volume applications such as tablets, flat screen 
televisions and automobiles, which in turn drives 
demand for our products. 
2. Leverage our differentiated value-add 
customer strategy 
We have continued to resource and deliver on our OEM 
marketing and selling strategy and have secured OEM 
specifications in both the consumer electronics and 
automotive markets.
3. Continue to develop higher-margin products
The shift from lower-margin commodity products 
such as bar solder to the higher-margin solder paste 
products continues.
4. Improve mix and operational efficiencies
We continue to streamline and right-size the business  
for the long-term. With our Shanghai facility fully 
commissioned, the shift of some of our manufacturing 
processes from the Netherlands to Hungary nearing 
completion, and our Chennai site in the commissioning 
stage, our global footprint is largely complete.
5. Further invest in R&D to expand our market, 
technology and innovation leadership
R&D is critical to the continued success of Alent to meet 
the demand for smaller, lighter and faster electronics and 
to take advantage of the opportunities presented by 
tightening environmental regulations as well as new and 
high-growth markets. Our R&D spend continues at a level 
of just under 4% of NSV. The majority of our R&D spend is 
customer-driven product improvements with a new 
product launched every week.
6. Leverage our financial strength to support 
organic growth and acquisitions 
We have continued to invest in the business to  
support organic growth and will pursue appropriately 
sized acquisitions.
For more information on our strategy
See PAGES 22-23 STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 13  
Our key strengths are our:
OUR STRENGTHS
Outperformance  
of markets
Our global market 
leadership, our competitive 
advantage and our 
financial strength, will allow 
us to outperform our core 
markets through the cycle.
Global market 
leadership 
Our business units have 
#1 and #2 global market 
share positions.
Competitive advantage
Our OEM strategy, 
R&D capabilities and 
global manufacturing 
footprint sets us apart 
from the competition.
Financial strength
Our strong financial position 
enables us to invest in the 
future growth of the business, 
both organic and inorganic.
Our position as Global Market Leader, Our 
Competitive Advantage and Our Financial 
Strength will result in our Outperformance 
of our core markets through the cycle. 14 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
GLOBAL MARKETPLACE
Alent is a global market leader operating in an industry 
with high barriers to entry, comprising two focused 
specialty chemicals and engineered materials business 
units with #1 and #2 global market share positions.
Electronics
The principal end-market for Alent is 
global electronics which accounts for 
approximately 70% of Group NSV.
Offering
Alent has a very broad exposure to the electronics industry 
and our products end up in electronic systems across a 
very wide range of applications, and are used in 
essentially everything with an on-off switch. 
We operate within the electronics materials segment of 
the electronics value chain, where we supply specialty 
chemicals and engineered materials to our customers.
We supply electronic component manufacturers and 
OEMs, who, in turn, supply the electronic equipment 
manufacturers and suppliers. 
Trends
In the electronics market, the trend towards increased 
interconnect density and portability in consumer 
electronics continues. Consumer demand is for faster, 
smaller and lighter products, which is leading to increasing 
miniaturisation and complexity, and the use of multi-layer 
circuit boards. Alent is at the forefront of this trend and a 
leading player in the development and supply of specialty 
materials that enable the design and manufacture of 
today’s leading-edge electronic devices.
Growth
According to Prismark Partners, the electronics market is 
expected to grow 3.7% CAAGR from 2013-2018. It is the 
volume of electronic devices which is a key growth driver 
for our business. The electronics industry has historically 
been a “price down” industry, with reduced prices for 
each generation of product. This means that forecasts of 
market growth by value tend to understate the market 
growth by volume, and volume is the key driver of 
demand for our products.
$341b (17.0%)
$288b (17.2%)
$78b (4.6%)
$111b (5.5%)
$305b (15.2%)
$249b (14.8%)
$231b (11.5%)
$177b (10.6%)
$1,019b (50.8%)
$885b (52.7%)
Growth markets – Electronics 
2013-2018 CAAGR: 3.7%
Source: Prismark Partners, November 2014
Smartphones (3.4% CAAGR) Smartphones (3.4% CAAGR)
Tablets  (7.4% CAAGR)
Automotive Electronics (5.5% CAAGR)
Rest of Electronics Industry (2.9% CAAGR)
2018 2013
Servers/Storage/Comms.Infra (4.1% CAAGR) STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 15  
Business unit performance
Automotive/Industrial
The automotive and industrial end-
markets account for the remaining  
30% of Group NSV.
Offering
Alent’s products are used to manufacture the various 
electronic systems in an automobile. In addition, our 
electroplating chemistries are used to provide corrosion 
and wear protection to vital systems. Our decorative 
electroplating chemistries are used in external and 
internal applications.
Whilst our non-electronics performance coatings business 
is primarily focused on the automotive end-market, there 
are many micro markets that require decorative, wear- 
and corrosion-resistant coatings. 
Trends
The electronics content within a vehicle is growing 
at a rate that significantly exceeds the underlying 
automotive unit growth rate. Electronics content as 
a percentage of the total vehicle cost is expected to 
rise significantly as market penetration of hybrid and 
electric vehicles increase.
The need for improved corrosion-resistant and wear-
resistant coatings, driven by the need to provide longer 
warranty protection to customers, is driving demand for 
our products. The improved quality of automobiles and 
the requirement to reduce weight is also driving higher 
demand for increasingly sophisticated decorative finishes, 
which both enhance customer perception of the vehicle 
and enables lower weight materials (e.g. plastics) to be 
used in their production.
Growth
According to Prismark Partners, vehicle volumes are 
expected to grow approximately 4% CAAGR from 2013-
2018. On top of this, there is a strong trend for increased 
electronic content in vehicles and increasing demand for 
functional and decorative coatings, which benefits both 
of our business units. This dynamic will enable us to benefit 
from a twofold increase, both in the number of units as 
well as the increased product content.
Alent’s market-leading 
position 
Our strong global presence gives us close proximity to our 
customers and high-growth end-markets. This allows us to 
deliver high-quality customer sales and post-sales service, 
“just in time” global low-cost manufacturing, efficient 
supply chains and “fast cycle” R&D. Our local presence 
and knowledge helps us to constantly evolve and extend 
our collaboration and relationships with our customers.
Growth markets – Automotive
 Automotive production growth in units (m)
125
100
75
50
(rebased to 100)
87.3
91.7
105.3
2013-2018 CAAGR: 3.8%
Source: Prismark Partners, November 2014
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Automotive electronics content forecasts
250
200
150
100
(US$bn)
177
189
231
2013-2018 CAAGR: 5.5%
Source: Prismark Partners, November 2014
Our view of our performance vs our key markets in 2014
Alent’s 
exposure  
to end-market
Alent’s  
Growth  
(2014)
Alent vs  
Market  
(2014)
Surface Chemistries 
(50% automotive/
industrial focused) 4.7%
Performance 
Coatings 3%
Plating on Plastics 4%
Alent’s 
exposure  
to end-market
Alent’s  
Growth  
(2014)
Alent vs  
Market  
(2014)
Assembly Materials 
(100% electronics 
focused) 4.4%
Surface Mount 
Assembly 13%
Paste 10%
Wire 7%
Alent’s 
exposure  
to end-market
Alent’s  
Growth  
(2014)
Alent vs  
Market  
(2014)
Surface Chemistries  
(50% electronics 
focused) 4.7%
Electronics Chemistries 7%
Printed Circuit  
Board Chemistry 6%
Copper Damascene 8%
Microelectronics 
Plating Chemistry 9%
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 16 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
BUSINESS 
UNIT REVIEW
Assembly Materials 
Assembly Materials is the global leader in the 
development, manufacturing and sales of innovative 
specialty and engineered materials, used to assemble 
printed circuit boards and advanced semiconductor 
packaging. This business unit accounts for c50% of 
Group NSV, and consists of four product lines: Wave 
Solder Assembly, Surface Mount Assembly, 
Microelectronics Products and Other.
Assembly Materials NSV for the full year increased 4.4% on 
a constant currency basis, outperforming the underlying 
end-markets. NSV improved in the second half of 2014 
compared to H1 2014 by 8.2% and was up 4.5% compared to 
H2 2013. This was supported by a modest pickup in electronics 
markets through the year, with industry analysts, Henderson 
Ventures, forecasting 3.3% growth in the world production of 
electronic equipment for full year 2014 versus a decline of 
2.6% in 2013. 
Global automotive production is expected to grow above 
historic rates with electronics content within vehicles also 
growing. During the year we saw signs of improvement across 
our markets in Europe, Asia and the Americas although Brazil 
in particular, saw negative growth due to difficult economic 
conditions. Europe became more unpredictable during the 
second half of 2014 as both economic conditions and exports 
became less certain.
Adjusted operating profit increased 5.3% on a constant 
currency basis whilst NSV margin increased by 0.2pts. 
We have increased NSV and margin contribution from our 
Surface Mount Assembly product line through market share 
gain, disciplined pricing and our ongoing focus on cost 
control. This was partially offset by the performance of our 
reclaim business which was further impacted by tighter 
supplies of scrap feed stocks coupled with lower metal prices, 
particularly silver. The average price per ounce of silver has 
declined approximately 20% year-on-year. 
Cost control, pricing discipline, improved mix and 
manufacturing efficiencies combined to ensure that margin 
contribution increased across most product lines during  
the year.
We continue to optimise our manufacturing footprint 
throughout the world. In Europe we have moved some of our 
manufacturing from the Netherlands to an enlarged facility 
in Hungary. This is now largely complete with the plant in 
Hungary now being commissioned. Meanwhile, our 
replacement manufacturing plant in Chennai, India is 
complete and will be commissioned in Q1 2015. In addition, 
during the year we also relocated manufacturing capacity 
from Sao Paulo to Manaus, Brazil. We are confident that these 
changes will deliver improved customer service, consistent 
high quality products and lower cost of manufacturing.
Wave Solder Assembly
In our more mature Wave Solder Assembly product line, NSV 
declined 1.0% on a constant currency basis. The ongoing mix 
shift from Wave Solder to Surface Mount Assembly continued, 
leading to a year-on-year volume decline of just under 7% in 
bar solder although our wave solder flux product volume 
increased 3.5% offsetting most of the bar volume decline. 
Surface Mount Assembly
In our higher performance and higher margin Surface Mount 
Assembly product line, NSV increased 13.2% on a constant 
currency basis due to a strong performance across all 
product lines, with the exception of Stencils, where we have 
exited our American Stencil businesses during the course of 
the year. Solder paste in particular was very strong with 
volume up 10% and further progress in margins. We continue 
to leverage our OEM sales and marketing strategy in this area 
and have product specifications at many global Tier 1 and 
Tier 2 smartphone, tablet, personal computer and automotive 
electronics systems’ OEMs. Sales of tape-and-reel packaged 
preforms, which are manufactured shapes of solder used in 
smartphones and automotive electronics, also delivered 
strong growth in volume and margin with many new design 
wins with targeted European automotive suppliers. There was 
further contribution from wire with volume up 7%, driven by 
increased demand in Asia.
Microelectronics Products
Microelectronics Products includes a range of products that 
are sold into the semiconductor packaging and LED end- 
markets, including electronic polymers, solder spheres, and 
die-attach materials. NSV increased 4.6% on a constant 
currency basis. We are seeing strong interest in our die-attach 
technology, however customer acceptance lead times are 
long. The growth prospects in this product line over the 
medium term remain very strong.
Other
The “Other” product line includes our water treatment 
chemicals business, recycling and reclaim operations, and 
our consumer products. NSV decreased 6.0% on a constant 
currency basis. NSV in our water treatment business increased 
1.0% on a constant currency basis on the back of new 
product launches and continued efforts to globalise sales, 
having seen double digit growth in both North America and 
Asia, while economic conditions in Europe subdued revenues 
in some areas. Our reclaim business NSV and contribution 
margin were further impacted by lower volumes of scrap 
material, higher raw feed stock costs coupled with lower 
metal prices, particularly silver. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 17  
Surface Chemistries
Surface Chemistries is one of the world’s leading specialty 
chemicals manufacturers serving the electronics and the 
automotive/industrial markets, with NSV split predominantly 
between these two end-markets. This business unit 
accounts for c50% of Group NSV, and consists of three 
product lines: Performance Coatings, Electronics 
Chemistries and Other.
Surface Chemistries NSV for the full year increased 4.7% on a 
constant currency basis due to solid growth from both our 
Performance Coatings and Electronics Chemistries product 
lines, leading to an outperformance versus underlying 
markets, as a result of market share capture, product 
development, customer service and consistent quality 
products. NSV improved in the second half of 2014 compared 
to H1 2014 by 3.2% and was up 6.3% compared to H2 2013.
The strong demand in Americas and Asia markets continued 
whilst Europe had started to show signs of recovery during the 
first half of the year before slowing a little and becoming more 
unpredictable during the second half of the year.
Adjusted operating profit increased 10.4% on a constant 
currency basis with NSV margin increasing 1.1pts to 21.4%. 
We have increased NSV and margin contribution from both 
our Performance Coatings and Electronics Chemistries 
product lines through market share gain, customer service, 
disciplined pricing and continued focus on cost control.
We have continued to invest in the future growth of the 
business. Our position in the Asia market was enhanced 
during the year with the commissioning of our state of the art 
plant, laboratories and customer research centre in Shanghai 
which is now providing us with the foundation to grow our 
presence and position in China.
Our replacement plant in Chennai, India is currently 
being commissioned, whilst we have closed our Tianjin 
manufacturing facility in China and transferred activity to 
Shanghai. In addition, we have continued to upgrade our 
existing facilities, particularly in West Haven, USA, and our 
research and development facilities worldwide, to ensure 
we have state of the art facilities to meet the ever increasing 
needs and requirements of our customers.
Performance Coatings
Automotive and industrial markets saw a modest pick-up 
in demand during the year, with IHS Automotive reporting 
2014 worldwide unit growth of 3% in light vehicle production. 
We made solid progress in our Performance Coatings 
product line with NSV up 3.3% on a constant currency basis. 
Our functional and decorative coatings business delivered 
a strong performance on a global basis, particularly in Asia. 
Electronics Chemistries
In our Electronics Chemistries product line, NSV increased 
7 .1% on a constant currency basis. Within this product line, 
our printed circuit board chemistry volumes were up 6% as we 
continued to gain market share in through-hole metallisation 
and final finishes.
In copper damascene, NSV increased by 7 .8%. This strong 
growth was driven by the continued ramp up in production of 
the 28nm and 20nm advanced nodes. We continue to make 
progress at the 14nm and 10nm nodes with ongoing product 
evaluations at a number of key customers. Our market share 
position at the outer edge nodes remains unchanged. 
In addition, in late 2014 we announced that we settled our 
litigation with Moses Lake Industries, Inc. (MLI) regarding 
Enthone’s patented copper damascene applications. 
This resolves all pending legal disputes between the 
companies. Under the terms of the settlement, MLI entered 
into a license agreement with Enthone for monetary 
consideration. Under the license agreement, Enthone has 
granted MLI a non-exclusive worldwide license to key patents 
relating to advanced copper damascene processes. 
Other
The smaller product line, “Other” includes equipment sales, 
where we sell electroplating equipment to our customers 
typically alongside a multi-year contract for Alent to provide 
the associated electroplating chemicals and small amounts 
of non-proprietary resale products sourced from third parties 
and resold to customers. We continue to reduce NSV from this 
product line due to minimal margin contribution. 18 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CASE STUDIES
The Opportunity
• A well established UK metal finishing company to the oil 
and gas industry applies heavy hard chrome coatings 
that provide wear protection on pump rotors. The rotors 
are used in equipment that must withstand constant 
exposure to harsh climatic conditions. 
• The customer’s in-house hard chrome plating chemistry 
required c24 hours of plating time. This slow plating rate 
would no longer meet OEM and industry demands, 
therefore limiting profitability and growth. 
• Furthermore, the existing process equipment was not in 
compliance with environmental regulations that come 
into effect in 2017 and will highly restrict the use of 
hexavalent chrome. The customer was faced with the 
high cost of equipment replacement should it wish to 
continue its hard chrome plating operation.
• A relatively new customer, the company had recently 
installed Enthone electroless nickel as part of its plating 
line and was pleased with performance and technical 
support provided.
The Solution
• An Enthone proprietary, high efficiency hard chrome 
process replaced the in-house process, reducing 
plating time to 16 hours.
• In addition, a newly developed fume suppressant was 
introduced to minimise emission from the plating tanks.
• An hexavalent chrome airborne emission study 
conducted by an independent, third party laboratory, 
validated the effectiveness of the Enthone hard 
chrome process chemistry in combination with the 
customer’s equipment.
• Enthone’s technical applications expertise and on-site 
technical services support addressed all customer 
concerns throughout the testing, validation and 
installation process. 
The Benefit
• 35% capacity gain: The significant gain in capacity is 
allowing the customer to meet industry demand and 
grow its customer base.
• No equipment replacement required: The emission 
study certified that the customer may continue to 
operate their equipment beyond 2017 when using 
the Enthone chemistry.
• Market leadership: In the first year of introduction, the fume 
suppressant earned an immediate 10% market share.
Capacity gain
+35%
Plating time reduced to
16 hours
 
COLLABORATIVE. 
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 19  
TECHNOLOGY. 
AND INNOVATION.
The Opportunity
• A large Korean producer of home entertainment 
products wanted to switch from a dual to a single 
alloy surface mount technology process. 
• Using the low temperature alloy allowed by the single 
surface mount technology process would yield the 
greatest benefit to the overall process but the 
challenges were securing improved mechanical 
strength and minimised solder drip from solder paste 
printed in the through holes.
The Solution
• Alpha developed a solder paste with its newly 
patented low temperature alloy for enhanced 
mechanical strength. In addition a paste flux chemistry 
was formulated to eliminate solder drip phenomena 
during the reflow process. 
The Benefit
• Production with the new solder paste achieved the 
desired attributes with no changes to equipment, 
components or printed circuit board design.
• Cost savings through elimination of a dual process 
and the option to implement cheaper low temperature 
assembly parts enabled lower total cost of ownership.
• Alpha has created a high barrier to entry with its 
patented alloy and the opportunity to gain market 
share with this product at other customers. 
Electrical efficiency
>35%
High barrier to entry
+Market Share
The Opportunity
• A world-leading power semiconductor manufacturer 
wanted a solution to package their new high 
performance semiconductor chips to achieve new 
standards in electrical efficiency and reliability.
The Solution
• Alpha developed a unique and versatile silver sinter 
paste that provides superior reliability and thermal/
electrical performance when compared to other 
die-attach packaging solutions.
• Alpha delivered a sintered silver high volume 
manufacturing solution to the customer.
• The customer was given a world class material and a 
world class process to make their new power module 
designs a cost-effective reality. 
The Benefit
• The customer’s products went into field testing and 
delivered >35% more electrical efficiency when 
compared to current state-of-the-art power modules. 
• These trials validated the customer’s technology in the 
market and will allow them to take their new power 
modules into a wide variety of applications.
INVESTMENT IN. 
NEW PRODUCTS. 20 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Our business model is centred around our customers – OEMs in  
the electronics, automotive and industrial high growth markets.
DELIVERING VALUE
SHARING VALUE
ENABLING VALUE
ADDING VALUE
FAST CYCLE R&D
COPY EXACT PRODUCTION
CLOSE TO CUSTOMERS
COMMUNITY
EMPLOYEES AND SHAREHOLDERS
SUPPLIERS
GLOBAL OPERATIONS
COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS
LEADING TECHNOLOGY
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY
STRONG FINANCIAL POSITION
PRODUCT INNOVATION
OUR  
CUSTOMERS
Focus
For Alent, it’s all about growth and delivering 
outperformance. We focus on high unit, long-term  
growth markets and our objective is to outperform  
those end-markets.
Long-term sustainability
Our position as global market leader, our competitive 
advantage and our financial strength has enabled us  
to outperform our end-markets through the cycle.
Differentiated approach
We have a differentiated customer model in our OEM 
marketing and selling initiative. We couple our long-term 
customer relationships with our “fast cycle” R&D and 
global technical services to provide lower cost of 
ownership solutions to our customers and the OEMs  
that specify our products.
Investment and income
With strong cash conversion, we will continue to invest for 
the future and ensure our R&D facilities are equipped with 
the most advanced leading edge equipment to maintain 
our competitive advantage. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 21  
Adding value
We add value for our customers by supplying 
high-performance, value-adding, consumable 
products and services that allow them to:
• Create next-generation products.
• Reduce production costs.
• Improve operational efficiency.
• Cut energy usage.
• Reduce environmental impact.
Delivering value
We deliver value to customers across the world 
through our manufacturing plants and R&D 
centres strategically located close to industry-
defining customers:
Collaboration
• Long-standing collaborative 
customer relationships. 
R&D
• Technology and “fast cycle” R&D providing 
innovation driven growth.
Manufacturing
• Production and technical support 
resources close to our customers in every 
geographic region.
• Significant presence in the higher growth 
developing economies.
Enabling value
We continually enhance and develop our 
skills and capabilities to ensure we are able 
to innovate and deliver for our customers in 
the short- and long-term with:
• Market leadership through differentiating 
products and solutions.
• Leading global market positions based on 
technology leadership, reliable “just in time” 
supply and outstanding technical service.
• Global footprint close to industry-defining 
customers.
• Value-add sales strategy targeting OEMs.
• Financial strength.
Sharing value
We create value for all our stakeholders:
Customers
• Develop strong relationships with our customer 
base and have a deep understanding of 
end-customers’ manufacturing processes 
and future material needs.
Shareholders
• Provide attractive returns to investors on a  
long-term basis.
• Committed to maintaining a strong financial 
position to support our business.
Employees
• Invest in and develop our most valued asset: 
our people.
• Provide equal opportunities for all our people. 
Community
• Committed to operating a sustainable, 
responsible organisation that protects the 
environment and the health and safety of 
those with whom we have relationships. 22 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
OUR STRATEGY
Throughout this report, we will set out the 
progress we have made against our strategy. 
The key elements of our strategy and progress 
are outlined below.
1. Focus on high unit growth end-markets
Rationale 
Unit volumes are the underlying driver of NSV growth 
for Alent. Demand for our products is directly linked to 
demand for our customers’ end-products. We specifically 
focus our sales, marketing and product development 
efforts on those high-demand end-products which in 
turn drive high unit count applications and demand for 
our products. 
The electronics market is forecast to experience growth 
in terms of value, and unit volumes over the medium- to 
long-term. Our leading positions across a very broad 
range of the electronics value chain, including the 
personal computer, smartphone, tablet, automotive 
electronics, microelectronics, semiconductor and general 
electronics end-markets, means that we have significant 
exposure to this underlying growth trend. 
Similarly, the global automotive market is expected 
to experience continued unit growth. This is enhanced 
by a growing trend in the automotive industry for 
increased electronic content in cars, and increased 
use of functional coatings for decorative, wear- and 
corrosion-resistant applications, which is benefiting both 
of our strategic businesses. 
2. Leverage our differentiated value-add customer strategy
Rationale 
Alent has strong collaborative relationships with many 
Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) who specify 
which specialty materials, chemistries and technologies 
are used in their products. We leverage these relationships 
to increase OEM qualification of our products. 
Our longstanding relationships provide a formidable 
barrier to entry for competition. 
Alongside this important differentiator, we continue to 
focus on the value-add sales competencies across all 
our people so as to realise the full margin potential of 
the products and technologies we offer our customers. 
Equally important is the service element we provide 
through our technical process support and customer 
training academies. The knowledge and expertise of 
our technical service organisation is highly valued by 
OEMs and subcontractors, and this further strengthens 
our customer relationships. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 2 3  
3. Continue to develop  
higher-margin products
Rationale
We continue to migrate away from lower-margin 
commoditised products to focus on higher-margin, 
higher-value, innovative products. The constant evolution 
through product innovation means that we expect further 
gradual mix improvement across our portfolio.
4. Improve mix and 
operational efficiencies
Rationale 
We continue to develop operational excellence 
programmes to increase productivity and reduce costs 
and have been incorporating Six Sigma practices into 
our operations since 2001. We have continued to right-size 
and streamline the business structure to optimise further 
our manufacturing footprint, customer service and 
administrative processes.
5. Further invest in R&D to 
expand our market, technology 
and innovation leadership
Rationale
Continued investment in R&D ensures that Alent remains 
ahead of emerging trends, delivering solutions to 
strengthen our leadership position in terms of innovation 
and product development in our market niches. 
We continue to strengthen our market leading positions. 
With a global presence, close proximity to customers  
and leading technologies, we are constantly identifying 
new opportunities in high unit growth complementary 
end-markets.
6. Leverage our financial 
strength to support organic 
growth and acquisitions
Rationale
Alent is an asset light, strong free cash flow generative 
business. We continue to invest in the business to support 
organic growth and will pursue appropriately sized 
acquisitions focusing on technology or bolt-on market 
share-led consolidations. We maintain a progressive 
dividend policy. 24 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
OUR KEY PERFORMANCE 
INDICATORS
We monitor progress against our strategic objectives 
via a series of financial and non-financial KPIs.
PRIORITY/LINK TO STRATEGY PROGRESS
Operational growth
Net sales value (NSV)
 Link to strategic point 1
NSV is revenue less commodity metals that 
pass through to customers. As the changes 
in the value of these commodity metals are 
passed through to customers, NSV is a more 
appropriate measure of the underlying 
activity of the business.
2014
2013
2012
2011
413.0m
420.1m
416.7m
433.3m
Adjusted operating profit  
and NSV margin
 Link to strategic point 2, 3
Adjusted operating profit and NSV margin 
are metrics used to determine the underlying 
performance of the Group.
2014
2013
2012
2011
95.1m (23.0%)
94.1m (22.4%)
97.2m (23.3%)
94.4m (21.8%)
Adjusted earnings per share 
 Link to strategic point 6
Adjusted earnings per share is used to assess 
the earnings capacity of the Group.
2014
2013
2012
2011
25.0p 
24.1p 
24.6p 
24.1p 
Investing for growth
Research and development  
(R&D) spend and percentage  
of NSV
 Link to strategic point 3, 5
R&D is a means by which the Group can 
generate future growth by developing new 
products and services.
2014
2013
2012
2011
15.2m (3.7%)
16.0m (3.8%)
16.5m (4.0%)
16.0m (3.7%)
Operational capital 
expenditure and percentage 
of depreciation
 Link to strategic point 4
Operational capital expenditure is capital 
invested to maintain or upgrade physical 
assets in the Group.
2014
2013
2012
2011
11.7m (129%)
13.7m (152%)
16.4m (184%)
16.1m (189%)
Financial discipline
Adjusted cash generated from 
operations
 Link to strategic point 6
Adjusted cash generated from operations 
is a means to assess the underlying cash 
generation of the Group.
2014
2013
2012
2011
94.0m 
102.8m
86.0m 
93.0m 
Return on capital employed
 Link to strategic point 4
Return on capital employed is a means to 
assess the underlying financial performance 
of the Group.
2014
2013
2012
2011
20.9%
20.2%
20.7%
21.0%
Net debt/EBITDA
 Link to strategic point 6
Net debt/EBITDA is used to assess the financial 
position of the Group and its ability to fund 
future growth.
2014
2013
2012
108.3m (1.0x)
96.5m (1.0x)
144.4m (1.3x) STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 2 5  
PRIORITY/LINK TO STRATEGY PROGRESS
Corporate social responsibility
Customer complaints
 Link to strategic point 4
Our customers are at the heart of our 
strategy and vital to our success. Therefore 
“right first time” is our key measure for dealing 
with our customers.
2014
2013
2012
2011
0.22% 
0.24% 
0.31% 
0.35% 
On-time deliveries
 Link to strategic point 4
Our customers are dependent on us for 
delivery of products and services on time, 
to cost and to specification.
2014
2013
2012
2011
96.0% 
96.8% 
97.2% 
95.9% 
Energy consumption
 Link to strategic point 4
The Group’s aim is to reduce energy usage 
and associated greenhouse gas emissions. 
Over the past number of years, we have 
reduced our overall consumption of energy 
through the implementation of energy and 
greenhouse gas reduction projects. We do 
not have very energy intensive processes 
and expect similar emission numbers 
going forward. 
Note: In calculating energy consumption, 
we use the US national average to convert 
KWh to MMBtu.
300,000
280,000
260,000
240,000
MMBtu
2011 2012 2013 2014
Greenhouse gas  
(GHG) emissions
 Link to strategic point 4
As with energy consumption, measuring 
GHG emissions is part of the Group’s 
programme to reduce energy usage 
and associated emissions. 
We expect similar GHG emission numbers 
going forward.
24,000
23,000
22,000
20,000
MTCO
2
E
21,000
2011 2012 2013 2014
Total recordable injury rate 
(TRIR)
 Link to strategic point 4
Rate of injuries and illnesses is used to monitor 
progress towards the Group’s goal of zero 
work-related injuries and illness.
Note: Industry benchmark data for 2014 is 
yet to be released. The number in the chart 
opposite is an estimate.
4
3
2
0
1
Alent Industry benchmark
2011 2012 2013 2014
For more information on our strategy
See PAGES 22-23
KEY
1. Focus on high unit growth end-markets
2.   Leverage our differentiated value-add  
customer strategy
3.  Continue to develop higher-margin products
4.  Improve mix and operational efficiencies
5.   Further invest in R&D to expand our market,  
technology and innovation leadership
6.   Leverage our financial strength to support  
organic growth and acquisitions 26 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
OUR APPROACH TO 
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Sustainability is a key part of our business model and we 
recognise its importance in delivering shareholder value.
Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as 
being essential to the attainment of Group goals, 
as is maintaining a reputation for integrity in all business 
and other dealings, both with customers and suppliers. 
The Alent Code defines how we must compete vigorously 
and honestly.
We believe we can only achieve our goals through the 
efforts of our people. Job satisfaction requires working 
environments that motivate our people, together with 
opportunities for training and development to maximise 
personal potential. All of our companies must ensure that 
recruitment, training, promotion, career development, 
termination and similar employment-related issues are 
based on individual ability, achievement, experience 
and conduct without regard to race, colour, nationality, 
culture, ethnic origin, religion, gender, sexual orientation, 
age, disability or any other reason not related to job 
performance or prohibited by applicable law.
We are committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance and transparent investor communication, 
as discussed in more detail in the “Governance” section 
of this report.
We seek to be a good corporate citizen wherever we 
conduct business, to observe all national and local laws 
and take into account regional and local concerns, 
customs and traditions.
The Alent Code requires all of its people, officers and 
Directors to have a duty of loyalty to the Group. Personal 
interests that do, may or might appear to conflict with 
Group interests must be avoided at all times. 
Approach to anti-bribery and corruption training
The Alent Code and its policies on anti-bribery and 
corruption require that employees and others working on 
behalf of the Company do not engage in any form of 
bribery or corruption.
Our anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme 
has been implemented globally via an e-learning training 
module. New employees, as relevant, are required to 
complete the e-learning training as part of their 
induction process.
Employee helpline
We have a 24-hour employee business concern helpline 
(telephone and email) facility. This is an independent 
and confidential service through which our people 
worldwide may register any concerns about any incorrect 
or irregular practices they perceive in our workplace 
or business environments.
BACKGROUND
Alent has a global base of manufacturing facilities and is 
serving customers in more than 100 countries worldwide. 
Our facilities are close to our customers to allow us to 
operate in “just in time” supply chains. We therefore have 
a relatively large number of small- and medium-sized 
facilities located close to our customers throughout the 
world’s major economic regions, rather than large, 
centralised factories supplying customers worldwide. 
Our manufacturing processes are not energy intensive 
(total energy costs are approximately 1% of revenue) 
and do not produce large quantities of hazardous or 
other wastes and emissions.
We recognise that appropriate attention to the fulfilment 
of our corporate responsibilities can enhance our overall 
performance. In structuring our approach to the various 
aspects of corporate social responsibility, we take account 
of guidelines and statements issued by stakeholder 
representatives and other regulatory bodies from around 
the world. Social, environmental, health, safety and ethical 
matters are reviewed by the Board, including the impact 
such matters may have on our management of risk.
Our sustainability approach is embedded in our business 
through four key areas:
1. OUR CODE OF CONDUCT:
requiring all of our businesses and our people to comply 
with the highest standards of legal and ethical behaviour;
2. OUR PEOPLE:
investing in and developing our most valued asset: 
our people;
3. OUR PRODUCTS & SERVICES:
developing innovative products and services which help 
our customers lower their environmental impact; and
4. OUR HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT:
protecting the health and safety of our people, 
contractors, customers and the general public, and 
reducing energy consumption, water use and waste in 
our operations.
1. OUR CODE OF CONDUCT
The Group has a Code of Conduct (the “Alent Code”), 
which is obligatory and sets out the standards expected of 
everyone, without exception, who works for Alent in any of 
its worldwide operations. The Alent Code emphasises our 
commitment to ethics and compliance with the law, and 
sets out required standards of legal and ethical behaviour. 
Everyone within the Group is accountable for upholding 
its requirements.
The Alent Code sets out clear and simple principles 
covering: customers; products and services; employees; 
investors; society and local communities; health, 
safety and the environment; conflicts of interest; 
and competitors.
The Alent Code is reproduced in full on the 
Group’s website. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 27  
2. OUR PEOPLE
We believe in the importance of investing in and 
developing our most valued asset: our people. We utilise 
a variety of programmes tailored to help our people 
enhance their performance, set and achieve objectives, 
and develop their leadership skills. In addition, we 
recognise and reward their high performance 
and achievements.
Employment development
We believe our people are key to our competitive 
advantage and we have created comprehensive 
development opportunities to introduce, reinforce 
and further strengthen their special talents. 
These opportunities include:
• EDGE (Employee Development Generates Excellence) 
programmes;
• Alent University (multi-language e-learning platform);
• Six Sigma – a system designed to improve the 
effectiveness and efficiency of all business processes;
• Alent leadership programmes; 
• Alent technical training; and
• education/training reimbursement.
In support of our commitment to our people and their 
development, we launched “Alent University”, a multi-
language online learning management system to 
enhance our various employee development 
opportunities and further define our suite of blended 
learning programmes. Currently we are looking to 
expand our e-learning opportunities as well as our 
compliance outreach with a suite of multi-language 
core compliance training to further develop our 
corporate social responsibilities.
In addition to our development opportunities, we 
are committed to providing competitive pay and a 
comprehensive benefits package to attract and retain 
the best people. Our plans and initiatives include 
health and welfare plans, incentive plans, wellness 
opportunities, work/life benefits, and market benchmark 
compensation plans.
We believe that these initiatives are an important reason 
for our ability to consistently help create added value for 
our customers, allowing us to outperform many other 
competitors in our industry segments.
Charitable work
We are committed to being a responsible corporate 
citizen through support for appropriate charitable 
projects, organisations and charities. The needs of the 
communities in which we operate are varied and diverse 
and although there are no global initiatives, there are 
numerous “grassroots” charitable efforts carried out 
within the regions. 
Furthermore, employees are encouraged to act as 
responsible and responsive citizens and to support 
projects, organisations and services that work towards 
the common good and improvement of their community 
and society. Additionally, as part of our Celebrating 
Achievement Programme, we award employees for their 
extraordinary demonstration of Alent values in society 
under the ‘Social Responsibility’ award category.
Female
27%
Male
73%
Female
17%
Male
83%
Female
25%
Male
75%
Total headcount
Senior management
Board
Human rights
We recognise our responsibility to respect and support 
human rights. Therefore the working conditions of our 
people are in compliance with the internationally 
recognised standards and laws of the countries in which 
we operate. Furthermore we acknowledge and support 
the principles of the eight core conventions that the 
International Labour Organisation has identified as being 
fundamental to the rights of people in the workplace. 
The Alent Human Rights policy is reproduced  
in full on the Group’s website. 28 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
OUR APPROACH TO  
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CONTINUED
3. OUR PRODUCTS & SERVICES
Green technologies
Alent has long been committed to developing products 
and services that help its customers lower their 
environmental impact. Our product technology focus 
is to develop environmentally-friendly products, many 
that are lead-free, halogen-free and hexavalent-free. 
We collaborate with our customers, technology partners, 
and the world’s leading manufacturers, to ensure that 
our green technologies create value by meeting current 
and future performance, productivity, design, profitability, 
safety and regulatory requirements.
We continue to invest in and expand our capabilities to 
take back metal waste streams and responsibly recycle 
that waste into high purity raw materials for reuse in our 
manufacturing processes.
Conflict minerals
Alent understands the seriousness of the possibility that 
tin mined in conflict areas of the Democratic Republic of 
Congo (DRC) may become part of the electronics supply 
chain. Moreover, we understand that profits from such tin 
mining in conflict areas may be encouraging certain 
unfair labour practices or other human rights violations 
in the DRC. We are committed to ensuring that minerals 
from conflict mines do not enter our supply chain.
4. OUR HEALTH, SAFETY AND 
ENVIRONMENT (“HS&E”)
Alent’s policy is to operate in a manner which preserves 
health, safety and a sound environment. For our 
businesses worldwide, the minimum acceptable standard 
is to meet their legal HS&E obligations. The aim is 
continuous improvement.
We believe that good HS&E performance is an integral 
part of efficient and profitable business management. 
We recognise that these matters rank equally in 
importance with operational responsibilities and that 
success in these areas depends on the involvement 
and commitment of everyone in the organisation.
The Board has overall responsibility for our HS&E policy 
and for monitoring its implementation. Executives and 
line managers at all levels are directly responsible for 
HS&E matters in the operations under their control.
Particular emphasis is focused on the following areas:
• regulatory compliance: compliance with air, water 
and waste emissions, and industrial hygiene criteria;
• health and safety performance: protecting the health 
and safety of our people, contractors, customers and 
the general public; and
• environmental performance: reducing energy 
consumption, water usage and greenhouse 
gas emissions.
Diversity
We are committed to diversity and inclusion, not only in 
response to compliance requirements, but also because 
we believe it is the right thing to do. We embrace the 
cultures of countries where we do business by:
• linking diversity initiatives to the Group’s strategic 
business plans;
• identifying internal barriers to success;
• eliminating bias and discrimination from employment 
policies and practices;
• ensuring advancement opportunities are provided to 
all employees; and
• supporting the Group’s policies on diversity 
and harassment.
Over the past year, we have further defined our global 
diversity initiatives through a more formalised Diversity 
Outreach Initiative which includes:
• the creation of a Global Diversity Council, comprising 
senior and middle management members, to study 
gender diversity issues and propose initiatives to 
increase gender diversity throughout Alent; and
• increased development of “Talent Pipeline” programmes 
focusing on recruitment and succession management 
as a process for identifying potential candidates for key 
positions including specific actions related to increasing 
the number of women candidates.
The Board strongly supports the spirit of the Davies Report 
“Women on Boards”. The importance of gender diversity 
is recognised in our commitment to recruit, develop and 
promote people on merit at all levels across the Group.
We are committed to gender-balanced leadership and 
want to ensure that we attract and retain the best people 
for our business. 17% of our senior managers and 33% of our 
supervisors are women. Additionally, 25% of our Board is 
female. Our senior management and Board support our 
diversity and inclusion strategy and are focused on ways to 
improve the number of women at both the executive and 
management level in the future, to ensure that we generate 
innovative and creative thinking for our business.
The Alent Diversity policy is reproduced in full  
on the Group’s website. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 2 9  
REGULATORY COMPLIANCE
All of our manufacturing locations are certified to ISO 
14001, the international standard for environmental 
management systems. In addition, 20 of our operations are 
certified to OHSAS 18001, the international occupational 
health and safety management system. Certification to 
these international standards is not appropriate for all 
facilities, particularly smaller ones and those with very 
limited environmental, health and safety impact. All 
products are reviewed for correct labelling, packaging, 
transport documentation, and supporting safety data 
documents including Globally Harmonised Safety Sheets 
to support global market and commerce requirements. 
Regulatory actions against Alent companies have been  
at a low level for several years. We monitor all EHS 
regulatory activities globally and focus on correcting any 
deficiencies. None of these issues have been significant, 
but all matters are taken seriously and corrective actions 
put in place to prevent reoccurrence. 
Like many manufacturers, some of our operations have 
potential environmental liabilities because of past 
operations at their current or former sites. Where 
remediation is required, we work with external specialists 
and with government authorities to ensure that 
remediation is conducted effectively and efficiently.
REACH 
Alent ensures worldwide compliance with REACH 
(Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction 
of Chemicals) by a central coordination of all REACH  
related obligations.
RoHS
We continue to effectively address RoHS (Restriction of 
Hazardous Substances) and any customer-required 
restricted substance management through proactive 
contact with our suppliers and continued sampling of 
materials deemed “high risk”.
HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Our operations are impacted by the health and safety 
risks associated with manufacturing and other activities 
within the countries in which we operate. Our HS&E 
management programmes are designed to be forward-
looking in the identification, management and mitigation 
of HS&E risks.
We utilise audits, inspections and risk analysis to assess 
and continually improve our safety programmes. Both 
management systems and compliance audits are 
performed and results are shared across the organisation. 
Safety/best practise bulletins serve as a concise platform 
to convey critical safety information and programmes that 
can be deployed throughout the Group in a timely manner. 
Bulletins released in 2014 covered topics such as storage 
and handling of flammable and combustible liquids, 
chemical compatibility, electrical system maintenance, 
static electricity and equipment critical parts.
Global incident rate
We use a number of metrics to evaluate health and safety 
performance globally. All of our facilities report injuries in 
accordance with United States Department of Labor 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 
record-keeping rules. Our incident rates are compared 
to a NAICS 325 benchmark for chemical manufacturing 
tracked by the United States Department of Labor – Bureau 
of Labor & Statistics.
Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) measures the number 
of recordable injuries/illnesses per 100 workers. In 2014, 
we achieved a TRIR of 0.60. Lost Work Incident Rate (LWIR) 
tracks the number of injuries/illnesses per 100 workers with 
one day or more away from work. Our 2014 LWIR was 0.46. 
These areas continue to be a focus for the business, with 
both rates below the industry benchmark of 2.00 for TRIR 
and 0.50 for LWIR.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Energy consumption
Our manufacturing processes are not energy intensive 
and do not produce large quantities of air emissions. 
We operate a programme aimed at reducing energy use 
and its associated emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG). 
We also leverage our extensive Six Sigma programme to 
identify and execute projects for the reduction of energy 
consumption at our facilities around the world.
In 2014, our manufacturing operations consumed 
280,368 million British thermal units (MM Btu) of energy. 
Of this 117,060 MM Btu was electricity and steam use 
(indirect energy). The remainder of our energy use 
consisted of natural gas, and fuel oil (direct energy). 
Note: In calculating energy consumption, we use the 
US national average to convert KWh to MM Btu.
Loss work incident rate
(LWIR)
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.1
0.0
0.2
0.3
0.5
0.7
0.50
0.46
0.50 0.50
Alent Industry benchmark
Benchmark data for 2014 yet to be finalised
2013 2014
Total recordable injury rate
(TRIR)
4
3
2
1
0
0.68
0.60
2.00 2.00
Alent Industry benchmark
2013 2014
Benchmark data for 2014 yet to be finalised 30 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
OUR APPROACH TO  
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
CONTINUED
GHG emissions
Our methodology for measuring GHG emissions follows 
the Greenhouse Gas Protocols of the World Business 
Council for Sustainable Development and the World 
Resource Institute and makes use of emission factors in 
accordance with UK Department for Environment Food 
& Rural Affairs (Defra) and Department of Energy and 
Climate Change (DECC) guidelines. Previous years 
calculated (2010-2013) have been updated, in 
accordance with accepted methodologies, using the 
Defra emission factors to provide a consistent comparison 
with the 2014 calculated values. We report direct and 
indirect GHG emissions in terms of CO2-equivalents 
(CO2-e). Direct GHG emissions are those that occur from 
stationary and mobile sources that we own or control. 
These emissions are also referred to as “Scope 1” 
emissions. Indirect emissions, or “Scope 2” emissions, are 
related to the use or purchase of electricity and steam.
We have added an intensity/normalisation ratio to further 
measure our performance in this area. We report on 
Margin over Material (MOM) as it effectively removes 
fluctuations in material cost from the calculations 
and is the best gauge for our business. MOM for 2014 
was £306,339.
We have collected fuel and electrical usage data from all 
of our major manufacturing locations and major sites to 
generate GHG emission data since 2010. This year we 
expanded the GHG emission review to also include all 
offices and warehouses under our control to calculate a 
more complete GHG impact for Alent consistent with GHG 
reporting methodologies. This is not an easy calculation, 
since in most cases we do not have direct readings of 
energy used at these locations. We are using methods of 
estimating typically Scope 2 (electricity consumption) GHG 
emission on square footage basis for the additional space 
to obtain the GHG impact. These methods are generated 
by approved agencies and are generally accepted.
This year we also completed a refrigerant inventory review 
to highlight the use of refrigerant type materials and to 
determine potential GHG emission sources due to its 
high global warming potential (GWP). This review found 
that GHG emission from this source were insignificant 
(approximately 259 MT CO2e) in normal operation of 
these refrigerant systems. This small number is in part 
due to the usage of R-22 at many facilities, which is an 
HCFC (Hydrochlorofluorocarbon), regulated as an ozone 
depleting substance and not included in GHG inventories 
even though it has a high GWP. Usage of R-22 continues 
to be phased out worldwide, in accordance with the 
Montreal Protocol, and replaced with other GHG 
regulated refrigerants. We will review this inventory 
on an annual basis to monitor this changeover.
In 2014, we had a total of 22,862 metric tons of GHG 
emissions, made up of 9,574 metric tons of direct (scope 1) 
and 13,288 metric tons of indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions 
GHG intensity
(MTCO
2
E/MOM)
Yearly GHG emissions scope breakdown 
(MTCO
2
E)
14,000
10,500
7,000
3,500
0
10,284
13,295 13,288
9,574
Scope 1 Scope 2
2013 2014
based on direct data. The additional space of offices 
and warehouses combined to an additional 4,588 MTCO2 
emission to the above Scope 2 total. We will be reviewing 
this estimated data in the upcoming year to work this into 
the total data to get a total picture of GHG emissions.
Water Use
This is the first year we have reviewed our water usage 
in more detail. Our major operations used 175,574 cubic 
metres of water for process and domestic use in 2014. 
Most of our operations are not very water dependant, 
but one of our businesses uses water as a raw material 
in its products and process operations. In the upcoming 
year, we will develop a programme to break down this 
usage more specifically and review opportunities to 
conserve this valuable resource.
The Alent HS&E policy is reproduced  
in full on the Group’s website.
0.077
0.075
0.08
0.07
0.06
0.05
0.04
0.03
0.02
0.01
0.0
2013 2014 REPORTING
OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT
REGIONAL AND LOCAL MANAGEMENT
DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT
ASSEMBLY MATERIALS AND 
SURFACE CHEMISTRIES
EXECUTIVE 
MANAGEMENT
EXECUTIVE 
RISK COMMITTEE
ALENT PLC
BOARD
ALENT PLC
RISK, POLICIES, PROCEDURES, MANAGEMENT ACTIONS
MONITORING 
AND OVERSIGHT 
 CONTROLS
OPERATIONAL 
AND FUNCTIONAL
 CONTROLS
CONTROLS
AND ENTITY LEVEL
CORPORATE
CONTROLS
ACTIVITIES AND
ASSURANCE
FINANCIAL RISKS
CORPORATE RISKS
OPERATIONAL RISKS
GLOBAL, ECONOMIC, 
MARKET RISKS 
REGULATORY RISKS
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 31  
RISK MANAGEMENT 
AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
Alent’s fully integrated system of risk management and 
internal controls provides visibility and accountability for 
risks throughout the Group.
Risk assessment approach
Alent faces a wide range of risks across its global business. 
Efficient and effective management of these risks is at the 
centre of the way the Group operates.
The risk assessment approach is designed to identify, 
categorise and assess in terms of impact and likelihood 
of occurrence, both before and after control mitigation, 
the key risks facing the business.
As illustrated in the diagram below, Alent plc lies at the 
very centre of the Group’s risk assessment process, and 
utilises various different controls and risk mitigation factors 
to protect itself from both the existing and potential risks 
it has identified that could impact the business.
Alent’s risk management framework provides a consistent 
approach to dealing with risk throughout the Group. 
Risks are identified and mitigated at every level within the 
Group. Where applicable, risks are aggregated and all 
Group risks and mitigation actions are shared with the 
operating companies to ensure consistency of mitigation 
and localisation where possible.
Not all risks are within the control of the Group. However, 
the Group’s approach to risk management ensures it has 
controls in place to reduce the impact of any such risks 
wherever possible, should they occur.
Risk management roles
Ultimately the Board is responsible for the Group’s risk 
management and internal control frameworks and it 
regularly reviews insurance and other measures adopted 
to manage risks within the Group. Additionally, the Audit 
Committee regularly monitors, reviews and evaluates the 
effectiveness of the risk management system and internal 
controls of the Group.
The Board delegates a level of risk management to the 
Executive Management team through a series of Group 
policies and delegated authority matrices. Executive 
Management discharges this responsibility through its 
Executive Risk Committee, which reviews, evaluates, 
mitigates and reports on risks within the Group. These risks 
include economic, financial, operational and regulatory. 
The Executive Risk Committee meets regularly and 
provides the Board with updates on any risks that could 
have a material impact on the Group, assessing the 
impact and likelihood of occurrence before, and after, 
mitigating controls. 32 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
RISK MANAGEMENT  
AND INTERNAL CONTROLS
CONTINUED
Throughout its global operations, the Group faces various 
risks, both internal and external, which could have a material 
impact on the Group’s long-term performance.
 
The Group manages the risk inherent in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk, where practical, 
and to transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective. The risks below are not the only risks the Group will face. Some risks are 
not yet known and some could change their level of materiality and impact on the Group in the future. All of these risks 
could materially affect the Group, its business units, and results of future operations or financial condition.
RISK KEY ACTIONS TREND*
ECONOMIC RISK 
End-market and macro economic risks
The financial performance and financial 
position of the Group may be adversely 
affected by a significant weakening in 
demand in its core end-markets and 
general macro-economic conditions.
• A review of intelligence related to our end-markets to ensure that 
any deterioration in those markets is identified early, communicated 
appropriately and acted upon. 
• The Board regularly reviews Group strategy, which determines the 
markets in which the Group operates. The current spread of the 
Group’s business, both geographically and by end-market served, 
provides some protection to the Group should conditions in particular 
markets deteriorate. 
• Cost-reduction initiative and the cost base remains tightly controlled.
Counter-party risk
During an economic/financial downturn, there 
is an increased possibility that organisations 
with which the Group has either trading or 
financial relationships may not honour their 
obligations (counter-party risk).
• Counter-parties are chosen carefully so that those with poor credit 
ratings and reputations are avoided by the Group wherever possible.
• Surplus cash positions and bank balances held at subsidiary level are 
reviewed on a regular basis by the Group’s treasury department and 
actions taken where appropriate.
• Group companies must hold adequate and specific reserves against 
possible bad debts.
FINANCIAL RISK 
Foreign exchange
The Group’s financial position and trading 
results may be adversely affected by 
fluctuations in exchange rates.
• The Group’s treasury policies and procedures require operating 
companies to hedge material exposures arising from foreign 
currency transactions, utilising forward foreign exchange contracts. 
• The Group does not attempt to hedge the translational impact of 
exchange rate movements on reported earnings. 
• For key operating currencies, the Group manages the translational 
impact of exchange rate movements on its assets by broadly 
matching the currency profile of its borrowings with the currencies 
of its asset base. 
OPERATIONAL RISK
Technology and innovation
Alent may lose customers to competitors with 
new or alternative technologies if its businesses 
either do not adequately adapt to market 
developments or are unable to protect, 
maintain and enforce its intellectual property.
• Significant investments in research and development are made to 
sustain competitive advantage and to ensure that the Group remains 
able to front-run emerging trends and maintain its leadership position 
in terms of innovation and product development in its market niches.
• The Group applies for patents over its products, technologies 
and processes in a number of jurisdictions, encompassing all 
geographic regions. 
• New product and service offerings by competitors are regularly 
monitored and any perceived breach of Group registered patents, 
know-how or designs is vigorously challenged. 
• The Group avoids holding key intellectual property in countries which 
do not afford an acceptable degree of legal protection to Alent.  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 3 3  
RISK KEY ACTIONS TREND*
Personnel
The loss of key personnel or the failure 
to attract, develop or retain skilled or 
qualified employees could negatively 
impact the Group.
• The Group has created comprehensive development opportunities 
to introduce, reinforce and further strengthen employee talents. 
• The Group utilises a variety of programmes tailored to help 
its employees enhance their performance, set and achieve 
objectives, develop their leadership skills and recognise and 
reward their achievements. 
• A succession planning programme with an identified succession plan 
is in place for senior members of staff.
• The Remuneration Committee approves fit-for-purpose employee 
compensation and incentive programmes.
Raw material prices
The Group’s future prospects, financial position 
and results of operations could be adversely 
affected if it is unable to pass on to its 
customers fluctuations in the prices of the 
raw materials which it purchases.
• The Group has processes in place to ensure that any increase 
or decrease in the cost of commodity metal prices are passed 
on to its customers.
• Group systems are automatically uploaded with LME (London Metal 
Exchange) prices or equivalent on a daily basis. These prices are then 
agreed and passed on to the customer at the time of placing an order.
Exposure to loss of key manufacturing 
assets
The loss of key manufacturing assets as a result 
of a major catastrophe could cause significant 
disruption and lead to temporary plant 
closures or suspension of operations and 
production which could negatively impact 
the Group’s business and financial position.
• The Group delivers its products on a “just in time” basis from a 
manufacturing base located around the world. Its “copy exact” 
manufacturing structure allows the Group to produce products to 
the same specification across all of its global manufacturing sites.
• The Group’s procurement strategy ensures that it has agreements 
in place with regional suppliers across the globe and can increase 
its supply of raw materials in each region as necessary.
• Business continuity plans are established and are regularly reviewed 
and updated as necessary to ensure they remain relevant.
REGULATORY RISK
Environmental, health and safety
The changing regulatory environment, 
particularly in emerging markets, and 
future expenditure on compliance with 
environmental and health and safety laws and 
regulations may adversely affect the Group’s 
future prospects, financial position and results 
of operations.
• Executives and line managers at all levels are directly responsible 
through the normal management structure for HS&E matters in the 
operations under their control.
• Group facilities are certified as being ISO compliant to quality, 
environmental and health and safety standards, by a third 
party registrar. 
• The Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its 
businesses which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the 
operational risks which they face.
Failure to comply with laws, regulations 
and restrictions/ethics and governance
Should the Group’s businesses fail to comply 
with applicable legal and regulatory 
requirements, this may result in a financial 
loss or restriction on their ability to operate.
• As part of its planning process before entering a new market or territory, 
or expanding in an existing market or territory, the Group undertakes a 
rigorous assessment of the risks involved. 
• The spread of the Group’s major businesses, both geographically and 
by end-market served, provides some protection to the Group should 
any of its businesses be adversely impacted by legal, regulatory or 
other changes in an individual market or territory. 
• The Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its 
businesses which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the 
key risks which they face.
*  Trend indicates perception of how risk has moved year-on-year. 34 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
FINANCIAL REVIEW
A year of good progress with continued outperformance  
of key markets.
OVERVIEW
I am pleased to be reporting on a year of good financial 
progress for Alent. On a constant currency basis, Alent has 
delivered growth in NSV, adjusted operating profit, NSV 
margin and adjusted EPS together with strong cash 
generation. Foreign exchange translation has been a 
major headwind on our reported results in 2014. Using 2014 
average exchange rates would have decreased 2013 NSV 
and adjusted operating profit by 6%. Our principal 
markets, electronics, automotive and industrial, have all 
shown modest improvements as we progressed through 
the year. Global economies, on the whole, have shown 
growth although Europe and Brazil, in particular, have 
been subdued, whilst global consumer confidence has 
improved slightly year over year. 
Alent has continued to consistently outperform its principal 
end-markets. We have either held, or grown, market share 
in the majority of our end-markets, maintained price 
discipline and continued to exert tight cost control.
As a result of our competitive advantages and financial 
discipline, Group NSV increased 4.6% on a constant 
currency basis, adjusted operating profit increased 7 .6% on 
a constant currency basis and adjusted earnings per share 
increased 11.1% on a constant currency basis. In addition, 
robust financial balance sheet discipline was maintained. 
Cash generation was strong during the year resulting in a 
significant strengthening of the balance sheet leading to a 
net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.0x following the payment of 
the £42m special dividend in October 2014.
DAVID EGAN
Group Finance Director
“ Cash generation was strong 
during the year resulting in a 
significant strengthening of 
the balance sheet.” STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 3 5  
GROUP RESULTS HIGHLIGHTS
A summary of the Group’s results is set out below. Further detail on the performance of each business unit is included 
on pages 16 to 17 . 
At reported rates % change at
2014 2013 Reported Constant
Revenue (£m) 644.8 684.7 (5.8) (0.2)
NSV (£m) 413.0 420.1 (1.7) 4.6
Adjusted operating profit (£m) 95.1 94.1 1.1 7.6
NSV margin (%) 23.0 22.4 0.6pts 0.6pts
Adjusted profit before tax (£m) 91.5 88.0 4.0 11.3
Adjusted earnings per share (p) 25.0 24.1 3.7 11.1
Adjusted cash generated from operations (£m) 94.0 102.8 (8.6)
Net debt (£m) 108.3 96.5 (12.2)
Leverage (x EBITDA) 1.0 1.0 –
Full year dividends per share (p) 9.00 8.60 4.7
Statutory profit before tax (£m) 73.4 77.7 (5.5)
Statutory earnings per share (p) 17.0 22.1 (23.1)
A full definition of non-GAAP measures is outlined in note 4 on pages 93 to 94.  
SUMMARY GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 
Statutory 
results 
2014  
£m
Adjustments 
2014  
£m 
Adjusted 
results 
2014 
£m
Statutory 
results  
2013
£m
Adjustments 
2013  
£m
Adjusted  
results  
2013  
£m 
Revenue 644.8 – 644.8 684.7 – 684.7
Operating profit before exceptional items 95.1 – 95.1 94.1 – 94.1
Exceptional items (18.1) 18.1 – (10.3) 10.3 –
Operating profit 77.0 18.1 95.1 83.8 10.3 94.1
Share of post-tax profit of JVs 1.6 – 1.6 0.8 – 0.8
Net finance costs (5.2) – (5.2) (6.9) – (6.9)
Profit before tax 73.4 18.1 91.5 77.7 10.3 88.0
Income tax costs – ordinary activities (28.5) 5.8 (22.7) (20.9) – (20.9)
Income tax costs – exceptional items 1.9 (1.9) – 4.8 (4.8) –
Profit for the year 46.8 22.0 68.8 61.6 5.5 67.1
Earnings per share (pence) 17.0 25.0 22.1 24.1
A full definition of adjustments is outlined in note 4 on pages 93 to 94.   36 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
At reported rates % change at
NSV (£m) 2014 2013 Reported Constant
Assembly Materials 204.9 209.5 (2.2) 4.4
Surface Chemistries 208.1 210.6 (1.2) 4.7
Alent Group 413.0 420.1 (1.7) 4.6
Adjusted operating profit (£m)
Assembly Materials 57.6 58.2 (1.0) 5.3
Surface Chemistries 44.6 42.7 4.4 10.4
Corporate (7.1) (6.8) (4.4) (6.0)
Alent Group 95.1 94.1 1.1 7.6
NSV margin (%)
Assembly Materials 28.1 27.8 0.3pts 0.2pts
Surface Chemistries 21.4 20.3 1.1pts 1.1pts
Alent Group 23.0 22.4 0.6pts 0.6pts
Group revenue decreased by £39.9m to £644.8m (2013: 
£684.7m). On a constant currency basis the decline was 
0.2%. The revenue decrease was impacted by foreign 
exchange headwinds and the “pass through” to 
customers of lower silver prices for consumption in the 
Assembly Materials business, and lower gold prices and 
consumption in the Surface Chemistries business. For  
the full year 2014, the average prices of tin, gold and  
silver were, respectively, 2%, 10% and 20% lower than 
the prior year, such that approximately £15.2m of the  
Group’s revenue decrease was as a result of these  
lower metal prices. 
Group NSV increased 4.6% at constant currency rates, 
a decrease of 1.7% on a reported basis to £413.0m (2013: 
£420.1m), outperforming our key end-markets. NSV in our 
Assembly Materials business unit increased 4.4% at 
constant currency rates, declining 2.2% on a reported 
basis to £204.9m (2013: £209.5m), with strong growth in our 
Surface Mount Assembly product line. NSV in our Surface 
Chemistries business unit increased 4.7% at constant 
currency rates, down 1.2% on a reported basis to £208.1m 
(2013: £210.6m), with solid growth in both our Performance 
Coatings and Electronics Chemistries product lines.
Group adjusted operating profit increased 7 .6% at constant 
currency rates, an increase of 1.1% on a reported basis to 
£95.1m (2013: £94.1m). Group NSV margin increased 60pts 
to 23.0% (2013: 22.4%) through product mix, operational 
leverage and disciplined pricing and cost control.
During the year, we have continued to resource and 
deliver on our OEM marketing and selling strategy and 
have either held or improved our market share position 
in most market segments. Our fast cycle R&D is driven 
exclusively by the voice of our customers who are 
supported by our global network of highly skilled technical 
service engineers. This has enabled Alent to outperform its 
competition by taking full advantage of its position in its 
core markets, driving market share gain. 
The restructuring self-help activities throughout the Group 
have delivered to our expectations during the year with 
the majority of these activities now nearing completion.
Assembly Materials adjusted operating profit increased 
5.3% at constant currency rates, a decrease of 1.0% on a 
reported basis to £57 .6m (2013: £58.2m). NSV margin 
increased 0.2pts to 28.1% (2013: 27 .8%). Strong margin 
progression across our Surface Mount Assembly product 
line, particularly solder paste, was in part offset by lower 
volumes in our Wave Solder Assembly product line and 
lower contribution from our reclaim business due to the 
impact of lower metal prices, particularly silver, and tighter 
supplies of scrap feed stocks.
Surface Chemistries adjusted operating profit increased 
10.4% at constant currency rates, an increase of 4.4% on 
a reported basis to £44.6m (2013: £42.7m). NSV margin 
increased 1.1pts to 21.4% (2013: 20.3%). Solid market share 
growth in both Performance Coatings and Electronics 
Chemistries, and the recovery in part, of our copper 
damascene volumes, were the drivers for the strong 
year-on-year performance.
Corporate costs of £7 .1m (2013: £6.8m) are broadly in line 
with the prior year.
The statutory operating profit before exceptional items 
increased 1.1% to £95.1m at reported rates (2013: £94.1m).
SHARE OF POST-TAX PROFIT OF JVS
The Group’s share of post-tax profit from joint ventures of 
£1.6m (2013: £0.8m) included a one-off pension settlement 
gain of £1.4m (2013: £nil).
FINANCIAL REVIEW
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 37  
Total net exceptional charges before tax for the Group 
were £18.1m (2013: £10.3m), comprising £20.6m (2013: 
£10.3m) of exceptional charges and exceptional income 
of £2.5m (2013: £nil). 
The exceptional charges include £8.2m (2013: £10.3m) 
of restructuring charges, arising in connection with 
operational restructuring initiatives that included 
redundancy programmes, the downsizing or closure 
of facilities, the streamlining of manufacturing processes 
and the rationalisation of product lines; and corporate 
management restructuring initiatives comprising 
termination payments and other costs related to the 
replacement of the Chief Executive and other senior 
management positions. The net tax credit attributable 
to these restructuring charges was £0.7m (2013: £1.9m). 
Restructuring cash costs of £9.3m (2013: £4.0m) were 
incurred in the year, in respect of restructuring initiatives 
commenced both in 2014 and in prior years. 
During 2014, the Group recognised litigation charges of 
£7 .3m (2013: £nil) arising on settlement of legacy issues that 
pre-dated the demerger from Cookson Group plc in 2012. 
Of these charges, £6.4m (2013: £nil) relates to corporate 
activity involving MacDermid (incorporated in the United 
States) and dates back to 2006. The £6.4m charge 
represents Alent’s share of the full and final settlement that 
was reached in February 2015. This matter had been noted 
as a contingent liability in Alent’s 2013 annual report. 
Costs of £3.0m (2013: £nil) were recognised in connection 
with the demolition, environmental clean-up and 
monitoring of sites of former Group businesses that 
were either closed or disposed of in prior years. 
In addition, £2.1m (2013: £nil) of cost was recognised on the 
impairment of plant and equipment associated with an 
uneconomic product line in the Assembly Materials 
business unit. 
During 2014 the Group recognised exceptional 
income of £2.3m (2013: £nil) following the settlement  
of patent litigation. 
The profit on disposal of continuing operations of £0.2m 
(2013: £nil) arose on disposal of the US stencils business 
of the Assembly Materials business unit. The disposal 
generated cash proceeds of £0.5m (2013: £nil). 
We are currently not expecting any exceptional costs to 
be incurred in 2015. We would expect a cash outflow of 
c£12m-£14m for full year 2015. 
NET FINANCE COSTS
Net finance costs in the year were £5.2m, a decrease of 
£1.7m or 24.6% on the net finance cost for 2013. Interest on 
net borrowings of £4.3m (2013: £5.7m) was lower than 2013 
due to lower gross debt levels on the back of stronger cash 
generation and lower interest rates. The net interest cost 
associated with the net liabilities of the Group’s defined 
benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans 
was £0.8m (2013: £1.1m).
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Adjusted profit before tax increased 4.0% to £91.5m (2013: 
£88.0m) whilst on a constant currency basis, the increase 
was 11.3%. 
The statutory profit before tax decreased by £4.3m 
to £73.4m (2013: £77.7m) primarily due to higher 
exceptional items.
TAX CHARGE
The adjusted tax charge on ordinary activities was £22.7m 
(2013: £20.9m). The effective tax rate (ETR) (before share 
of post-tax profit of joint ventures) was 25.2% (2013: 24.0%). 
The 2014 ETR is higher than the prior year due to the 
change in the geographic split of profit before tax and 
higher withholding tax on the repatriation of dividends 
from overseas territories.
The exceptional tax credit was £1.9m (2013: £4.8m). 
Included within the 2014 tax credit is the recognition of a 
deferred tax asset of £4.0m (2013: £6.1m) in respect of a 
portion of the accumulated US tax losses. Prior to 2013, the 
accumulated tax losses in the US were not recognised as a 
deferred tax asset due to uncertainty in the future 
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
£m
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Exceptional charges
Restructuring charges 8.2 10.3
Litigation settlement charges 7.3 –
Disposal and closure costs 3.0 –
Impairment charges 2.1 –
Total exceptional charges 20.6 10.3
Exceptional income
Litigation settlement income (2.3) –
Profit on disposal of continuing operations (0.2) –
Total exceptional income (2.5) –
Total net exceptional charges 18.1 10.3 38 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
FINANCIAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
profitability from our US operations. As at 31 December 2014, 
there were approximately US$250m of gross US tax losses 
available to Alent. 
We expect the ETR for the full year 2015 to be between 25% 
and 26%. This assumes no change in the ETR from utilisation 
of our deferred tax asset associated with our US tax losses.
The statutory tax charge was £26.6m (2013: £16.1m) on 
profit before tax of £73.4m (2013: £77 .7m). This represents 
a statutory tax rate (before share of post-tax profit from 
joint-ventures) of 37 .0% (2013: 20.9%). The increase in the 
statutory tax charge compared to 2013 is principally due 
to the recognition and utilisation of US deferred tax assets, 
which contributed a credit to the tax charge in 2013 of 
£6.1m and a net charge in 2014 of £1.8m, as illustrated in 
note 11.2 of the financial statements. The table below 
reconciles the statutory tax charge for the year of £26.6m 
(2013: £16.1m) to the adjusted tax charge for the year of 
£22.7m (2013: £20.9m). 
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
Statutory tax charge 26.6 16.1
Adjustments to exclude:
Recognition of US deferred tax assets 4.0 6.1
Other exceptional items (2.1) (1.3)
Exceptional tax items 1.9 4.8
Utilisation of US deferred tax assets (5.8) –
Adjusted tax charge 22.7 20.9
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 
Adjusted profit for the year increased by 2.5% to £68.8m 
(2013: £67 .1m), whilst on a constant currency basis, the 
increase was 9.9%. The statutory profit for the year was 
£46.8m (2013: £61.6m).
EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Adjusted earnings per share increased 11.1% at constant 
currency rates, an increase of 3.7% on a reported basis to 
25.0 pence per share (2013: 24.1 pence per share). This 
constant currency increase was driven by strong adjusted 
operating profit and lower net finance costs as a result of 
stronger cash generation and lower interest rates. 
The weighted average number of shares was 275.3m 
(2013: 278.4m).
RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (R&D)
R&D is critical to the continued success of Alent to meet 
the demand for leading-edge products for smaller, 
lighter and faster electronics and to take advantage of the 
opportunities presented by new and fast-growing markets. 
In addition, tightening environmental regulations mean that 
improvements to existing products are required in order to 
ensure continued compliance.
Alent invests significant amounts in R&D and endeavours 
to sustain its competitive advantage. In 2014, total R&D 
spend was £15.2m, (2013: £16.0m) equivalent to 3.7% 
(2013: 3.8%) of NSV. Of this expenditure, £7 .8m (2013: £7 .9m) or 
3.8% (2013: 3.8%) of NSV was in the Assembly Materials 
business whilst £7 .4m (2013: £8.1m) or 3.6% (2013: 3.8%) of NSV 
was in the Surface Chemistries business. All R&D costs have 
been expensed through the Group income statement. 
Going forward, we would expect R&D spend to broadly 
track NSV growth.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE
The Group’s Consolidated Balance Sheet is summarised as follows:
2014 2013
Assets 
£m
Liabilities 
£m
Net assets 
£m
Assets 
£m
Liabilities 
£m
Net assets 
£m
Property, plant and equipment 85.9 – 85.9 85.2 – 85.2
Intangible assets 294.3 – 294.3 288.5 – 288.5
Investment in joint ventures 6.3 – 6.3 5.5 – 5.5
Other non-current assets and liabilities 15.7 (52.2) (36.5) 13.7 (44.7) (31.0)
Current assets and liabilities 182.1 (113.8) 68.3 183.7 (104.2) 79.5
Employee benefits – (24.1) (24.1) – (18.8) (18.8)
Capital employed 584.3 (190.1) 394.2 576.6 (167.7) 408.9
Net cash/(debt) 49.5 (157.8) (108.3) 63.1 (159.6) (96.5)
Total at 31 December 633.8 (347.9) 285.9 639.7 (327.3) 312.4
Net assets at the end of 2014 were £285.9m, a decrease of £26.5m on the 2013 level of £312.4m. 
Return on capital employed was 20.9% for 2014, an increase of 0.7pts on the 2013 level of 20.2%. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 3 9  
CASH FLOW
2014 
£m
2013 
£m
EBITDA 104.2 103.1
Net (increase)/decrease in trade and other working capital (0.2) 5.6
Outflow related to restructuring charges (9.3) (4.0)
Litigation settlements 1.7 –
Additional funding contributions into Group pension plans (2.4) (1.9)
Adjusted cash generated from operations 94.0 102.8
Net interest paid (3.3) (4.1)
Income taxes paid (17.5) (19.3)
Adjusted net cash inflow from operating activities 73.2 79.4
Capital expenditure (11.7) (13.7)
Add back additional funding contributions into Group pension plans 2.4 1.9
Proceeds from sale of property, plant, equipment and dividend from JV 0.4 5.6
Adjusted free cash flow 64.3 73.2
Payment of demerger costs (not included above) (0.2) (4.8)
Cash generation during the year has been very strong.
EBITDA for 2014 was £104.2m (2013: £103.1m). Working capital 
outflow in 2014 was £0.2m (2013: £5.6m inflow). Working 
capital as a percentage of sales was 19.2% (2013: 18.3%), on 
a constant currency basis. Going forward, assuming stable 
raw material costs, we would expect some working capital 
build in the first half of 2015 in advance of the traditional 
stronger demand in the second half of the year. We remain 
focused on reducing the working capital needs of the 
business although this is to some extent influenced by raw 
material costs.
Restructuring cash costs of £9.3m (2013: £4.0m) were 
incurred in the year in respect of restructuring initiatives 
leaving provisions made but unspent of £7.0m (2013: 
£9.7m). We would expect a restructuring cash outflow 
of c£5.0m in 2015.
Adjusted cash generated from operations was £94.0m 
(2013: £102.8m) and represented a cash conversion of 90.2% 
of EBITDA, down 9.5pts from our 2013 cash conversion of 
99.7% due primarily to inventory build to support plant 
rationalisations and commissioning. We would anticipate 
some modest working capital improvement during the 
course of 2015. 
Net interest paid of £3.3m (2013: £4.1m) was in respect of 
interest on borrowings, whilst income taxes paid amounted 
to £17 .5m (2013: £19.3m). The tax cash flow in 2014 benefited 
from a small number of one-off items, without which the tax 
cash would have been similar to 2013. We would expect 
income taxes paid in 2015 to be similar to our effective tax 
rate of between 25% and 26%.
Capital expenditure in 2014 was £11.7m (2013: £13.7m). 
This represents 1.3 times (2013: 1.5 times) depreciation. 
The total capital spend in 2014 was lower than we had 
expected due to a small number of project delays. This will 
result in some carry over capital expenditure into 2015. 
The main expenditure during 2014 was incurred at our 
manufacturing facilities in West Haven, Chennai, Budapest 
and Shanghai plus continuing upgrade of our R&D 
equipment and facilities. Our Shanghai facility is fully 
commissioned, whilst Chennai and Budapest are in 
the commissioning stage. Once commissioned, our 
manufacturing footprint is largely complete. 
In line with our plans to invest for future growth, we have 
a number of plant upgrades and process efficiency 
projects earmarked for capital expenditure whilst 
continuing to invest in the latest technology at our state 
of the art research and development facilities. As such, 
we expect capital expenditure to be running at 1.5 – 1.8 
times depreciation in 2015. Adjusted free cash flow for 
the year was £64.3m (2013: £73.2m).
NET DEBT
Net debt at 31 December 2014 was £108.3m (2013: £96.5m). 
Gross borrowings were £157 .8m whilst cash on hand was 
£49.5m. At 31 December 2014, the Group’s gross borrowings 
were denominated in US Dollars (67%), Euros (16%) and 
Pounds Sterling (17%). 
£155.3m (2013: £154.5m) of the Group’s gross borrowings 
comprise drawings under a £300m committed bank facility. 
Loans made under this facility bear interest at a floating rate 
per annum based on the London Interbank Offer Rate 
(LIBOR) as applicable plus a margin ranging from 0.80% 
per annum to 1.50% per annum depending on the ratio of 
consolidated net borrowings to adjusted EBITDA. The facility 
expires in September 2019. 40 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
FINANCIAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
Financial covenants applicable to the facility include 
adjusted EBITDA to net interest (minimum 4.0 times) and 
net debt to adjusted EBITDA (maximum 3.0 times). As at 
31 December 2014, Alent was operating well within these 
covenants as the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 1.0 times 
and the ratio of EBITDA to net interest was 30.7 times.
PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS 
2014 2013
US 
£m
ROW 
£m
Total 
£m
US 
£m
ROW 
£m
Total 
£m
Fair value of plan assets 43.6 2.2 45.8 37.9 2.0 39.9
Funded defined benefit obligations (54.8) (3.1) (57.9) (45.4) (2.5) (47.9)
Status of funded plans (11.2) (0.9) (12.1) (7.5) (0.5) (8.0)
Unfunded plans (6.7) (5.3) (12.0) (5.6) (5.2) (10.8)
Total net liabilities (17.9) (6.2) (24.1) (13.1) (5.7) (18.8)
The Group operates defined contribution and defined 
benefit pensions plans, principally in the US and Germany. 
The Group’s largest defined benefit plan in the US is closed 
to new members and to further accruals for existing 
members. As at 31 December 2014, the net deficit in Alent’s 
post-retirement defined benefit plans was £24.1m (2013: 
£18.8m) with assets of £45.8m (2013: £39.9m) and liabilities 
of £69.9m (2013: £58.7m).
CAPITAL RETURN
Alent’s balance sheet continued to strengthen during the 
year with the business delivering strong cash flows since 
demerger. The Board is committed to maintaining a capital 
structure that is both efficient and balanced between 
investment for growth, both organically and through 
acquisitions, and returns to shareholders. 
Having assessed our expected future cash generation 
and the capital required to support ongoing growth plans, 
ordinary dividends and potential bolt-on acquisitions, the 
Board approved and paid on 17 October 2014, a special 
dividend to shareholders of 15.0 pence per share, which 
represents a total payment of £42m. The special dividend 
was accompanied by a share consolidation.
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a 4.7% increase in the full year 
dividend, with a final dividend for 2014 of 6.0 pence per 
share making a total of 9.0 pence per share for the year 
(2013: 8.6 pence per share). This is equivalent to 2.8 times 
dividend cover from adjusted EPS. The final dividend, 
if approved at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2015, 
is to be paid on 19 June 2015 to shareholders on the register 
on 15 May 2015. Any shareholder wishing to participate in 
the Alent Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”) needs to 
have submitted their election to do so by 29 May 2015. 
We maintain our progressive dividend policy with full year 
dividend growth expected to be at least in line with 
earnings growth, and targeting a dividend cover in the near 
term within a range of 3.0 to 2.8 times. In the normal course, 
the interim dividend will be equivalent to 35% of the full year 
dividend for the previous year. 
REFINANCING
In order to maintain our financial flexibility, we successfully 
completed the re-financing of our existing syndicated bank 
facility with a group of eight relationship banks. The size 
of the facility remains unchanged at £300m, with the term 
of the facility being extended by a further two years to 
21 September 2019.
TREASURY MANAGEMENT
The Group maintains a centralised Treasury function which is 
responsible for setting treasury policy throughout the Alent 
Group, and for much of the Group’s treasury activity 
(particularly funding, risk management and cash 
management). Operating companies are responsible for 
those activities best controlled locally (e.g. payments and 
collections, local bank relationships and transactional 
foreign exchange management). The Group’s Treasury 
Policies and Procedures, which provide the framework for 
this activity, are approved by the Alent plc Board and 
reviewed on a regular basis.
FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
The majority of the Group’s funding requirements are 
met by means of its £300m committed bank facility, 
with limited use of local overdraft facilities where 
appropriate. Operating companies are required to 
remit surplus cash to Group Treasury, as soon as practical, 
through participation in the Group’s cash management 
systems or, where such participation is not possible, by 
payment of dividends or repayment of intercompany loans.
INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s interest rate risk arises principally on its core 
borrowings. This risk is managed, when appropriate, by the 
use of interest rate swaps. At 31 December 2014, 69% of the 
Group’s gross borrowings were hedged by means of interest 
rate swaps which had the effect of fixing the interest rate on 
these borrowings until July 2016. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 41  
TAXATION POLICY
Alent’s tax strategy is to manage tax risks and tax costs in 
a manner consistent with shareholders’ best long-term 
interest, taking into account both economic and 
reputational factors. The Group’s tax strategy aims to ensure 
compliance with all relevant statutory obligations and to 
mitigate the tax charge to a level that is consistent with 
the Group’s legal obligations in all relevant jurisdictions. 
The Group seeks to build constructive, open working 
relationships with tax authorities through transparency, 
and actively considers the implications of tax planning on 
the Group’s corporate reputation. Arm’s length principles 
are applied in the pricing of all intra-group transactions 
in accordance with OECD guidelines. 
The Group has strong controls and clear policies and 
procedures covering tax which the Group follows. We 
approach tax planning with the aim of paying the right 
amount of tax at the right time in each tax jurisdiction.
GOING CONCERN BASIS
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the 
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, they 
have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS and the material accounting policies 
are set out in the notes to the financial statements of this 
report. The Group has adopted new and revised IFRS as 
detailed in note 2.
Applying accounting policies requires the use of certain 
judgements, assumptions and estimates. The following 
accounting policies have been identified as being the 
most significant and where there is most risk of material 
adjustment to the carrying value of the Group’s assets 
and liabilities within the financial statements:
• goodwill;
• employee benefits;
• liability reserves; and
• taxation.
See note 3 to the Group financial statements for more detail.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
During 2014, the Group’s related party transactions were 
between the Company and its subsidiaries and have 
been eliminated on consolidation. 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK
It is the Group’s policy to manage the currency risk on its 
net assets by matching the currency profile of its core 
borrowings with the currency profile of its earnings and 
net assets. At 31 December 2014, 17% of the Group’s gross 
borrowings were denominated in Pounds Sterling, 67% in 
US Dollars, and 16% in Euros.
The Group does not hedge the translation exposure on 
the income statements of its overseas subsidiaries. Foreign 
currency transaction exposures that are material at an 
individual operating unit level are hedged using forward 
foreign exchange contracts.
Currency impact on trading
The Group reports its results in Pounds Sterling but conducts 
its business in multiple foreign currencies. The revenue mix in 
its major currencies in 2014 was as follows:
2014 2013
US Dollars 29% 26%
Chinese Renminbi 22% 21%
Euros 23% 22%
Taiwanese Dollars 8% 9%
Brazilian Reals 4% 5%
Based on the 2014 mix of non-Pound Sterling denominated 
revenue and adjusted operating profit, a 1% movement in 
US Dollars (relative to Pounds Sterling) changes revenue 
by £1.9m and adjusted operating profit by £0.2m. A 1% 
movement in Chinese Renminbi (relative to Pounds Sterling) 
changes revenue by £1.4m and adjusted operating profit by 
£0.4m. A 1% movement in Euros (relative to Pounds Sterling) 
changes revenue by £1.5m and adjusted operating profit 
by £0.2m.
The Group has a policy of broadly matching the currency 
of borrowings to the currency of its operating activities for 
its major trading currencies. At the end of 2014, 83% of the 
Group’s gross borrowings were denominated into non-
Sterling currencies, principally US Dollars and Euros.
DAVID EGAN 
Group Finance Director  
2 March 2015 2 3 4 1
42 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
DR EMMA FITZGERALD
Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience
Emma is Director, Gas 
Distribution for National Grid plc. 
Prior to joining National Grid, she 
pursued a 20 year career with 
Royal Dutch Shell where she held 
a variety of technical, strategic 
and general management 
positions based in Asia and 
Europe including Vice President 
Global Retail Network, and as 
Managing Director of Shell 
China/Hong Kong Lubricants 
based in Beijing. Emma was 
previously a Non-executive 
Director of Cookson Group plc 
and has also served on 
subsidiary boards in both 
Korea and China. Emma holds 
a DPhil in Solid State Physics and 
Surface Chemistry, is a Trustee 
of The Windsor Leadership Trust, 
and sits on the leadership 
development advisory panel 
for the Prime Minister’s Office of 
the Singapore Government.
Nationality
Emma FitzGerald is a 
British citizen.
Appointment date 
31 October 2012
OUR BOARD
A strong and diverse Board: The primary focus of the Board is on 
strategic and policy issues. Biographies are set out below:
PETER HILL CBE
Chairman and 
Chairman of the 
Nominations Committee
Skills and experience
Peter served as Chief  
Executive of Laird plc from  
2002 until he stepped down  
from the Board in November 
201 1. He previously held senior 
management positions with 
BTR plc (subsequently Invensys 
plc) and was an executive 
Director of Costain Group plc. 
He was previously a Non-
executive Director of Cookson 
Group plc, Meggitt plc and 
Oxford Instruments plc, and 
was a non-executive board 
member of UK Trade and 
Investment. Peter is a Non-
executive Director of Essentra 
plc, a Non-executive Director 
of the Royal Air Force and 
Non-executive Chairman 
of Volution Group plc.
Nationality 
Peter Hill is a British citizen.
Appointment date 
31 October 2012
1
ANDREW HEATH
Chief Executive
Skills and experience
Andrew was previously at 
Rolls-Royce plc where he was 
a member of the Executive 
Leadership Team and President 
of Rolls-Royce Energy. Andrew 
is a Non-executive Director of 
Imagination Technologies plc 
where he is Chairman of the 
remuneration committee and 
a member of the audit and 
nomination committees. He 
was previously a Non-executive 
Director of Oxford BioSignals 
and LG Fuel Systems.
Nationality 
Andrew Heath is a 
British citizen.
Appointment date 
21 February 2015
2 3 4
DAVID EGAN
Group Finance Director
Skills and experience
David was previously the 
Chief Financial Officer at ESAB, 
which was the largest division 
of Charter International plc 
which was itself acquired by 
Colfax Corporation in 2012. Prior 
to joining ESAB in 2008, David 
was Group Financial Controller 
of Hanson plc based in London, 
and prior to that Chief Financial 
Officer, Hanson Asia Pacific 
based in Singapore. He has 
extensive international 
experience of businesses in 
Europe, including the Russian 
Federation, Asia, Australasia, 
and the Americas. David is 
Non-executive Director, 
Chairman of the audit 
committee and a member 
of the remuneration and 
nomination committees of 
Tribal Group plc. David is a 
qualified Certified Practicing 
Accountant (CPA), Australia.
Nationality 
David Egan holds dual British 
and Australian citizenship.
Appointment date 
1 January 2013 5 6 7 8
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 43 
LARS FÖRBERG
Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience
Lars is a managing partner of 
Cevian Capital, which holds 
just under 22% of Alent’s issued 
share capital. Lars co-founded 
Cevian Capital in 2002. In 1997, 
he joined AB Custos, the Swedish 
investment company, ultimately 
becoming Chief Investment 
Officer. Prior to AB Custos, 
he had been an investment 
manager of Nordic Capital. 
Lars is a Non-executive Director 
of Danske Bank. He also sits 
on the nominations committee 
of AB Volvo, the Swedish 
truck and construction 
equipment  manufacturer.
Nationality
Lars Förberg is a Swedish citizen.
Appointment date
31 October 2012
5 6
JAN OOSTERVELD
Non-Executive Director
Skills and experience
Jan spent 32 years with Royal 
Philips Electronics, where he 
was a member of the group 
management committee with 
responsibility for corporate 
strategy, the Chief Executive 
of Philips Asia Pacific and the 
Chairman of LG Philips LCD. 
He is a Non-executive 
Director and Chairman of the 
remuneration committee of 
Candover Investments plc and 
a Non-executive Corporate 
Director of Barco N.V. He served 
as Chairman of the supervisory 
board of Crucell N.V. until 
December 201 1 and was 
previously a Non-executive 
Director of Cookson Group plc. 
Jan is also a professor at IESE 
Business School in Barcelona.
Jan Oosterveld has announced 
his intention to retire at the 2015 
Annual General Meeting.
Nationality
Jan Oosterveld is a Dutch citizen.
Appointment date
31 October 2012
7
MARK WILLIAMSON
Non-Executive Director, 
Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee
Skills and experience
Mark was formerly 
Chief Financial Officer of 
International Power plc. 
He joined International Power 
in 2000 as Group Financial 
Controller and was appointed 
to the Board as Chief Financial 
Officer in 2003, stepping down 
in 2012. Previously, he was Group 
Financial Controller and Group 
Chief Accountant at Simon 
Group plc, the engineering 
and bulk chemicals group. 
He is Chairman of Imperial 
Tobacco Group plc, having 
previously served as Chairman 
of the audit committee, and 
is a Non-executive Director, 
Senior Independent Director 
(SID) and Chairman of the audit 
committee of National Grid plc. 
Mark qualified as a Chartered 
Accountant in South Africa.
Nationality
Mark Williamson is 
a British citizen.
Appointment date
31 October 2012
8
NOËL HARWERTH
Non-Executive Director 
and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee
Skills and experience
Noël spent 15 years with Citicorp, 
latterly as Chief Operating Officer 
of Citibank International, having 
previously been with Dun and 
Bradstreet and Kennecott Copper 
Corporation. She is currently 
a Non-executive Director 
and member of the audit 
committee of the London Metal 
Exchange, and a Non-executive 
Director of Standard Life plc and 
the British Horseracing Authority. 
Noël will step down from the 
position of Chairman and 
Non-executive Director of 
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking 
Corporation Europe at the end 
of Q1 2015. Previously, she was 
a Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the remuneration 
committee of Logica plc, 
Non-executive Director of 
Impellam Group plc, Corus 
Group plc, TFL Group, Avocet 
Mining plc, RSA Insurance Group 
plc and Dominion Diamond 
Corporation Inc.
Nationality
Noël Harwerth holds dual British 
and US citizenship.
Appointment date
31 October 2012 44 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CORPORATE  
GOVERNANCE
I am presenting here the Company’s Corporate 
Governance Report for 2014 on behalf of the Board. Alent 
plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code (the 
“Code”). The Code encourages me to report personally 
on how its principles relating to the role and effectiveness 
of the Board have been applied. I am happy to do so. 
We continue to develop both as a Board and as individual 
directors. The Board is committed to maintaining high 
standards of corporate governance and ensuring values 
and behaviours are embedded and consistent across the 
business. We continue to ensure that the Directors provide 
suitable leadership and direction to the Company in three 
ways; performance evaluation, succession planning and 
annual re-election by shareholders. Each of these are 
considered in turn within the Governance Report.
Evaluation
We have again undertaken an externally facilitated review 
of the performance of the Board, its committees and 
individual directors. A fuller description is set out on page 
53 of this report. I am encouraged by its findings.
The results of the Board evaluation were taken into account 
in respect of the Board changes that have taken place. 
The areas that show the most marked improvement 
include the conduct of meetings, the dynamics between 
Non-executive Directors and the executives, specifically the 
levels of challenge and support; the adequacy of strategic 
Board discussions; the placing of more emphasis on 
operational and Group risk, and Board decision-making. 
The Board now has a greater sense of clarity in, and 
visibility of, our business.
Board Development
I have set out in my Chairman’s Statement the development 
of the Board. The Chief Executive succession was 
undertaken with “military” precision. It was successfully 
accomplished, and the appointment of Andrew Heath 
was achieved with unanimous Board approval.
Looking Ahead
The Board will focus on future developmental actions 
during 2015.
The remainder of this report contains the narrative 
reporting required by the Code, the Listing Rules and the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules including the role and 
work of the Nomination Committee.
I would like to encourage all shareholders to attend our 
AGM on 7 May 2015. It is an excellent opportunity to meet 
the Board and senior executives.
PETER HILL, CBE  
Chairman  
2 March 2015 STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 45 
Compliance Statement
Alent plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
published by the Financial Reporting Council (The “Code”) 
and available on their website, www.frc.org.uk. This report 
addresses the requirements of the Code and explains how 
Alent plc has applied its main principles. During the year 
ended 31 December 2014 the Company has in all respects 
complied with the provisions of the Code. 
What is our approach to Governance?
The Board of Alent is committed to ensuring that the 
highest standards of corporate governance are 
maintained. This section of the Annual Report & Accounts 
describes the Company’s corporate governance 
structures and processes and how they have been 
applied throughout the year ended 31 December 2014.
At each of its meetings, the Board has received regular 
updates from both myself, the Company Secretary, and 
the Company’s advisers as appropriate, enabling it to 
consider all governance developments as well as receiving 
appropriate training and education on relevant issues.
Leadership
The Role and Responsibilities of the Board
The Company is led and controlled by the Board of 
Directors, who have ultimate responsibility for the 
management of the Group. The Board focuses primarily 
upon strategic, policy and governance issues and is 
responsible for the Company’s long-term success. It sets 
the Company’s strategy, oversees the allocation of 
resources, approves the Company’s operating budgets 
which are normally proposed by the Chief Executive and 
monitors the performance of the Company against them. 
The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and 
managing the key risks faced by the Company, and for 
establishing the effectiveness of the Company’s systems 
of internal controls. It has a formal schedule of matters 
reserved to it and delegates certain matters to Committees 
as set out in the Report. In addition, the Non-executive 
Directors constructively challenge the Executive Directors 
and review their performance. The Board reviews, at least 
annually, the performance of the Chairman. 
Schedule of matters reserved to the Board for formal 
consideration, and which are reviewed annually, include:
• setting the Group’s strategy;
• reviewing the Company and divisional performance;
• approval of the annual budget; 
• approval of major corporate transactions, including 
acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and 
major changes to the Group’s capital structure;
• approval to enter into contracts which are deemed to 
be material either strategically or by reason of size, 
duration or liability;
• approval of key policies, including the Company’s 
financing and treasury policies, and others such as 
those relating to Health, Safety, Environment and our 
Code of Conduct (the “Alent Code”), as well as key 
areas of commitment such as Diversity and Inclusion;
• preparing the Group’s and Company’s 
financial statements;
• recommending or declaring a dividend;
• reviewing the Group’s overall governance arrangements 
including approval of the delegated authorities matrix;
• maintaining effective internal controls and risk 
management processes;
• succession planning and appointments to the Board;
• setting senior executive remuneration; and 
• reviewing the performance of the Board itself and 
its Committees.
Areas of Board Focus in 2014
Strategy
Chief Executive’s Report (incl H,S&E)
Governance
Reporting
Finance (incl Banking and Insurance)
HR
R&D
Risk
Investor Relations 46 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
How is our Board organised?
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and  Division 
of Responsibilities 
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and 
the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and is 
set out in writing. 
The Chairman
The Chairman leads and manages the Board, promoting 
the highest standards of corporate governance together 
with a culture of openness, challenge and debate and 
ensuring its effectiveness to safeguard the interests of 
shareholders. The Chairman facilitates and encourages 
open communication and constructive working 
relationships between the Executive and Non-executive 
Directors and provides overall guidance to the Executive 
Directors and senior management. The Chairman ensures 
effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Nomination 
Committee, is also responsible for Board succession 
planning and has ultimate responsibility for 
communication and dialogue with shareholders, 
together with ensuring that the Board acts in the best 
interest of shareholders taken as a whole. 
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary 
and Executive Directors, sets the agenda for Board 
meetings and ensures that all Board and Committee 
members receive accurate, timely and clear information 
prior to meetings. A clear structure for the operation of the 
Board and its Committees is in place. The Chairman meets 
routinely with the Chief Executive, the Finance Director 
and the Company Secretary to discuss relevant matters. 
The Board considers that the Chairman is able to, and 
does, devote sufficient time to his duties at Alent.
The biographical details of the Chairman and details of 
his relevant experience are set out on page 42. 
Who is our Board?
The Composition of the Board 
As at the date of this report, the Board has eight Directors, comprising the Chairman, five Non-executive Directors and 
the Executive Directors. The names of the Directors serving at the end of the full year 2014 and their biographical details 
are set out on pages 42 & 43. All Directors served throughout the year, save for Steve Corbett who stepped down as 
Chief Executive and a Director with effect from 3 September 2014. The Board determines whether Non-executive 
Directors are independent. With the exception of Lars Förberg, all of the Non-executive Directors are considered to 
be independent. Simon O’Hara served as Company Secretary during the year.
Name Position Independent Nationality
Peter Hill CBE Chairman yes and at time of appointment British
Mark Williamson
Senior Independent Director/
Non-executive Director yes British
Steve Corbett* Chief Executive no American
David Egan Finance Director no British, Australian
Emma FitzGerald Non-executive Director yes British
Lars Förberg Non-executive Director no Swedish
Noël Harwerth Non-executive Director yes British, American
Jan Oosterveld Non-executive Director yes Dutch
*Mr Corbett resigned as Chief Executive on 3 September 2014. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 47 
The Chief Executive
The Chief Executive provides leadership to the executive 
team in running the business. He has overall responsibility 
for the day-to-day management of the business, the 
performance for which he is accountable and upon 
which he reports to the Board. He has the lead role 
in developing the Company’s strategic direction for 
consideration and approval by the Board, and for 
the implementation of the agreed strategy. The Chief 
Executive is responsible on a day-to-day basis for, and 
oversees, the Company’s performance in health, safety 
and environmental matters. 
The Chief Executive is supported by the Finance Director 
in the provision to the Board of high-quality financial 
information on the Company’s performance.
The Role of Executive Directors
The Executive Directors have specific executive 
responsibilities, of which the Chief Executive’s are set out 
above. The Chief Executive provides leadership to the 
management team, sets the culture, standards, ethics 
and values of the Company, and is responsible for 
management development and succession planning 
within the Company. The Finance Director has particular 
responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the 
Company’s financial reporting, for treasury, tax and risk 
management, and for internal financial controls. 
Executive Directors are not members of the Board 
Committees, although they may be invited to attend. 
Both the Chief Executive, and following his resignation 
the Interim Chief Executive, and Mr Egan attended all 
Audit Committee meetings as requested during the 
year. The Chief Executive and Interim Chief Executive 
were also regular attendees at the Remuneration 
Committee whilst in office.
The biographical details of the Executive Directors and 
details of their relevant experience are set out on page 42.
The Role of Non-executive Directors 
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills 
and international experience to the Board. Their role is to 
understand the business and its markets, to help shape, 
develop and review proposals for and then approve 
strategy, and to challenge constructively and support the 
management. Additionally, they scrutinise the 
performance of management in meeting agreed goals 
and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance. 
Further, their role is also to satisfy themselves with regard 
to the integrity of the Company’s financial information 
and to ensure that the Company’s financial controls 
and risk management systems are robust and defensible, 
determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive 
Directors, be involved in the appointment, and where 
necessary the removal of Executive Directors and monitor 
succession planning. Collectively they hold or have held 
senior positions in their chosen fields, including finance 
and mergers & acquisitions, and contribute a wide range 
of international experience and objective perspective to 
the Board. They represent a strong, independent element 
on the Board. As Chairmen of the Board Committees, the 
independent Non-executive Directors also fulfil important 
leadership roles. As members of the Board Committees, 
the independent Non-executive Directors bring focus on 
governance and succession planning, internal controls, 
risk management and remuneration policies. 
The biographical details of the Non-executive Directors 
and details of their relevant experience are set out on 
pages 42 to 43. 
The Senior Independent Director 
Mark Williamson is our Senior Independent Director.
The Board nominates one of the Non-executive Directors 
to act as Senior Independent Director and provide 
an alternative contact at Board level, other than the 
Chairman, to whom shareholder matters can be 
addressed. The Senior Independent Director, when 
necessary, supports the Chairman and the other 
Non-executive Directors on Company related matters. 
He will act as a sounding board for the Chairman and, 
should it be required, can act as an intermediary for any 
concerns of other Non-executive Directors. There is a 
written job specification for the role which is reviewed 
annually by the Nomination Committee. The Senior 
Independent Director is responsible for undertaking the 
annual evaluation of the Chairman’s performance, 
leading the recruitment process for a new Chairman 
while ensuring an orderly succession process. 
The Company Secretary 
During the period, Simon O’Hara was the Company 
Secretary and acted as Secretary to all Committees 
during the year. The Secretary supports the Chairman 
on corporate governance matters. Together with the 
Chairman, he is responsible to the Board in respect of 
compliance with Board procedures, ensuring a timely 
flow of information and for the setting of the annual 
programme of Board and Committee meetings and 
their agendas. Furthermore, he has responsibility, via 
the Chairman, for ensuring that the Board is kept up 
to date on legislative, regulatory and governance 
matters and developments and that all induction 
and professional development needs are met. 
The Company Secretary ensures that there is an 
appropriate level of communication between the Board 
and its Committees and between senior management 
and the Non-executive Directors. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of 
the Company Secretary.
Board meetings 
The Board convened formally on eight occasions during 
2014 and held a number of ad-hoc committee meetings, 
either face to face or telephonically, in which it considered 
non-routine business. In addition, the Chairman and the 
other Non-executive Directors met routinely on their own 
without the Executive Directors present, and, at least once 
during the year the Non-executive Directors met without 
the Chairman being present to discuss matters such as the 
Chairman’s performance. Attendance at formal Board 
and Committee meetings is set out on page 51.
The Board used one of its meetings in 2014 specifically 
to consider and review the Company’s strategy and its 
implementation, and its future prospects and has used 
subsequent meetings to review additional areas of the 
Group’s strategy. 48 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
Board
Non-executive Chairman 
2 executive Directors 
5 Non-executive Directors
Shareholders
Elect the Directors Approve the 
appointment of  
the auditors
Nomination  
Committee
Non-executive Chairman, 
Non-executive Directors
Takes primary responsibility for 
 succession planning, Board DIrector 
selection and Board composition
(Committee report page 62)
Audit  
Committee
Independent  
Non-executive Directors
Excluding the Chairman of the Company
Monitors the integrity of the  
Company’s financial statements and  
reviews financial and regulatory 
compliance and controls
(Committee report  
pages 56 to 61)
Remuneration  
Committee
Independent Non-executive Directors
Excluding the Chairman of the Company
The compliance programme includes  
undertaking risk assessments and  
engaging with others working on behalf  
of the Company to ensure that their standards 
comply with the Company’s policies. Agrees 
remuneration policy and sets individual 
compensation levels for members of  
senior management
(Committee report  
pages 63 to 79)
How is the Board structured? 
Board Committees 
The Board is assisted by three principal Committees: Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, as set out 
in the diagram below. Each Committee is responsible for 
reviewing and overseeing activities within its particular 
terms of reference; copies of which are available on the 
Company’s website: www.alent.com. At each scheduled 
Board meeting the Chairman of each Committee 
provides a summary of any Committee meeting held 
since the previous Board meeting, and the minutes of 
all Committee meetings are circulated to the Board. 
Individual reports from each Committee Chairman 
for 2014 are provided on pages 56 to 79.
Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 
is composed of the independent Non-executive Directors. 
The Board also delegates specific responsibilities to its 
Finance and Share Schemes Committees. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 49 
Areas of Audit Focus in 2014
Finance and Reporting
Audit (incl Internal control review)
Risk Management
Governance
Tax
Internal Audit
2014
Activity
   GOVERNANCE/OTHER MATTERS                     REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK
     AND LTIP TARGETS
  INCLUDING ANNUAL BONUS                     REMUNERATION RECOMMENDATIONS
   2014 REMUNERATION REVIEW
Audit Committee 
Responsibilities:
To monitor the integrity of financial reporting and 
to assist the Board in its review of the effectiveness 
of the Company’s internal controls and risk 
management systems. 
Chair of Committee:
Mark Williamson 
Membership:
Independent Non-executive Directors, excluding 
the Chairman of the Company. 
Attending by invitation:
Company Chairman; Lars Förberg (non-independent 
Non-executive Director); the Chief Executive; the Finance 
Director; and the external auditor are invited to attend on 
a regular basis. The Head of Internal Audit and the Group 
Financial Controller are invited as and when appropriate.
The Chairman of the Committee may request the 
attendance of others at meetings, including 
external advisers.
Minimum number of meetings per year: 
Four 
Committee Report: 
Page 56.
Remuneration Committee 
Responsibilities:
To determine the appropriate remuneration packages 
for the Company’s Chairman, Executive Directors, 
and Company Secretary and to recommend and 
monitor the level and structure of remuneration for 
other senior management. 
Chair of Committee:
Noël Harwerth
Membership:
Independent Non-executive Directors, excluding 
the Chairman of the Company. 
Attending by invitation: 
Company Chairman; Lars Förberg (non-independent 
Non-executive Director); the Chief Executive; and the 
Vice-President, Human Resources are invited to attend 
as required. 
The Chairman of the Committee may request 
the attendance of others at meetings including 
external advisers.
Minimum number of meetings per year: 
As necessary (it is anticipated that at least three meetings 
will be held each year). 
Committee Report:
Page 63. 50 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
2014
Activity
REELECTION OF DIRECTORS               SUCCESSION PLANNING
                                         GOVERNANCE/OTHER MATTERS              COMPOSITION OF BOARD
DIVERSITY
Nomination Committee 
Responsibilities:
To advise the Board on appointments, retirements and 
resignations from the Board and its Committees and 
review succession planning for the Board. 
Chair of Committee:
Peter Hill, the Chairman (except where considering 
his own succession or replacement, in which case the 
Committee is chaired by Mark Williamson, the Senior 
Independent Director). 
Membership:
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors. 
Attending by invitation:
Chief Executive. The Chairman of the Committee 
may request the attendance of others at meetings, 
including external advisers.
Minimum number of meetings per year: 
As necessary. 
Committee Report: 
Page 62.
In addition, the Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad-hoc basis to a Finance Committee and Shares Scheme 
Committee. Each Committee has written terms of reference agreed by the Board. These are available to view on the 
Company’s website www.alent.com. 
The Group also operates a Group Executive Committee which is convened and chaired by the Chief Executive, and 
assists him in discharging his responsibilities. Under the direction of the Chief Executive, the Executive Committee is 
responsible for the operational management of the Group. Members of the Executive Committee are regularly invited 
to attend Board meetings to report on their areas of responsibility, including key data for the core businesses, financial 
information, existing and potential risks, and updates on developments in important markets.
Finance Committee 
Responsibilities: To approve specific funding and treasury-related matters as set out in the Company’s 
delegated authorities or as delegated from time to time by the Board. 
Chair of Committee: The Chairman. 
Membership: The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Company Treasurer. 
Attending by invitation: Others whom the Chairman shall so require. 
Minimum number of meetings per year: As necessary. 
Share Schemes Committee 
Responsibilities: To facilitate the administration of the Company’s share schemes. 
Chair of Committee: Any member. 
Membership: Any two Directors. 
Attending by invitation: Others whom the Chairman shall so require. 
Minimum number of meetings per year: As necessary.  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 51 
Board effectiveness 
How do we get the best out of our Board?
The Board seeks to ensure that both it and its Committees 
have the appropriate range of skills, experience, knowledge 
and independence to enable them to discharge their 
respective duties and responsibilities effectively. Alent is 
privileged to have a Board of Directors with such 
international business backgrounds and a range of diverse 
skills, experience and nationalities. This diversity has been 
invaluable in developing the Company’s business strategy 
and enables such a global manufacturing business to be 
effectively governed. 
The Board considers its size to be appropriate for the 
requirements of the business. No one other than the 
respective Committee Chairmen and members of 
the Committees are entitled to be present at meetings of 
the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, 
but others may attend by invitation. 
Appointments are made on personal merit and against 
objective criteria. In case of candidates for Non-executive 
Directorship, care is taken to ascertain that they have sufficient 
time to fulfil their Board, and where relevant, Committee 
responsibilities. Non-executive Directors undertake to 
inform the Board of any changes to their commitments.
The Board considers the majority of the Non-executive 
Directors to be independent of management and free 
from any business or other relationship which could affect 
the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria on 
his appointment to the Board. Dr Emma FitzGerald, Noël 
Harwerth, Jan Oosterveld and Mark Williamson have been 
determined by the Board to be independent in character 
and judgement. Lars Förberg is not considered to be 
independent as he is managing partner of Cevian Capital 
which holds just under 22% of Alent’s issued ordinary share 
capital. No one party has the legal right to nominate 
Directors to the Board.
Appointments to the Board and its Committees 
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board 
appointments and makes recommendations to the Board. 
The Board through the Nomination Committee follows a 
formal, rigorous and transparent procedure based on 
objective criteria for the appointment of new Directors 
to the Board. The Committee considers any proposed 
recruitment in the context of the Company’s strategic 
priorities. Board appointments are made on merit. 
Non-executive appointees are required to demonstrate 
that they have sufficient time to devote to the role. 
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for 
reviewing the Board succession recognising the 
importance of recruiting Non-executive Directors with 
the necessary technical skills and knowledge relevant 
to the work of its Committees. Further information on the 
Nomination Committee is set out in the Nomination 
Committee Report on page 62.
Time commitment of the Chairman and 
Non-executive Directors 
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors each have 
a letter of appointment which sets out the terms and 
conditions of their directorship. An indication of the 
anticipated time commitment is provided in the 
recruitment role specification, and their letters of 
appointment provide details of the meetings that they 
are expected to attend, along with indicating the need 
to accommodate travelling time (particularly for overseas 
trips) and to set aside sufficient time to prepare for 
meetings and regularly to refresh and update their skills 
and knowledge. All Directors agree to commit sufficient 
time for the proper performance of their responsibilities 
and understand that this will vary from year to year 
depending on the Company’s activities. Directors are 
expected to attend all Board meetings and any additional 
meetings (including Committee meetings) as required. 
Directors’ other significant commitments are disclosed to 
the Board at the time of their appointment and they are 
required to notify the Board of any subsequent changes. 
The Company has reviewed the availability of the Non-
executive Directors and considers that each of them is 
able to, and in practice does, devote the necessary 
amount of time to the Company’s business.
Who attends Board meetings
Board Attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
Attendance
Total meetings 8 4 6 8
Peter Hill 8 – – 8
Mark Williamson 8 4 6 8
Steve Corbett 5 – – –
Rick Ertmann* 3 – – –
David Egan 8 – – –
Emma FitzGerald 8 4 6 8
Lars Förberg 8 – – 8
Noël Harwerth 8 4 6 8
Jan Oosterveld 8 4 6 8
 *Mr Ertmann is not a Director of the Company but was invited to attend all Board meetings whilst Interim Chief Executive.  
The table does not include attendance by invitation of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and Mr Förberg to Committee meetings. 52 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
Our Induction Programme
Induction and training 
The Company Secretary is tasked with ensuring that a 
comprehensive induction programme is provided to 
each Director upon appointment. This includes visits to 
manufacturing and other Company facilities, one to 
one meetings with key Company executives and wider 
management and introductions to the Company’s 
principal external advisers, as appropriate. For example, at 
its Board meetings in September, held in Asia (Hong Kong) 
the Non-executive Directors were given the opportunity to 
meet Alent’s wider leadership group at both formal 
presentations and informal lunch and dinner events. 
Subsequently, after each site visit the Board or appropriate 
Committee has been briefed on the impressions gained 
by Directors attending the visit.
New Directors are advised of their legal and other 
duties and obligations as Directors of a listed company. 
Reference materials are provided, including information 
about the Board, its committees, Directors’ duties, 
procedures for dealing in the Company’s shares and 
other regulatory and governance matters. The Company 
supports this by organising site visits and working sessions 
with a wide range of operational managers and external 
experts throughout the year. Each Director is expected to 
develop and refresh their knowledge and skills on an 
ongoing basis. The Board’s learning is continued through 
Board and Committee briefings. 
The Chairman agrees with each Director their training 
and development needs as and when required. Where a 
general training need is identified, in-house training will be 
provided to the entire Board. Each year, the Chairman will 
hold one-to-one meetings with each of the Directors, both 
to discuss their own development needs if any, and the 
Board Evaluation Exercise. 
For example, before the start of the Board’s May meeting, 
the Company’s legal advisers led a bespoke training 
session addressing the duties and responsibilities of 
Directors of listed companies. Similarly, during the year, 
the Company’s external auditors presented advice to 
the Non-executive Directors on regulatory developments 
and statutory changes impacting their responsibilities 
and obligations.
Director Induction Programme
Board and Governance
• Alent’s governance model, Directors’ duties, interests and 
potential conflicts
• Committee induction
Alent’s Business
• Assembly Materials (January Meeting)
• Surface Chemistries (January Meeting)
• Research and Development, production and overview of our 
operations (September Meeting)
• Site visits
Functional Input
• Finance and tax
• Controls, external auditors and internal audit
• Human Resources (June Meeting)
• Ethics and compliance
Information 
The Board has in place processes to ensure that it 
is supplied in a timely manner with information of 
an appropriate quality to enable it to adequately 
discharge its duties. Papers are provided to the Directors 
in advance of the relevant Board or Committee meeting to 
enable them to make further enquiries about any matters 
prior to the meeting should they so wish. This also allows 
Directors who are unable to attend to submit views in 
advance of the meeting. 
The Company Secretary oversees the distribution of these 
papers and ensures that there is an appropriate level of 
communication between the Board and its Committees 
and between senior management and the Non-executive 
Directors. The Company Secretary also keeps the Board 
informed of relevant developments in corporate 
governance. The Chief Executive provides, as a matter 
of routine, a written update on important business issues 
between meetings and invites the views of the Directors 
on these. 
Support 
There is an agreed procedure in place to support Directors 
in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent 
legal advice if necessary, at the Company’s expense.  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 53 
Evaluation of Board effectiveness
Performance evaluation 
The Board believes that annual evaluations are not 
only essential but provide a valuable opportunity for 
continuous improvement. The Chairman, assisted by 
the Company Secretary, leads the evaluation process. 
A formal and rigorous externally facilitated review 
covering the Board, its committees and individual 
Directors, including the Chairman and Company 
Secretary was undertaken. 
In 2014 the facilitator was, for a second year, David 
Mensley, an independent practitioner with no other 
connection to the Company. The Chairman held one 
on one meetings with each of the Directors as part of 
the evaluation process.
The feedback from the evaluation was reviewed by 
the Chairman and the principal findings and 
recommendations presented to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director was responsible for 
the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
How are we progressing?
Following the outcome of the Board review, general 
feedback showed considerable progress had been 
made during the course of 2014. 
The Board successfully:
• continued to challenge and effectively support the 
management team as we continue to evolve the 
strategy as set out on pages 22 to 23;
• continued to make progress on planning the long-term 
framework for Board discussion, enabling more time for 
fuller debate on a range of strategic subjects;
• ensured appropriate challenge and debate around risk 
and the approach to risk;
• continued to review the balance and the content of the 
Board papers and meeting agendas; and
• reviewed how we can continue to benefit from 
the extensive and diverse experience of our 
Non-executive Directors.
The results of the Board evaluation were taken into 
account in respect of the Board changes that have taken 
place. The Board will focus on future developmental 
actions during 2015.
What is our approach to shareholders  
re-appointing Directors?
Re-election of Directors 
Once appointed, all Directors are required to submit 
themselves for re-election by shareholders on an annual 
basis. All the Directors will therefore be offering themselves 
for re-election at this year’s AGM, with the biographical 
details of each of the Directors, including details of their 
other directorships and relevant skills and experience, 
set out on pages 42 to 43. The Board believes that each 
of the Directors standing for re-election is effective and 
demonstrates commitment to their respective roles. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders 
approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2015 AGM 
relating to the re-election of the Directors. 
Do the Directors have Deeds of Indemnity?
Directors’ indemnities 
To the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies 
Act 2006, the Directors have been granted Qualifying 
Third-Party Indemnity Provisions by the Company. The 
indemnities for Directors of Alent plc have been in force 
throughout the year.
Directors’ conflicts of interest 
The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to 
review regularly their interests and to deal with situations 
where a Director reports any conflicts of interest. Any 
conflict situation reported to the Chairman and the 
Company Secretary is considered by the Board based on 
its particular facts. Any authorisations given to a Director 
who has a conflict situation are recorded in the Board 
minutes and in a register of Directors’ conflicts which is 
reviewed annually by the Board. The Board believes that 
the systems it has in place for reporting situational conflicts 
operates effectively.  54 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
Accountability 
How does the Board formally satisfy itself that it has 
sound risk management and internal control systems?
The Audit Committee 
The membership of the Audit Committee is set out 
on page 56. The Audit Committee Report, which 
summarises the terms of reference of the Audit Committee 
and describes its work in discharging its responsibilities, 
is set out on pages 56 to 61. 
Financial and business reporting 
In its reporting to shareholders the Board recognises its 
responsibility to present a fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s position 
and prospects. The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 41 
sets out explanations for the basis on which the Company 
generates or preserves value over the longer term and the 
strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company. 
Directors’ and Auditor’s Responsibility 
A statement of the Directors’ responsibility for preparing 
the Annual Report & Accounts is included on page 83. 
A statement by the Auditor, KPMG LLP, setting out its 
reporting responsibilities, is included on pages 84 to 85. 
Going concern 
The Directors consider that the Company has adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for 
the foreseeable future and accordingly, they have 
adopted a going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements of the Group and the Company. 
How does the Board identify Alent’s significant risks?
Risk management and assessment and internal 
control systems 
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and 
maintenance of the Company’s system of risk management 
and internal control, and for reviewing its effectiveness. 
The Board’s process for identifying and evaluating Alent’s 
significant risks, its risk management and assessment 
system and its internal control system form part of the 
Audit Committee Report on pages 56 to 61 The Audit 
Committee assists the Board in reviewing the effectiveness 
of the Company’s system of internal control, including 
financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk 
management systems. 
The Company’s systems and controls are designed to 
provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any 
problems are identified on a timely basis and are dealt 
with appropriately. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the 
Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness 
of the Company’s system of internal control and that the 
necessary actions have been taken to remedy and 
control any control weaknesses identified during the year. 
Since the date of this review there have been no 
significant changes in internal controls or other matters 
which could significantly affect them. The key risks facing 
the Company are set out on pages 32 to 33. 
During 2014, the Board further developed its procedures 
and embedded processes in respect of its Ethics, Health, 
Safety, Environmental and Sustainability activities. Current 
activities are described in the “Our Approach to 
Corporate Responsibility” section, on pages 26 to 30. At 
Board level, the Chief Executive takes the lead on these 
matters. 
The Board reviews the role of insurance and other measures 
used in managing risks across the Company, receives 
regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during 
the year and makes an annual assessment of how the risks 
have changed over the period under review. 
The Board considers significant financing and investment 
decisions concerning the Company, including the giving 
of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and 
control mechanisms for managing treasury risk. At the 
year-end, following the review by the Audit Committee of 
internal financial controls and of the processes covering 
other controls, the Board evaluates the results of the 
internal control and risk management procedures 
conducted by senior management. This includes a 
self-certification exercise by which senior financial and 
operational management throughout the Company 
certify the effectiveness of the system of internal controls 
within the businesses for which they are responsible, 
together with their compliance throughout the year 
with the Company’s policies and procedures.  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 55 
Remuneration
How do we decide what Directors are paid?
Executive compensation and risk 
All the independent Non-executive Directors serve 
on both the Audit and Remuneration Committees. 
They are therefore able to bring their experience and 
knowledge of the activities of each Committee to bear 
when considering the critical judgements of the other. 
This means that the Directors are in a position to consider 
carefully the impact of incentive arrangements on the 
Company’s risk profile and to ensure the Company’s 
remuneration policy and programme is structured so as 
to accord with the long-term objectives and risk appetite 
of the Company. 
In addition, the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee will have meetings with key institutional 
shareholders and their representative bodies to discuss 
the Company’s remuneration policy. 
Shareholders
How does our Board engage with our shareholders and 
ensure that it is aware of shareholders’ views?
The Board believes that it is a priority to communicate with 
shareholders and uses various methods to reach as many 
shareholders as possible. There are programmes for the 
Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Investor 
Relations Manager to meet with the Company’s major 
institutional investors in the UK, the US and Continental 
Europe. The Board also seeks to ensure effective 
engagement with shareholders through the Company’s 
regular communications, the AGM, as well as through 
Capital Markets Days to provide the Company’s 
stakeholders with more detailed insight into the 
Company’s future strategy and investment proposition 
and other investor relations activities. 
The Company’s investor relations programme is managed 
by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, together with 
the Investor Relations Manager. The majority of meetings 
with investors are led by them, but the Chairman, Senior 
Independent Director and other Directors are also available 
to meet with shareholders as appropriate. At these 
meetings, investors are offered the opportunity to meet with 
the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director, and 
indeed the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director 
held joint and separate meetings with several shareholders 
during the course of the year. 
The Company reports its financial results to shareholders 
twice a year, with the publication of its Annual and Interim 
Financial Reports and will issue two further ad-hoc trading 
updates. In conjunction with these announcements, 
presentations or teleconference calls will be held 
with institutional investors and stock market analysts. 
Recordings of these will be made available on the 
Company’s website www.alent.com along with copies 
of any presentation materials issued. 
Regular updates on shareholder issues and discussions 
are provided to the Board. Board members continue to 
receive copies of significant analysts’ notes issued on the 
Company. All Directors are expected to attend the 
Company’s AGM, providing shareholders with the 
opportunity to question them about issues relating to 
the Company, either during the meeting or informally. 
Annual General Meeting 
Communication with private shareholders is largely  through 
the AGM, which is held at a central London location. 
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions 
of the Board and the Chairman of each Board Committee 
during the AGM and to meet the Directors informally. 
Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on a poll 
for each item of business and shareholders are asked to 
vote “for”, “against” or “vote withheld” on each resolution. 
Votes are counted and an announcement confirming 
whether each resolution was passed at the AGM is made 
through the London Stock Exchange and can be viewed 
on the Alent website, together with a summary of the 
number of votes cast in respect of each resolution. The 
majority of shareholders have elected to access the 
Annual Report and other shareholder documents online 
via the Alent website rather than receiving a copy by post. 
By Order of the Board 
HELEN BARRETT-HAGUE  
Company Secretary 
2 March 2015
Result of our 2014 Annual General Meeting
Resolutions % of votes for % of votes against Votes withheld
1 Report and Accounts 99.94 0.06 263,372
2 Final Dividend 100.00 0.00 1,616
3-10 Directors (average) 99.55 0.45 9,138
11 Re-appointment of Auditor 99.03 0.97 48,381
12 Remuneration of Auditor 100.00 0.00 47,364
13 Remuneration Report 99.42 0.58 6,482
14 Remuneration Policy 96.81 3.19 250,482
15 Incur Political Expenditure 99.85 0.15 6,943
16 Authority to allot equity securities 98.95 1.05 3,959
17 Disapply Pre-emption Rights 99.09 0.91 2,187
18 Purchase Own Shares 100.00 0.00 53
19 Notice of General Meeting 95.41 4.59 1,083 56 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Members
Mark Williamson (Committee Chairman)
Dr Emma FitzGerald
Noël Harwerth
Jan Oosterveld
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report of 
Alent plc. The role of the Audit Committee is to provide 
effective governance over the appropriateness of the 
Group’s financial reporting, the performance of both the 
internal audit function and the external auditor, and the 
management of the Group’s systems of internal control, 
business risks and related compliance activities. It is also 
to monitor the integrity of financial reporting and to assist 
the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal controls and risk management 
systems. Whilst the Board as a whole is responsible for 
approving the financial results, we undertake the 
detailed work to support that decision.
Membership
The Committee comprises independent Non-executive 
Directors under my Chairmanship and meets at least four 
times during the year. The Board also considers that the 
Audit Committee members together possess the 
necessary commercial, financial and audit expertise to 
help them assess effectively the complex accounting, 
audit and risk issues they have to address. The Board 
considers that I have recent and relevant financial 
experience, as required by the Code.
Appointment on the Audit Committee is for a period of 
three years, extendable by no more than two additional 
three-year periods.
At my invitation, the non-independent Non-executive 
Director, the Chairman of the Company, the Chief 
Executive, the Finance Director and the Company’s 
Auditor, KPMG LLP (the “Auditor”), regularly attend 
meetings. Other executives, including in particular the 
Group Financial Controller and the Head of Internal Audit, 
are invited to attend as and when appropriate. The 
Committee regularly meets separately with each of KPMG, 
the Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit 
without others being present.
Responsibilities
The Committee assists the Board in carrying out its 
responsibilities in relation to financial reporting 
requirements, risk management and the assessment of 
internal controls. It also reviews the effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal audit function and manages the 
Company’s relationship with the external Auditor.
As part of this process of working with the Board and to 
maximise effectiveness, meetings of the Committee 
generally take place just prior to a Company Board 
meeting. I report to the Board as part of a separate agenda 
item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of 
particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their 
work. All members of the Board receive the agenda, 
papers and minutes of Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee operates under formal terms of 
reference that are reviewed on a regular basis. These 
terms of reference, which are available on the Company’s 
website, www.alent.com, authorise the Committee to 
obtain outside legal or other independent professional 
advice at the cost of the Company and to secure the 
attendance at Audit Committee meetings of other 
parties with relevant experience and expertise should it 
be considered necessary. 
As a Committee, we are responsible for:
•  reviewing the announcements of the Group’s financial 
results, including the Interim Report and Annual Report 
and Financial Statements, and monitoring compliance 
with relevant statutory and Listing Rules requirements;
• reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the 
Group’s accounting policies and practices including 
critical accounting policies and those judgements and 
estimates with the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the financial statements;
• advising the Board on whether the Committee believes 
that the processes underlying the compilation of the 
Annual Report & Accounts are robust and support the 
assertion reached by the Board that the document, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy; STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 57 
• reviewing reports from management which address 
the appropriateness of the production of the Group’s 
financial statements on a going concern basis;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s systems for 
financial control, financial reporting and risk 
management, incorporating a review of reports on 
any significant frauds, misappropriation of assets or 
unethical behaviour;
• oversight of the anti-bribery & corruption programme 
and providing input to the Board on ethics compliance;
• reviewing and approving the remit of the Internal Audit 
function, ensuring its independence and that there are 
the necessary resources and access to information 
available in order for it to fulfil its mandate; and
• overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, 
covering their appointment, independence, fees and 
audit quality and effectiveness. 
Activities in 2014 
The Committee met four times during the year. The key 
areas of business covered at the meetings included: 
• reviewed the 2013 Annual Results Announcement/
Annual Report and Accounts, respectively. In doing so, 
the Committee received reports from management on 
significant aspects of the Company’s financial 
statements, including matters requiring significant 
management judgement, asset impairment valuation, 
amounts reported at fair value, off-balance sheet items 
and contingent liabilities, and reports from the Auditor 
identifying any accounting or judgemental issues 
thereon requiring its attention;
• reviewed the 2014 Interim Results Announcement and 
Accounts, respectively. In doing so, the Committee 
received reports from management on significant 
aspects of the Company’s financial statements, 
including matters requiring significant management 
judgement, asset impairment valuation, amounts 
reported at fair value, off-balance sheet items and 
contingent liabilities, and reports from the Auditor 
identifying any accounting or judgemental issues 
thereon requiring its attention;
• reviewed information on any significant litigation 
involving the Group; 
• reviewed reports from management which address 
the appropriateness of the production of the Company 
financial statements on a going concern basis;
• reviewed internal audit reports;
• reviewed the results of an assessment undertaken of 
the performance of the Auditor, based upon feedback 
received from the Company’s corporate and divisional 
finance management; 
• making recommendations to the Board on the  
re-appointment of the Auditor and approving the 
remuneration and terms of engagement; 
• monitoring and reviewing the Auditor’s independence, 
objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account 
professional and regulatory requirements; 
• reviewed and agreed the audit plan presented by 
the Auditor, which detailed the approach and scope 
of the work to be undertaken and the level of fees to 
be charged;
• reviewed the Company’s procedures for the identification, 
management and control of specific areas of risk which 
impact the Group and the Company; and
• reviewed the risk management process operated by 
management designed to identify the key risks facing 
each business and how those risks were being managed. 
Financial reporting
The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial 
reporting is to review with both management and the 
external auditor the appropriateness of the half-year and 
annual financial statements concentrating on, amongst 
other matters:
• the quality and acceptability of accounting policies 
and practices;
• the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with 
financial reporting standards and relevant financial 
and governance reporting requirements;
• material areas in which significant judgements have 
been applied or there has been discussion with the 
external auditor;
• whether the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and 
provides the information necessary for shareholders to 
assess the Company’s performance, business model 
and strategy; and
• any correspondence from regulators in relation to our 
financial reporting.
To aid our review, the Committee considers reports 
from the Group Finance Director, Group Financial 
Controller and also reports from the external auditor 
on the outcomes of its half-year review and annual audit. 
As a Committee we support KPMG LLP in displaying the 
necessary professional scepticism their role requires. 58 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
CONTINUED
The primary areas of judgement considered by the 
Committee in relation to the 2014 accounts, and how 
these were addressed, were:
Provision for liabilities and contingent liabilities
Context 
The international nature of the Group’s operations 
exposes it to various different legal and regulatory regimes 
and consequently, from time to time, it faces claims that 
might relate to its products, to taxation liabilities, to 
environmental liabilities, or to other issues.
In considering these matters, and how best to present 
them in the financial statements, the Committee has to 
decide whether provisions need to be established in the 
Group’s financial statements, and if so the size of the 
provisions required. Alternatively, if the Committee decides 
that there is insufficient information available to support 
making a provision, then it needs to determine whether it is 
appropriate instead to disclose the matter by way of note 
as a contingent liability.
Actions taken by the Audit Committee
During 2014, the Committee:
• reviewed details of all the potentially significant claims 
outstanding against the Group;
• received legal reports from the Group’s General 
Counsel, who attended each Audit Committee meeting 
during the year, and questioned and challenged the 
judgements in those reports;
• took into account work performed by the external 
auditor; and 
• enquired of management and the external auditor as 
to the existence of any other matters potentially requiring 
a provision to be made. 
Outcome
After due consideration, the Committee concluded that 
it was satisfied with both the level and the disclosure of 
provisions, as shown in note 30 of the financial statements. 
Additionally, for those items disclosed as contingent 
liabilities, the Committee was satisfied that it was not 
appropriate to make a provision and that the disclosures in 
note 32 of the financial statements provided sufficient 
information about the nature of the item and the 
uncertainties relating to the amount or timing of any 
potential outflow required to settle the liability.
Taxation
Context 
The level of tax provisioning and the recognition of 
deferred tax assets in relation to the future value that 
might be derived from the Group’s unutilised tax losses, 
require assumptions and judgements to be made 
by management.
Actions taken by the Audit Committee
During 2014, the Committee:
• reviewed reports and received a presentation from the 
Group’s Director of Taxation highlighting the key tax risks 
that the Group faces, the tax strategy, the tax controls, 
the assumptions and judgements underpinning the 
level of tax provisioning and the recognition of deferred 
tax assets;
• reviewed reports prepared by the external Auditor on tax 
provisions, deferred tax and effective tax rates; and
• reviewed and challenged management’s assumptions 
and judgements that sufficient future taxable income will 
be realised by the Group’s US operations, thereby 
supporting the continued recognition of a deferred tax 
asset in the financial statements in relation to unutilised 
tax losses in the US. 
Outcome
The Committee satisfied itself with both the level of tax 
provisions and the deferred tax assets recognised in 
the financial statements. The Committee was also 
satisfied with the presentation of the recognition of the 
US deferred tax asset as an exceptional tax item in the 
Group income statement as described in note 11 of the 
financial statements. 
Disclosure of exceptional items
Context 
As detailed in note 2.6 of the financial statements, in 
order to present the Group’s results in a way that assists 
the user of the accounts in understanding the financial 
performance of the Group and trends in its profitability, 
items of an exceptional nature are disclosed separately on 
the face of the Group’s income statement. During the 
year, the Committee considered the accounting 
treatment of various different matters presented to it by 
management, to determine whether they should be 
excluded from the Group’s operating profit and instead 
treated as exceptional items. 
Actions taken by the Audit Committee
In making the determination of which of these matters, 
if any, should be treated as exceptional, the Committee:
• established whether the matter fell within the Group’s 
internal policy for reporting exceptional items, as 
previously approved by the Committee and agreed 
by the company’s Auditor;
• considered guidance in relation to the reporting of 
exceptional items issued by the Financial Reporting 
Council and, in particular, whether disclosure as an 
exceptional item would help the reader of the financial 
statements in understanding both the trends in, and the 
quality of, the Group’s profitability;
• considered whether its approach was consistent with 
previous years and was not influenced by whether the 
item in question was a gain or a loss; STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 59 
• considered the tax effects of each exceptional item and 
whether these were properly explained in the financial 
statements; and
• considered whether exceptional treatment was 
consistent with the principle that the accounts as a 
whole should be fair, balanced and understandable.
Outcome
The Committee satisfied itself that the presentation of 
exceptional items in the accounts was in accordance with 
the Group’s exceptional items policy, and assisted the user 
of the accounts in understanding the Group’s financial 
performance in the year and trends in its profitability.
Risk management and assessment and internal 
control systems 
The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls, 
including financial, operational and compliance controls, 
and risk management systems.
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment 
and maintenance of the Group’s system of risk 
management and internal control, and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. This system is designed to manage, rather 
than eliminate, the risks facing the Group and safeguard 
assets. No system of internal control can provide 
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
The Group’s system is designed to provide the Directors 
with reasonable assurance that any problems are 
identified on a timely basis and are dealt with 
appropriately. In accordance with the provisions of 
the Code, the Directors confirm that they have reviewed 
the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control 
and that the necessary actions have been taken to 
remedy and control any control weaknesses identified 
during the year. Since the date of this review there have 
been no significant changes in internal controls or other 
matters which could significantly affect them. The key risks 
facing the Group are set out on pages 31 to 33. 
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and 
managing any significant risks faced by Alent. Group 
management operates a risk management process 
designed to identify the key risks facing each business 
and reports to the Board on how those risks are being 
managed. As a basis for this report, each of the Company’s 
major business units produces a “risk map” which identifies 
their key risks and assesses the likelihood of those risks 
occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions 
being taken to manage those risks to a desired level. 
The Board has enhanced its risk management structure and 
processes during 2014 as well as its procedures, 
and embedded processes in respect of its Ethics, Health, 
Safety, Environmental and Sustainability activities. Current 
activities are described in the Corporate Responsibility 
Review, on pages 26 to 30. At Board level, the Chief 
Executive currently takes the lead on these matters. 
The Board reviews the role of insurance and other measures 
used in managing risks across the Group and receives 
regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during 
the year and makes an annual assessment of how the risks 
have changed over the period under review. 
The key features of the Group’s system of internal 
controls include: 
Strategy and financial reporting 
The Group operates a comprehensive strategic planning 
and forecasting process, with an annual budget approved 
by the Board. Monthly operating financial information is 
reported against this budget and key trends and 
variances analysed. Action is then taken as appropriate. 
Group accounting policies and procedures are 
formulated and disseminated to all Group operations, 
covering the application of accounting standards and 
the maintenance of accounting records and key financial 
control procedures.
Operational controls 
Each operating company, including the Divisional 
and Corporate offices, maintains internal controls and 
procedures appropriate to its structure and business 
environment, whilst complying with Group policies on items 
such as the authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury 
transactions and the management of intellectual property. 
In addition, the Group’s financial reporting process, 
including the preparation of the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements, incorporates the dissemination 
and use of common accounting policies and procedures 
and financial reporting software.
The Board considers significant financing and investment 
decisions concerning the Group, including the giving of 
guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and 
control mechanisms for managing treasury risk. 
Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls 
The internal control system is monitored and supported by 
the Company’s internal audit function. This function assists 
management and the Board in the effective discharge of 
their responsibility for internal control by conducting 
reviews of Alent’s businesses and reporting objectively 
both on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system 
of internal control in place and as to whether those 
businesses are in compliance with applicable Group 
policies and procedures. The Audit Committee receives 
reports from the Head of Internal Audit on a regular basis 
and reports to the Board on the results of its review. 
As part of the Board’s process for reviewing the 
effectiveness of the system of internal control, it delegates 
the following matters to the Audit Committee to be carried 
out during the year: 
• review of external and internal audit work plans; 
• consideration of reports from management, internal 
audit and external audit on the system of internal control 
and any significant control weaknesses; and 
• discussions with management on the actions taken on 
problem areas identified by Board members, in internal 
audit reports or in external audit management letters. 60 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
CONTINUED
Internal audit 
The Group’s internal audit function operates on a global 
basis. The Head of Internal Audit is responsible for 
developing the function, within the framework of common 
Group policies and standards, and for carrying out 
assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan 
approved by the Audit Committee. In 2014, 27 internal 
audit assignments were undertaken covering 
approximately 33%, of the applicable businesses as 
required by the Audit Charter. The Head of Internal Audit 
reports directly to the Audit Committee Chairman with 
functional responsibility to the Group Finance Director. 
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of 
Internal Audit and reports to the Board on the results of 
its review.
During the year, a survey was conducted reviewing 
the quality of our internal audit function. Participants of 
the survey included Audit Committee members as well 
as executives within all major regions and functions of 
the Group. The team scored highly on their professional 
approach, experience, control and process improvement 
and overall value to the Group.
External Audit
The Audit Committee is responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board in relation to the 
appointment, reappointment and removal of the Auditor. 
In undertaking this duty, the Committee takes into 
consideration a number of factors concerning the 
Auditor and the Group’s current activity. 
KPMG LLP has been the Group’s Auditor since Alent plc 
was listed on 19 December 2012. We formally reviewed the 
effectiveness of the external audit process and the quality 
of the audit. The review covered the following:
• the audit partners with particular focus on the lead audit 
engagement partner;
• the quality both of reports provided by the Auditor to the 
Audit Committee and the Board, and of advice given; 
• the level of understanding demonstrated of the 
Group’s businesses; 
• the skills and experience of the audit team;
• the planning and scope of the audit and identification 
of areas of audit risk;
• the execution of the audit;
• the role of management in the audit process;
• the quality of communication between the external 
auditor and the Audit Committee;
• the quality of the formal report to Shareholders;
• the independence of the Auditor, in light of the provision 
of non-audit services; 
• the objectivity of the Auditor’s views on the controls 
throughout the Group; 
• the ability of the Auditor to coordinate a global audit, 
working to tight deadlines; 
• the cost-competitiveness of the Auditor in relation to the 
audit costs of comparable UK companies; 
• the tenure of the incumbent Auditor; and 
• the periodic rotation of the senior audit management 
assigned to the audit of the Group.
In addition, the Audit Committee considers external 
reviews of the performance and quality of the 
Auditor, including: 
• the Annual Report issued by the Audit Quality Review 
Team of the Financial Reporting Council on the work of 
the Auditor; 
• the Auditor’s own annual Transparency Report; and
• evaluations of the effectiveness of the external 
audit process.
We conducted this review as part of our 2014 year end 
process. In addition a survey was completed to capture 
the views of each member of the Audit Committee, Group 
Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and various 
members of both regional and functional management 
teams. We considered the results from the survey as well as 
various inspection reports and shared this with our external 
auditor and with management. We also reviewed the fees 
of the external auditor and benchmarked these against a 
group of comparable size and complexity Groups. Our 
conclusions were that the external audit was carried out 
effectively and efficiently with the necessary objectivity 
and independence for an appropriate fee. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 61 
KPMG LLP has been the Group’s Auditor since Alent plc 
was listed on 19 December 2012. The Group is following the 
EU legislation as well as the current Code requirement 
regarding external audit tenure. The Audit Committee is 
recommending the Auditor for reappointment at the 
AGM in 2015. 
The terms on which the Auditor is engaged do not include 
any contractual obligations which would prevent the 
Directors appointing a different audit firm should this be 
considered appropriate.
Independence and Objectivity of Auditor 
The Audit Committee is cognisant of the need to ensure 
that the independence and objectivity of the Auditor is 
continually maintained. It has put in place safeguards to 
ensure that the independence of the external Auditor is 
not compromised. These safeguards include:
• seeking ongoing confirmation from the Auditor that it is in 
its own professional judgement independent of the 
Group; and 
• considering all the relationships between the Auditor 
and the Group, including those relating to the provision 
of non-audit services and whether these impair, or 
appear to impair, the Auditor’s judgement or 
independence. 
In addition, recruitment to the Group of any new employee 
who had been employed by the Auditor in the past five 
years requires the approval of the Audit Committee.
Non-Audit Services
The Audit Committee monitors the other services being 
provided to the Group by the Auditor. The Group has a 
policy governing the Group-wide conduct of non-audit 
work by the Auditor to ensure that this does not impair its 
independence or objectivity. The Auditor is prohibited from 
performing services where it:
• may be required to audit its own work; 
• would participate in activities that would normally be 
undertaken by management; 
• is remunerated through a “success fee” structure; or 
• acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
The policy sets out the categories of work that the Auditor 
is prohibited from undertaking. Other than these, the Group 
does not impose an automatic prohibition on the Auditor 
undertaking non-audit work. The Auditor is eligible for 
selection to provide non-audit services that are not, or are 
not perceived to be, in conflict with Auditor independence, 
provided it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry 
out the work in the best interests of the Group. 
Proposals for any non-audit related fees which the Group 
is intending to pay to the Auditor are presented to the 
Audit Committee. Any individual assignment where the 
fee is likely to be in excess of £30,000 must be pre-
approved by the Audit Committee. Where appropriate, 
services are tendered prior to awarding work to the 
Auditor. Details of the amounts paid to the Auditor during 
the year for audit and other services are set out in note 7 
on page 97 . 
Committee evaluation
The Committee conducts a formal review of its 
effectiveness annually and the results of the review carried 
out in 2014 concluded that its performance was effective. 
Details of the Board and Committee evaluation process 
can be found on page 53.
Employee helpline 
This is an independent and confidential service through 
which employees worldwide may register any concerns 
about any incorrect or irregular practices they perceive 
in Alent’s workplaces. The helpline is operated 24 hours 
a day, seven days a week, by an organisation that 
specialises in the provision of such services. It can be 
contacted by phone, email or via a designated 
website. Translation facilities are available for those 
for whom English is not their first or preferred language. 
All incidences received by the helpline are reviewed 
and reported to the audit committee and where 
applicable changes implemented.
Approach to anti-bribery and corruption training 
The Alent Code and its policies on anti-bribery and 
corruption require that employees and others working on 
behalf of the Group do not engage in any form of bribery 
or corruption. 
Our anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme 
has been implemented globally via an e-learning training 
module. New employees, where relevant, are required 
to complete the e-learning training as part of their 
induction process. 
The compliance programme includes undertaking risk 
assessments and engaging with others working on behalf 
of the Group to ensure that their standards comply with 
the Group’s policies. 
The Alent Code is reproduced  
in full on the Group’s website
On behalf of the Audit Committee
MARK WILLIAMSON  
Chairman of the Audit Committee  
2 March 2015 62 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT
Members
Peter Hill (Committee Chairman) and the Non-executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee has delegated authority from 
the Board set out in its written terms of reference, available 
on the Company’s website, which were last reviewed 
in December 2012.
Role of the Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee advises the Board on 
appointments to, and retirements and resignations from, 
the Board, and reviews the Company’s succession plans. 
The Committee reports its material findings and 
recommendations at the next Board meeting and copies 
of the minutes of its meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Composition of the Nomination Committee
The members of the Nomination Committee are the 
Chairman and the Non-executive Directors. The Committee 
meets as and when required and is chaired by the Chairman 
or a Non-executive Director. The Chairman acts as Chairman 
of the Nomination Committee except where the matter 
under consideration relates to him or succession to his role. 
No individual participates in discussion or decision making 
where the matter under consideration relates to them. 
Formal meetings are held to consider standing items of 
business; there is also a significant level of ad-hoc discussion 
between members of the Nomination Committee, particularly 
when a recruitment exercise is taking place. 
Policy on Appointment of the Board
When considering the appointment of new Directors, the 
Nomination Committee draws up a specification, taking into 
consideration the diversity of the Board, the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience, the independence of Board 
members and the ongoing requirements of the Company. 
The Nomination Committee’s foremost priority is to ensure 
that the Company has the best possible leadership. Its prime 
responsibility is to ensure the strength of the Board. Board 
appointments will be made on merit against objective criteria, 
selecting the best candidate for the post. 
The Nomination Committee is empowered to appoint search 
consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisers as it 
sees fit to assist with its work. Wherever possible, the 
Nomination Committee will arrange for all Directors to meet 
with the preferred candidate. The Nomination Committee 
makes recommendations for each appointment to the full 
Board. Care is taken to ensure that all proposed appointees 
have sufficient time available to devote to the role and do not 
have any conflicts of interest. 
During the year Egon Zender was engaged to identify 
appropriate candidates for Chief Executive. A long list of 
potential appointees was considered and candidates 
were shortlisted for interview based on objective criteria. 
The Committee then recommended its preferred candidate, 
Andrew Heath, to the Board for appointment, with 
unanimous approval. 
Activities of the Nomination Committee during  
the year
The Nomination Committee met eight times during the year 
and attendance at those meetings is shown on page 51 of 
this report. This frequency of meetings was unusual, and was 
directly linked to the Chief Executive succession.
Matters considered by the Committee in 2014 included 
the following:
• implementation and completion of the succession 
exercise for the Chief Executive; 
• reviewed the Committee’s report within the 2013 Annual 
Report and recommended approval to the Board;
• to regularly re-examine succession and the Board’s 
balance of skills and experience and diversity which 
will be included as part of the Board’s next annual 
strategy review;
• the independence of the Board and the potential 
lengths of tenure of each of the independent Non-
executive Directors; and
• After the year-end, considered the outcome of the 
externally facilitated evaluation when discussing the 
effectiveness of the Non-executive Directors seeking 
re-election at the 2015 AGM.
The Board as a whole also considers succession plans for 
members of the Board. Jan Oosterveld announced his 
decision to retire at the 2015 AGM; a candidate specification 
was agreed by the Committee of the Board, a search firm 
appointed, and a recruitment process, led by the Chairman is 
underway. Both of Alent’s divisions submit detailed succession 
plans in respect of senior divisional executives to the Board for 
review each year. The Board also considers succession 
planning for senior corporate executives. 
The Nomination Committee also considers diversity generally 
across the Company. It is the Company’s aim to maintain an 
appropriate level of diversity on the Board to reflect the diverse 
nature of the Company’s operations, and to increase the level 
of diversity in executive management below Board level. 
The Board actively seeks to meet with key executives 
throughout the Company so as to gain a greater 
understanding of the breadth and depth of management 
talent. This enables members of the Committee to adopt a 
more informed approach to succession planning. 
On behalf of the Nomination Committee
PETER HILL, CBE  
Chairman of the Nomination Committee  
2 March 2015 STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 63 
REMUNERATION 
REPORT
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committee’s 
report on Directors’ remuneration for 2014. This year we are 
not submitting the Remuneration Policy to a shareholder 
vote and are continuing to operate under the Remuneration 
Policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 
AGM. In this Annual Statement, which precedes our Policy 
Report and Annual Report on Remuneration, I have set 
out the context for variable remuneration outcomes paid 
in relation to 2014 performance and the key changes 
regarding the implementation of remuneration in 2015.
Remuneration decisions
The key decisions on Executive Director Remuneration 
proposed in 2014 related to salary increases for 2015 and 
payments of variable remuneration. With regard to the 
former, the Committee decided to increase salaries for the 
Directors by 3% which was in line with the 3% increase to 
base salary for the general workforce. As for variable 
remuneration for the Executive Directors, payments have 
been made based on performance in 2014. This is a result 
of overall performance for 2014 meeting our expectations 
due to Alent outperforming its end-markets, new product 
introductions and improved operating efficiencies, which 
resulted in Alent exceeding its budgeted profit targets.
The Committee also approved awards to be made to the 
Executive Directors under the Alent Share Plan. These 
awards will vest in 2017 subject to the satisfaction of EPS 
growth targets and a relative TSR performance condition.
Variable remuneration paid in relation to 2014
In 2014 Alent operated two elements of variable 
remuneration which had performance periods ending 
during the year, namely, the Annual Incentive and the 
Alent Share Plan. The Annual Incentive for 2014 delivered 
a payment between target and stretch which was largely 
driven off the back of improved EPS, NSV performance 
and delivery on personal objectives. As a result, the 
Annual Incentive payments to the Executive Directors for 
2014 performance were as follows:
• Steve Corbett – achieved 74% of maximum opportunity 
or 110.8% of base salary prior to reduction due to loss of 
office on 3 September 2014, therefore pro-rated to 73.8% 
of base salary (£344,560); and
• David Egan – achieved 76% of maximum opportunity 
or 95.4% of base salary (£303,134).
The performance period for the Alent Share Plan awards 
granted on 5 April 2012 had a performance period which 
ended on 31 December 2014. None of these awards met 
the performance condition and all awards have lapsed.
For the 2014 Annual Incentive payment, 50% of the 
incentive earned over Target performance will be deferred 
into awards over Alent Shares that have a three year 
holding period. Given that Steve Corbett has left the 
organisation, there will be no requirement for him to 
defer his incentive into shares.
Proposed changes for 2015
In 2015 the Committee intends to implement the 
remuneration policy largely in the same manner as in 2014 
with only three changes. 
The first change is to increase base salary for the Finance 
Director, David Egan, and the Non-executive Directors’ 
fees, by 3%, which is the same percentage increase as 
has been applied to the general workforce. 
The second change is to the weighting of performance 
measures in the Annual Incentive so that financial 
performance is a more significant factor in determining 
the annual bonus outcome. The Committee believes that 
this change to the operation of the Annual Incentive is 
appropriate as it will help increase the focus of our 
executives on key financial measures and therefore 
increase the alignment of interests between our executives 
and shareholders. The change in weightings is set out in 
the table below: 
2014 bonus 
(previous 
weightings)
(% of annual 
bonus 
opportunity)
2015 bonus 
(new 
weightings)
(% of annual 
bonus 
opportunity)
Adjusted EPS 50% 55%
Return on NSV 30% 30%
Personal performance 20% 15%
Finally, the Committee is considering the clawback 
arrangements applying to awards made under the Alent 
Share Plan. The existing clawback arrangements are set 
out in the Remuneration Policy Report on page 65. 
Change of Chief Executive
Steve Corbett stepped down as Chief Executive, 
and ceased to be a Director, on 3 September 2014. 
The Committee determined the termination payments 
to be made to Steve Corbett, in line with his contract. 
In summary, Steve Corbett received a payment in lieu of 
notice equal to his salary and benefits, half of which was 
paid in instalments for six months starting in October 2014, 
which reduced to the extent he found alternative 
employment. In addition, all of his outstanding incentive 
awards were pro-rated to reflect time served and will vest 
approximately six months after his notice date but subject 
to the relevant performance conditions. Further detail is set 
out on page 72 and on the Company’s website http:/ /
www.alent.com/corporate-responsibility/corporate-
governance/ in adherence with Section 430 (2B) of the 
Companies Act 2006. 64 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
Appointment of Andrew Heath
Andrew Heath became Chief Executive and was 
appointed a Director of the Company on 21 February 
2015. All elements of his ongoing remuneration are in line 
with our remuneration policy and the structure is the same 
as for the previous Chief Executive:
• Base Salary: £475,000;
• Pension contribution: 30% of base salary;
• Annual Incentive Maximum: up to 150% of base salary; 
• Annual Alent Share Plan award: up to 200% of base 
salary; and
• Benefits in kind: consisting of company car allowance, 
life assurance and medical insurance.
In order to secure the services of Andrew Heath, the 
Committee has provided him with Alent performance 
and restricted share awards under the Alent Share Plan 
to compensate him for share awards which he lost when 
he resigned from his former employer. These additional 
awards have been structured so that their value, time 
horizons and performance requirements all reflect 
as far as practicable the remuneration foregone 
in order to join Alent. Full detail of these awards will be 
disclosed at the time of grant and in the 2015 Annual 
Report on Remuneration.
Conclusion
The Company is committed to open and transparent 
dialogue with its shareholders on remuneration as well as 
other governance matters. As a matter of course the 
Remuneration Committee will continue to consult with 
key institutional shareholders and various representative 
bodies about the pay and incentive arrangements of 
the Company’s Executive Directors. We look forward to a 
continuing dialogue on both the Alent business, and what 
we need to do in respect of overall remuneration practices 
for our Executive Directors and the Company as a whole.
I hope you have found this Annual Statement helpful, 
and will be able to support the Annual Report on 
Remuneration at this year’s Annual General Meeting.
Yours sincerely,
NOËL HARWERTH 
Chairman, Remuneration Committee  
2 March 2015
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 65 
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
The following Remuneration Policy Report summarises the Remuneration Committee’s policy for the remuneration of 
Executive Directors which has operated since 1 January 2014 and which became formally effective following the 
approval of shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy Table
All the elements of Executive Directors’ remuneration (both fixed and variable), which comprises of base salary, annual 
bonus, deferred awards, long-term share incentives and retirement benefits (pension) are outlined in the following table:
Element of 
Remuneration Link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base salary Helps to recruit and 
retain. Reflects the 
individual’s experience, 
role and contribution 
within the Company.
Paid in cash.
Normally reviewed by 
the Remuneration 
Committee annually 
and any increases 
effective from 1 January.
No prescribed 
maximum annual 
increase.
However, merit 
increases align to 
Group increases and 
those for the wider 
workforce except in 
exceptional 
circumstances.
n/a
Benefits Helps to recruit 
and retain.
Executive Directors are 
eligible to receive 
certain benefits in kind.
These principally 
comprise company 
car allowances, life 
assurance and 
medical insurance.
Provision of relocation 
assistance upon 
appointment if/when 
applicable.
n/a
Annual Incentive Incentivises Executive 
Directors to achieve 
specific, pre-defined 
annual targets.
Half of any bonus above 
target is deferred in 
shares for three years. 
The remainder is paid 
in cash.
Subject to clawback.
150% of base salary 
(70% at Target) for 
the Chief Executive.
125% of base salary 
(55% at Target) for the 
Finance Director.
At least 70% of the award 
is based on financial 
measures such as EPS.
The remainder is based 
on personal/strategic 
measures of 
performance.
For each individual 
bonus element, 
achievement of the 
threshold performance 
target delivers no 
payment for that 
element.
Alent Share Plan Flexible “umbrella 
plan” designed to 
align Executive 
Directors’ interests with 
those of shareholders 
and aid retention of 
Executive Directors 
over a three-year 
performance period.
Awards are generally 
made annually.
Awards can be made 
as performance shares, 
market-priced options, 
or a combination 
of both.
Awards vest at least 
three years after their 
award date subject to 
the achievement of 
specified performance 
conditions.
For performance 
shares, the 
Remuneration 
Committee has the 
discretion to award 
participants’ cash or 
additional shares equal 
in value to the dividends 
accrued on any shares 
that vest.
Subject to clawback.
Maximum face value 
of an award is: 
–  200% of base salary 
for performance 
shares; or
–  300% of base salary 
for market-priced 
options.
If a combination of 
performance shares 
and market-price 
options is awarded then 
the commercial value 
of the mixed grant 
cannot be higher than 
the commercial value 
that could have been 
awarded under 
a single grant.
Vesting of awards is 
based on: 
(i) the Company’s TSR 
performance versus a 
peer group selected by 
the Committee.
(ii) internal financial 
measures as selected 
by the Committee, such 
as EPS.
At least 50% of any award 
will always be based on 
internal financial 
measures.
Prior to any vesting the 
Remuneration 
Committee has also 
stipulated that, as an 
additional hurdle, it 
needs to be satisfied that 
vesting has been justified 
by the underlying 
financial performance of 
the Company over the 
performance period.
Retirement benefits Helps to recruit and 
retain key employees.
Ensures income in 
retirement.
Retirement benefits are 
provided by way of an 
allowance which can 
be delivered in cash or 
as a payment to a 
defined contribution 
arrangement.
30% of base salary. n/a 66 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Shareholding guideline
The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company 
equivalent in value to at least one times gross base salary. For new Executive Directors, the target is to achieve this within 
a four-year period. Further details are set out on page 76.
Difference between remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other employees
The Remuneration Committee considers remuneration across Alent when setting remuneration policy for Executive 
Directors and the same principles apply to all employees when determining salary increases. In addition, the Annual 
Incentive and Alent Share Plan are operated for employees who are not Executive Directors. The key difference in 
policy is that variable remuneration represents a greater proportion of Executive Directors’ total package than it does 
for other employees.
Choice of performance measures and target setting
For the Annual Incentive and Alent Share Plan, our policy is to choose performance measures which help drive and reward 
the achievement of the Alent strategy, and also provide alignment between employees and shareholders. Further detail 
on performance measures and targets is disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration. 
Non-executive Directors Remuneration Policy Table
The following table outlines the remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors of Alent:
Element of 
Remuneration Link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics
Base fees Reflects the individual’s 
experience, role and 
contribution within the 
Company.
The Board sets the 
remuneration of the 
Non-executive Directors 
after considering the role 
and responsibilities of 
each Director and the 
practice of other 
companies. The 
Non-executive Directors 
do not participate in 
Board discussions on 
their own remuneration.
No prescribed maximum 
annual increase.
Increases are only made 
if justified by UK market 
benchmarks.
Fees are set at a 
maximum of £500,000 in 
aggregate.
n/a
Additional fees Reflects additional time 
commitment and 
responsibility.
Additional fees paid to 
the Audit and 
Remuneration 
Committee Chairman 
and the Senior 
Independent Director.
No prescribed maximum 
annual increase.
Increases are only made 
if justified by UK market 
benchmarks.
n/a
Clawback Arrangements
Variable remuneration paid to Executive Directors is subject to clawback arrangements in the event that a misstatement 
is identified in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. When a misstatement is identified by the Remuneration 
Committee which requires the restatement of a prior year’s accounts in order to ensure compliance with the requirements 
of International Financial Reporting Standards or any applicable law, then such portion as the Remuneration Committee 
deems appropriate of any variable remuneration paid to Executive Directors (including from both the Annual Incentive 
and the Alent Share Plan and on an after-tax basis) resulting from a measure of financial performance affected by the 
misstatement will be subject to clawback provisions.
External Appointments
Executive Directors are permitted to hold positions as Non-executive Directors of other companies provided that these 
do not lead to conflicts of interest. The Board sanctions each such request on a case-by-case basis. Fees received are 
retained by the Executive Director concerned. 
Andrew Heath is a Non-executive Director of the FTSE listed Imagination Technologies Group plc, where he is Chairman 
of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. 
David Egan is a Non-executive Director of the FTSE listed Tribal Group plc, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee 
and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees. In 2014, Mr Egan received £32,631 for his services to 
Tribal Group whilst also a Director of Alent plc. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 67 
Policy on Service Contracts and Letters 
of Appointment
Our policy is to offer service contracts for Executive 
Directors with notice periods of between six to 12 months. 
Service contracts do not contain any change of control 
provisions. In the event of termination upon notice by 
either the Company or an Executive Director, the 
Company has the option of making a payment in lieu of 
any notice due, a significant part of which is subject to 
offset against subsequent income earned by the 
Executive Director.
For the Chairman, appointment is terminable on six 
months’ notice. All Non-executive Directors are subject to 
retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with 
the Company’s Articles of Association and now stand for 
re-election annually.
Exit Payment Policy
This Exit Payment Policy sets out the framework on how 
termination payments will be calculated for each element 
of Directors’ remuneration together with the policy on the 
setting of notice periods.
An Executive Director’s appointment is terminable by the 
Company on not less than 12 months’ written notice, and 
by the Executive on not less than six months’ written notice. 
In the case of termination, the Company can choose to 
make a payment in lieu of notice for part or all of the 
notice period. Any such payment in lieu will be no greater 
than base salary, pension contributions and the value of 
benefits to which the Director would have been entitled for 
the duration of the remaining notice period, net of 
statutory deductions in each case. Half of this payment 
will be made in a lump sum, the remainder in six equal 
monthly instalments. If the Director finds a role paying 
equivalent or better base salary or fees, no further 
instalments shall be payable, and the value of any lesser 
new base salary or fees shall be deducted from any 
further instalments.
Executives have no contractual right to an annual bonus 
award. However, if the Committee determines that an 
annual bonus should be payable after an executive has 
served or received notice, then annual bonus payments 
will be pro-rated for time served during the year and paid 
after the completion of the termination year’s performance 
period as aligned to plan guidelines.
Under the rules of the Alent Share Plan, awards will lapse in 
full unless specified “good leaver” circumstances apply. 
These circumstances include:
• retirement;
• ill health;
• injury or disability;
• redundancy;
• death;
• employment with a company which ceases to be a 
Group member or relating to a business or part of a 
business which is transferred to a person who is not a 
Group member; and
• any other reason as the Committee decides.
Where the Committee exercises its discretion to treat 
an Executive Director as a good leaver it will take into 
account the individual’s performance and the reasons 
for their departure.
Good leavers’ awards of performance shares or market-
priced options made under the Alent Share Plan normally 
vest at the usual time unless the Committee determines 
that they should vest earlier. However, they are always 
subject to the achievement of any performance criteria. 
Good leavers’ awards of deferred shares relating to the 
Annual Incentive will vest on the date of termination since 
there are no performance conditions needed to be met. 
In addition, awards normally will be pro-rated to reflect the 
time employed from the award date unless, under normal 
circumstances, the Committee determines otherwise. 
In addition, no contractual arrangements have been 
made prior to the coming into effect of the regulations 
that could impact on the quantum of Directors’ 
termination payments. 
The Non-executive Directors are not entitled to receive 
compensation for loss of office at any time. The Chairman 
is entitled to six months’ notice.
Policy on Recruitment Remuneration
The Company will follow the principle that the 
remuneration package for a new Director would be set in 
accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration 
policy in force at the time of appointment. This means that 
the maximum level of variable remuneration (such as 
bonus and long-term incentive awards) would be in line 
with the maximums set out in the policy table in force at 
the time of appointment. Currently these maximums are:
• Annual Incentive: 150% of base salary; and
• Alent Share Plan: 200% of base salary for performance 
shares; or 300% of base salary for market-priced options.
However, the Committee may offer additional cash and/or 
share-based elements to “buy out” remuneration lost 
when leaving a former employer. These elements of 
remuneration, including awards made under Listing Rule 
9.4.2 R, will only be offered when the Committee considers 
them to be in the best interests of the Company and, 
therefore, shareholders. Any such “buy out” payments 
would be based solely on remuneration lost when leaving 
the former employer and would reflect (as far as 
practicable) the delivery mechanism (i.e. cash, shares, 
options), time horizons and performance requirements 
attaching to that remuneration. Shareholders will be 
informed of any such payments at the time of appointment. 
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable 
pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may 
be allowed to pay out according to its terms on grant, 
adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment. 
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations 
existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that 
they are put to shareholders for approval at the first AGM 
following their appointment. 68 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Other aspects of our recruitment policy include:
• where it is appropriate to offer a below-median salary 
to a new Executive Director, a series of increases to the 
desired salary positioning may be given over the 
proceeding few years subject to individual performance 
and experience in role;
• different performance measures may be set initially 
for the annual bonus, taking into account the 
responsibilities of the individual, and the point in 
the financial year that they joined;
• a new Director may receive fees for professional advice 
as appropriate; and
• a new Director may receive relocation assistance 
as stated in the Executive Directors remuneration 
policy table.
Finance Director Scenario – January 2014
(based on David Egan’ s salary when the policy was approved):
Finance Director Scenario – January 2015
(based on David Egan’ s current salary):
Chief Executive Scenario – January 2014
(based on Steve Corbett’ s salary when the policy was approved):
Chief Executive Scenario – February 2015
(based on Andrew Heath’ s current salary):
£2,000,000
£1,500,000
£1,000,000
£500,000
£0
£2,500,000
Alent share plan
Alent incentive – Shares
Alent incentive – Cash
Beneﬁts
Minimum Target Max
Pension
Salary
£2,000,000
£1,500,000
£1,000,000
£500,000
£0
£2,500,000
Minimum Target Max
Alent share plan
Alent incentive – Shares
Alent incentive – Cash
Beneﬁts
Pension
Salary
73% 75%
632,000 634,000
1,190,000 1,204,000
2,258,000 2,297,000
22%
22%
5%
3%
39% 39%
27%
28%
20%
20%
12% 12%
2% 1%
21% 21%
23% 23%
8%
8%
6%
6%
1%
1%
41%
41%
£1,400,000
£1,200,000
£1,000,000
£400,000
£0
£1,600,000
Alent share plan
Alent incentive – Shares
Alent incentive – Cash
Beneﬁts
Minimum Target Max
Pension
Salary
£800,000
£600,000
£200,000
Alent share plan
Alent incentive – Shares
Alent incentive – Cash
Beneﬁts
Pension
Salary
£1,400,000
£1,200,000
£1,000,000
£400,000
£0
£1,600,000
Minimum Target Max
£800,000
£600,000
£200,000
74% 74 %
430,000 442,127
763,000
785,774
1,462,000
1,505,795
22%
22%
4%
4%
42% 42%
23%
23%
21%
21%
12%
12%
2%
2%
22%
22%
20%
20%
8%
8%
6%
7%
1%
1%
43%
42% STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 69 
Scenario charts – an illustration of application 
of remuneration policy
The charts on the previous page show an illustration of 
remuneration under different performance scenarios. 
The first two charts show remuneration based on the 
salaries at the time that the policy was approved. 
The second two charts show remuneration based on 
the latest known salaries for the Executive Directors. 
The potential value of the Alent Share Plan payout does 
not take into account share price movement or the value 
of additional shares which may be added to the number 
of shares released on vesting to reflect dividends paid 
during the performance period. 
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows:
• Minimum: latest known salary, benefits and pension as 
shown in the single figure table;
• Target: minimum remuneration plus target annual bonus 
plus 25% vesting of awards under the Alent Share Plan. 
Assumes Alent Share Plan awards equal to 200% of salary 
for both the Chief Executive and Finance Director; and
• Maximum: minimum remuneration plus maximum 
annual bonus plus 100% vesting of awards under the 
Alent Share Plan. Assumes Alent Share Plan awards 
equal to 200% of salary for both the Chief Executive 
and Finance Director.
Consideration of Group Employee Conditions
Although there is no formal consultation with employees 
in the Company in drawing up Directors’ remuneration 
policy, the policy is aligned to the overall compensation 
guideline of driving high performance which is applicable 
to all Alent employees. There are no specified comparison 
metrics taken into account when determining Directors’ 
remuneration policy.
Consideration of Shareholder Views
Alent is committed to open and transparent dialogue 
with its shareholders on remuneration as well as other 
governance matters. All views expressed by Alent’s 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting or during 
the reported financial year are taken into account by 
the Committee when making decisions relating to the 
Directors’ remuneration policy. In relation to any changes 
to the Directors’ remuneration policy, the Committee will 
typically consult with shareholders before such changes 
are submitted for shareholder approval so that 
shareholder views can be taken into account.
In normal circumstances, we expect to submit the Directors’ 
remuneration policy once every three years. However, 
Alent will include the policy section on an annual basis 
to provide consistency and make cross-referencing easier 
for the reader. 
Key areas of discretion
Key areas of discretion in the application of our 
remuneration policy include, but are not limited to:
• the choice of financial performance measures in 
variable remuneration and the choice of performance 
targets for those measures;
• The choice of whether to pay an annual bonus to an 
Executive Director who is serving their notice period;
• discretion in exceptional circumstances to 
amend previously set incentive targets or to adjust the 
proposed payout to ensure a fair and appropriate 
outcome; and
• certain decisions relating to the Alent Share Plan as set 
out in the plan rules regarding change of control and 
leaver provisions.
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION 
REPORT ON REMUNERATION
This section of the Directors’ remuneration report explains 
how the Directors’ remuneration policy as set out in the 
Remuneration Policy Report will be implemented in 2015, 
and how it has been implemented in 2014. 
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy 
in 2015
Remuneration in 2015 will be broadly the same 
as in 2014, but with minor changes to the Annual 
Incentive arrangements.
Base Salary
The Committee has reviewed base salaries in line with 
policy and has decided that base salary for David Egan 
will be increased by 3% in line with 3% increase to the 
general workforce. This means that effective January 2015, 
the base salary for David Egan will be £327,283. Andrew 
Heath’s base salary will be £475,000. 
Non-executive Director fees
In 2014, the base Non-executive Director fee was £45,000 
and £165,000 for the Chairman. Additional fees to 
Committee Chairmen were £15,000, and for the Senior 
Independent Director were £5,000.
Effective 1 January 2015, Non-executive Director fees 
and Chairman fees were increased by 3% to £46,350 
and £169,950, respectively. The increases are aligned to 
the average Alent increase of 3%. The SID and Committee 
Chairs’ fees remain unchanged.
Annual Incentive
The Annual Incentive performance measures will continue 
to be aligned to Alent’s strategy. Accordingly, there will be 
continued focus on EPS and NSV margin targets for 2015. 
However, in order to increase the focus of the Executive 
Directors on the financial performance of the Company, 
the annual bonus opportunity related to personal 
objectives will be:
• adjusted EPS targets (55% of total opportunity):
• return on NSV margin (30%) – calculated as adjusted 
operating profit divided by net sales value; and
• personal objectives (15%).
As set out in the Annual Statement and Policy Report, the 
maximum opportunity for the Chief Executive and Finance 
Director will be 150% and 125% of base salary, respectively. 
In addition, half of any bonus paid above target will be 
deferred into awards over shares that have a three year 
holding period to increase alignment between the 
long-term interests of executives and shareholders. 
Alent Share Plan awards 
The Committee intends to make grants of 200% of salary to 
each of the Executive Directors in 2015. The performance 
condition relating to these awards will be disclosed in next 
year’s annual report on remuneration and will continue to 
be based on EPS and relative TSR.  70 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Remuneration Outcomes for 2014
In this section we have provided information on what was paid to our Directors in 2014, and the reasons why those 
payments were made.
Single Total Figure for Remuneration
Executive Directors: “Single Figure” for 2014 Total Remuneration £1,947,847
Elements of Remuneration Salary Benefits
1
Bonus
2,6
Alent 
Share
Plan
3
Pension Other
4,5
Total
Steve Corbett 2014
8
£316,500 £17,429 £344,560 £0 £94,357 £442,155 £1,215,001
Steve Corbett 2013
7
£453,008 £28,976 £0 £0 £135,902 £0 £617,886
David Egan 2014 £317,750 £16,660 £303,111 £0 £95,325 £0 £732,846
David Egan 2013 £310,000 £16,498 £0 £0 £93,000 £90,280 £509,778
1. Taxable benefits for 2014 includes: company car allowances, life assurance and medical insurance.
2. The 2014 bonus relates to Annual Incentive payments for performance in the 2014 financial year. The calculation for 2014 amount is 
set out on page 71.
3. The 2014 value for Steve Corbett relates to his Cookson awards converted into Alent shares upon demerger which were originally 
granted on 1 April 2012. The performance period for these awards was 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014. As shown on page 72, 
the performance conditions were not met and all of the awards lapsed. David Egan had no performance-based Alent Share Plan 
awards vesting during the year.
4. The 2014 value for Steve Corbett relates to (i) the vesting of 21,898 shares under the Alent Share Plan which have been pro-rated and 
will vest on 3 April 2015 that are valued on the average share price of 335p over the last quarter of 2014, (ii) payments in lieu of notice 
paid on 3 October 2014 together with the monthly instalments relating to 2014, (iii) payments related to healthcare benefits, and (iv) 
legal and other expenses. Further detail of these payments is set out in the section of loss of office payments.
5. The 2013 value for David Egan relates to the recruitment award of 23,909 shares granted on 28 March 2013 under the Alent Share 
Plan. Half of these shares vested on 1 January 2014 whilst the remaining half vested on 1 January 2015. These awards were made 
to “buy out” awards of variable remuneration at his previous employer and were disclosed in the 2012 remuneration report. 
These awards have been valued using the grant date share price of 377 .6p. 
6. 50% of the annual bonus above target is deferred into shares for a period of three years. David Egan will be awarded shares 
equivalent to £64,174.
7 . Converted Steve Corbett’s 2013 remuneration from USD to GDP utilising an exchange rate of 1.6556.
8. Converted Steve Corbett’s 2014 remuneration from USD to GDP utilising an exchange rate of 1.6473. Steve Corbett stepped down 
as Chief Executive on 3 September 2014. Numbers above reflect period from 1 January 2014 to 3 September 2014.
9.  $155,435 converted to GDP as part of termination agreement and payment up to 3 September 2014.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors: “Single Figure” for 2014 Total Remuneration £425,000
Elements of Remuneration Salary and fees
1
2014 2013
Peter Hill £165,000 £165,000
Emma FitzGerald £45,000 £45,000
Lars Förberg £45,000 £45,000
Noël Harwerth £60,000 £60,000
Jan Oosterveld £45,000 £45,000
Mark Williamson £65,000 £65,000
Note
1. No pension, annual bonus or Alent share plan awards are paid to Non-executive Directors.
9 STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 71 
Additional information in respect of the single figure table
The information below sets out how amounts disclosed in the single figure table regarding the Annual Incentive and 
Alent Share Plan were determined.
Annual Incentive
In 2014 Annual Incentive payments for the Chief Executive and Finance Director were based on the achievement of 
an adjusted EPS target, return on NSV margin and personal objectives. EPS targets for 2014 were set on the basis of 
considerable stretch on the 2013 results and the NSV targets were also set to show further growth over 2013. Directors 
were also set measurable performance objectives in order to ensure delivery of operational and strategic goals. For 
both EPS and NSV, the 2014 outturn showed improvement over 2013 as can be seen in the 2014 Group results.
For the adjusted EPS, the Group achieved above target but below maximum and for the return on NSV, the Group 
achieved below target performance. For the Personal Objectives, the Committee assessed performance of both the 
Chief Executive and Finance Director in alignment with the 2014 objectives for the Group that determined achievement, 
respectively, at just below Stretch and at Superior performance levels. 
The maximum bonus opportunities for the Chief Executive and Finance Director in 2014 were 150% of salary and 125% 
of salary respectively. As a result, the bonus outcome for 2014 performance is noted below:
• Chief Executive, Steve Corbett – 110.8% of salary pro-rated to 73.8% as a result of loss of office on 3 September 2014; and
• Finance Director, David Egan – 95.4% of salary.
Alent Share Plan Vesting
Awards shown in the 2014 single figure represent the grants made to Executive Directors in 2012 under the Cookson 
Group plc (Cookson) LTIP for which the performance period ended on 31 December 2014. These awards were rolled over 
to become awards over Alent shares of equivalent value after the demerger and were due to vest in April 2015. 
The performance condition for these awards was measured over a three-year period, but by reference to Cookson 
performance up to the demerger effective time and by reference to Alent performance thereafter to the end of the 
period. The awards continued to be subject to the terms and conditions of the existing Cookson LTIP, save that the 
relevant company (and relevant remuneration committee) was Alent instead of Cookson. 
Vesting of 50% of awards was based on adjusted EPS growth, whilst the remaining 50% was based on TSR growth relative 
to a comparator group. As shown in the tables overleaf, the performance targets for the 2012 Cookson LTIP awards were 
not met and the awards did not vest: 72 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Outcome of the 2012 Cookson LTIP
EPS performance condition
2014 adjusted EPS % of Total award vesting
Performance targets for 2014  
adjusted EPS
Less than 34.6 pence 0% 
34.6 pence 12.5%
42.7 pence 50%
Between 34.6 pence and 42.7 pence Pro rata between 12.5% and 50%
Outcome 25.0p 0%
TSR performance condition
Alent 3-year TSR rank vs. FTSE250, 
excluding Investment Trusts at 
31 Dec 2014 % of Total award vesting
Performance targets for Alent TSR at 
end of the performance period
Below Median 0%
Median 12.5%
Upper Quintile 50%
Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50%
Outcome Below Median 0%
Note
1. The performance condition for these awards was measured over a three-year period, but by reference to Cookson performance up 
to the demerger effective time and by reference to Alent performance thereafter to the end of the period.
2. Steve Corbett had awards over 340,665 shares subject to these performance conditions. All of his awards lapsed.
Total Pension Entitlements
In accordance with their contracts, Steve Corbett and David Egan receive pension allowances of 30% of their base 
salaries to enable them to make their own pension provision as they may choose or take as a salary supplement.
Loss of Office Payments
Steve Corbett ceased to be a Director and the Chief Executive Officer of Alent plc on 3 September 2014 (the “Notice 
Date”). He was given the 12 months’ notice provided for in his employment contract on this date, and was placed on 
garden leave until his employment terminated on 3 October 2014 (the “Leaving Date”).
Steve Corbett received all salary and benefit entitlements accrued and due through to the Leaving Date, 
less withholdings required by law. 
Steve Corbett was paid in lieu of the amount of notice that remains outstanding as at the Leaving Date. He therefore 
received a payment in lieu of notice calculated in accordance with his employment agreement, comprising base 
salary, pension allowance and the cost to the Company of providing contractual benefits for the balance of the notice 
period paid as follows: 
• a lump sum payment of US$478,991 (less withholdings required by law), was paid on 28 October 2014; and 
• six monthly instalments of US$79,831.83 (less withholdings required by law), subject to mitigation should Steve Corbett obtain 
new employment before the date on which an instalment falls due.
At Steve Corbett’s election he is entitled to continue to receive certain US healthcare benefits provided by Alent for 
12 months following the Leaving Date, the cost of which US$13,475 will be met by Alent.  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 73 
Steve Corbett was eligible to be considered for an annual incentive payment in respect of services rendered during 
2014, calculated on a time pro-rated basis through the Notice Date, to reflect the proportion of the year during which 
he was actively employed. As a result, Steve Corbett was awarded a bonus of £344,560 for his performance over 2014 
(see earlier section for full calculation of the annual bonus). This amount was calculated at the same time as for other 
executives, and will be paid at the same time as for other executives and was subject to the rules and the attainment 
of performance targets set out in the bonus scheme, subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee at the time.
Steve Corbett has awards under the Cookson Group Long Term Incentive Plan (of 118,121 and 222,544 shares), and 
awards under the Alent Share Plan (of 268,203 and 287,958 shares). These awards will be treated in accordance with 
the rules of each Plan, and will all lapse except for 21,898 shares of the 2014 Alent Share Plan award which will vest on 
3 April 2015. This is based on the committees assessment of the achievement of the performance conditions at the 
leaving date and calculated on a time pro-rated basis.
Variable pay and other share awards granted during 2014
Alent share plan performance share awards
During 2014, awards with a face value of 200% of salary were granted to Steve Corbett and David Egan under the Alent 
Share Plan. Details of these awards are shown in the table below. No other awards were made to either Steve Corbett or 
David Egan.
Individual Scheme
Type of 
award Award basis
Face 
Value
1
% vesting for 
achieving 
minimum 
level of 
performance
End of 
performance 
period
Summary of 
performance 
condition
Steve 
Corbett
Alent Share 
Plan
287,958
3
 
performance 
shares
200% of salary £928,665 25%
2
31/12/2016 50% of award 
subject to a 
relative TSR 
performance 
measure.
50% of award 
subject to an 
EPS growth 
performance 
condition.
David Egan Alent Share  
Plan
197,054
4
 
performance 
shares
200% of salary £635,499 25%
2
31/12/2016
1. Based on a share price of 322.5p which was the average mid-market quotations for Wednesday 5 March 2014 to Friday 7 March 2014 
and Monday 10 March 2014 to Tuesday 11 March 2014 (being the five trading days before grant).
2. Assumes that the threshold target is achieved for both the TSR and EPS performance condition.
3. For Steve Corbett, 21,898 shares will vest on 3 April 2015 based on the committee’s assessment of the achievement of the 
performance condition at the leaving date. The remaining 266,060 shares will lapse on 3 April 2015. See the section on loss of office 
payments for further details.
4. For David Egan, vesting of half of these awards will be determined by Alent TSR performance over the performance period relative to 
a comparator group, whilst the remainder will be determined by Alent EPS growth. 
Further information on the performance conditions is provided in the tables, below:
EPS performance condition
2016 adjusted EPS % of Total award vesting
Performance targets for 2016 
adjusted EPS
Less than 27 .9 pence 0%
27 .9 pence 12.5%
Between 27 .9 pence and 30.4 pence Pro rata between 12.5% and 31.25%
Between 30.4 pence and 33.0 pence Pro rata between 31.25% and 50%
TSR performance condition
TSR rank vs. comparator group through 
the end of 2016
1
% of Total award vesting
Performance targets for Alent TSR 
at end of the performance period
Below Median 0%
Median 12.5%
Upper Quartile 50%
Between Median and Upper Quartile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50%
1.  The 2014 TSR comparator group is: Air Liquide, Arkema, Cabot Microelectronics, Croda, Dow Chemical, DuPont, Elementis, HB Fuller, Henkel, 
Illinois Tool Works (ITW), Integris, Johnson Matthey, Lanxess, Merck Group, Nitto Denko, OM Group, Park Electrochemical, Platform Specialty 
Products, Solvay, Umicore, Victrex and Wacker Chemie AG.
2. The EPS performance conditions take 2013 EPS as the base with stretching targets for 2016 adjusted EPS. 74 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Alent 2013 Grant
Vesting of half of these awards is determined by Alent TSR performance over the performance period relative to a 
comparator group, whilst the remainder is determined by Alent EPS growth in accordance with the following schedule:
EPS performance condition
2015 adjusted EPS % of Total award vesting
Performance targets for 2015 
adjusted EPS
Less than 29.72 pence 0%
29.72 pence 12.5%
Between 29.72 pence and 32.74 pence Pro rata between 12.5% and 31.25%
Between 32.74 pence and 35.97 pence Pro rata between 31.25% and 50%
TSR performance condition
TSR rank vs. comparator group
1
 
at end of performance period % of Total award vesting
Performance targets for Alent TSR 
at end of the performance period
Below Median 0%
Median 12.5%
Upper Quintile 50%
Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50%
1.  The 2014 TSR comparator group is: Air Liquide, Arkema, Cabot Microelectronics, Croda, Dow Chemical, DuPont, Elementis, HB Fuller, Henkel, 
Illinois Tool Works (ITW), Entegris, Johnson Matthey, Lanxess, Merck Group, Nitto Denko, OM Group, Park Electrochemical, Platform Specialty 
Products, Solvay, Umicore, Victrex and Wacker Chemie AG.
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
This section sets out the interests of Directors in the Alent Share Plan together with their beneficial interests.
Steve Corbett
Type Grant Date
Number of 
shares at 
1 January 
2014
Granted 
during 
year
Vested 
during 
year
Lapsed 
during 
year
Number of 
shares at 
31 December 
2014
Percentage 
vesting for 
achieving 
minimum  
level of 
performance
Performance 
condition
3
End of 
performance 
period
Normal
vesting
date
Cookson 
performance shares
01-04-2011 102,631 – – (102,631) – 25%
2
Cookson 2011 
condition
31-12-2013 05-04-2014
Cookson 
performance shares
05-04-2012 118,121 – – – 118,121 25%
2
Cookson 2012 
condition
31-12-2014 05-04-2015
Cookson matching 
shares
05-04-2012 222,544 – – – 222,544 11.1%
2
Cookson 2012 
condition
31-12-2014 05-04-2015
Alent Share Plan 09-04-2013 268,203 – – – 268,203 25%
3
Alent 2013 
condition
31-12-2015 09-04-2016
Alent Share Plan 12-03-2014 – 287,958 – – 287,958 25%
4
Alent 2014 
condition
31-12-2016 12-03-2017
Total 711,499 287,958 – (102,631) 896,826
David Egan
Alent share plan 28-03-2013 11,955 – (11,955) – – n/a n/a
1
n/a
1
01-01-2014
Alent Share Plan 28-03-2013 11,954 – – – 11,954 n/a n/a
1
n/a
1
01-01-2015
Alent Share Plan 09-04-2013 168,204 – – – 168,204 25%
2
Alent 2013 
condition
31-12-2015 09-04-2016
Alent Share Plan 01-04-2014 – 197,054 – – 197,054 25%
2
Alent 2014 
condition
31-12-2016 12-03-2017
Total 192,113 197,054 (11,955) – 377,212 STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 75 
1. This award was made as part of David Egan’s recruitment arrangements. It will vest subject to continued employment.
2. Assumes that the threshold target is achieved for all performance conditions. 
3. Detail on the performance conditions is set out in the next section.
4. Steve Corbett’s 2012 Cookson performance and matching share awards will lapse on 5 April 2015.
5. Steve Corbett’s 2013 Alent Share Plan award will lapse on 3 April 2015.
6. 21,898 shares of Steve Corbett’s 2014 Alent Share Plan award will vest on 3 April 2015 based on the Committee’s assessment of the 
achievement of the performance conditions at the leaving date. The remaining 266,060 shares will lapse on 3 April 2015.
 
See section on Loss of Office Payments for further detail. 
The information in the above table is audited by the Company’s auditor. Further detail on the performance conditions 
is set out below.
Performance conditions relating to awards made under the Alent Share Plan
In the case of Alent Share Plan grants for which the performance period ends on 31 December 2014, these represent the 
grants made to Executive Directors in 2012 under the Cookson LTIP. These awards over Cookson shares were rolled over to 
become awards over Alent shares of equivalent value. Performance was measured over a three-year period, but by 
reference to Cookson performance up to the demerger effective time and by reference to Alent performance 
thereafter to the end of the period. The awards continued to be subject to the terms and conditions of the existing 
Cookson LTIP, save that the relevant company (and relevant remuneration committee) was Alent instead of Cookson.
The vesting of the awards, when originally granted, was based on Cookson’s performance against specified 
performance conditions measured over a three-year period. Vesting of 50% of shares awarded was based upon 
Cookson’s three-year TSR performance relative to that of the constituent companies of the FTSE 250, excluding 
Investment Trusts, and 50% on EPS growth over the three-year period. The two measures operated independently.
The new Alent targets for measuring performance for the 2012 Cookson LTIP awards, following the demerger, were 
determined as follows:
• as regards the EPS target, the Cookson headline EPS threshold and maximum vesting targets for the final year of the 
relevant three-year performance period were split between Alent and Vesuvius by reference to their respective trading 
profit contributions to Cookson’s total 2012 trading profit such that the new Alent and Vesuvius targets aggregated to 
the relevant Cookson targets. The respective Alent adjusted EPS values as reported for the final year of the three-year 
performance period were compared with these replacement threshold and maximum targets to determine the 
vesting outcome; and
• as regards the TSR target, Cookson’s TSR growth from the start of the relevant three-year performance period up to the 
time of the demerger were determined and added to the TSR growth of Alent from the demerger date to the end of 
the three-year performance period. This aggregate TSR growth was ranked against the TSR of the relevant comparator 
group and the resulting vesting outcome was calculated against the TSR performance schedule in the Cookson LTIP.
Service Contracts and Letters of Appointment
Highlighted below are the current service contracts and letters of appointment for Alent’s Directors:
Andrew Heath
Andrew Heath was appointed as the Chief Executive of the Company effective on 21 February 2015. He is eligible to 
participate in the annual incentive and the Alent Share Plan. Mr Heath’s appointment is terminable by the Company on 
not less than 12 months’ written notice, and by Mr Heath on not less than six months’ written notice. Mr Heath is subject to 
certain non-compete and non-solicitation covenants for a period of 12 months following the termination of his 
employment. The agreement is governed by English law.
David Egan
David Egan was appointed as the Finance Director of the Company effective on 1 January 2013. He is eligible to 
participate in the annual incentive and the Alent Share Plan. Mr Egan’s appointment is terminable by the Company on 
not less than 12 months’ written notice, and by Mr Egan on not less than six months’ written notice. Mr Egan is subject to 
certain non-compete and non-solicitation covenants for a period of 12 months following the termination of his 
employment. The agreement is governed by English law.
Neither of the Executive Directors’ contracts contains any change of control provisions. Both contracts give the 
Company the option, in the event of termination upon notice by either party, to make a payment in lieu of any notice 
due, a significant part of which is subject to offset against subsequent income earned by the relevant Executive Director.
No Director had any material interest in a contract of significance (other than service agreements) with the Company or 
any subsidiary company during the year. 76 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Non-executive Director Letters of Appointment
Date of appointment
Annual General Meeting 
at which current term is 
expected to expire Unexpired notice period
Chairman  
(Non-executive Director)
Peter Hill 10 September 2012 7 May 2015 6 months
Non-executive Directors
Emma FitzGerald 31 October 2012 7 May 2015 –
Jan Oosterveld
1
31 October 2012 7 May 2015 –
Noël Harwerth 31 October 2012 7 May 2015 –
Lars Förberg 31 October 2012 7 May 2015 –
Mark Williamson 31 October 2012 7 May 2015 –
1. Jan Oosterveld will be retiring following the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2015.
Directors’ Shareholdings
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2014 are 
shown below, together with the total number of shares subject to performance conditions which have been granted under 
the Alent Share Plan. These amounts have been adjusted for the share consolidation carried out on 26 September 2014.
Ordinary shares 31 December 2014 Ordinary shares No. Alent Share Plan
1
David Egan 21,415 377,212
Peter Hill 57,391 –
Emma FitzGerald 15,421 –
Lars Förberg
2
NIL –
Noël Harwerth 2,097 –
Jan Oosterveld 17,114 –
Mark Williamson 7,652 –
1. Awards under the Alent Share Plan are subject to continued employment or the achievement of performance conditions that are 
set out on pages 74 to 75.
2. Mr Förberg is Managing Partner of, and has a financial interest in, Cevian Capital, which held just over 20% of Alent’s issued share 
capital on the date of his appointment to the Alent Board and continues to hold an interest of just under 22% in Alent’s issued share 
capital as of the date of this Report. None of the other Directors, nor their spouses nor minor children, held non-beneficial interests in 
the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
There were no changes to the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 
1 January 2015 to 2 March 2015.
Full details of Directors’ shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, 
which is open to inspection at the Company’s registered office during business hours.
The information in the above table is audited by the Company’s auditor.
Shareholding guidelines
As set out in the Policy Report, the Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a 
shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least one times gross base salary. For new Executive Directors, the 
target is to achieve this within a four-year period.
As at 31 December 2014, David Egan held 21,415 shares in Alent. Using the Company’s closing share price at 
31 December 2014 of 321p, this represents 21.6% of base salary (gross, pre-tax) for David Egan.  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 77 
Spend on Pay
The percentage change in profit, dividends and overall expenditure on pay in the reporting period compared to the 
previous period is set out below. 
2014
£m
2013
£m % change
Adjusted operating profit¹ 95.1 94.1 1%
Dividends paid
2
66.3 23.3 185%
Overall expenditure on pay
3
133.1 132.9 –
1. Before share of joint ventures and exceptional items, and including the effect of proforma adjustments.
2. Dividends paid in 2014 include a special dividend of £42.0m. Ordinary dividends paid in 2014 amounted to £24.3m, a 4% increase 
on 2013.
3. The 2013 overall expenditure on pay has been amended from £124.5m to £132.9m to include £8.4m of employee benefits within 
exceptional items.
Alent does not have a share buyback programme.
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive and the average employee
Steve Corbett served as Chief Executive until 4 September 2014. In January 2014, Steve Corbett was awarded a 2.5% 
salary increase which was in line with the 2.5% salary increase awarded to the general workforce.
Although Steve Corbett was a US based employee, his remuneration benefits were designed based on the UK Market. 
As such, with Andrew Heath joining, the transition to reflecting only the UK ‘average employee’ remuneration details is 
the most relevant comparator given that Alent’s headquarters are based in the UK.
The table below sets out the percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive and the average UK 
employee.
Salary Benefits
1
Annual 
Incentives
Chief Executive 2.5% (20%) n/a
2
Average UK employee 2.5% 9% 14%
1. Taxable benefits for 2014 includes: company car allowances, life assurance and medical insurance.
2.  Steve Corbett did not receive an annual incentive in 2013. Details of his 2014 annual incentives are set out on page 71.
Consideration by Directors of matters relating to the Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Committee
The primary role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are:
• setting the appropriate remuneration for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary;
• recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the first layer 
of management below Board level; and
• overseeing the operation of any executive share incentive plans.
A copy of the Remuneration Committee’s Terms of Reference is available on the Company’s website  
www.alent.com and the members of the Remuneration Committee are set out on page 49 of the Corporate 
Governance Report.
Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee:
In formulating its policies and deciding individual remuneration levels, the Remuneration Committee is advised by 
the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, and by the external advisers New Bridge Street (NBS), part of Aon PLC. 
NBS has been appointed directly by the Remuneration Committee to provide advice on executive remuneration 
matters, including remuneration structure and policy, updates on market practices and trends, guidance on the 
implementation and operation of long-term incentive plans and provides share award valuation advice to the 
Company. NBS has also provided the Remuneration Committee with remuneration benchmarking data for certain 
executives. NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to Executive 
Remuneration Consulting in the UK. During 2014 NBS was paid a total of £99,000 for its services to the Committee as 
listed above. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that advice received from NBS is objective. 78 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Activities of the Remuneration Committee:
The Remuneration Committee met six times in 2014, twice more than planned, to consider such matters as:
• addressing remuneration related to the transition and recruitment of the Chief Executive position:
• salary review, annual and long-term incentive proposals for the Executive Directors and senior management;
• reviewing achievement against the performance targets, and approving payouts, in respect of the Annual Incentive;
• setting performance targets and approving the structure of the Annual Incentive arrangements;
• considering the Company’s performance against the performance conditions applicable to the Cookson awards 
rolled over into awards over Alent shares, and authorising the vesting of these awards where relevant;
• setting the performance conditions and authorising the grant of awards under the Alent Share Plan;
• receiving feedback on the Remuneration Committee Chairman’s meetings with key institutional shareholders 
regarding the Company’s remuneration policy and practice, and, in the light of this, advice received from the 
external advisers regarding trends in remuneration practice and governance, discussing the Company’s approach 
to executive remuneration and reviewing whether any changes should be made;
• reviewing the Remuneration Committee’s Terms of Reference, and recommending any amendments to the Board 
for approval;
• reviewing and approving the 2013 Directors’ Remuneration Report; and 
• reviewing the 2014 Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Statement of shareholder voting
At the 2014 AGM Alent’s shareholders approved the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Remuneration Policy 
Report. The voting outcomes are summarised in the table below:
Remuneration Policy Report
Annual Report on 
Remuneration
No of votes % of votes cast No of votes    % of votes cast
Votes cast in favour 232,659,462 96.81 239,186,743 99.42
Votes cast against 7,672,226 3.19 1,388,945 0.58
Total votes cast 240,331,688 100 240,575,688 100
Number of abstentions 250,482 n/a 6,482 n/a STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 79 
Performance graph and table
Given that Alent did not exist until 19 December 2012, it is not possible to produce a graph which compares the 
Company’s TSR over the past five years with the return on an appropriate index (in compliance with the Large & Medium 
sized Companies and Groups (Accounts & Report) Regulations 2008). For completeness, and in accordance with 
the Regulations, the graph below does compare the Company’s TSR over the shortened period from the demerger to 
31 December 2012 with the return on the FTSE 250 index (excluding Investment Trusts) through 31 December 2014. 
This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Company. 
The table following the chart shows the single figure remuneration for the Chief Executive over the same period.
Total Shareholder Return
Source: Thomson Reuters
£0
£20
£40
£60
£80
£100
£120
£140
£160
Dec 14
Dec 13
Dec 12
Alent FTSE250 xIT
Value of a £100 holding
Year Ending Executive
Total  
Remuneration
Annual Bonus  
(% of max)
Alent Share Plan 
vesting (% of max)
31 December 2014
2
Steve Corbett £1,215,001 73.8% 0%
31 December 2013 Steve Corbett £617,886 0% 0%
31 December 2012
1
Steve Corbett £18,797 8.9% 0%
1. The above details only reflect the applicable period after 19 December 2012 under Alent plc.
2.  Includes payments for loss of office. % of maximum pro-rated.
Share Usage
Under the rules of the Plan the Company has the discretion to satisfy awards either by the transfer of existing shares or by 
the allotment of newly issued shares. The decision on how to satisfy awards is taken by the Board, which considers the 
most prudent and appropriate sourcing arrangement for the Company.
The Alent Share Plan complies with the current ABI guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under 
all plans should not exceed 10% over a 10-year period in relation to the Company’s issued share capital, with a further 
limitation of 5% in any 10-year period on discretionary schemes.
Details of the awards granted to Executive Directors and outstanding under the Cookson LTIP as at 31 December 2012 
and outstanding awards under the Alent Share Plan are given in note 27 to the Group financial statements and note 10 
to the Company financial statements.
Sections subject to Audit
The following sections of this report are subject to audit:
• single total figure for remuneration (pages 70 to 71);
• variable pay and other share awards granted during 2014 (page 73); and
• statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (page 74).
On behalf of the Board
NOËL HARWERTH  
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
2 March 2015
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2014, of £100 invested in Alent plc on 19 December 2012 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index 
(excluding investment trusts) on the same date.  80 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors submit their Annual Report together with 
the audited accounts of the Group and of the Company, 
Alent plc, registered in England and Wales No.8197966, 
for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to 
provide a Directors’ Report for Alent plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2014. The information that fulfils this 
requirement and which is incorporated by reference into, 
and forms part of this report, is included in the following 
sections of the Annual Report: the Corporate Governance 
Report; the information on financial risk management 
objectives and policies contained in note 25 of the Group 
financial statements, and the details on Greenhouse Gas 
emissions set out on page 30.
This Directors’ Report and Strategic Report together 
represents the management report for the purpose of 
compliance with DTR 4.1.8R of the UK Listing Authority 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Activities
Alent plc is a holding company. A list of its principal 
subsidiary companies is set out on page 126. 
The Company does not have any overseas branches 
within the meaning of the Companies Act 2006.
Going Concern 
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts and 
assessed the future funding requirements of the Group 
and the Company and compared it to the level of 
long-term debt and committed bank facilities for a period 
in excess of 12 months from the date that the financial 
statements were approved. These forecasts reflect an 
assessment of current and future end-market conditions 
and their impact on the Group’s future trading 
performance. The assessment included a sensitivity 
analysis on the key factors which could affect future cash 
flow and funding requirements. Having undertaken this 
work the Directors consider that the Group has adequate 
resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future 
and so determine that it is appropriate to prepare the 
accounts on a going concern basis.
Research and Development
The Group’s investment in research and development 
(“R&D”) during the year under review amounted to 
£15.2 million (representing 3.7% of Group net sales value 
(2013: 3.8%). Further details of the Group’s R&D activities 
can be found on page 38 of the Strategic Report.
Dividends
An interim dividend of 3.0 pence per ordinary share and 
a special dividend of 15.0 pence per ordinary share was 
paid on 17 October 2014.
The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 
2014 of 6.0 pence per ordinary share which, if approved, 
will be paid on 19 June 2015 to shareholders on the register 
at 16 May 2015.
Accountability and audit
A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement 
by the Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be 
found on pages 83 and 84 to 85 respectively. The Directors 
fulfil the responsibilities set out in their statement within the 
context of an overall control environment of central 
strategic direction and decentralised operating 
responsibility. As at the date of this report, so far as each 
Director of the Company is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s Auditor is 
unaware and each Director hereby confirms that they 
have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a 
Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant 
audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
Auditor is aware of that information. 
Appointment of Auditor
KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in 
office as Auditor and a resolution for the reappointment of 
KPMG LLP and to authorise the Directors to determine its 
remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM. 
Appointment and Replacement of Directors
The Directors shall not be fewer than five nor more than 
15 in number. The Company may, by ordinary resolution, 
from time to time vary the minimum number and/or 
maximum number of Directors. The Board may appoint 
any person to be a Director (so long as the total number 
of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the 
Articles). Any such Director shall only hold office until the 
next AGM and shall then be eligible for election. 
A Director my be removed by the Company as provided 
for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in 
the Company’s Articles of Association (for example 
bankruptcy or resignation), or by a special resolution of 
the Company.
Biographical information for all the current Directors of the 
Company is given on pages 42 to 43. All the Directors will 
retire at the AGM and offer themselves for election. 
Further information on the contractual arrangements 
of the Executive Directors is given on page 75. The Non-
executive Directors do not have service agreements.
Mr Steve Corbett resigned as Chief Executive on 
3 September 2014.
Mr Andrew Heath was appointed as Chief Executive and 
Director of Alent plc on 21 February 2015.
Ms Helen Barrett-Hague was appointed as Company 
Secretary on 2 January 2015, following the resignation of 
Mr Simon O’Hara.
Director’s Indemnity
The Directors have been granted Qualifying Third Party 
Indemnity Provisions by the Company. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 81 
2015 Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held at 10.00 am on 
Thursday 7 May at the offices of UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, 
London EC2M 2PP. 
The notice of the 2015 AGM is contained in the circular 
to shareholders accompanying this Annual Report, 
together with an explanation of resolutions to be considered 
at the meeting.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Information on our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions, 
and the methodology used to record these, is set out on 
page 30 of the Corporate Responsibility section of the 
Strategic Report.
Donations
In accordance with Company policy, no political or 
charitable donations were made in 2014.
Essential Contracts and Change of Control 
Disclosure
A small number of senior management employees within 
the Group are entitled to receive payments of up to 12 
months’ salary in the event that employment is terminated 
in certain circumstances within 12 months of a change of 
control of Alent. The Remuneration Committee has 
approved these arrangements as being in line with Alent’s 
wider Remuneration Policy. No Director of Alent is entitled 
to any such payment.
The terms of the Group’s committed bank facility contain 
provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise 
termination or other rights in the event of a change of 
control on takeover of the Company. A number of other 
arrangements to which the Company and its subsidiaries 
are party, such as other debt arrangements and share 
incentive plans, may alter or terminate on a change of 
control in the event of a takeover. In the context of the 
Group as a whole, these other arrangements are not 
considered to be significant. 
Share Capital and Capital Structure
As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued 
share capital of 266,353,736 ordinary shares of 10 5/11p 
each, being the total number of Alent plc shares with 
voting rights. All issued shares are fully paid. There are no 
other classes of share capital. Further information relating 
to the Company’s issued share capital can be found in 
note 21 to the Company financial statements.
The Company operates a number of share-based 
incentive plans (further details about these are given in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report). For these plans the 
Company can satisfy entitlements either by the acquisition 
of existing shares or by the issue of new shares. 
No ordinary shares have been issued in relation to the 
exercise of options granted under the Company’s share 
option schemes. 
During the year, 11,955 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, 
equivalent to 50% of Mr David Egan’s restricted share 
award were issued for cash to satisfy his award.
Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to allot shares 
and make allotments of shares to persons other than 
existing shareholders in certain circumstances will be 
proposed at the AGM.
Employee Share Plans
Alent operates a share based incentive plan. The Group 
can satisfy entitlements either by the acquisition of existing 
shares or by the issue of new shares. Existing shares are 
held in an employee share ownership trust (“ESOT”). The 
trustee of the ESOT purchases shares in the open market 
when required, to enable the Group to meet liabilities for 
the issue of shares to satisfy awards that vest. The trustee 
does not register votes in respect of these shares and has 
waived the right to receive any dividends. In 2014 the 
trustee of the ESOT purchased 110,000 ordinary shares of 
10p each in Alent plc with a market value of £382,279.75 at 
an average price, including transactions costs of £3.475 
per share to satisfy the actual and potential vesting of 
awards under the Group’s share-based payments plan. 
Details of outstanding awards and costs associated with 
the share plans are set out in note 27 to the Group 
Financial Statements.
No adjustments were made to outstanding share based 
incentives as a result of the share consolidation.
Pensions
In each country in which the Group operates, the pension 
arrangements in place are considered to be consistent 
with good employment practice in that particular area. 
Independent advisers are used to ensure that the plans 
are operated in accordance with local legislation and 
the rules of each plan. Group policy prohibits direct 
investment of pension fund assets in the Company’s 
shares. Outside the US, the majority of pension plans in the 
Group are of a defined contribution nature. Current active 
employees in the UK are offered membership of a defined 
contribution plan, which is operated on a contract basis, 
with oversight by a governance committee. In compliance 
with new legislation, the Company introduced auto-
enrolment for all eligible UK employees.
All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the 
exclusive benefit of plan participants and their 
beneficiaries. An independent financial institution acts as 
the Trustee. The trust assets are protected by law and by 
Federal Government Regulation and are subject to 
annual audit by an independent accountant, the Internal 
Revenue Service and the Department of Labor. Further 
details of pension arrangements are given in note 26.
Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Voting
The Company’s Articles of Association (“Articles”) do not 
contain any specific restrictions on the size of a holding or 
on the transfer of shares. The Directors are not aware of 
any agreements between holders of the Company’s 
shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of 
securities or voting rights. No person has any special rights 
with regard to the control of the Company’s share capital 
and all issued shares are fully paid. This is a summary only 
and the relevant provisions of the Articles should be 
consulted if further information is required.
Amendments to the Articles of Association
The Company may make amendments to the Articles 
by way of special resolution in accordance with the 
Companies Act. 82 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CONTINUED
Interests in the Company’s Shares
The Company has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of interests in the 
voting rights of the Company’s issued share capital 
exceeding the 3% notification threshold:
Fund 
Manager
Current 
rank Country
Number of 
shares
% at 
31/12/14
Cevian 
Capital 1 Jersey 58,432,694 21.94
Franklin 
Templeton 2 USA 29,559,215 11.10
Artisan 
Partners 3 USA 27,353,198 10.27
Janus Capital 
Management 4 USA 17,775,011 6.67
GO Investment 
Partners 5 England 10,641,347 4.00
Dimensional 
Fund Advisers 6 USA 9,297,161 3.49
Norges Bank 
Investment 
Management 7 Norway 8,276,162 3.11
BlackRock 8 USA 8,238,483 3.09
The interests of Directors and their connected persons 
in the ordinary shares of the Company as disclosed in 
accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing 
Authority are as set in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
and details of the Directors’ long-term incentive awards 
are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
No material changes in the interests disclosed to the 
Company have been notified between 31 December 2014 
and 2 March 2015.
Other disclosures – presentation of information 
required by LR 9.8.4R
Certain information that is required to be included in the 
Directors’ Report can be found elsewhere in this document 
as referred to below, each of which is, to the extent not in 
this report, incorporated by reference.
Directors in office during the year
A full list of the individuals who were directors of the 
Company during the financial year ended 31 December 
2014 can be found on page 46.
Exposure to price, credit, liquidity  
and cash flow risks
Disclosures relating to exposure to price, credit, liquidity 
and cash flow risks are set out in note 25 to the Group 
financial statements.
Financial risk management objectives  
and policies
Disclosures relating to financial risk management 
objectives and policies, including our policy for hedging, 
are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements.
Future developments within the Group
The Strategic report starting on page 2 contains details 
of likely future developments within the Group.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions can 
be found on page 30.
Past Balance Sheet Events
Information concerning past balance sheet events 
can be found in note 30 to the Group consolidated 
financial statements.
Profit
Details of the Group’s profit for the year ended 31 
December 2014 can be found on page 86.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on the 
Regulatory News section of the Company’s website.
The Strategic Report, the Directors’ Report and the 
Remuneration Report have been approved by the Board.
The Directors’ Report is signed on the Board’s behalf by:
HELEN BARRETT-HAGUE
Company Secretary
2 March 2015 STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 83 
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’  
RESPONSIBILITY
The Directors of Alent plc are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and the Group and parent company 
(“the Company”) financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and 
Company financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group 
financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union and applicable law and have elected to 
prepare the Company financial statements in accordance 
with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law (“UK 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice”).
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and 
the Company and of their profit or loss for that period. In 
preparing each of the Group and the Company financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
• make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
• for the Group financial statements, state whether they 
have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the European Union;
• for the Company financial statements, state whether 
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Company financial statements; and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern 
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
Group and the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company 
and enable them to ensure that its financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general 
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open 
to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent 
and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are 
also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Strategic 
Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance 
Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and 
integrity of the corporate and financial information 
included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ Approach
The Board’s objective is to present a balanced and 
understandable assessment of the Company’s position and 
prospects, particularly in the Annual Report, interim report 
and other published documents and reports to regulators. 
The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist with 
this obligation.
Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual 
Report and Financial Report
As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they 
consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. When arriving 
at this position the Board was assisted by a number of 
processes including the following:
• the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior 
management;
• an extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure 
factual accuracy;
• comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Report are 
undertaken by members of the Executive and other 
senior management;
• an advanced draft is considered and reviewed by the 
Company’s legal advisers and brokers; and
• the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior 
to consideration by the Board.
Statement of the Directors’ Responsibilities
Each of the Directors, as at the date of the Annual Report, 
whose names and functions are indicated below confirms 
that to the best of their knowledge:
• the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true 
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
• the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 41 contained in the 
Annual Report for the year 2014 includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the business and 
the position of the Company and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together 
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that they face.
Peter Hill Chairman
Andrew Heath Chief Executive
David Egan Finance Director
Emma FitzGerald Non-executive Director
Lars Förberg Non-executive Director
Noël Harwerth  Non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee
Jan Oosterveld Non-executive Director
Mark Williamson  Non-executive Director, Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman 
of the Audit Committee
The Annual Report & Accounts for 2014 was approved by 
the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 2 March 
2015 and signed on behalf of the Board by:
ANDREW HEATH
Chief Executive
2 March 2015 84 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO  
THE MEMBERS OF ALENT PLC ONLY
Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 
1. Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Alent plc for 
the year ended 31 December 2014 which comprise the 
Group income statement, the Group statement of 
comprehensive income, the Group statement of cash 
flows, the Group and parent company balance sheets, 
the Group statement of changes in equity and related 
notes. In our opinion: 
• the financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
state of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the 
year then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union; 
• the parent company financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting 
Standards; and 
• the financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
2. Our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial 
statements the risks of material misstatement that had 
the greatest effect on our audit were as follows:
Recognition of US deferred tax assets (£4.0m) 
Refer to page 58 (Audit Committee statement), page 93 
(critical judgements) and page 100 (financial disclosures) 
• The Risk: The amount of deferred tax assets that it is 
appropriate to be recognised in respect of losses is 
based on the judgement in respect of the timing and 
quantum of forecast future taxable profits and the ability 
of the Group’s US components to offset any of its 
accumulated losses against these expected profits. 
The risk is that the amount of the deferred tax asset is 
over (or under) stated given the inherent uncertainty in 
these judgements.
• Our Response: In this area, our audit procedures 
included, using our own tax specialists to assist us in 
assessing and challenging the assumptions and 
judgements made by the Directors. We compared the 
assumptions used in the taxable profit forecasts for the 
relevant components in the US to the Group’s long term 
forecasts for consistency. We critically assessed the 
assumptions and judgements made by the Directors by 
considering the historical accuracy of forecasts and, 
based on our knowledge of the client and the industry in 
which it operates, the sensitivities of the profit forecasts 
and our assessment of the risk of management bias. We 
also assessed the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures 
setting out the basis of the deferred tax balance 
and the level of estimation involved, as well as the 
appropriateness of disclosing the asset recognition 
within exceptional tax items. 
Provisions for disposal, closure and litigation liabilities 
(£24.3m)
Refer to page 58 (Audit Committee statement), 
page 92 (ctritical judgements) and pages 124 to 125 
(financial disclosures) 
• The Risk: The completeness and valuation of the 
amounts provided for legal and environmental claims 
are inherently judgemental due to the degree of 
uncertainty involved. Following the settlement of two 
legal claims after the balance sheet date, the risk is 
that the amount provided in respect of management’s 
current best estimate of the disposal and closure costs 
of £17 .5m in respect of environmental obligations is over 
or understated, which could have a material impact 
on the Group’s financial position and results for the year. 
• Our Response: In this area our audit procedures 
included inspecting, at the reporting component level, 
the claims reporting received from those reporting 
components, to assess whether all current cases had 
been appropriately considered by the Directors of the 
Group. In addition we met in-house legal counsel and 
management responsible for material claims to discuss 
the nature of ongoing claims (legal and other) and 
analysed external evidence such as correspondence 
from regulators and/or reports from the Group’s external 
advisers/lawyers to challenge the basis of provisions 
recorded. In addition we assessed the adequacy of the 
Group’s disclosures in respect of the description of the 
claims provided and the level of estimation involved in 
arriving at the provision. 
3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the 
scope of our audit 
The materiality for the financial statements as a whole 
was set at £4 million, determined with reference to a 
benchmark of Group profit before taxation, of £73.4 million, 
of which it represents 5.4%.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected and 
uncorrected misstatements identified exceeding £0.3 
million, in addition to other identified misstatements that 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. 
Of the Group’s 103 reporting components, audits for 
Group reporting purposes were performed by component 
auditors at 11 key reporting components in China, 
Germany, Hong Kong, India, Netherlands and Taiwan 
and by the Group audit team for the United Kingdom. 
In addition, specified audit procedures over the principal 
assets, liabilities, income and expense items were 
performed by component auditors over six components 
in Brazil, the United States of America and Hungary.  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 85 
Together, these Group procedures covered 71% of total 
Group revenue (comprising: 42% – audits, 29% – specified 
audit procedures); 85% of the total profits and losses 
before taxation that made up Group profit before 
taxation (49% – audits, 36% – specified audit procedures); 
and 83% of total Group assets (72% – audits, 11% – 
specified audit procedures).
The remaining 29% of revenue, 15% of the total profits 
and losses before taxation and 17% of total Group assets 
is represented by more than 86 reporting components 
around the world. None of these reporting components 
represented more than 3% of revenue, profit before tax or 
total Group assets. For these components, we performed 
analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our 
assessment that there were no significant risks of material 
misstatement within these. Local statutory audits are 
performed in over 20 of these components, but generally 
these are completed after the date of this report.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors as 
to the significant risks to be covered, including the relevant 
risks detailed above and the information to be reported 
back. The Group audit team approved the component 
materialities, which ranged from £0.2 million to £3 million 
having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the 
Group across the components. 
The Group audit team visited the United States and 
attended the Dutch component audit close meeting. 
Telephone conference meetings were also held with all 
the audit teams in all locations in scope for Group 
reporting purposes where audit close meetings were 
not physically attended. 
4. Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006 is unmodified 
In our opinion: 
• the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006; and 
• the information given in the Strategic Report and the 
Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements. 
5. We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on 
which we are required to report by exception 
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland) we are required to report to 
you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our 
audit, we have identified other information in the Annual 
Report that contains a material inconsistency with either 
that knowledge or the financial statements, a material 
misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading. 
In particular, we are required to report to you if: 
• we have identified material inconsistencies between 
the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the 
Directors’ statement that they consider that the Annual 
Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the 
information necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and strategy; or
• the Audit Committee Statement does not appropriately 
address matters communicated by us to the 
Audit Committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report 
to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are 
not in agreement with the accounting records and 
returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified 
by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• the Directors’ statement, set out on page 80, in relation 
to going concern; and
• the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on 
pages 45 relating to the company’s compliance with 
the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance 
Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the  
above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities 
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities set out on page 83, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. 
A description of the scope of an audit of financial 
statements is provided on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members as 
a body and is subject to important explanations and 
disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on 
our website at www.kpmg.com/uk/auditscopeukco2014a, 
which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full 
and should be read to provide an understanding of the 
purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and 
the basis of our opinions.
MICHAEL MALONEY (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants
 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL
 2 March 2015 86 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
 GRO U P 
 IN C OME STAT EMEN T
 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
Note
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Revenue 5 644.8 684.7
Manufacturing costs before exceptional items 8 (393.8) (433.3)
Administration, selling and distribution costs before exceptional items 8 (155.9) (157.3)
Operating profit before exceptional items 95.1 94.1
Exceptional items 8 (18.1) (10.3)
Operating profit 5 77.0 83.8
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.6 0.8
Finance costs 10 (5.7) (7.4)
Finance income 10 0.5 0.5
Profit before tax 73.4 77.7
Income tax costs – ordinary activities 11 (28.5) (20.9)
 – exceptional items 11 1.9 4.8
Profit for the year 46.8 61.6
Earnings per share (pence) 12
Basic 17.0 22.1
Diluted 17.0 22.1 STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 87 
GROUP STATEMENT OF 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
Note
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Profit for the year 46.8 61.6 
Other comprehensive income
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss  
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 26 (7.0) 3.9 
Income tax relating to items not reclassified 11 0.1 – 
(6.9) 3.9
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of foreign operations 22 3.9 (15.1) 
Exchange differences on translation of net investment hedges 22 (4.9) 8.5 
Change in fair value of cash flow hedges 22 (0.3) (0.4) 
(1.3) (7.0)
Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax (8.2) (3.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year 38.6 58.5 88 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
GROUP STATEMENT  
OF CASH FLOWS
 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
Note
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the year 46.8 61.6
Adjustments for:
Depreciation 15 9.1 9.0
Exceptional items 8 18.1 10.3
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures (1.6) (0.8)
Net finance costs 10 5.2 6.9
Net income tax costs 11 26.6 16.1
EBITDA 104.2 103.1
Decrease in inventories 0.1 0.9
Decrease in trade receivables 4.6 4.5
(Decrease)/increase in trade payables (6.7) 2.4
Decrease/(increase) in other working capital balances 1.8 (2.2)
Net (increase)/decrease in trade and other working capital (0.2) 5.6
Outflow related to restructuring charges 8 (9.3) (4.0)
Litigation settlements 8 1.7 –
Payment of demerger costs 9 (0.2) (4.8)
Additional funding contributions into Group pension plans 26 (2.4) (1.9)
Cash generated from operations 93.8 98.0
Interest paid (3.8) (4.6)
Interest received 0.5 0.5
Income taxes paid (17.5) (19.3)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 73.0 74.6
Cash flows from investing activities
Capital expenditure 15 (11.7) (13.7)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment – 0.1
Proceeds from the sale of investments – 0.4
Acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash acquired (0.6) (1.0)
Disposal of subsidiaries and joint ventures, net of cash disposed 8 0.5 –
Dividends received from joint ventures 0.4 5.5
Other investing outflows (1.7) (1.8)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (13.1) (10.5)
Net cash inflow before financing activities 59.9 64.1
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of borrowings 14 (4.1) (64.5)
Purchase of own shares (0.4) (0.2)
Borrowing facility arrangement costs (1.1) –
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 24 (66.3) (23.3)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (71.9) (88.0)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 14 (12.0) (23.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 14 56.3 80.6
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents 14 0.6 (0.4)
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 14 44.9 56.3 STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 89 
GROUP 
BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014
Note
2014  
£m
2013  
£m
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 15 85.9 85.2
Intangible assets 16 294.3 288.5
Interests in joint ventures 6.3 5.5
Investments 0.7 0.7
Deferred tax assets 11 9.6 11.2
Other receivables 5.4 1.8
Total non-current assets 402.2 392.9
Cash and short-term deposits 14 49.5 63.1
Inventories 19 51.5 51.6
Trade and other receivables 18 128.4 131.0
Income tax recoverable 1.4 0.6
Derivative financial instruments 20 0.8 0.5
Total current assets 231.6 246.8
Total assets 633.8 639.7
Equity
Issued share capital 21 27.8 27.8
Other reserves 22 (439.0) (437.7)
Retained earnings 23 697.1 722.3
Total equity 285.9 312.4
Liabilities
Interest-bearing borrowings 25 153.0 153.4
Employee benefits 26 24.1 18.8
Other payables 28 0.4 0.6
Provisions 30 14.4 11.7
Deferred tax liabilities 11 37.4 32.4
Total non-current liabilities 229.3 216.9
Interest-bearing borrowings 25 4.8 6.2
Trade and other payables 28 78.9 80.1
Provisions 30 16.3 11.8
Income tax payable 17.9 12.1
Derivative financial instruments 20 0.7 0.2
Total current liabilities 118.6 110.4
Total liabilities 347.9 327.3
Total equity and liabilities 633.8 639.7
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 2 March 2015 and signed on its  
behalf by:
ANDREW HEATH DAVID EGAN 
Chief Executive Group Finance Director 90 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
GROUP STATEMENT 
OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014
Note
Issued  
share capital  
£m
Other 
reserves  
£m
Retained 
earnings  
£m
Total  
equity  
£m
As at 1 January 2013 27.8 (430.8) 679.0 276.0
Total comprehensive income
Profit for the year – – 61.6 61.6
Other comprehensive loss for the year – (7.0) 3.9 (3.1)
Total comprehensive income for the year – (7.0) 65.5 58.5
Transactions with owners
Recognition of share–based payments – – 1.4 1.4
Purchase of own shares – – (0.2) (0.2)
Redemption of redeemable preference shares – 0.1 (0.1) –
Dividends paid to equity shareholders – – (23.3) (23.3)
Total transactions with owners – 0.1 (22.2) (22.1)
As at 1 January 2014 27.8 (437.7) 722.3 312.4
Total comprehensive income
Profit for the year – – 46.8 46.8
Other comprehensive loss for the year – (1.3) (6.9) (8.2)
Total comprehensive income for the year – (1.3) 39.9 38.6
Transactions with owners
Recognition of share–based payments – – 1.6 1.6
Purchase of own shares – – (0.4) (0.4)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders 24 – – (66.3) (66.3)
Total transactions with owners – – (65.1) (65.1)
As at 31 December 2014 27.8 (439.0) 697.1 285.9
Further information on the movements in the components of the other reserves and retained earnings shown in the 
table above may be found in notes 22 and 23. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 91 
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. General Information 
Alent plc (“the Company”) is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock 
Exchange. The nature of the operations and principal activities of the Company and its subsidiary and joint venture 
companies (“the Group”) can be found within the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 41. The Company’s registered address 
is Forsyth Road, Sheerwater, Woking GU21 5RZ. 
2. Basis of preparation 
2.1 Basis of accounting 
The consolidated financial statements of Alent plc have been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (“IFRS”). 
2.2 Basis of consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities 
controlled by the Company (its “subsidiaries”). Control exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. In assessing whether control exists, potential 
voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of 
during the year are included in the Group income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective 
date of disposal, as appropriate. 
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies 
into line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial statements are prepared on a consistent basis. 
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
2.3 Amended presentation of share of post-tax profit of joint ventures
The Company has amended the presentation of information contained in its Group income statement and segment 
information note (note 5), to present its share of post-tax profit of joint ventures after operating profit, but before profit 
before tax. As a result of this change, the previously reported operating profit sub-total for 2013 is now reported as 
£83.8m (previously £84.6m), with no change to the previously reported profit before tax, profit for the year, earnings per 
share or net financial position of the Group. The Directors believe that this amendment provides a better understanding 
of the Group’s operating profit and of its adjusted operating profit, which is one of the key non-Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice measures used to assess the underlying performance of the Group (note 4).
2.4 Going concern 
As discussed in more detail in the Directors’ Report on page 80, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, 
they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 
31 December 2014.
2.5 Functional and presentation currency 
The financial statements are presented in millions of pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, 
and rounded to one decimal place. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 25.1.
2.6 Disclosure of exceptional items 
IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, provides no definitive guidance as to the format of the income statement, 
but states key lines which should be disclosed, encourages disclosure of additional line items where such presentation 
will assist in understanding financial performance and requires separate disclosure of material items of income or 
expense. Accordingly, the Company discloses exceptional items separately on the face of its Group income statement, 
together with a full explanation of the nature and function of such items in the notes to the financial statements. 
Both materiality and the nature and function of the item are considered in deciding whether an item warrants treatment 
as an exceptional item. Such items may include, inter alia: the financial effect of major restructuring activity; profits or 
losses relating to current and non-current assets; gains or losses relating to employee benefit plans; profits or losses arising 
on business disposals; recognition and utilisation of deferred tax assets; and other items, including the taxation impact of 
the aforementioned items, which have a significant impact on the Group’s results either due to their size or nature. 92 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
2. Basis of preparation (continued) 
2.7 New and revised IFRS 
During the year a number of new and amended IFRS became effective and were adopted by the Group, including IFRS 
10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, none of which had a material impact on the 
Group’s net cash flows, financial position, total comprehensive income or earnings per share.
A number of new and amended IFRS were issued during the year, which do not become effective until after  
1 January 2015, none of which is likely to have a material impact on the Group’s net cash flows, financial position, 
total comprehensive income or earnings per share.
3. Critical judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty 
Determining the carrying amount of some assets and liabilities requires estimation of the effect of uncertain future 
events. The major sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment 
to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities are noted below. 
3.1 Goodwill 
The Directors use their judgement to determine the extent to which goodwill has a value that will benefit the performance 
of the Group over future periods. To assist in making this judgement, the Directors undertake an assessment, at least 
annually, of the carrying value of the Group’s capitalised goodwill. In the assessment undertaken as at 31 December 
2014, further details of which are given in note 17, value in use was derived from discounted five-year cash flow 
projections, using a growth rate of 3.0% in the years beyond the projection period and pre-tax discount rates. The 
projection period is, in the opinion of the Directors, an appropriate period over which to view the future results of the 
Group’s businesses for this purpose. Changes to the assumptions used in making these forecasts could significantly alter 
the Directors’ assessment of the carrying value of goodwill.
3.2 Employee benefits 
The Group’s financial statements include the costs and obligations associated with the provision of pension and other 
post-retirement benefits to current and former employees. It is the Directors’ responsibility to set the assumptions used in 
determining the key elements of the costs of meeting such future obligations. The assumptions are set after consultation 
with the Group’s actuary, and whilst the Directors believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, a change in the 
assumptions used would affect the Group’s profit and financial position.
3.3 Liability reserves 
Alent has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those 
covering taxation and environmental matters. Several of the Group’s subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, 
certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and are 
aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of dispute with tax authorities. Reserves are made for 
the expected amounts payable in respect of known or probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory 
requirements, or from third-party claims. As the settlement of many of the obligations for which reserve is made is subject 
to legal or other regulatory process, the timing and amount of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty. 
The Directors use their judgement and experience to make reserves in the financial statements for an appropriate 
amount relating to such matters. 
3.4 Taxation
(a) Current tax 
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the Group. In 
assessing the amount of the benefit to be recognised in the financial statements, the Directors exercise their judgement 
in considering the effect of negotiations, litigation and any other matters that they consider may impact upon the 
potential settlement. Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge. The Group operates 
internationally and is subject to tax in many different jurisdictions. As a consequence, the Group is routinely subject to 
tax audits and local enquiries which, by their very nature, can take a considerable period of time to conclude. Provisions 
are made for known issues based upon the Directors’ interpretation of country-specific tax law and their assessment of 
the likely outcome.  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 93 
3. Critical judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
3.4 Taxation (continued)
(b) Deferred tax 
The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in respect of unutilised losses and other timing differences arising in a 
number of the Group’s businesses. Account has been taken of future forecasts of taxable profit in arriving at the values 
at which these assets are recognised. If these forecast profits do not materialise or change, or there are changes in tax 
rates or to the period over which the losses or timing differences might be recognised, then the value of deferred tax 
assets will need to be revised in a future period. 
The Group also has losses and other timing differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in 
these financial statements, relating either to loss-making subsidiaries where the future economic benefit of the timing 
difference is not probable or to where the timing difference is of such a nature that its value is dependent on certain 
types of profit being earned, such as capital profits. If operating or other appropriate profits are earned in future in 
these companies, these losses and other timing differences may yield benefit to the Group in the form of a reduced 
tax charge. 
4. Non-GAAP financial measures 
The Company uses a number of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (“non-GAAP”) financial measures in 
addition to those reported in accordance with IFRS. The Directors believe that these non-GAAP measures, listed below, 
are important when assessing the underlying financial and operating performance of the Group and its businesses. 
4.1 Net Sales Value (“NSV”)
NSV is revenue less commodity metals that pass through to customers. As the changes in the value of these 
commodity metals are passed through to customers, NSV is a more appropriate measure of the underlying activity 
of the business.
4.2 Return on sales and NSV margin 
Return on sales is calculated as adjusted operating profit divided by revenue and NSV margin is calculated as 
adjusted operating profit divided by NSV.
4.3 Adjusted results
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted profit for the year and adjusted earnings per share are, 
where appropriate, each stated before: exceptional items; amortisation of acquired intangible assets; deferred tax on 
acquired intangible assets and goodwill; utilisation of deferred tax assets (where initial recognition was as an 
exceptional item); acquisition costs; the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments and profits or losses 
arising on business disposals. 
4.4 Adjusted cash generated from operations 
Adjusted cash generated from operations is cash generated from operations as reported in the Group statement 
of cash flows after adding back £0.2m (2013: £4.8m) for demerger cash costs (note 9). 
4.5 Free cash flow 
Free cash flow is defined as net cash flow from operating activities after net outlays for the purchase and sale of 
property, plant and equipment and dividends from joint ventures but before additional funding contributions to Group 
pension plans. 
4.6 Average working capital to sales ratio 
The average working capital to sales ratio is calculated as the percentage of average working capital balances to the 
annualised revenue for the year. Average working capital (comprising inventories, trade and other receivables, and 
trade and other payables) is calculated as the average of the six previous month-end balances, and annualised 
revenue is derived from the revenue for the previous six months.  94 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
4. Non-GAAP financial measures (continued)
4.7 EBITDA 
EBITDA is calculated as the total of operating profit before exceptional items and depreciation charges. 
4.8 Net interest 
Net interest is calculated as interest payable on borrowings less interest receivable, excluding any item therein 
considered by the Directors to be exceptional. 
4.9 Interest cover 
Interest cover is the ratio of EBITDA to net interest. 
4.10 Net debt 
Net debt comprises the net total of: short-term deposits; cash at bank and in hand; bank overdrafts; and current and 
non-current interest-bearing borrowings net of capitalised borrowing costs.
4.11 Net debt to EBITDA 
Net debt to EBITDA is the ratio of net debt at the year-end to EBITDA for that year.
4.12 Return on capital employed
Return on capital employed (“ROCE”) is calculated as adjusted operating profit plus share of post-tax profit of  
joint-ventures, divided by average capital employed (being total equity plus net debt, net defined benefit liability, 
income tax and deferred tax).
5. Segment information 
The segment information contained in this note makes reference to several non-GAAP financial measures, definitions for 
which can be found in note 4. 
5.1 Accounting policy 
Revenue recognition 
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods supplied and services rendered 
to customers after deducting rebates, discounts and value-added taxes, and after eliminating sales within the Group. 
Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate elements that can be provided to customers either 
on a stand-alone basis or as an extra, such as the provision of supplementary materials with equipment, revenue is 
recognised for each element as if it were an individual contractual arrangement. 
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred 
to the customer, there is no continuing management involvement with the goods and recovery of the related 
consideration is probable. In practice this usually occurs when the goods have been delivered to, and accepted by, 
the customer. A provision for anticipated returns is made based primarily on historical return rates. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 95 
5. Segment information (continued)
5.2 Business segments 
For reporting purposes, the Group is organised into two main business segments, namely Assembly Materials and Surface 
Chemistries. It is the Alent Board that makes the key operating decisions in respect of these segments. The information 
used by the Board to review performance and determine resource allocation is presented with the Group’s activities 
analysed between these two business segments. Taking into account the basis on which the Group’s activities are reported 
to the Alent Board and the nature of the products and services within each of these business segments, the Directors 
believe that these two business segments are the appropriate way to analyse the Group’s results. The principal activities 
of each of these segments are described in the Business Unit Review on pages 16 to 17 . 
The Group’s adjusted results (note 4.3) have been used as the basis for presenting its segment results shown in the 
tables below. Segment revenue represents revenue from external customers (inter-segment revenue is not material) and 
segment result is operating profit before exceptional items and before corporate costs directly related to managing the 
parent company, which are reported separately in the tables below. Segment result includes items directly attributable 
to a segment as well as those items that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
5.3 Income statement
2014
Assembly 
Materials 
£m
Surface 
Chemistries 
£m
Corporate/ 
Unallocated 
£m
Group  
£m
Segment revenue 393.9 250.9 – 644.8
Segment net sales value 204.9 208.1 – 413.0
Adjusted segment EBITDA 62.8 48.5 – 111.3
Segment depreciation (5.2) (3.9) – (9.1)
Adjusted segment result 57.6 44.6 – 102.2
Adjusted corporate costs – – (7.1) (7.1)
Adjusted operating profit 57.6 44.6 (7.1) 95.1
Exceptional items (4.2) (1.3) (12.6) (18.1)
Operating profit 53.4 43.3 (19.7) 77.0
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.6
Finance costs (5.7)
Finance income 0.5
Profit before tax 73.4
Return on sales margin (%) 14.6 17.8 – 14.7
NSV margin (%) 28.1 21.4 – 23.0
Capital expenditure additions (£m) 6.0 5.7 – 11.7
Average number of employees (number) 1,397 1,155 38 2,590
The Group’s share of post-tax profit from joint ventures of £1.6m (2013: £0.8m) included a one-off pension settlement gain 
of £1.4m (2013: £nil). 96 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
5. Segment information (continued)
5.3 Income statement (continued)
2013
Assembly 
Materials 
£m
Surface 
Chemistries 
£m
Corporate/ 
Unallocated 
£m
Group  
£m
Segment revenue 423.1 261.6 – 684.7
Segment net sales value 209.5 210.6 – 420.1
Adjusted segment EBITDA 63.4 46.5 – 109.9
Segment depreciation (5.2) (3.8) – (9.0)
Adjusted segment result 58.2 42.7 – 100.9
Adjusted corporate costs – – (6.8) (6.8)
Adjusted operating profit 58.2 42.7 (6.8) 94.1
Exceptional items (4.4) (5.9) – (10.3)
Operating profit 53.8 36.8 (6.8) 83.8
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 0.8
Finance costs (7.4)
Finance income 0.5
Profit before tax 77.7
Return on sales margin (%) 13.8 16.3 – 13.7
NSV margin (%) 27.8 20.3 – 22.4
Capital expenditure additions (£m) 5.3 8.4 – 13.7
Average number of employees (number) 1,342 1,214 32 2,588
5.4 Geographic analysis
External revenue Non-current assets
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
2014  
£m 
2013  
£m 
China (including Hong Kong) 156.4 161.1 31.1 30.7
United States of America 150.1 165.0 123.1 112.4
Germany 63.6 66.5 35.9 31.6
Taiwan 52.6 58.9 3.5 3.5
Singapore 30.8 28.5 94.7 90.7
United Kingdom 27.9 29.0 18.8 18.9
Brazil 24.8 31.7 1.7 2.4
Rest of the World 138.6 144.0 83.8 91.5
Total Group 644.8 684.7 392.6 381.7
External revenue disclosed in the table above is based upon the geographical location of the operation. The Group’s 
customers are widely dispersed around the world and no single country included within Rest of the World in the table 
above, for either of the years presented, amounts to more than 5% of the Group’s total external revenue. Non-current 
assets exclude deferred tax assets. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 97 
5. Segment information (continued)
5.5 Products and customers 
Information relating to the Group’s products and services is included within the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 9. 
The Group is not dependent upon any single customer for its revenue and no single customer, for either of the years 
presented in the tables above, accounts for more than 10% of the Group’s total external revenue.
6. Employees 
6.1 Employee benefits expense
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Wages and salaries 115.2 117.0
Social security costs 9.6 7.4
Pension costs – defined contribution pension plans (note 26) 6.1 5.8
 – defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans (note 26) 0.9 1.4
Share-based payments (note 27) 1.3 1.3
Total employee benefits expense 133.1 132.9
Of the total employee benefits expense of £133.1m (2013: £132.9m), £125.4m (2013: £123.4m) was charged in arriving 
at operating profit before exceptional items; £0.8m (2013: £1.1m) was charged within finance costs; and £6.9m 
(2013: £8.4m) was charged within exceptional items. The total employee benefits expense for 2013 has been amended 
from £124.5m to £132.9m to include £8.4m of employee benefits expenses within exceptional items. 
7. Amounts payable to KPMG LLP and its associates
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company’s 
annual accounts 0.2 0.2
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and its associates for other services:   
Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.7 0.7 
Audit-related assurance services – 0.1 
Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1 
Tax advisory services 0.1 – 
Total auditor’s remuneration 1.1 1.1  98 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
8. Exceptional items
The tables below detail the exceptional items charged in arriving at Group operating profit, together with the segment 
against which they were charged.
Assembly 
Materials  
£m 
Surface 
Chemistries  
£m 
Corporate/ 
Unallocated  
£m 
2014  
£m
Restructuring charges 2.3 3.6 2.3 8.2
Litigation settlement charges – – 7.3 7.3
Disposal and closure costs – – 3.0 3.0
Impairment charges 2.1 – – 2.1
Total exceptional charges 4.4 3.6 12.6 20.6
Litigation settlement income – (2.3) – (2.3)
Profit on disposal of continuing operations (0.2) – – (0.2)
Total exceptional income (0.2) (2.3) – (2.5)
Total net exceptional charges 4.2 1.3 12.6 18.1
Assembly 
Materials  
£m 
Surface 
Chemistries  
£m 
Corporate/ 
Unallocated  
£m 
2013  
£m
Restructuring charges 4.4 5.9 – 10.3
Total net exceptional charges 4.4 5.9 – 10.3
Restructuring charges
Restructuring charges in the year amounted to £8.2m (2013: £10.3m) and arose in connection with operational 
restructuring initiatives that included redundancy programmes, the downsizing or closure of facilities, the streamlining of 
manufacturing processes and the rationalisation of product lines, and corporate management restructuring initiatives 
comprising termination payments and other costs related to the replacement of the Chief Executive and other senior 
management positions. The net tax credit attributable to these restructuring charges was £0.7m (2013: £1.9m). 
Restructuring cash costs of £9.3m (2013: £4.0m) were incurred in the year, in respect of restructuring initiatives commenced 
both in 2014 and in prior years.
Litigation settlements
Charges: During 2014 the Group recognised litigation charges of £7 .3m (2013: £nil) arising on settlement of legacy issues 
that pre-dated the demerger from Cookson Group plc in 2012. Of these charges, £6.4m (2013: £nil) related to the full and 
final settlement that was reached in February 2015 of actions brought by MacDermid (incorporated in the United States) 
against Alent and Vesuvius plc that arose out of corporate activity between the parties in 2006, and represents Alent’s 
share of the gross settlement, after recoveries from insurance and Vesuvius plc. This matter had been noted as a 
contingent liability in Alent’s 2013 annual report.
Income: Litigation settlement income of £2.3m (2013: £nil) arose following the settlement in 2014 of patent litigation.
No tax credits or charges (2013: £nil) were attributable to any of these settlements. The Group cash flow statement reflects 
£1.7m received in respect of litigation settlements, representing £0.1m (2013: £nil) paid in relation to settlement charges 
and £1.8m (2013: £nil) received in relation to settlement income.
Disposal and closure costs
Costs of £3.0m (2013: £nil) were recognised in connection with the demolition, environmental clean-up and monitoring 
of sites of former Group businesses that were either closed or disposed of in prior years. No tax credit (2013: £nil) was 
attributable to these costs. STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 99 
8. Exceptional items (continued)
Impairment charges
Impairment charges of £2.1m (2013: £nil) were incurred in respect of an uneconomic product line in the Assembly 
Materials division. A tax credit of £0.1m (2013: £nil) was attributable to these charges.
Profit on disposal of continuing operations
The profit on disposal of continuing operations of £0.2m (2013: £nil) arose on disposal of the US stencils business of the 
Assembly Materials division. No tax charge (2013: £nil) was attributable to this profit. The disposal generated cash 
proceeds of £0.5m (2013: £nil). 
Impact of exceptional items on reported costs 
The table below shows manufacturing costs and administration, selling and distribution costs, both before and after 
items reported as exceptional items in the Group income statement.
2014 2013
Before 
exceptional  
items  
£m 
Exceptional 
items  
£m 
After 
exceptional 
items  
£m 
Before 
exceptional  
items  
£m 
Exceptional 
items  
£m 
After 
exceptional 
items  
£m 
Manufacturing costs 393.8 4.3 398.1 433.3 – 433.3
Administration, selling and 
distribution costs 155.9 13.8 169.7 157.3 10.3 167.6
549.7 18.1 567.8 590.6 10.3 600.9
9. Demerger costs
One-off costs of £10.7m were incurred in 2012 in effecting the demerger of Alent from Cookson Group plc, of which £0.2m 
(2013: £4.8m) were paid in cash in the year. The costs principally related to professional fees for audit and accounting 
services, pension advice, and legal and regulatory compliance services. 
10. Finance costs and finance income 
10.1 Accounting policy 
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
10.2 Net finance costs
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Finance costs 5.7 7.4
Finance income (0.5) (0.5)
Total net finance costs 5.2 6.9 100 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
10. Finance costs and finance income (continued)
10.3 Finance costs and finance income
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Interest payable on borrowings: 
Loans, overdrafts and factoring arrangements 4.8 6.2
Total interest payable on borrowings 4.8 6.2
Other interest payable: 
Net interest expense on the net defined benefit liability 0.8 1.1
Unwinding of discounted provisions 0.1 0.1
Total finance costs 5.7 7.4
Interest receivable (0.5) (0.5)
Total finance income (0.5) (0.5)
11. Income tax 
11.1 Accounting policy 
Tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss 
except to the extent that they relate to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income or directly to equity, 
in which case the associated tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or directly to equity. 
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further 
excludes items that are never taxable nor deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates 
and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the 
balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences 
and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against 
which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary 
difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business 
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. 
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset 
is realised, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and 
interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is 
probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The carrying amount of deferred tax 
assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient 
taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they 
relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net basis.
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 101 
11. Income tax (continued)
11.2 Income tax costs
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Current tax 
Current year 22.0 18.9
Adjustments in respect of prior years – 0.5
Total current tax 22.0 19.4
Deferred tax 
Origination and reversal of temporary taxable differences 3.4 2.9
Utilisation of US deferred tax asset 5.8 –
Recognition of US deferred tax asset (4.0) (6.1)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.6) (0.1)
Total deferred tax 4.6 (3.3)
Total income tax costs 26.6 16.1
Total income tax costs attributable to: 
Ordinary activities 28.5 20.9
Exceptional items (1.9) (4.8)
Total income tax costs 26.6 16.1
The Group’s total income tax costs of £26.6m (2013: £16.1m) include an exceptional credit of £1.9m (2013: £4.8m) as 
analysed in the table below:
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Restructuring charges 0.7 1.9
Impairment charges 0.1 –
Deferred tax on goodwill (2.9) (3.2)
Recognition of US deferred tax asset 4.0 6.1
Total net exceptional tax credit 1.9 4.8
Tax credited in the Group statement of comprehensive income in the year amounted to £0.1m (2013: £nil) all of which 
related to net actuarial gains and losses on employee benefit plans.
The Group operates in a number of countries that have differing tax rates, laws and practices. Changes in any of these 
areas could, adversely or positively, impact the Group’s tax charge in the future. Continuing losses, or insufficiency of 
taxable profit to absorb all expenses, in any subsidiary could have the effect of increasing tax charges in the future, 
relative to 2014, as effective tax relief may not be available for those losses or expenses. Other significant factors 
affecting the tax charge are described in notes 3.4 and 11.1. 102 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
11. Income tax (continued)
11.3 Reconciliation of income tax costs to profit before tax
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Profit before tax 73.4 77.7
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% (2013: 23.25%) 15.8 18.1
Overseas tax rate differences 7.8 4.4
Withholding taxes 4.5 2.7
Deferred tax on goodwill 2.9 3.2
Recognition of US deferred tax asset (4.0) (6.1)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.3 0.2
Utilisation of unrecognised deferred tax asset (0.1) (6.8)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.6) 0.4
Total income tax costs 26.6 16.1
11.4 Deferred tax
Operating 
losses  
£m 
Intangible 
assets  
£m 
Other
£m 
Total  
£m 
As at 1 January 2013 2.7 (28.9) 1.5 (24.7)
Exchange adjustments (0.3) 0.6 (0.1) 0.2
Credit/(charge) to Group income statement 6.4 (3.2) 0.1 3.3
As at 1 January 2014 8.8 (31.5) 1.5 (21.2)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 (2.2) – (2.1)
Credit to Group statement of other comprehensive income – – 0.1 0.1
Credit/(charge) to Group income statement (3.9) (1.6) 0.9 (4.6)
As at 31 December 2014 5.0 (35.3) 2.5 (27.8)
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Recognised in the Group balance sheet as: 
Non-current deferred tax assets 9.6 11.2
Non-current deferred tax liabilities (37.4) (32.4)
Net total deferred tax liabilities (27.8) (21.2)
Tax loss carry-forwards and other temporary differences of £nil (2013: £0.2m) were recognised by subsidiaries reporting 
a loss in 2013 or 2014. On the basis of approved business plans of these subsidiaries, the Directors consider it probable 
that the tax loss carry-forwards and temporary differences can be offset against future taxable profits.
As at 31 December 2014, the Group recognised a deferred tax asset of £5.0m (2013: £8.8m) related to tax loss carry-
forwards on the basis that it is probable that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to recover the asset. The period 
used for assessment of the recovery of the deferred tax asset was from between 1 to 3 years. In determining this period 
the Directors took into account the uncertainty in the future profitability of the relevant operations and, in particular, 
whether or not those operations have a recent history of losses and have established a consistent track record of profits. 
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 103 
11. Income tax (continued)
11.4 Deferred tax (continued)
The total deferred tax asset not recognised as at 31 December 2014 was £126.6m (2013: £128.7m) as analysed below.
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Operating losses 71.6 67.9
Capital losses available to offset future US capital gains (due to expire 2016) 19.6 18.5
Other timing differences 35.4 42.3
Total deferred tax asset not recognised 126.6 128.7
In accordance with the accounting policy in note 11.1, these items have not been recognised as deferred tax assets on 
the basis that their future economic benefit is not probable.  
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had total operating losses carried forward with a tax value of £76.6m (2013: £76.7m) 
as analysed below.
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Losses available to set against future US taxable income (due to expire 2021 to 2033) 58.2 57.8
Losses available to set against future UK taxable income (may be carried forward indefinitely) 11.2 9.7
Losses available to set against future ROW taxable income
Due to expire within 5 years 1.0 2.3
Due to expire between 5 and 20 years 2.3 2.8
Carried forward indefinitely 3.9 4.1
ROW operating losses 7.2 9.2
Total net operating losses 76.6 76.7
The above losses available relating to the rest of the world arise in a number of countries and are not individually 
significant, reflecting the spread of the Group’s operations. 
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had unrecognised US tax credits carried forward with a tax value of £10.2m 
(2013: £18.1m) as follows:
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
US research and experimentation credits (due to expire 2017 to 2034) 5.5 4.9
US foreign tax credits (due to expire 2022 to 2024) 4.7 13.2
Total US tax credits 10.2 18.1
From 1 April 2014, the UK corporation tax rate reduced from 23% to 21%. On 2 July 2013, the UK Government passed the 
2013 Finance Bill, which will reduce the main rate of corporation tax to 20% from 1 April 2015. Accordingly, the Group’s 
closing UK deferred tax liability has been provided using a tax rate of between 21% and 20%, depending on the 
expected timing of the realisation or settlement of the liability. 104 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
12. Earnings per share (“EPS”)
12.1 Per share amounts
2014  
pence
2013  
pence
EPS – basic 17.0 22.1
 – diluted 17.0 22.1
12.2 Earnings for EPS
Basic and diluted EPS are based upon profit for the year as reported in the Group income statement of £46.8m 
(2013: £61.6m).
12.3 Weighted average number of shares
2014  
m
2013  
m 
For calculating basic EPS 275.3 278.4
Adjustment for dilutive potential ordinary shares 0.3 0.6
For calculating diluted EPS 275.6 279.0
For the purposes of calculating diluted EPS, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to include 
the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary 
shares relating to the Company’s share-based payment plans. Potential ordinary shares are only treated as dilutive 
when their conversion to ordinary shares would decrease earnings per share, or increase loss per share, from 
continuing operations.
Other than the ordinary shares shown as being dilutive in the table above, the Company had no other outstanding 
options or share awards in relation to its share-based payment plans that could dilute EPS in the future, but which are 
not included in the calculation of diluted EPS above because they were anti-dilutive in the years presented.
13. Free cash flow
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Net cash inflow from operating activities 73.0 74.6
Additional funding contributions into Group pension plans 2.4 1.9
Capital expenditure (11.7) (13.7)
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment – 0.1
Dividends received from joint ventures 0.4 5.5
Free cash flow 64.1 68.4
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 105 
14. Reconciliation of movement in net debt
Balance at  
1 January  
2014  
£m
Foreign  
exchange 
adjustments 
£m
Non-cash 
movements 
£m
Cash flow 
£m
Balance 
at 31 
December 
2014 
£m
Short-term deposits 0.6 – – 7.4 8.0
Cash at bank and in hand 62.5 0.4 – (21.4) 41.5
Cash and short-term deposits 63.1 0.4 – (14.0) 49.5
Bank overdrafts (6.8) 0.2 – 2.0 (4.6)
Cash and cash equivalents 56.3 0.6 – (12.0) 44.9
Current interest-bearing borrowings (0.2) – – – (0.2)
Non-current interest-bearing borrowings (154.7) (4.9) – 4.1 (155.5)
Capitalised borrowing costs 2.1 – 0.4 – 2.5
Borrowings, excluding bank overdrafts (152.8) (4.9) 0.4 4.1 (153.2)
Net debt (96.5) (4.3) 0.4 (7.9) (108.3)
Net debt is a measure of the Group’s net indebtedness to banks and other external financial institutions and comprises the 
net total of: short-term deposits; cash at bank and in hand; bank overdrafts; and current and non-current interest-bearing 
borrowings net of capitalised borrowing costs. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part 
of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the 
Group statement of cash flows. There is no significant difference between the fair value of the Group’s net debt and the 
amount at which it is reported in the Group balance sheet.
15. Property, plant and equipment 
15.1 Accounting policy 
Freehold land is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Other items of property, plant and equipment are 
carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Costs are capitalised only when it 
is probable that they will result in future economic benefits flowing to the Group and when they can be measured 
reliably. All other repairs and maintenance expenditure is charged to the Group income statement in the period in 
which it is incurred. 
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other items of property, plant and equipment begins when the asset 
is available for use and is therefore not charged on construction in progress. Depreciation is charged to the Group 
income statement on a straight-line basis so as to write off the cost less residual value of the asset over its estimated 
useful life as follows:
Asset category Estimated useful life 
Freehold property between 10 and 50 years 
Leasehold property the term of the lease 
Plant and equipment – motor vehicles between 1 and 5 years 
 – information technology equipment between 1 and 5 years 
 – other between 5 and 15 years 
The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at 
least at each financial year-end. As described in note 17 .1, an asset’s carrying amount is immediately written down to its 
recoverable amount if its carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses arising on 
disposals are determined by comparing the sales proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the Group 
income statement. 106 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
15. Property, plant and equipment (continued)
15.2 Movement in net book value
Freehold 
property  
£m 
Leasehold 
property  
£m 
Plant and 
equipment 
£m 
Construction 
in progress  
£m 
Total  
£m
Cost 
As at 1 January 2013 52.4 16.8 135.2 18.2 222.6
Exchange adjustments (0.9) (0.7) (4.3) – (5.9)
Capital expenditure additions 0.1 – 6.0 7.6 13.7
Disposals (0.1) (0.1) (3.0) – (3.2)
Reclassifications 0.3 0.4 2.4 (3.1) –
As at 1 January 2014 51.8 16.4 136.3 22.7 227.2
Exchange adjustments (0.1) 0.2 2.3 (0.1) 2.3
Capital expenditure additions 0.4 0.1 4.6 6.6 11.7
Disposals (0.8) – (5.0) – (5.8)
Business disposals – (0.1) (0.9) – (1.0)
Reclassifications 0.2 (0.3) 22.1 (22.0) –
As at 31 December 2014 51.5 16.3 159.4 7.2 234.4
Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 
As at 1 January 2013 30.0 9.2 99.5 – 138.7
Exchange adjustments (0.3) (0.4) (2.5) – (3.2)
Depreciation charge 0.8 0.9 7.3 – 9.0
Disposals – – (2.5) – (2.5)
Reclassifications 0.3 – (0.3) – –
As at 1 January 2014 30.8 9.7 101.5 – 142.0
Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.2 1.1 – 1.5
Depreciation charge 0.9 0.5 7.7 – 9.1
Impairment loss – – 2.1 – 2.1
Disposals (0.6) – (4.7) – (5.3)
Business disposals – (0.1) (0.8) – (0.9)
Reclassifications (0.1) 0.1 – – –
As at 31 December 2014 31.2 10.4 106.9 – 148.5
Net book value as at 31 December 2014 20.3 5.9 52.5 7.2 85.9
Net book value as at 31 December 2013 21.0 6.7 34.8 22.7 85.2
Net book value as at 1 January 2013 22.4 7.6 35.7 18.2 83.9
 
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 107 
16. Intangible assets 
Intangible assets comprise goodwill that has been acquired through business combinations.
16.1 Accounting policy
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill arising in a business combination is initially recognised as an asset at cost, measured as the excess of the 
aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling 
interest acquired over the net of the acquisition-date fair value amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Goodwill is 
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, with impairment testing carried out annually, or 
more frequently when there is an indication that the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated 
may be impaired. On disposal of a business, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the calculation of the 
profit or loss on disposal.
(b) Research and development costs 
Research Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the year in which 
it is incurred. 
Development Development expenditure is capitalised only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product or 
process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends to and 
has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset. Otherwise, it is recognised in the income 
statement as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
In determining whether development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset or recognised in the income 
statement as an expense, management considers whether the strict intangible asset recognition criteria set out in IAS 
38, Intangible Assets, have been met at the time the expenditure is incurred. In making this determination, management 
recognise that a significant portion of the development expenditure undertaken by the Group is focused on incremental 
improvements to existing products, as opposed to new or substantially improved products, and that for most of the 
Group’s product developments commercial feasibility is not probable until acceptance by potential end customers, 
so future economic benefits from the developments are not often probable at the time the expenditure is incurred.
16.2 Movement in net book value
2014 2013 
Goodwill 
£m
Goodwill  
£m
Cost and net book value 
As at 1 January 288.5 295.0
Exchange adjustments 5.9 (6.5)
Business disposals (0.1) –
As at 31 December 294.3 288.5
16.3 Analysis of goodwill by cash-generating unit (“CGU”) 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the combination. For the purposes of impairment testing, the Directors consider that the Group has two 
CGUs: the Assembly Materials and Surface Chemistries businesses. These CGUs represent the lowest level within the 
Group at which goodwill is monitored.
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Surface Chemistries 225.5 223.7
Assembly Materials 68.8 64.8
Total goodwill 294.3 288.5 108 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
17. Impairment of tangible and intangible assets 
17.1 Accounting policy 
At each balance sheet date, the Directors review the carrying value of the Group’s tangible and intangible assets to 
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If such indication exists, 
the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss. Where 
it is not feasible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Directors estimate the recoverable 
amount of the cash-generating unit (“CGU”) to which the asset belongs. 
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Group’s CGUs expected to benefit from the 
synergies of the combination and the Directors carry out annual impairment testing of the carrying value of its CGUs, 
to assess the need for any impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible and tangible assets 
associated with these CGUs. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of (i) its fair value less 
costs to sell and (ii) its value in use. If the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than the carrying amount of that CGU, the 
resulting impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then 
to the other assets of the CGU pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU. An impairment loss 
recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. An impairment loss recognised in a prior year for an 
asset other than goodwill may be reversed where there has been a change in the estimates used to measure the asset’s 
recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised. The value in use calculations of the Group’s CGUs are 
based on detailed business plans covering a five year period from the balance sheet date. The cash flows in the 
calculations are discounted to their current value using pre-tax discount rates.
17.2 Key assumptions
The key assumptions used in determining value in use are NSV margin, growth rates and discount rates. NSV margin 
assumptions are based on historical financial information, adjusted to factor in the anticipated impact of restructuring 
and rationalisation plans already announced at the balance sheet date. 
Growth rates are determined with reference to: current market conditions; external forecasts and historical trends for the 
Group’s key end-markets of electronics and automotive; and expected growth in output within the industries in which 
each CGU operates. A perpetuity growth rate of 3.0% (2013: 3.0%) has been applied based upon external forecasts of 
the long-term growth rates experienced in the Group’s end-market locations.
Discount rates are calculated for each CGU, reflecting market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to each CGU. The pre-tax discount rate used for the Assembly Materials CGU was 13.4% (2013: 14.1%) and for the 
Surface Chemistries CGU 11.3% (2013: 12.5%). 
17.3 Goodwill impairment 
In assessing goodwill for potential impairment as at 31 December 2014, the Directors made use of detailed calculations 
of the recoverable amount of the Group’s CGUs as at 31 December 2014. Those calculations resulted in recoverable 
amounts significantly higher than the carrying values of each of the Group’s CGUs and consequently no impairment 
charges were recognised.
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 109 
18. Trade and other receivables 
18.1 Accounting policy 
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using 
the effective interest method, less impairment losses.
18.2 Analysis of trade and other receivables
2014 2013
Gross  
£m 
Impairment  
£m 
Net  
£m 
Gross  
£m 
Impairment  
£m 
Net  
£m 
Trade receivables – current 99.0 (0.1) 98.9 100.0 – 100.0
– 1 to 30 days past due 7.6 (0.2) 7.4 9.2 (0.1) 9.1
– 31 to 60 days past due 1.5 (0.3) 1.2 1.6 (0.1) 1.5
– 61 to 90 days past due 0.6 (0.4) 0.2 0.4 (0.1) 0.3
– more than 90 days past due 1.7 (1.6) 0.1 2.1 (1.8) 0.3
Trade receivables 110.4 (2.6) 107.8 113.3 (2.1) 111.2
Other receivables 15.1 14.6
Prepayments and accrued income 5.5 5.2
Total trade and other receivables 128.4 131.0
All of the Group’s operating companies have policies and procedures in place to assess the creditworthiness of the 
customers with whom they do business. Where objective evidence exists that a trade receivable balance may be 
impaired, provision is made for the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated cash 
that will be recovered. Evidence of impairment may include such factors as the customer being in breach of contract, 
or entering bankruptcy or financial reorganisation proceedings. Impairment provisions are assessed on an individual 
customer basis for all significant outstanding balances and collectively for all remaining balances, based upon 
historical loss experience. Historical experience has shown that the Group’s trade receivable provisions are maintained 
at levels that are sufficient to absorb actual bad debt write-offs, without being excessive.
18.3 Movements on impairment provisions
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
As at 1 January 2.1 4.2
Charge for the year 1.0 0.6
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable (0.3) (2.1)
Unused amounts reversed (0.2) (0.6)
As at 31 December 2.6 2.1
Impairment charges, write-offs and the reversal of unused amounts shown in the table above are charged or credited 
as appropriate within administration, selling and distribution costs in the Group income statement. All of the provision for 
impairment of trade receivables at 31 December 2014 of £2.6m (2013: £2.1m) related to balances that were impaired on 
an individual basis. 
Due to the large number of customers that the Group transacts its business with, none of which represents a significant 
proportion of the total outstanding trade receivables balance, the Group is not exposed to any significant concentration 
of credit risk. There is no significant difference between the fair value of the Group’s trade and other receivable balances 
and the amount at which they are reported in the Group balance sheet. 110 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
19. Inventories 
19.1 Accounting policy 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (using the first-in, first-out method) and net realisable value. Cost comprises 
expenditure incurred in purchasing or manufacturing inventories together with all other costs directly incurred in 
bringing the inventory to its present location and condition and, where appropriate, attributable production overheads 
based on normal activity levels. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of 
completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. The amount of any write-down of inventories 
to net realisable value is recognised as an expense in the year in which the write-down occurs.
19.2 Analysis of inventories
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Raw materials 15.7 17.4
Work-in-progress 7.8 8.1
Finished goods 28.0 26.1
Total inventories 51.5 51.6
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales in the income statement during the year 
was £338.5m (2013: £378.5m). 
As at 31 December 2014, in addition to the inventory recorded in the balance sheet, the Group held £1 1.1m (2013: £10.1m) 
of precious metals on consignment terms. As the precious metals consignors retain title and associated risks and 
rewards of ownership under these arrangements, the value of the physical metal so held is not recognised in the 
balance sheet. Consequently, the obligations in respect of the consigned metal are not recognised as a liability in 
the Group balance sheet.
20. Derivative financial instruments
20.1 Accounting policy
The Group uses derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) in the form of forward foreign currency contracts and 
forward commodity contracts to manage the effects of its exposure to foreign exchange risk and commodity price risk. 
The way in which derivatives are used to manage the Group’s financial risk is detailed in note 25. 
Derivatives are measured at fair value. The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts and forward commodity 
contracts is calculated using market prices at the balance sheet date. 
The method of recognising the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value depends on whether the derivative is 
designated as a hedging instrument for hedge accounting purposes and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged. 
Strict conditions have to be satisfied in order to qualify for hedge accounting, including a determination both at 
inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis that the hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving 
offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The change in fair value of a derivative 
that is not designated as a hedging instrument for hedge accounting purposes is recognised within operating profit in 
the Group income statement. Wherever possible, the Group avoids the administrative burden of hedge accounting, 
and does not designate a derivative as a hedge when, in the absence of hedge accounting, the change in fair value 
of the hedged item is itself recognised within operating profit in the Group income statement in the same period as the 
change in fair value of the derivative. No derivatives are held for speculative purposes.
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 111 
20. Derivative financial instruments (continued)
20.1 Accounting policy (continued)
Cash flow hedges 
The effective part of any gain or loss on a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity. The ineffective part of any gain or loss is 
recognised immediately within operating profit. When the transaction that was being hedged is realised and affects 
profit or loss, the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative is removed from the hedging reserve and recognised in the 
income statement in the same period. 
Fair value hedges 
The change in fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recognised within operating profit 
in the income statement. The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in its fair value that is 
attributable to the hedged risk and this adjustment is recognised within operating profit in the income statement.
20.2 Analysis of derivative financial instruments
2014 2013
Assets  
£m
Liabilities 
£m
Assets  
£m
Liabilities  
£m
Cash flow hedges – (0.3) – –
Fair value hedges 0.8 (0.4) 0.5 (0.2)
Total derivative financial instruments 0.8 (0.7) 0.5 (0.2)
All of the fair values shown in the table above have been calculated using quoted prices from active markets. Cash 
flows in respect of the cash flow hedges shown in the table above will all occur in 2015. All of the £0.7m (2013: £0.2m) 
of derivative liabilities reported in the table above will mature within a year of the balance sheet date. 
Cash flow hedges 
Cash flow hedges in the table above include: forward foreign currency contracts used to hedge the currency risk 
in forecast sales or purchases; interest rate swaps used to hedge the interest risk on borrowings under the Group’s 
syndicated bank facility; and forward metal purchase contracts used to hedge the cash flow risk relating to future 
sales arising from fluctuation in commodity metals prices. 
Fair value hedges 
Fair value hedges in the table above comprise forward foreign currency contracts used to hedge the currency risk in 
payables and receivables and forward metal sales contracts used to hedge the fair value risk relating to the balance 
sheet value of inventory arising from fluctuation in commodity metals prices.
21. Issued share capital 
21.1 Accounting policy 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
21.2 Analysis of issued share capital 
Detailed information on the Company’s issued share capital is given in note 7 of the Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements. 
Further information relating to the Company’s share capital is given in the Directors’ Report on page 81. 112 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
22. Other reserves
Other capital 
reserve  
£m 
Other 
reserve  
£m 
Capital  
redemption  
reserve  
£m 
Hedging 
reserve  
£m 
Translation 
reserve  
£m 
Total other 
reserves 
£m 
As at 1 January 2013 444.7 (862.4) – 0.3 (13.4) (430.8)
Items included within other 
comprehensive income:
Exchange differences on translation 
of the net assets of foreign operations – – – – (15.1) (15.1)
Exchange differences on translation 
of net investment hedges – – – – 8.5 8.5
Change in fair value of cash 
flow hedges – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Transactions with owners:
Redemption of redeemable 
preference shares – – 0.1 – – 0.1
As at 1 January 2014 444.7 (862.4) 0.1 (0.1) (20.0) (437.7)
Items included within other 
comprehensive income:      
Exchange differences on translation 
of the net assets of foreign operations – – – – 3.9 3.9
Exchange differences on translation 
of net investment hedges – – – – (4.9) (4.9)
Change in fair value of cash 
flow hedges – – – (0.3) – (0.3)
As at 31 December 2014 444.7 (862.4) 0.1 (0.4) (21.0) (439.0)
Other capital reserve 
On 19 December 2012, Alent plc issued 278,448,752 ordinary shares of £1.50 each to the public shareholders of Vesuvius 
plc in return for the receipt of the entire share capital of Alent Investments Limited. Alent plc applied merger relief under 
section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 to this transaction and, accordingly, the £444.7m excess of the total market value 
of Alent Investments Limited, being £862.4m, over the nominal value of the shares issued of £417 .7m has been recorded 
in the other capital reserve. 
Other reserve 
The other reserve arose as a result of applying reverse acquisition accounting following the demerger of the Alent Group 
from Cookson Group plc, and represents the difference between the capital reserves of the legal acquirer of the Alent 
Group, Alent plc, and those of the legal acquiree, Alent Investments Limited. 
Capital redemption reserve 
On 9 December 2013, Alent plc redeemed the 50,000 redeemable non-voting preference shares with a nominal value 
of £1.00 per share. Further details can be found in note 9 of the Notes to the Company Financial Statements. 
Hedging reserve 
The effective part of the gain or loss on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recognised in the hedging reserve, 
as explained in note 20. 
Translation reserve 
The translation reserve in the table above comprises all foreign exchange differences attributable to the owners of the 
parent. These exchange differences arise from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and from 
the translation of financial instruments that hedge the Group’s net investment in foreign operations.
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 113 
23. Retained earnings
Reserve  
for own  
shares  
£m 
Other  
retained  
earnings  
£m 
Total  
retained  
earnings  
£m 
As at 1 January 2013 – 679.0 679.0
Profit for the year – 61.6 61.6
Items included within other comprehensive income:
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability – 3.9 3.9
Transactions with owners:
Recognition of share-based payments – 1.4 1.4
Purchase of own shares (0.2) – (0.2)
Redemption of redeemable preference shares – (0.1) (0.1)
Equity dividends paid – (23.3) (23.3)
As at 1 January 2014 (0.2) 722.5 722.3
Profit for the year – 46.8 46.8
Items included within other comprehensive income:
Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability – (7.0) (7.0)
Income tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive 
income – 0.1 0.1
Transactions with owners:
Recognition of share-based payments – 1.6 1.6
Purchase of own shares (0.4) – (0.4)
Disposal of own shares 0.5 (0.5) –
Equity dividends paid – (66.3) (66.3)
As at 31 December 2014 (0.1) 697.2 697.1
24. Dividends 
24.1 Ordinary dividend payments
A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of £15.9m (year ended 31 December 2012: £15.3m), equivalent to 
5.71 pence (year ended 31 December 2012: 5.5 pence) per ordinary share, was paid in June 2014. An interim dividend for 
the year ended 31 December 2014 of £8.4m (2013: £8.0m), equivalent to 3.0 pence (2013: 2.89 pence) per ordinary share 
was paid in October 2014, resulting in a total cash cost of ordinary dividends paid in 2014 of £24.3m (2013: £23.3m). 
A proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of £16.0m, equivalent to 6.0 pence per ordinary share, 
is subject to approval by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a 
liability in these financial statements. If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 19 June 2015 to ordinary 
shareholders on the register at 15 May 2015. 
24.2 Special dividend payment
In addition to the ordinary dividends described above, the Board also approved a special dividend to shareholders 
of £42.0m (2013: £nil), equivalent to 15.0 pence (2013: nil pence) per ordinary share. The special dividend was paid in 
October 2014.
24.3 Total dividend payments
Dividend payments in the Group statement of cash flows of £66.3m (2013: £23.3m) represent both the ordinary dividends 
paid in the year of £24.3m (2013: £23.3m) and the special dividend paid in the year of £42.0m (2013: £nil). 114 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
25. Financial risk management
25.1 Accounting policy 
(a) Non-derivative financial instruments 
Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. After initial 
recognition they are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method. 
(b) Foreign currencies 
The individual financial statements of each Group entity are prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency 
of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates. For the purpose of the consolidated financial 
statements, the results and financial position of each entity are translated into pounds sterling, which is the 
presentational currency of the Group. 
Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency 
Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are initially recorded at the 
rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each subsequent balance sheet date: 
(i)  Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange 
differences arising on the settlement or retranslation of monetary items are recognised in the Group income 
statement; and 
(ii) Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. 
Translation from functional currency to presentational currency 
When the functional currency of a Group entity is different from the Group’s presentational currency (pounds sterling), 
its results and financial position are translated into the presentational currency as follows: 
(i)  Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date; 
(ii)  Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such 
average rates does not approximate the exchange rate at the date of a specific transaction, in which case the 
transaction rate is used; and 
(iii)  All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation 
reserve in equity and are reclassified to profit or loss in the period in which the foreign operation is disposed. 
Net investment in foreign operations 
Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a foreign 
operation are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity 
and reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
25.2 Financial risk factors
The Group’s treasury department, acting in accordance with policies approved by the Board, is principally responsible 
for managing the financial risks faced by the Group. The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, the 
most significant of which are market risk and liquidity risk. 
(a) Market risk 
Market risk is the risk that either the fair values or the cash flows of the Group’s financial instruments may fluctuate 
because of changes in market prices. The Group is principally exposed to market risk through fluctuations in exchange 
rates (“currency risk”) and interest rates (“interest rate risk”). 
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 115 
25. Financial risk management (continued)
25.2 Financial risk factors (continued)
Currency risk 
The Group is exposed to currency risk on its borrowings and financial assets (being cash and short-term deposits) that 
are denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling. The Group’s general policy is proportionally to match the 
currency profile of its core borrowings with the currency profile of its earnings and net assets achieved, where necessary, 
by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts (“FX swaps”). The currency profile of the Group’s borrowings and 
financial assets is shown in the table below.
2014 2013
Borrowings  
£m 
Financial 
assets  
£m 
Net debt  
£m 
Borrowings  
£m 
Financial 
assets  
£m 
Net debt  
£m 
Chinese renminbi – 19.1 19.1 – 23.2 23.2
Euro (25.7) 4.6 (21.1) (31.5) 10.5 (21.0)
Sterling (27.1) 2.7 (24.4) (55.8) 5.7 (50.1)
United States dollar (107.0) 1.4 (105.6) (73.0) 0.2 (72.8)
Other (0.5) 21.7 21.2 (1.4) 23.5 22.1
Capitalised borrowing costs 2.5 – 2.5 2.1 – 2.1
As at 31 December (157.8) 49.5 (108.3) (159.6) 63.1 (96.5)
Based upon the currency profile shown in the table above, while not impacting reported profit, the change in net debt 
arising from a 10% strengthening of sterling would increase reported equity by £7 .9m (2013: £4.4m) and a corresponding 
10% weakening of sterling would reduce reported equity by £9.6m (2013: £5.4m).
The tables below show the net unhedged monetary assets and liabilities of Group companies that are not denominated 
in their functional currency and which could give rise to exchange gains and losses in the Group income statement.
Net unhedged monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling  
£m 
US dollar  
£m 
Euro  
£m 
Renminbi  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Functional currency: 
Sterling – 0.5 0.7 (0.5) 0.3 1.0
United States dollar – – (0.3) 0.1 0.8 0.6
Euro (0.1) (0.2) – – (0.2) (0.5)
Chinese renminbi (0.1) 2.8 (0.8) – 1.6 3.5
Other – 3.7 0.3 – (0.7) 3.3
As at 31 December 2014 (0.2) 6.8 (0.1) (0.4) 1.8 7.9
Net unhedged monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling  
£m 
US dollar  
£m 
Euro  
£m 
Renminbi  
£m 
Other  
£m 
Total  
£m 
Functional currency: 
Sterling – (0.9) 0.1 – – (0.8)
United States dollar (2.2) – (0.1) – 1.9 (0.4)
Euro – (0.3) – – – (0.3)
Chinese renminbi – 5.6 (0.6) – 0.8 5.8
Other – 10.8 (0.1) – 0.7 11.4
As at 31 December 2013 (2.2) 15.2 (0.7) – 3.4 15.7 116 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
25. Financial risk management (continued)
25.2 Financial risk factors (continued)
Interest rate risk 
The Group’s interest rate risk principally arises in relation to its net financial debt. 
The interest rate profile of the Group’s borrowings and net financial debt is detailed in the tables below.
Fixed rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Floating rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Total 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Financial 
assets  
£m 
Net  
financial 
assets/(debt)  
£m 
Chinese renminbi – – – 19.1 19.1
Euro (23.3) (2.4) (25.7) 4.6 (21.1)
Sterling – (27.1) (27.1) 2.7 (24.4)
United States dollar (86.7) (20.3) (107.0) 1.4 (105.6)
Other – (0.5) (0.5) 21.7 21.2
Capitalised borrowing costs 1.7 0.8 2.5 – 2.5
As at 31 December 2014 (108.3) (49.5) (157.8) 49.5 (108.3)
The fixed rate financial liabilities comprise drawings under the Group’s syndicated bank facility on which the interest rate 
has been fixed by means of interest rate swaps. These swaps terminate on 25 July 2016, from which date these drawings 
will be classified as floating rate borrowings.
Fixed rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Floating rate 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Total 
financial 
liabilities 
£m 
Financial 
assets  
£m 
Net  
financial 
assets/(debt)  
£m 
Chinese renminbi – – – 23.2 23.2
Euro (29.1) (2.4) (31.5) 10.5 (21.0)
Sterling (30.0) (25.8) (55.8) 5.7 (50.1)
United States dollar (72.4) (0.6) (73.0) 0.2 (72.8)
Other – (1.4) (1.4) 23.5 22.1
Capitalised borrowing costs 1.9 0.2 2.1 – 2.1
As at 31 December 2013 (129.6) (30.0) (159.6) 63.1 (96.5)
The floating rate financial liabilities shown in the tables above bear interest at various rates. The financial assets attract 
floating rate interest at various rates. 
Based upon the interest rate profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities shown in the tables above, a 1% 
increase in market interest rates would decrease both the net finance costs charged in the Group income statement 
and the net interest paid in the Group statement of cash flows by £0.5m (2013: £0.3m) and a 1% reduction in market 
interest rates would increase both the net finance costs charged in the Group income statement and the net interest 
paid in the Group statement of cash flows by £0.5m (2013: £0.3m). Similarly, a 1% increase or decrease in market interest 
rates would result in no change (2013: no change) in the fair value of the Group’s net debt. 
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 117 
25. Financial risk management (continued)
25.2 Financial risk factors (continued)
(b) Liquidity risk 
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group might have difficulties in meeting its financial obligations. The Group manages this 
risk by ensuring that it maintains sufficient levels of committed borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents to 
ensure that it can meet its operational cash flow requirements and any maturing financial liabilities, while at all times 
operating within its financial covenants. The level of operational headroom provided by the Group’s committed 
borrowing facilities is reviewed at least annually as part of the Group’s three year planning process. Where this process 
indicates a need for additional finance, this will normally be addressed 12 to 18 months in advance by means of either 
additional committed bank facilities or raising finance in the capital markets. 
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had committed borrowing facilities of £300m (2013: £300m), of which  
£144.7m (2013: £145.5m) were undrawn. These undrawn facilities are due to expire in September 2019. 
The maturity analysis of the Group’s gross borrowings is shown in the tables below.
 Non-current Current Total
2014  
£m 
2013  
£m 
2014  
£m 
2013  
£m 
2014  
£m 
2013  
£m 
Loans and overdrafts 155.2 154.5 4.6 6.8 159.8 161.3
Obligations under finance leases 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.4
Capitalised borrowing costs (2.5) (1.3) – (0.8) (2.5) (2.1)
Total interest-bearing borrowings 153.0 153.4 4.8 6.2 157.8 159.6
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Interest-bearing borrowings repayable 
On demand or within one year 4.8 7.0
In the second year 0.1 0.2
In the third year 0.1 –
In the fourth year 0.1 154.5
In the fifth year 155.2 –
Capitalised borrowing costs (2.5) (2.1)
Total interest-bearing borrowings 157.8 159.6
The Group’s committed borrowing facilities of £300m (2013: £300m) were refinanced in October 2014, with the term of the 
facility being extended by a further two years to September 2019.  118 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
25. Financial risk management (continued)
25.3 Capital management
The Group monitors its capital using a number of key performance indicators, including free cash flow, average working 
capital to sales ratios, net debt to EBITDA ratios and ROCE (note 4). The Group’s objectives when managing its capital are: 
• to ensure that the Group and all of its businesses are able to operate as going concerns and ensure that the Group 
operates within the financial covenants contained within its debt facilities; 
• to maximise shareholder value through maintaining an appropriate balance between the Group’s equity and net debt; 
• to have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver acceptable 
future returns; and 
• to maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events. 
The Group operated comfortably within the requirements of its debt covenants and has substantial liquidity headroom 
within its committed debt facilities. Details of the Group’s covenant compliance and committed debt facilities can be 
found in the Financial Review on pages 39 to 40.
26. Employee benefits
26.1 Accounting policy
(a) Defined benefit plans 
The Group’s net obligation in respect of its defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the 
amount of future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior periods, discounting that amount using 
interest rates on high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the related 
pension liability, and deducting the fair value of any plan assets. These calculations are performed by independent 
actuaries using the projected unit credit method. 
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses on the defined benefit 
obligations and the return on the plan assets, are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income. The net 
interest expense on the net defined benefit liability is determined by applying the discount rate used to measure the 
defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year to the net defined benefit liability at the beginning of the year 
and taking into account changes in the net defined benefit liability during the year as a result of contributions and 
benefit payments. Net interest expense is recognised in the Group income statement. Gains and losses arising on 
settlements and curtailments are also recognised in the Group income statement.
(b) Defined contribution plans 
The Group makes payments to defined contribution pension plans and has no further payment obligations once the 
contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense in the Group income 
statement when they fall due. 
26.2 Group post-retirement plans 
The Group operates a number of pension plans around the world, both of the defined benefit and defined 
contribution type.
(a) Defined benefit plans 
The Group’s principal defined benefit pension plans are in the US. The assets of the US plans are held outside the Group 
in funds administered by an investment committee comprised of senior Group executives, which takes advice from 
independent third party actuarial and investment advisors. The investment committee is required to act in the best 
interests of the plan’s beneficiaries.
The Group also has defined benefit pension plans in other territories, but these are not individually material in relation to 
the Group as a whole.
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 119 
26. Employee benefits (continued)
26.2 Group post-retirement plans (continued)
The Group’s US defined benefit plans are closed to new members and to future benefit accrual for existing members. 
These plans provide retirement benefits based on final salary or a fixed benefit. The main US plan, the Retirement Security 
Plan, has a minimum performance level guaranteed by the Group on the members’ accounts. The cash balance rate 
assumption in the table in note 26.3(a) refers to this minimum return.
Actuarial valuations of the US plan are carried out annually by independent actuaries and the last full valuation was 
carried out as at 31 December 2013. At that date, the market value of the plan assets was £43.6m, representing a 
funding level of 80% of funded accrued plan benefits of £54.8m. 
Funding levels for the Group’s US defined benefit plan are determined by management after taking into account the 
results of the annual valuations of the plans, minimum funding levels prescribed by US government regulations and 
advice received from the Group’s independent investment advisers. In 2014, the Group made additional funding 
contributions in to its US defined benefit plans of £2.4m and is expected to make a similar level of contributions in 2015.
(b) Defined contribution pension plans 
The total expense recognised for the Group’s defined contribution pension plans and recognised in the Group income 
statement for the year amounted to £6.1m (2013: £5.8m).
26.3 Defined benefit obligation
(a) Actuarial assumptions 
Actuarial assumptions are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries. 
The principal assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans 
relate to the Group’s US plans and these are summarised in the tables below.
Life expectancy of US pension plan members 
2014  
years 
2013  
years 
Age to which current pensioners are expected to live – Men 86.6 85.1
   – Women 88.8 87.3
Age to which future pensioners are expected to live – Men 88.3 87.2
   – Women 90.5 89.2
The mortality assumptions summarised in the table above are based on fully generational mortality tables that explicitly 
allow for differences in mortality levels and future trends in mortality, for people born in different years. 
The other principal actuarial assumptions for the Group’s US defined benefit pension plans are shown below.
2014  
% p.a.
2013  
% p.a. 
Discount rate 3.60 4.50
Cash balance rate 5.25 5.25
The discount rates in the table above, which are used to determine the liabilities of the US plans, are determined by 
reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds, using the Citigroup pension discount curve. The cash balance 
rate is the minimum performance level guaranteed by the Group to members of its main US defined benefit plan. 120 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
26. Employee benefits (continued)
26.3 Defined benefit obligation (continued)
(b) Sensitivity analysis
The following table analyses the theoretical estimated impact on the Group’s US pension plan liabilities resulting from 
changes to key actuarial assumptions, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on US plan liabilities 
Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.1% Decrease/increase by 1.1% 
Mortality Increase by one year Increase by 2.9% 
26.4 Movement in net defined benefit liabilities
The following table shows a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances for the Group’s net 
defined benefit liability.
Present value of defined 
benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Net defined benefit liability
2014  
£m 
2013  
£m 
2014  
£m 
2013  
£m 
2014  
£m 
2013  
£m 
At 1 January 58.7 65.4 (39.9) (41.1) 18.8 24.3
Included in Group income 
statement  
Current service cost 0.1 0.3 – – 0.1 0.3
Interest cost/(income) 2.4 2.3 (1.6) (1.2) 0.8 1.1
2.5 2.6 (1.6) (1.2) 0.9 1.4
Included in other 
comprehensive income
Remeasurements:
 –  Actuarial gain from changes in 
demographic assumptions 1.7 (0.5) – – 1.7 (0.5)
 –  Actuarial (gain)/loss from changes 
in financial assumptions 6.7 (5.5) – – 6.7 (5.5)
 –  Actuarial loss/(gain) from 
experience adjustments 0.5 1.1 – – 0.5 1.1
 – Return on plan assets – – (1.9) 1.0 (1.9) 1.0
8.9 (4.9) (1.9) 1.0 7.0 (3.9)
Exchange differences 3.1 (0.8) (2.6) 0.6 0.5 (0.2)
12.0 (5.7) (4.5) 1.6 7.5 (4.1)
Other
Employer contributions to funded 
plans – – (2.5) (2.0) (2.5) (2.0)
Benefits paid – funded plans (2.7) (2.8) 2.7 2.8 – –
                         – unfunded plans (0.6) (0.8) – – (0.6) (0.8)
At 31 December 69.9 58.7 (45.8) (39.9) 24.1 18.8
Analysis of net defined benefit liability
In funded plans 12.1 8.0
In unfunded plans 12.0 10.8
24.1 18.8
The average duration of the obligations to which the liabilities of the Group’s US pension plans relate is 11 years. 
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 121 
26. Employee benefits (continued)
26.5 Plan assets
Plan assets comprise:
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Equities 11.4 10.1
Bonds 30.7 25.7
Cash 3.7 4.1
Total assets 45.8 39.9
The allocation of assets in the Group’s US plan is based upon a liability-focused investment strategy, designed to reduce 
the funding volatility of the plan as the funding level improves, and substantially to remove the investment risk of the plan 
once full funding on an accounting valuation basis is achieved. This is accomplished by dividing the portfolio into 
“return-seeking” and “liability-matching” portfolios. The return-seeking assets are designed to generate returns in excess 
of the change in the value of the plan’s projected liabilities and the liability-matching portfolio, comprised of high quality 
fixed income investments, is designed to match the change in value of the plan’s liabilities. The mix at 31 December 2014 
between return-seeking and liability-matching assets was approximately 40%/60%. Other assets in the table above are 
principally comprised of cash. The values of all of the assets shown in the table above are based upon quoted market 
prices in active markets.
26.6 Income statement recognition 
The total net charge of £0.9m (2013: £1.4m) recognised in the Group income statement in respect of the Group’s defined 
benefit plans is recognised in the following lines:
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
In arriving at operating profit – within manufacturing costs – 0.1
   – within administration, selling and distribution costs 0.1 0.2
In arriving at profit before tax – within finance costs 0.8 1.1
Total net charge 0.9 1.4
General pension plan administration costs paid out of plan assets during the year are included within ordinary finance 
costs and amounted to £0.1m (2013: £0.2m). 
26.7 Historical information 
The history of the fair value of the Group’s plan assets, the present value of defined benefit obligations, the net defined 
benefit liability in the plans and the experience gains and losses on plan assets and liabilities are shown below.
Defined benefit plans
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
2012  
£m
2011  
£m
2010  
£m
Fair value of plan assets 45.8 39.9 41.1 45.0 51.9 
Present value of defined benefit obligations (69.9) (58.7) (65.4) (71.4) (78.8) 
Net defined benefit liability (24.1) (18.8) (24.3) (26.4) (26.9) 
Experience losses/(gains) on plan liabilities 0.5 1.1 (0.3) (0.6) 0.3 
Experience losses/(gains) on plan assets (1.9) 1.0 (1.6) (1.4) (0.8) 
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income is £29.5m 
(2013: £22.5m). 122 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
27. Share-based payments 
27.1 Accounting policy 
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the 
grant date takes account of the effect of market-based conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return target upon 
which vesting for some of the awards is conditional, and is expensed to the Group income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity. The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted 
for the best estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and for the effect of other non market-based vesting 
conditions, such as growth in headline earnings per share, which are not included in the fair value determined at the 
date of grant. 
For cash-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the liability is determined at each balance sheet date, and is 
expensed to the Group income statement over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in liabilities. 
27.2 Details of outstanding awards
The number of awards and associated share prices in the tables below have been restated following the demerger of 
the Alent plc business from the former Cookson Group plc.
Outstanding awards
As at  
1 January 
2014  
no.
Granted  
no.
Exercised 
no.
Forfeited/ 
lapsed  
no.
As at 31 
December 
2014  
no.
Awards 
exercisable 
as at 31 
December 
2014 
no.
Weighted 
average 
outstanding 
contractual 
life of 
awards 
years 
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
pence 
Performance shares 2,335,152 1,056,533 – (802,782) 2,588,903 – 2.8
Weighted average  
exercise price nil nil – nil nil – n/a
Other shares 383,937 56,627 (199,633) (21,850) 219,081 – 1.7
Weighted average  
exercise price nil nil nil nil nil – n/a
Outstanding awards
As at  
1 January 
2013  
no.
Granted  
no.
Exercised  
no.
Forfeited/ 
lapsed  
no.
As at 31 
December 
2013  
no.
Awards 
exercisable 
as at 31 
December 
2013 
no.
Weighted 
average 
outstanding 
contractual 
life of awards 
years 
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
pence 
Performance shares 2,391,053 795,576 (572,742) (278,735) 2,335,152 – 2.0
Weighted average exercise 
price nil nil nil nil nil – n/a
Other shares 370,645 73,805 (60,513) – 383,937 – 1.4
Weighted average exercise 
price nil nil nil – nil – n/a
For awards exercised during 2014, the share price at the date of exercise was 312.3p (2013: 345.3p).
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 123 
27. Share-based payments (continued)
27.3 Income statement recognition 
The total expense recognised in the Group income statement is shown below.
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Performance shares 1.0 0.8
Other shares 0.3 0.5
Total share-based payments expense 1.3 1.3
The Group operates a number of different share-based payment arrangements, the main features of which are 
described on pages 71 to 75 of the Remuneration Report. 
27.4 Performance share awards granted during the year
2014 2013
EPS  
element
TSR  
element
EPS  
element
TSR  
element
Fair value of awards granted (per share) 323.5p 154.1p 340.0p 192.2p
Share price on date of grant (per share) 323.5p 323.5p 340.0p 340.0p
Expected volatility n/a 31.0% n/a 31.8%
Risk-free interest rate n/a 1.0% n/a 0.3%
Exercise price (per share) nil nil nil nil
Expected term (years) 5 5 4 4
Expected dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 0%
28. Trade and other payables 
28.1 Accounting policy 
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the 
effective interest method.
28.2 Analysis of trade and other payables
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Non-current 
Deferred purchase consideration 0.4 0.6
Total non-current other payables 0.4 0.6
Current 
Trade payables 35.2 42.0
Other taxes and social security 5.4 5.4
Accruals and other payables 37.9 31.7
Deferred purchase consideration 0.4 1.0
Total current trade and other payables 78.9 80.1
There is no significant difference between the fair value of the Group’s trade and other payables balances and the 
amount at which they are reported in the Group balance sheet. 124 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
29. Leases
29.1 Accounting policy 
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Rentals payable under operating leases are 
charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Benefits received and receivable as 
an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
29.2 Operating lease commitments
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating  
leases are payable as follows: 
Not later than one year 5.6 5.4
Later than one year and not later than five years 12.7 13.0
Later than five years 2.4 2.7
Total operating lease commitments 20.7 21.1
The Group’s property, plant and equipment assets are either purchased outright or held under lease contracts. 
Where the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group, the 
asset is capitalised in the Group balance sheet and the corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a finance 
lease obligation. Where all the risks and rewards of ownership are not transferred to the Group, the lease is classified as 
an operating lease and neither the asset nor the corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised in the Group balance 
sheet. The net book value of the Group’s property, plant and equipment assets held under finance lease contracts at 
31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013 was not material. 
The cost incurred by the Group in the year in respect of assets held under operating leases, all of which was charged 
within operating profit, amounted to £6.2m (2013: £6.4m).
30. Provisions 
30.1 Accounting policy 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable 
that the Group will be required to settle that obligation. Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. Where the effect of the time value of money is 
material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects both the current market assessment of 
the time value of money and the specific risks associated with the obligation. Where discounting is used, the increase in 
the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
30.2 Analysis of provisions 
Disposal and 
closure costs 
£m
Litigation 
costs  
£m 
Restructuring 
and other 
charges  
£m 
Total  
£m 
As at 1 January 2014 13.5 – 10.0 23.5
Exchange adjustments 1.0 – (0.7) 0.3
Charge to Group income statement 3.0 6.8 5.5 15.3
Transfers 1.1 – (0.2) 0.9
Cash spend (1.1) – (8.2) (9.3)
As at 31 December 2014 17.5 6.8 6.4 30.7
Of the total provision balance as at 31 December 2014 of £30.7m (2013: £23.5m), £14.4m (2013: £1 1.7m) is recognised in 
the Group balance sheet within non-current liabilities and £16.3m (2013: £11.8m) within current liabilities. During the year, 
£1.1m was reclassified to the provision for disposal and closure costs; £0.2m came from restructuring provisions and 
£0.9m from accruals.
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 125 
30. Provisions (continued)
30.2 Analysis of provisions (continued)
The provision for disposal and closure costs includes the Directors’ best estimate of the costs to be incurred in 
connection with the sites of former Group businesses that were either closed or disposed of in prior years. The provision 
as at 31 December 2014 principally comprised amounts payable in respect of environmental remediation and monitoring 
works, demolition and site clean-up costs, and associated regulatory liabilities. As the settlement of many of the 
obligations for which provision is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing of the associated cash 
outflows is subject to some uncertainty, but the majority of the amounts provided are expected to be utilised over the 
next five to ten years. 
In 2014 the Group recognised litigation charges arising on settlement of legacy issues that pre-dated the demerger from 
Cookson Group plc in 2012. Of these charges, £6.4m relates to the full and final settlement that was reached in February 
2015 of actions brought by MacDermid (incorporated in the United States) against Alent and Vesuvius plc that arose out 
of corporate activity between the parties in 2006, and represents Alent’s share of the gross settlement. Of the £6.8m 
provision held at the end of the year, £6.4m was paid in March 2015 and the balance of the provision is expected to 
be fully utilised in 2015. This matter had been noted as a contingent liability in Alent’s 2013 annual report and accounts.
Provisions for restructuring and other charges include the costs of all of the Group’s initiatives to restructure its operating 
activities. The balance of £6.4m as at 31 December 2014 includes £2.3m in relation to onerous leases terminating in 
between four and twelve years, and £3.8m in relation to other restructuring initiatives, all of which is expected to be paid 
out in 2015. 
31. Off-balance sheet arrangements 
In compliance with current reporting requirements, certain arrangements entered into by the Group in its normal course 
of business are not reported in the Group balance sheet. Of such arrangements, those considered material by the 
Directors are inventory held under precious metal consignment arrangements (note 19) and future lease payments in 
relation to assets used by the Group under non-cancellable operating leases (note 29).
32. Contingent liabilities 
The Group has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those 
covering taxation and environmental matters. Legal claims have been brought against certain Group companies by 
third parties alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to hazardous materials used by those companies in 
the manufacture of industrial and consumer products, and further claims may be brought in the future. Several of the 
Group’s subsidiaries are subject to legal proceedings, certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course 
of the operations of the company involved, and the Directors are aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the 
subject of dispute with tax authorities. Reserves are made for the expected amounts payable in respect of known or 
probable costs resulting both from legal or other regulatory requirements, or from third-party claims. As the settlement of 
many of the obligations for which reserve is made is subject to legal or other regulatory process, the timing and amount 
of the associated outflows is subject to some uncertainty. 
33. Related parties
33.1 Remuneration of key management personnel
The members of the Board of Directors of Alent are the key management personnel of Alent. Further information 
about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited sections of the Remuneration Report on 
pages 70 to 71 and 73 to 74. With effect from 4 September 2014, Rick Ertmann (President of Alent’s Assembly Materials 
Division) fulfilled the role of Interim Chief Executive, and as such the analysis in the table below also includes his 
remuneration from this date.
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Short-term employee benefits 1.6 0.8
Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2
Loss of office payments 0.4 –
Share-based payments 0.8 0.6
Total remuneration of key management personnel 3.0 1.6 126 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
33. Related parties (continued)
33.2 Related party transactions
All transactions with related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis and in accordance with normal business 
terms. Transactions between related parties that are Group subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
34. Principal subsidiaries
Set out below is a list of material subsidiaries of the Group and Company as at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2013.
Country of 
incorporation and 
place of business
Ownership interest 
held by the Group
Ownership interest 
held directly by the 
parent
Alent Alpha Metals (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd China 100% – 
Alent Brasil Soldas Ltda Brazil 100% – 
Alent Enthone Chemistry Trading (Shanghai) Co Ltd (formerly 
Cookson Enthone Chemistry Trading (Shanghai) Co Ltd) China 100% – 
Alent Finance Limited UK 100% – 
Alent Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong 100% – 
Alent Investments Limited UK 100% 100%
Alent Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100% – 
Alent, Inc USA 100% – 
Alpha Fry Limited UK 100% – 
Alpha Metals (Taiwan) Inc Taiwan 100% – 
Alpha Metals Lötsysteme GmbH Germany 100% – 
Alpha Metals, Inc USA 100% – 
Alpha Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 100% – 
Cookson India Private Limited India 100% – 
Cookson Investments, Inc USA 100% – 
Enthone GmbH Germany 100% – 
Enthone Inc USA 100% – 
The following UK subsidiaries of the Group, having met the criteria set out in sections 479A-479C of the Companies Act 
2006, are claiming exemption from the audit of their individual accounts afforded by those sections for the year ended 
31 December 2014.
Registered Number
Alent Finance Limited 8232406
Alent Holdings Brazil Limited 4985515
Alent Investments Limited 8180976
Alent Management Limited 8009351
Alent New Finance (UK) Limited 8243686
Alent New Mexico Holdings Limited 8243942
Alent Property Limited 8058935
Alent Services Limited 8242265
Alpha Fry Limited 208173
Enthone Limited 1804603
Enthone-OMI Holdings (UK) Limited 232860
NOTES TO THE  
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 127 
Note
2014
£m
2013 
£m
Fixed assets
Investment in subsidiaries 5 864.4 863.4
Total fixed assets 864.4 863.4
Current assets
Debtors – amounts falling due within one year 0.2 0.1
Cash at bank and in hand 0.2 0.4
Total current assets 0.4 0.5
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Interest-bearing borrowings (0.4) (0.5)
Other creditors 6 (107.8) (36.9)
Total current liabilities (108.2) (37.4)
Net current liabilities (107.8) (36.9)
Net assets 756.6 826.5 
Equity capital and reserves
Issued share capital 7 27.8 27.8 
Other capital reserves 8 444.8 444.8 
Retained earnings 8 284.0 353.9 
Shareholders’ funds – equity 756.6 826.5 
The Company financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board on 2 March 2015 and signed 
on its behalf by:
ANDREW HEATH DAVID EGAN 
Chief Executive Group Finance Director
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 128 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
NOTES TO THE COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Basis of preparation 
1.1 Basis of accounting 
Alent plc (“the Company”) was incorporated on 31 August 2012 and is registered in England and Wales. 
The financial statements of Alent plc are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and under the historical 
cost convention and in accordance with UK GAAP. The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account, 
as permitted by Section 408(3) of the Companies Act 2006. 
1.2 Going concern 
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
2. Employee benefits expense 
The total employee benefits expense for the year comprises:
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Wages and salaries 0.8 0.4
Social security costs 0.1 0.1
Share-based payments 0.3 0.2
Total employee benefits expense 1.2 0.7
Details of the Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 79. The remuneration 
expense of Mr Steve Corbett was borne by other Group companies.
The average number of employees during the year was 1 (2013: 1).
3. Audit and non-audit fees 
Amounts payable to KPMG LLP in relation to audit and non-audit fees for 2014 and 2013 are disclosed within note 7 to 
the Group financial statements. 
4. Dividends 
4.1 Ordinary dividend payments
A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of £15.9m (year ended 31 December 2012: £15.3m), equivalent to 
5.71 pence (year ended 31 December 2012: 5.5 pence) per ordinary share, was paid in June 2014. An interim dividend for 
the year ended 31 December 2014 of £8.4m (2013: £8.0m), equivalent to 3.0 pence (2013: 2.89 pence) per ordinary share 
was paid in October 2014, resulting in a total cash cost of ordinary dividends paid in 2014 of £24.3m (2013: £23.3m). 
A proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of £16.0m, equivalent to 6.0 pence per ordinary share, 
is subject to approval by shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a 
liability in these financial statements. If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 19 June 2015 to ordinary 
shareholders on the register at 15 May 2015. 
4.2 Special dividend payment
In addition to the ordinary dividends described above, the Board also approved a special dividend to shareholders of 
£42.0m (2013: £nil), equivalent to 15.0 pence (2013: nil pence) per ordinary share. The special dividend was paid in 
October 2014.
4.3 Total dividend payments
Dividend payments in the Group statement of cash flows of £66.3m (2013: £23.3m) represent both the ordinary dividends 
paid in the year of £24.3m (2013: £23.3m) and the special dividend paid in the year of £42.0m (2013: £nil). STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 129 
5. Investment in subsidiaries 
5.1 Accounting policy 
Shares in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any impairment in value. 
5.2 Analysis of investment in subsidiaries
Shares in 
subsidiaries 
at cost 
£m
As at 1 January 2014 863.4
Additions 1.0
As at 31 December 2014 864.4
Details of principal subsidiaries and joint ventures of Alent plc and the countries in which they are incorporated are 
given in note 34 to the Group financial statements. A full list of Group companies will be included in the Company’s 
Annual Return to the Registrar of Companies. 
The name and registered number for each of the UK subsidiaries of the Company that have met the criteria set out in 
sections 479A-479C of the Companies Act 2006 and are exempt from audit (the “Exempt Subsidiaries”) are given in note 
34 to the Group financial statements. In accordance with sections 479A-479C of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 
has guaranteed the outstanding liabilities of each of the Exempt Subsidiaries that were outstanding as at 31 December 
2014. Such liabilities are guaranteed until paid.
6. Other creditors
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 106.8 36.2 
Accruals and other creditors 1.0 0.7 
Total other creditors 107.8 36.9 
7. Issued share capital 
7.1 Accounting policy 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
7.2 Analysis of issued share capital 
As at 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013, the Company’s issued share capital was 278,448,752 ordinary shares of 
10 pence each. 
During 2014 the Company issued 11,972 ordinary shares of 10 pence each. On 4 August 2014, the Board of Alent plc 
announced its intention to pay a special dividend to shareholders of 15.0 pence (the “Special Dividend”) for every 
ordinary share of 10 pence each (the “Existing Ordinary Shares”). On 27 August 2014, a circular was sent to shareholders 
proposing a consolidation of Alent plc’s share capital (the “Share Consolidation”) in connection with the Special 
Dividend, which would result in every 23 Existing Ordinary Shares being consolidated into 22 ordinary shares of 10 5/11 
pence each (the “New Ordinary Shares”). 
The shareholders of Alent plc approved the Share Consolidation at a general meeting held on 26 September 2014. 
As a result and with effect from that date, Alent plc’s share capital was consolidated from 278,460,724 Existing Ordinary 
Shares into 266,353,736 New Ordinary Shares. Alent plc’s share capital as at 26 September 2014 and 31 December 2014 
was £27,846,072 divided into 266,353,736 New Ordinary Shares. 130 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
8. Reserves 
8.1 Analysis of reserves
Reserve for 
own shares 
£m
Other 
retained 
earnings  
£m
Total 
retained 
earnings  
£m
Other 
capital 
reserve  
£m
Capital 
redemption  
reserve  
£m
Total 
reserves  
£m
As at 1 January 2014 (0.2) 354.1 353.9 444.7 0.1 798.7
Share-based payments – 1.5 1.5 – – 1.5
Purchase of own shares (0.4) – (0.4) – – (0.4)
Disposal of own shares 0.5 (0.5) – – – –
Dividends paid (note 4) – (66.3) (66.3) – – (66.3)
Loss recognised in the year – (4.7) (4.7) – – (4.7)
As at 31 December 2014 (0.1) 284.1 284.0 444.7 0.1 728.8
The other capital reserve of £444.7m and the capital redemption reserve of £0.1m are described further in note 9 to the 
Company financial statements. 
As at 31 December 2014, 14,923 ordinary shares of 10 5/1 1 pence each of the Company were held by The Alent Employees’ 
Share Ownership Plan Trust, with a nominal value of £nil, which were purchased at a gross cost of £0.1m. The purchase 
of these shares was financed out of borrowings included in the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2014. The 
market value of these shares was £nil as at 31 December 2014. The Trustee of the Trust has waived its rights to receive 
dividends on the shares held. The shares are held to meet obligations under the Company’s share-based payment 
plans as and when they arise at the discretion of the Company.
As at 31 December 2014, options exercisable over the Company’s ordinary shares of 10 5/11 pence each and capable 
of being satisfied through new allotments of shares were as follows:
Years of 
award/grant 
Option 
prices  
£ 
Latest
year of 
exercise 
Number of 
options/ 
allocations 
outstanding 
Performance Share Awards 2012-2014 nil 2015-2024 2,588,903
Deferred Share Bonus Awards 2012-2014 nil 2015-2024 207,127
Restricted Share Awards 2013 nil 2015 11,954 
NOTES TO THE COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 131 
9. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Share  
capital  
£m
Other  
capital  
reserve  
£m
Capital  
redemption  
reserve  
£m
Total  
retained  
earnings  
£m
Total  
reserves  
£m
At 1 January 2013 27.8  444.7  –  379.4  851.9 
Share-based payments –  –  –  0.9  0.9 
Purchase of own shares –  –  –  (0.2) (0.2)
Dividends paid (note 4) –  –  –  (23.3) (23.3)
Loss recognised in the year –  –  –  (2.8) (2.8)
Redemption of preference shares –  – 0.1 (0.1) –
At 1 January 2014 27.8 444.7 0.1 353.9 826.5
Share-based payments – – – 1.5 1.5
Purchase of own shares – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Dividends paid (note 4) – – – (66.3) (66.3)
Loss recognised in the year – – – (4.7) (4.7)
As at 31 December 2014 27.8 444.7 0.1 284.0 756.6
9.1 Other capital reserve
On 19 December 2012, the Company issued 278,448,752 ordinary shares of £1.50 each to the public shareholders 
of Vesuvius plc in return for the receipt of the entire share capital of Alent Investments Limited. The Company applied 
merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 and, accordingly, the £444.7m excess of the total market 
value of Alent Investments Limited, being £862.4m, over the nominal value of the shares issued of £417 .7m, was 
recorded in the other capital reserve. The other capital reserve does not form part of the reserves available for 
distribution by the Company.
9.2 Capital redemption reserve
On 9 December 2013 Alent plc established a capital redemption reserve of £0.1m in respect of the redemption of 50,000 
redeemable non-voting preference shares with a nominal value of £1.00, and the cancellation of 1 deferred share with 
a nominal value of £1.00.  132 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
10. Share-based payments 
10.1 Accounting policy 
The Company principally operates equity-settled share-based payment arrangements for its employees. Equity-settled 
share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date takes 
account of the effect of market-based conditions, such as the Total Shareholder Return target upon which vesting for 
some of the awards is conditional, and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding 
increase in equity. The cumulative expense recognised is adjusted for the best estimate of the shares that will eventually 
vest and for the effect of other non market-based vesting conditions, such as growth in headline earnings per share, 
which are not included in the fair value determined at the date of grant. 
10.2 Profit and loss account recognition
The Company operates a number of different share-based payment arrangements, the main features of which are 
described on pages 71 to 75 of the Remuneration Report. The total expense recognised in the year was £0.3m (2013: £0.2m).
10.3 Details of outstanding share awards
Outstanding Alent share plan awards
As at  
1 January 
2014  
no.
Granted  
no.
Exercised 
no.
Lapsed  
no.
As at 
31 December  
2014  
no.
Awards  
exercisable  
as at  
31 December  
2014  
no.
Weighted  
average  
outstanding  
contractual  
life of awards  
years 
Range of  
exercise  
prices  
pence 
Performance shares 879,703 485,012 – (102,631) 1,262,084 – 3.4 
Weighted average 
exercise price nil nil – nil nil – n/a
Other shares 23,909 – (11,955) – 11,954 – –
Weighted average 
exercise price nil – nil – nil – n/a
Outstanding Alent share plan awards
As at  
1 January 
2013  
no.
Transfers  
no.
Exercised 
no.
Lapsed  
no.
As at  
31 December 
2013  
no.
Awards 
exercisable as 
at  
31 December 
2013  
no
Weighted  
average  
outstanding  
contractual  
life of awards  
years 
Range of 
exercise 
prices 
pence 
Performance shares 497,460 436,407  (36,670) (17,494) 879,703  –  1.6 
Weighted average 
exercise price nil  nil  nil  nil  nil  –  n/a 
Other shares – 23,909 –  – 23,909 – 1.0
Weighted average 
exercise price – nil  –  –  nil  –  n/a 
For awards exercised during 2014, the share price at the date of exercise was 315.95p (2013: 345.3p).
Details of awards granted during the year can be found in note 27 to the consolidated financial results.
NOTES TO THE COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 133 
11. Contingent liabilities 
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies 
within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this 
respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that 
the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. Guarantees provided by the Company as at 
31 December 2014 in respect of the liabilities of its subsidiary companies amounted to £160.3m (2013: £161.8m) which 
includes £155.3m (2013: £154.5m) of drawings under the syndicated debt facility. 
Alent has extensive international operations and is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those 
covering taxation and environmental matters. Several of the Company’s subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings, 
certain of which are insured claims arising in the ordinary course of the operations of the company involved, and are 
aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of dispute with tax authorities. While the outcome of 
litigation and other disputes can never be predicted with certainty, having regard to legal advice received and the 
insurance arrangements of the Company and its subsidiaries, the Directors believe that none of these matters will, 
either individually or in the aggregate, have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or 
results of operations. 
12. Related parties 
All transactions with related parties are conducted on an arm’s length basis and in accordance with normal business 
terms. Transactions between related parties that are wholly owned Group subsidiaries are not disclosed in this note. 
Further details of the Group’s principal subsidiaries can be found in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.  134 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
GROUP RESULTS
Income statement
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
2012  
£m
2011  
£m 
2010  
£m
Revenue 644.8 684.7 713.9 814.4 720.9 
Net sales value 413.0 420.1 416.7 433.3 413.4 
Operating profit before exceptional items 95.1 94.1 103.0 99.6 71.0 
Exceptional items (18.1) (10.3) (15.8) (3.5) (5.3) 
Operating profit 77.0 83.8 87.2 96.1 65.7 
Demerger costs – – (10.7) – – 
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures 1.6 0.8 0.3 1.2 1.3 
Net finance costs (5.2) (6.9) (3.6) (2.9) (3.6) 
Profit before tax 73.4 77.7 73.2 94.4 63.4 
Income tax costs – ordinary activities (28.5) (20.9) (23.3) (16.8) (8.0) 
 – exceptional items 1.9 4.8 (4.9) (3.2) 0.6 
Profit for the year 46.8 61.6 45.0 74.4 56.0 
Balance sheet 
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
2012  
£m
2011  
£m 
2010  
£m
Property, plant and equipment 85.9 85.2 83.9 75.8 69.7 
Intangible assets 294.3 288.5 295.0 298.8 301.0 
Other non-current assets (excluding tax balances) 12.4 8.0 23.1 25.9 16.0
Total non-current assets (excluding tax balances) 392.6 381.7 402.0 400.5 386.7
Trade working capital 124.1 120.8 130.7 120.4 133.1 
Other net liabilities (excluding tax balances) (54.1) (42.1) (51.8) (60.4) (70.9) 
Net assets employed 462.6 460.4 480.9 460.5 448.9
Total equity 285.9 312.4 276.0 454.7 499.3 
Net debt/(cash) 108.3 96.5 144.4 (51.5) (102.8) 
Net defined benefit liability 24.1 18.8 24.3 26.4 26.9 
Income tax and deferred tax balances 44.3 32.7 36.2 30.9 25.5
Total capital employed 462.6 460.4 480.9 460.5 448.9
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY  STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT 135 
GROUP RESULTS (CONTINUED)
Statement of cash flows 
2014  
£m
2013  
£m 
2012  
£m
2011  
£m 
2010  
£m
Profit for the year 46.8 61.6 45.0 74.4 56.0 
Adjustments for: 
Depreciation 9.1 9.0 8.9 8.5 8.7 
Share of post-tax profit of joint ventures (1.6) (0.8) (0.3) (1.2) (1.3) 
Exceptional items 18.1 10.3 15.8 3.5 5.3 
Demerger costs – – 10.7 – – 
Net finance costs 5.2 6.9 3.6 2.9 3.6 
Income tax costs 26.6 16.1 28.2 20.0 7.4 
EBITDA 104.2 103.1 111.9 108.1 79.7 
Net (increase)/decrease in trade and other working capital (0.2) 5.6 (20.0) (9.6) (19.5) 
Outflow relating to restructuring charges (9.3) (4.0) (19.8) (3.8) (9.0) 
Litigation settlements 1.7 – – – – 
Payment of demerger costs (0.2) (4.8) (5.7) – – 
Additional funding contributions into Group pension plans (2.4) (1.9) (2.1) (1.7) (3.1) 
Net operating outflow related to assets and liabilities classified 
as held for sale – – – – (1.6) 
Cash generated from operations 93.8 98.0 64.3 93.0 46.5 
DIVISIONAL RESULTS
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Assembly Materials 
Revenue £m 393.9 423.1 438.7 527.3 446.7 
Net sales value £m 204.9 209.5 208.0 214.1 196.9 
Segment result £m 57.6 58.2 57.5 52.1 36.4 
Return on sales % 14.6 13.8 13.1 9.9 8.1 
NSV margin % 28.1 27.8 27.6 24.3 18.5 
Number of employees – average No. 1,397 1,342 1,347 1,352 1,463
  – year-end No. 1,398 1,333 1,332 1,355 1,339 
Surface Chemistries 
Revenue £m 250.9 261.6 275.2 287.1 274.2 
Net sales value £m 208.1 210.6 208.7 219.2 216.5 
Segment result £m 44.6 42.7 45.2 47.5 34.6 
Return on sales % 17.8 16.3 16.4 16.5 12.6 
Return on net sales value % 21.4 20.3 21.7 21.7 16.0 
Number of employees – average No. 1,155 1,214 1,212 1,209 1,216 
  – year-end No. 1,140 1,185 1,193 1,194 1,212  136 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
Ball Grid Array (BGA) A type of surface mount technology used for packaging integrated circuits.
Bar solder and flux Used in mature wave soldering process.
Copper damascene Chemicals used to create nanoscale copper connections within semiconductor wafers. 
Die-attach products The “die” refers to the silicon die in active integrated circuit packages. The attachment 
is most commonly a thermal path to help draw the heat out of the package and is 
typically either a purely metal or a conductive polymeric bond. This application is 
critical to the integrated circuit’s reliability and ultimate performance. 
Electronic polymers Used for packaging, sealing and conductive adhesives.
Electroplating A plating process that uses electrical current to coat a conductive object with a thin 
layer of another material in order to bestow a desired property (e.g. corrosion/wear-
resistance, aesthetic qualities) to a surface that otherwise lacks that property.
Flux A chemical-based material designed to help reduce oxides and clean metal surfaces 
in order to enable effective “wetting” of metal surfaces to the molten solder alloy during 
the creation of a solder joint when attaching an electronic component to a printed 
circuit board. 
LED A light-emitting diode. 
Preforms Solder components engineered into specific shapes/forms.
Printed circuit board A type of circuit board which has conducting tracks superimposed or “printed” on 
one or both sides. May refer to a board either before or after the assembly process. 
GLOSSARY OF  
TECHNICAL TERMS STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 137 
Printed circuit board assembly Printed circuit board assembly involves attaching components such as semiconductors 
and capacitors to a fabricated board and making the required physical and electrical 
connections. This has to be done with precise accuracy if the finished printed circuit 
board is to function effectively. 
Reclaim Metal recycling business - reclaim of waste solder, reused in solder processes.
Semiconductor wafers A thin slice of semiconducting material, upon which microcircuits are constructed by 
chemical deposition of various materials. 
Solder An alloy of tin and other metals with a comparatively low melting point used to join less 
fusible metals. 
Solder spheres Used for integrated circuit and printed circuit board connections.
Stencils Used to apply adhesive and solder paste onto a printed circuit board.
Surface mount technology Both a technology design and the electronic components that are used in the process 
of soldering components to the surface of a printed circuit board. 
Through-hole assembly The use of either older technology parts or parts requiring significant mechanical 
strength, where the component has wire leads that physically pass through holes in  
a printed circuit board. 
Wafer bumping products Metal alloys for wafer bump plating, including gold, copper, lead-free alloys and low 
alpha lead-based alloys.
Wave solder assembly A process by which large printed circuit boards can be soldered quickly and reliably 
during assembly.
Wire solder Used in touch-up and rework applications. 138 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
Enquiries
For enquiries regarding ordinary shares, please contact: 
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex
BN99 6DA 
United Kingdom 
Or please telephone: 
(UK only) 0871 384 2335 
or (non UK) + 44 121 415 7047 
or Fax: + 44 1903 833 168 
For the hard of hearing, Equiniti now offers a special Textel 
service which can be accessed by dialling 0871 384 2255. 
Shareholders can also access their holdings online by 
visiting the Registrar’s website at www.shareview.co.uk 
For enquiries regarding corporate governance, please 
contact the Company Secretary at the registered office: 
Alent plc 
Forsyth Road 
Sheerwater 
Woking 
Surrey GU21 5RZ 
E-mail: shareholder.information@alent.com 
Telephone: +44 (0)1483 793250
Fax: +44 (0)1483 793299
For investor queries, please contact the investor relations 
manager at the registered office: 
Alent plc 
Forsyth Road 
Sheerwater 
Woking 
Surrey GU21 5RZ 
E-mail: fgibbons@alent.com 
Tel: +44 (0)1483 793250
Fax: +44 (0)1483 793299
Financial calendar*
7 May 2015 Annual General Meeting 
3 August 2015  2015 Interim Results 
*  The financial calendar may be updated from time to time 
throughout the year. Please refer to our website www.alent.com 
for up-to-date information.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan 
Shareholders are able to take their dividend as cash, 
or in shares through the DRIP (Dividend Reinvestment Plan) 
operated by the Company’s Registrar, Equiniti. Further 
details are available at http:/ /www.shareview.co.uk/
products/Pages/DividendReInvestmentPlan.aspx or 
directly from Equiniti. 
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) allows shareholders 
to use their cash dividends to buy more shares in the 
Company. Rather than receiving a dividend cheque 
through the post or having their bank account credited 
with the dividend payment, shareholders can choose to 
use their cash dividend to buy additional shares. 
Whole shares are purchased with any residual money 
being carried forward and added to the next dividend. 
However, if the amount of the dividend, less any dealing 
costs incurred in completing the purchase, is insufficient 
to buy a single share, no charge is made and the 
dividend is carried forward. 
e-communications 
Using the Group’s website as the main method of 
distribution for many statutory documents is part of our 
commitment to reducing our environmental impact. 
Shareholders can choose to receive communications, 
including the Annual Report & Accounts and Notice of 
Meetings, in electronic form rather than by post. 
This has a number of advantages, including: 
• savings on environmental resources; 
• significant cost savings for the Company on the delivery 
of documents; and
• speedier delivery of shareholder communications. 
Shareholders can register through the online service 
provided by our Registrar, Equiniti, at www.shareview.co.uk. 
The registration process requires the input of a shareholder 
reference number (SRN), which can be found on the 
share certificate. 
To ensure that shareholder communications are received 
in electronic form, “email” should be selected as the 
mailing preference. 
Once registered, shareholders will be sent an email 
notifying them each time a shareholder communication 
has been published on the Company website, and 
providing them with a link to the page on the website 
where it may be found.
 S HAR E H O LD E R  
 INFORM A TION STRATEGIC 
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMATION
WWW.ALENT.COM  ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 139 
Warning to shareholders 
Alent plc is legally obliged to make its share register 
available to the general public. Consequently some 
shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including 
correspondence from unauthorised investment companies. 
Companies have become increasingly aware that their 
shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls 
concerning their shareholding. These calls are typically 
from overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders 
offering to sell what often turn out to be worthless or 
high-risk shares in US or UK investments. They can be very 
persistent and extremely persuasive. Shareholders are 
advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to 
buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: 
• ensure that you obtain the correct name of the person 
and organisation; 
• check that they are properly authorised by the 
FCA before becoming involved. You can check at   
www.fca.org.uk; and
• report the matter to the FCA at www.fca.org.uk.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders 
As at 31 December 2014
Shareholder Analysis Shareholding Analysis
Range
No. of 
holders
% of  
holders
No. of 
shares
% of issued 
share 
capital
1-1,000 2,871 76.32 471,119 0.18
1,001-50,000 719 19.11 4,833,092 1.81
50,001-500,000 106 2.82 19,810,408 7.44
500,001+ 66 1.75 241,239,117 90.57
Total 3,762 100 266,353,736 100 140 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.ALENT.COM
 A DV I S E R S
FINANCIAL ADVISER
Rothschild 
New Court 
St Swithin’s Lane 
London 
EC4N 8AL
FINANCIAL PR ADVISER
Pendomer Communications Limited
55 Farringdon Road 
London 
EC1M 3JB
AUDITOR
KPMG LLP 
15 Canada Square 
London 
E14 5GL
REGISTRAR 
Equiniti Limited 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing 
West Sussex
BN99 6DA 
CORPORATE BROKERS
Liberum
Ropemaker Place
25 Ropemaker Street
London
EC2Y 9LY
UBS 
1 Finsbury Avenue 
London 
EC2M 2PP
LEGAL ADVISER 
Linklaters LLP 
One Silk Street 
London 
EC2Y 8HQ
INSURANCE BROKER
Lockton 
The St Botolph Building 
138 Houndsditch 
London 
EC3A 7AG Designed and produced 
by MerchantCantos
www.merchantcantos.com ALENT plc
Forsyth Road
Sheerwater
Woking
Surrey
GU21 5RZ
T: +44 (0)1483 793250
F: +44 (0)1483 793299
WWW.ALENT.COM
 
Stock code: ALNT
LEVERAGING OUR STRENGTHS  ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
