 Fortune Oil PLC
annual report 2012
Fortune Oil PLC
annual report 2012 Vision
To be a leader in China’s energy 
and resources supply
Strategy
To invest and operate long term 
cost competitive assets supplying 
oil, gas and resources to China 1 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
company profile
Fortune Oil PLC, a company listed on the London Stock  
Exchange focussing on the supply of crude oil, transportation 
fuels including petrol, diesel, aviation fuel, and natural gas in the 
People’s Republic of China and development of resources to 
capitalise on China’s growing demand for energy and resources.
Oil business; operates an off shore crude oil import terminal, 
refined products jetty and storage terminal, and aviation refuelling.
Trading Business; focuses on the supply and trading of oil and 
petrochemical products, LPG and LNG.
Natural gas business; includes the exploration, production, 
distribution and supply of natural gas to residential, industrial  
and commercial customers and the operation of natural gas 
vehicle refuelling stations.
Resources business; develops overseas investment opportunities 
to capitalise on China’s growing demand for energy and resources.
  contents
 1 company profile
 2 operational locations
 4 business highlights
 4 five year summary
 5 key performance indicators
 6 chairman’s statement
 9 chief executive’s review
 12 business review









 24 principal risks and uncertainties,  
their effects and our management strategy
 26 financial review
 28 board of directors
 30 directors’ report
 40 corporate governance
 50 remuneration report
 63 directors’ responsibilities statement
 64 independent auditor’s report on  
the group financial statements
 66 consolidated income statement
 67 consolidated statement of comprehensive income
 68 consolidated statement of financial position
 69 consolidated cash flow statement 
 70 consolidated statement of changes in equity
 71 notes to the group financial statements
 113 five year summary
 114 independent auditor’s report on  
the company financial statements
 116 company statement of financial position
 117 notes to the company financial statements
 121 shareholder information West Siberia
Tashkent
2 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
operational locations
Beijing municipality
 1. Tongzhou
Shanxi province
 2. Liulin
 3. Shuozhou
 4. Jinshatan
 5. Changzhi
 6. Jincheng
Henan province
 7. Xinyang
 8. Minggang
Tianjin municipality
 9.  Jinghai
10.  Daqiuzhuang
11.  T uanbo
Hebei province
 12. Quyang
 13. Luquan
 14.  Jingxing
 15.  Luancheng
 16.  Xingtang
 17.  SJZ Airport 
  Industrial Zone
18.  Wuji
19.  Shenze
20.  Gaocheng
21.  Xinji
22.  Lingshou
23.  Jinzhou
Shandong province
 24.  Qufu
 25.  Jining (new district)
 26.  Sishui
Liaoning province
 27. Shenyang
 28. Dashiqiao
 29. Jianping
Jilin Province
 30. Fusong
Chongqing 
Municipality
 31. Ba-nan
Hubei province
32.  Zigui
33.  E-Zhou
Fortune Gas
Maoming SPM
West Zhuhai
Oil Terminals
Bluesky Airports
Baise Airport
Beihai Airport
Changde Airport
Changsha Airport
Chaoshan Airport
Enshi Airport
Guangzhou Airport
Guilin Airport
Liuzhou Airport
Meixian Airport
Nanning Airport
Wuhan Airport
Wuzhou Airport
Yichang Airport
Zhangjiajie Airport
Zhanjiang Airport
Zhengzhou Airport 30
27
28 29
9
10
11
12
16
23
21
18
3
4
2
5
6
25
7
8
32
33
31
24
26
20
1415
22
17
19
13
1
West-East Gas Pipeline
Shaanxi-Beijing Pipeline No. 1
Shaanxi-Beijing Pipeline No. 2
Chang-Hu Pipeline
Se-Ning-Lan Pipeline
Zhong-Wu Pipeline
Huai-Wu Pipeline
Ji-Ning Pipeline
North-East Pipeline connecting
to Russian Gas Pipeline
Southern Pipeline
East Siberia
Sakhalin
3 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012 4 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
Financial £ million 2012  2011  Change %
 Revenue including share of jointly controlled entities* 739.4  624.6  18 
 Profit after tax* 20.5  24.9  (18 )
 Profit attributable to owners of the parent* 15.7  18.2  (14 )
 Net assets 246.8  196.5  26
 Net assets attributable to owners of the parent 188.4  141.1  34
Shareholders
 Issued Shares, millions of shares 1,987  1,987  nil
 Basic earnings per Share (pence)* 0.82  0.96  (14 )
 Dividend per Share (pence) 0.16  0.18  (11 )
business highlights
five year summary
Bluesky
Sa es mi ion tonnes
 Profit attributable to owners of the parent* 
 mi ion 
 Maoming SPM Throughput
 hrou hput mi ion tonnes
 West Zhuhai
 hrou hput mi ion tonnes
 Natural Gas
Sa es mi ion cu ic metres
 Connected Natural Gas customers
 housands
 * from continuing and discontinued operations. 5 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
Key Performance Indicator Target Commentary
 
key performance indicators
Revenues including share of jointly
controlled entities*
 mi ion
 To increase the Group’s revenues 
(including share of jointly controlled 
entities) by 10 per cent per year over 
the long term.
Target met:
18 per cent increase over 2011.  
Profit Attributable to Equity Shareholders*
(Before other gains)
 mi ion 
 To achieve a growth of above  
15 per cent per year over the long 
term in profit attributable to equity 
shareholders. 
Target not met:  
2 per cent increase over 2011.
Basic earnings Per Share*
 ence
 To increase earnings per share  
(EPS) by 15 per cent per year over 
the long term.
Target not met year-on-year from 2011  
to 2012 (there was a 14 per cent 
decrease).
Increase in Gas Sales and Gas Volume mi ion m
  
 mi ion m
 To increase the volume sales of  
gas by over 30 per cent per year.
Target not met: 
6 per cent increase over 2011. 
 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 
for Subsidiaries
 ost time in uries per mi ion man hours

 To ensure safe operation for our 
personnel, as measured by Lost 
Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 
for our subsidiary companies.
Target met as LTIFR was zero in  
2012. Safety at work is critical to  
our business.
To minimise the accidental release  
of hydrocarbons to the environment 
from all our operating companies.
Target met as there were no significant 
spillages or releases. The Company is 
committed to environmental protection.
* from continuing and discontinued operations. 6 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
chairman’s statement
Fortune Oil continued to perform 
strongly in 2012 and made 
significant progress across all  
core businesses, delivering on  
its strategy in the face of the 
prevailing uncertain global 
economic conditions.
Introduction
I am pleased to report that Fortune Oil continued to perform 
strongly in 2012 and made significant progress across all 
core businesses, delivering on its strategy in the face of the 
prevailing uncertain global economic conditions.
Results and Operations
The Group’s revenues increased by 18 per cent to £739.4 
million (2011: £624.6 million), and operating profits were 
£28.5 million, 4 per cent higher than 2011 (£27.4 million). 
Profit attributable to owners of the parent decreased by  
14 per cent to £15.7 million (2011: £18.2 million) however, 
profits attributable to owners of the parent before other 
gains increased to £11.0 million (2011: £10.8 million).
During the year, we entered into a strategic joint venture 
arrangement with a view to investing in China Gas  
Holdings Limited (“CGH”), one of the largest independent 
natural gas businesses in China. This culminated in the 
decision, announced at the end of 2012 to enter into a 
transaction with CGH in relation to the Company’s natural 
gas business. Once complete, this will significantly 
strengthen the Company’s balance sheet, through the 
receipt of cash proceeds of US$170 million as half of the 
consideration for our 85% share of the natural gas business. 
The CGH transaction remains conditional on approval by the  
Anti-Monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce of the 
PRC and the Hong Kong Takeovers Executive or Takeovers 
and Merges Panel, which is expected mid-year 2013.
The Board is evaluating several options on how to best utilise 
the proceeds from the transaction including the potential  
for strategic acquisitions in the energy and resources sector 
that are synergistic to the Group’s strategy, and exploring 
other investment opportunities and gas supply options that 
can help to strengthen the supply of resources for the 
combined gas business with CGH.
Fortune Oil’s strength lies in its relationships with its joint 
venture partners in developing growth opportunities. This  
is clearly demonstrated with the CGH transaction which 
further strengthens our position in the Chinese natural gas 
market. As a result of the CGH transaction, Fortune Oil 
should own an enlarged stake and exercise significant 
influence in CGH, which will have natural gas operations in 
200 cities across China. CGH recognised the complementary 
skills and assets of our natural gas business which ideally 
positions the company for success in what we expect to 
become an increasingly competitive market.
In 2012 we also made significant progress in a number of 
other key areas:
 We are in the final stages of negotiating a replacement 
structure for the Maoming SPM partnership.
 We obtained the government approvals to progress  
the construction of the gas gathering system for our 
CBM block in Liulin. This is a critical step towards 
commercialisation of gas from this block.
 We achieved a major first for China in obtaining the 
regulatory approvals for the commercial operation  
of our dual fuel LNG ship. This gives us first mover 
advantage in the development of a major new market  
for gas in China.
As a Group we will pursue attractive growth opportunities  
in our target markets. 7 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
chairman’s statement
Dividend
The Board recommends the payment of a dividend to 
shareholders for 2012, of 0.16p per share (2011: 0.18p  
per share). The dividend will be payable on 15 August 2013 
to shareholders on the register as at 12 July 2013.
Management and Governance
Given the importance of the CGH transaction, continuity 
across the Board and Management team is critical during 
this period. We are determined to manage a smooth  
and efficient transition to a new combined natural gas 
organisation. The continued performance of all of our 
businesses during this period is critical and we will ensure 
that there is no disruption to our operations.
As a result of the CGH transaction and the proposed 
change of the status of the Maoming SPM joint venture,  
we were no longer able to maintain our Premium Listing  
on the London Stock Exchange but have become a 
Standard Listed company, with effect from 20 March 2013. 
Nevertheless, following this move we are committed to 
maintaining the high standards of corporate governance 
and the same reporting standards as are required for  
a Premium Listed company.
We will continue to evaluate options such that Fortune Oil’s 
listing status meets the best interests of the Company and 
our shareholders.
Review of China Economy
China’s economy slowed to 7.8 per cent in 2012, its lowest 
annual growth rate since 1999, as a result of restrictions  
the Chinese government had put in place to cool China’s 
property market and as a result of the lower demand  
for Chinese goods from Europe and the United States. 
However, unlike in 2009, the Chinese government did  
not step in with a stimulus plan. The outcome is a general 
recognition that the days of double-digit growth in the 
Chinese economy have come to an end. The ten yearly 
transition of the Chinese leadership in 2012 is expected  
to lead to a wholesale revamp of government ministries 
aimed at reducing bureaucracy.
Energy price mechanisms are also being reformed and  
are moving to a more market based approach. Fortune Oil 
pays close attention to short-term economic conditions  
but also takes a long term strategic view of the Company’s 
development, balancing growth opportunities and 
investment returns whilst continuously looking to  
improve our competitiveness.
Outlook
Fortune Oil’s growth is underpinned by China’s ongoing 
economic growth and the associated increase in demand 
for energy. Although China’s GDP grew at only 7.8 per cent 
in 2012 the OECD is predicting growth of 8.5 per cent in 
2013 and 8.9 per cent in 2014. The OECD also predicts 
that China will over take the United States and become  
the world’s biggest economy in 2016.
In line with the slowdown in China’s economic growth rate, 
Chinese oil demand grew by 4.2 per cent in 2012, or at 
about 387,000 barrels of oil per day, down from 6.3 per 
cent growth in 2011 and the double-digit growth in 2010.  
In line with signs that the economy started to expand in Q4 
2012, China’s crude oil demand hit a record high of 44.8 
million tonnes and refinery throughput also reached an all 
time high of 10.15 million bpd in December 2012.
Consumption of oil-derived products such as diesel and 
petrol will continue to grow to fuel the rapid expansion  
of the automotive and aviation sectors. Maoming SPM, 
West Zhuhai Terminal and the Bluesky businesses are  
well positioned to participate in this growth.
Looking to the future, the projects that will help drive 
Fortune Oil’s growth are advancing well.
In the natural gas business we anticipate completion of  
the gas gathering system by the middle of 2013 and this  
will enable commercial gas sales from our CBM block in 
Liulin. With the approval of our LNG ship design we will 
progress the development of our construction of LNG 
refuelling stations along the Yangtze and conversion of  
ships to dual fuel LNG technology. 8 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
In the Oil business we are planning to increase the capacity 
of the SPM terminal once the replacement partnership 
structure is in place to meet the growing demand at 
Sinopec’s Maoming refinery and our Trading business is 
expanding into the supply and trade of other commodities 
including diesel, LPG and LNG.
Guangzhou airport started construction of its third runway 
and second terminal in August 2012, as passenger traffic 
has exceeded its design capacity. The airport handled 48 
million passengers in 2012 but this is projected to increase 
to 80 million in 2020. This bodes well for the Bluesky 
business which supplies the aviation fuel to this airport.
The Resources business completed the feasibility study  
and obtained a JORC compliant resource estimate for  
the Hrazdan iron ore mine in Armenia and is in the process 
of completing a final set of studies required to obtain the 
regulatory approvals which are now expected in 2014.
As a Group we have clear priorities, direction and  
focus. I remain confident of the continued success in  
the coming years and see great opportunities ahead.  
In shaping our portfolio, our priority is to create value  
for our shareholders and enable them to share in China’s 
growth, one of the most exciting markets in the world.  
I would like to thank them for their continued support and 
loyalty. We remain very optimistic about the future growth 
prospects for Fortune Oil. With its solid foundation across 
the oil and gas sectors in China and the anticipated rising 
demand for energy, the Group anticipates an even better 
future for its businesses in the years to come.
Finally, I would like to thank all of our employees for their 
efforts. This has been another demanding year and they 
have shown admirable dedication. Special thanks are due  
to management for the successful execution of the CGH 
transaction, the most significant in the Company’s history.
QIAN Benyuan
Chairman
24 April 2013
chairman’s statement
Guangzhou airport 
started construction 
of its third runway 
and second terminal 
in August 2012. 9 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
chief executive’s review
all operations for the year amounted to £15.7 million, a 
decrease of 14 per cent compared to £18.2 million in 2011 
mainly as a result of an exceptional one off profit in 2011  
of £7.3 million arising from the deemed divestment of the  
CBM business. Group profit from operations, excluding 
gains on disposals and deemed disposal increased by  
4 per cent to £28.5 million (2011: £27.4 million). Earnings 
per share for the year decreased to 0.82 pence compared 
to 0.96 pence in 2011, a decrease of 14 per cent. Operating 
profit growth in 2012 was driven by a strong contribution 
from our Bluesky aviation and natural gas businesses.  
The net borrowing position stayed low at £61.1 million as  
at 31 December 2012 (2011: £5.7 million). During the year 
we invested £59.9 million which primarily consisted of the 
injection into China Gas Group (“CGG”) for shares acquisition 
purpose of £35.6 million and capital expenditure of £15.7 
million, mainly to continue development of our integrated 
natural gas business.
I continue to be greatly encouraged by the Group’s 
performance. Our focus is on continuous improvement  
and to drive efficiency in our operations.
Strategy
Fortune Oil has a clear and focussed strategy: we invest  
in and operate long term cost competitive assets supplying 
oil, gas and resources to support China’s growing economy.  
To achieve this we focus on our portfolio of assets with  
the intention of:
 Becoming a leading integrated natural gas supplier 
across our selected regions in China via our equity 
investment in CGH;
 Developing opportunities in the Chinese oil sector,  
in particular exploiting the Company’s unique position  
in oil products supply and terminals; and
 Developing overseas resources supported by our  
strong relationships with major Chinese state  
owned enterprises.
2012 Results
Fortune Oil continued to make good progress in 2012.  
We have achieved a series of key milestones and remain  
on course with our growth strategy, making great strides 
forward across our core businesses of oil, gas and resources.
Through our transaction with CGH we will be cooperating 
with one of the largest natural gas companies in China 
supplying gas to over 200 cities with a strong platform  
for future growth. Fortune Oil shareholders will continue  
to be exposed to China’s considerable natural gas growth, 
through our shareholding and management position in CGH.
In our Oil business we also continue to make good 
progress. We are close to finalising the replacement 
structure to expand the Maoming SPM joint venture with 
Sinopec and the Bluesky aviation fuel joint venture also 
turned in another solid performance.
In the Resources business, we have completed the 
feasibility study and JORC resource statement on the 
Armenian iron ore asset and made good progress on other 
technical and environmental studies required to fulfil the 
necessary regulatory approvals.
In terms of financial performance, 2012 was another good 
year for the Company. Higher sales volumes drove a 18  
per cent increase in revenues from all operations to £739.4 
million in 2012 from £624.6 million in 2011. Group profit 
after taxation attributable to owners of the parent from  
I continue to be greatly 
encouraged by the Group’s 
performance. Our focus is  
on continuous improvement  
and to drive efficiency in  
our operations. 10 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
chief executive’s review
Our focus has resulted in the creation of the SPM, Bluesky, 
West Zhuhai Terminal and the natural gas business which 
have provided strong and consistent cash flows and most 
recently the potential for a significant cash inflow and the 
opportunity to build upon the strategic relationship with CGH.
Key Performance Indicators
We continue to apply the six principal Key Performance 
Indicators (“KPIs”) that were adopted in 2004. We feel these 
continue to be valuable in assessing how well the Group 
has been performing against its strategic objectives. In 2012 
we met or exceeded three out of the six KPIs (see page 5).
2012 Key Achievements
In 2012 the Group had four priorities. First, to conclude  
the renewal of the Maoming SPM joint venture; second,  
to reinforce the strategic direction of the natural gas 
business; third, to progress the commercialisation of gas 
from the CBM project in Liulin; and finally, progress the 
Armenian iron ore project towards the final investment 
decision point. Substantial progress has been made in 
meeting these priorities as detailed in this report.
The Maoming SPM was one of the original investments on 
which Fortune Oil was founded. The SPM arrangements 
with the Company’s partners were due to expire on  
5 February 2013 but have continued pending completion  
of an alternative partnership structure. The Company is now  
in the final stages of concluding a replacement structure  
for the Maoming SPM partnership which will include the 
development of a new pipeline and buoy. We expect that 
under the new structure, the Company will no longer hold  
a controlling equity stake in the joint venture although the 
scope of the joint venture with Sinopec will be expanded.
Natural gas continues to play an increasing role in meeting 
the government targets in energy conservation and 
environmental protection and we have steadily expanded 
this business with our focus on growth in the higher margin 
sectors of LNG and CNG refuelling and gas supply to 
industrial zones. In 2012 our natural gas sales exceeded 
500 million cubic metres and we connected an additional 
67,907 new customers.
We have also become the first company in China to secure 
the regulatory approvals for an LNG dual fuel ship. This is  
a very significant milestone and demonstrates that our 
technology is at the leading edge of this important new 
market. We are already constructing our first LNG refuelling 
station in Chongqing and our plans for a network of stations 
along the Yangtze are progressing to plan. In LNG vehicle 
refuelling, our projects in Liaoning and Hebei province are 
well advanced and our first mover advantage will ensure we 
access the prime locations to capture the rapidly expanding 
LNG fuelled bus and truck fleets in these provinces.
In Liulin our total field production from the Fortune Liulin 
Gas CBM wells exceeded 27,000 cubic metres per day,  
the Production Sharing Contract (“PSC”) was extended a  
further two years until March 2014, and we commenced 
construction of the gas gathering system which will collect 
the gas from the various wells and transport it to the 
wholesale station we have built. We are on track for 
commercial production of gas from Liulin in 2013.
The Company also took the strategic step to enter into  
the CGH transaction described in more detail below, as  
this was seen as the most efficient avenue to accelerate  
the growth and strengthen our position in China’s rapidly 
expanding natural gas market. Through this transaction,  
we will hold a significant position in a nation-wide natural 
gas supplier to over 200 cities with significant growth 
potential, positioning the combined natural gas businesses 
as amongst the largest natural gas companies in China.
The transaction allows Fortune Oil to become part of  
a much stronger business platform well positioned to 
capture a disproportionate share of the China natural gas 
market. Moreover, we anticipate this market will see more 
consolidation and greater competition from the major  
state owned gas companies. Following the completion  
of the transaction, we will be one of the largest shareholders 
in CGH, with a founder and managing director of CGH as 
our joint venture partner in our investment vehicle. Under 
the terms of the transaction, we have the right to nominate 
two directors to the board of CGH, one to be the managing 
director, thus enabling us to have significant influence in  
the development and strategic direction of CGH.
Outlook for 2013
In 2012 we continued to put in place the solid foundations 
on which to build our future. Although China’s economic 
growth cooled from the double digit growth of previous 
years, there are signs that the economy has turned and with 
the new Chinese administration taking control, we expect to 
see significant steps being taken to maintain China’s strong 
and sustained growth as well as a continued strong demand 
for energy.
We constantly assess the potential impact of these  
factors on the Group’s plans, ensuring that the Company’s 
interests are protected and that our investment strategy is 
appropriate to the prevailing market conditions. We believe 
our solid foundations and strategy will enable us to continue 
to grow in the volatile and challenging markets. 11 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
China crude oil demand reached a record high in December 
2012 and we expect demand in the oil sector to remain 
strong. This will mean continued demand for our Oil business 
“engines” of Bluesky, Maoming SPM and West Zhuhai 
Terminal, which, although mature businesses, generate 
much of our cash flow. We will continue to invest to keep 
them running smoothly and efficiently and to extract 
additional value.
The news in China over the past few months has highlighted 
the poor air quality in several of the major cities in China, 
including Beijing, due to coal consumption. Natural gas  
will be the cornerstone to improve local air quality. Our 
involvement with CGH will be the ideal platform to increase 
our share of this rapidly expanding market. Through CGH, 
we are creating scale and critical mass, which are key in an 
increasingly competitive market. We expect to complete the 
transaction with CGH around the middle of 2013 and we will 
then work closely with CGH to enhance the development of 
the combined natural gas business.
The resource business made good progress on the 
development of the Hrazdan mine. We completed the  
JORC compliant mineral resource statement and the 
feasibility study and are working through various technical 
and environmental studies required to obtain the necessary 
regulatory approvals. Whilst it remains difficult to be 
definitive about the long term iron ore cost of production 
curve, China Metallurgical Mines Association (“CMMA”) 
estimates that 42 per cent of iron ore supply to China is 
unprofitable at prices less than US$100/tonne, providing  
us a clear target for the cost of production we need to 
achieve to ensure the commercial success of this project.
Our Employees
Finally I would like to join the Chairman in thanking our 
employees for their dedication, hard work and focus. We  
are very much judged on our results and our employees  
are responsible for helping us achieve this. Throughout the 
year, their commitment, talent and integrity have led to the 
delivery of our strong performance.
On behalf of the Board, I would also like to thank our 
shareholders as their continued support for Fortune Oil 
which has helped us achieve such a good performance  
in 2012.
TEE Kiam Poon
Chief Executive
24 April 2013
The commitment, talent  
and integrity of our  
employees helped us  
achieve such a strong 
performance. 12 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information 
to the shareholders of the Company. The Annual Report 
contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to 
the operations, performance and financial condition of the 
Company and the Group as a whole. By their nature, these 
statements involve uncertainties since future events and 
circumstances can cause results and development to differ 
from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements 
reflect knowledge and information available at the date of 
preparation of the Annual Report. Nothing in the Annual 
Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
OUR ORGANISATION
Our activities span across northern, central and southern 
China and include the following operations:
 The Bluesky aviation refuelling business supplies jet  
fuel to 17 major airports which handled 107.7 million 
passengers in 2012;
 The Maoming Single Point Mooring Facility supplied  
11 million tonnes of crude oil to Sinopec’s Maoming 
Refinery in 2012, one of the largest refineries in China;
 The West Zhuhai import and distribution terminal 
supplies petrol and diesel to Petrochina’s downstream 
refuelling markets across southern China;
 The natural gas business is focussed on ten key 
provinces and, in 2012, supplied approximately 280,000 
customers with fuel for transportation, the energy to 
heat their homes, and the power to drive their industries; 
 The introduction of LNG dual fuel ships and associated 
LNG refuelling infrastructure for river borne cargo 
operations; 
 The development and commercialisation of coal bed 
methane in Liulin, Shanxi Province; and
 The supply and trading of oil, gas and petrochemical 
products.
OUR DEVELOPMENT
Fortune Oil has always sought to exploit opportunities in the 
oil products and natural gas industry as the Chinese market 
continues to expand. In summary our aims are to:
 Work with CGH to become a leading integrated gas 
supplier across selected regions in China via our equity 
investment in CGH;
 Bring Liulin CBM to commercialisation and to integrate  
it with downstream markets;
 Develop opportunities for the supply and trading of fuels 
to China, in particular exploiting our unique position in  
oil products supply and terminal operations;
 Develop overseas high growth rate commodities such  
as oil, natural gas, coal and metals with linkage to China 
and the ability to generate cash flows within three years. 
This Operational Review details our performance in 2012, 
assesses the changing economic and business environment 
in China, the performance of the major operating businesses, 
and our responsibilities to the community.
Fortune Oil PLC, a London Stock 
Exchange listed company with  
operational headquarters in Hong Kong, 
has supplied oil products and natural gas 
in the People’s Republic of China for 
almost twenty years. We have done  
this reliably and, importantly, safely. 13 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
OUR MARKET
In 2012 China imported 271 million tonnes of crude oil, 
representing a 6.8 per cent increase on 2011, with crude  
oil demand reaching an all time high of 44.8 million tonnes 
in December 2012. The NDRC’s Energy Research Institute 
is predicting that China will consume over 500 million 
tonnes of oil products in 2013, of which 60 per cent would 
be imported. Oil products demand is projected to increase 
to 540 million tonnes by 2015, driven by increasing demand 
for transportation fuels such as petrol, diesel and jet fuel.
Auto vehicle sales in China, rose 4.3 per cent in 2012 to 
19.3 million, a modest increase over the previous year’s 
pace, according to the China Association of Automobile 
Manufacturers (“CAAM”). CAAM is predicting an improved 
picture for 2013, forecasting a 7 per cent rise in total vehicle 
sales for the year. China is also expected to produce more 
cars than Europe in 2013 for the first time, a milestone in 
the country’s industrial history. Annual car sales growth of 
between 5 and 8 per cent is predicted over the next decade.
The volume of air passenger traffic reached 319 million 
person-trips in 2012, an increase of 9.2 per cent year- 
on-year, according to the Civil Aviation Administration of 
China (“CAAC”). Passenger traffic growth in 2012 was 
almost the same as in 2011. Total air passenger and freight 
transport increased by 6.1 percent year-on-year in 2012 to 
60.8 billion ton-km, according to CAAC. The International 
Air Transport Association (IATA) remains optimistic about  
the industry’s prospects; globally air-line passenger 
numbers are set to rise by over a quarter in the coming 
years to hit 3.6 billion in 2016, with China accounting for 
nearly one in four new travellers.
Fortune Oil’s operations in the oil sector are primarily in 
infrastructure facilities for the import and supply of oil  
and oil derived products. Continued growth in demand  
for transportation fuels will ensure strong utilisation of 
Fortune Oil’s facilities.
According to NDRC, China saw its consumption of natural 
gas rise 13 per cent to 147.1 billion cubic metres in 2012. 
China produced 107.7 billion cubic metres of natural gas, 
an increase of only 6.5 per cent on 2011 production. To 
meet this accelerating demand, China has had to increase 
significantly the amount of gas it imports. In 2012 China’s 
natural gas imports surged 31.1 per cent from the previous 
year to 42.5 billion cubic metres with imports now accounting 
to 29 per cent of the country’s total consumption.
Although demand for natural gas continues to grow 
dramatically, China still lags behind developed countries  
in terms of infrastructure development and per capita 
consumption of natural gas. In Japan for example power 
produced from natural gas makes up 28 per cent of the 
country’s total domestic power generation. That percentage 
in the U.S. and Europe is more than 20 per cent and 30 per 
cent respectively, while in China, it is still under 3 per cent.
China’s rapid economic development and the growth of  
the predominantly coal-based energy production have 
resulted in a drop in the air quality in many of China’s major 
cities. In response, the Chinese government implemented 
the Ambient Air Quality Standard in February 2012 which 
sets to improve air quality and limit the levels of key 
pollutants. The introduction of this standard and the existing 
supportive Government policies are expected to enhance 
the prospects of natural gas as the energy source of choice 
in the urban market.
To support this expansion of the natural gas market China 
continues to invest heavily to increase natural gas supply 
with the West to East Gas Transmission pipelines constructed 
to bring natural gas from the Xinjiang Autonomous Region 
to the coastal regions of China. Construction of the second 
phase of the West to East Gas Transmission pipelines from 
Central Asia and the Sichuan to East pipelines from the  
gas rich Sichuan Province to coastal regions have been 
completed. The West to East Gas Transmission Phase 3, 
the Myanmar to Yunnan gas pipeline, as well as additional 
LNG terminals in the coastal cities of China are actively 
being developed to meet the anticipated growth in natural 
gas demand which the International Energy Agency predicts 
will grow by 17 per cent each year through to 2017.
China is also driving the expansion of its indigenous gas 
production to limit its dependency on gas imports. China’s 
National Energy Administration announced that it will allocate 
more funds and encourage private capital to exploit the 
country’s large reserves of coal bed methane gas and 
encourage the inflow of private capital into the sector.  
China plans to complete construction of two major coal  
bed methane production bases in the central and western 
regions by 2015 and increase the number of production 
bases up to five in the next 10 years. The Ministry of Land 
and Resources announced plans in February 2013 to 
produce 16 billion cubic meters per annum of coal bed 
methane increasing to 30 billion cubic meters by 2015. 
Success for Fortune Oil in the Liulin block will position us 
well for the future development of opportunities in CBM.
Natural gas price reforms to close the price gap between 
imported and local gas prices are also gradually being 
implemented. Once realised, these measures are expected 
to more than double the supply of natural gas in China in 
the next few years and will result in increases in the price  
of natural gas throughout the supply chain from the well 
head to the ultimate customer.
China’s demand for all the main commodities such as coal, 
iron ore and copper continues to grow. China imported a 
record 743.6 million tonnes of iron ore in 2012, up 8.4 per 
cent from 2011, exceeding previous projections, and many 
of the major iron ore companies are predicting that iron ore 
demand will continue to grow beyond 2020 as increased 
urbanisation drives construction and hence steel demand. 
This bodes well for the prospects of our Resources business. 14 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
West Zhuhai Jetty and Storage Terminal supplies 
gasoline and diesel to Petrochina’s retail  
business in southern China and part of  
Petrochina’s strategic oil products reserve.
China’s only off-shore oil import terminal supplying 
4 per cent of China’s crude oil imports. The Maoming 
single point mooring (SPM) acts as a delivery point  
for imported crude oil and can handle Ultra Large  
Crude Carriers (300,000dwt) supplying the Sinopec  
Maoming Refinery in Guangdong Province.
We have a unique 
portfolio of oil activities 
in partnership with the 
leading Chinese State 
owned enterprises 
including Petrochina, 
Sinopec and China 
National Aviation  
Fuel Company.
South China Bluesky Aviation (Bluesky) is one  
of the largest aviation fuel storage, supply and 
logistic operations in China which owns and 
operates the aviation fuel storage terminals, 
pipelines and aviation refuelling services for  
17 major airports in central and southern China.
OIL BUSINESS 
The oil business continues to be a strong cash 
generator for the Group. In 2012 we continued to 
expand our supply of crude oil, oil based products  
and jet fuel.
Aviation Refuelling (South China Bluesky Aviation  
Oil Company)
In 2012, Bluesky’s sales of jet fuel continued to increase, 
rising by 15 per cent to 3.0 million tonnes, compared with 
2.6 million tonnes in 2011. Joint venture revenues increased 
to £2,021.4 million (2011: £1,647.9 million). Bluesky 
achieved a net profit of £47.2 million (2011: £47.4 million) 
with a Fortune Oil share of £11.6 million, matching the 
previous years record profit (2011: £11.6 million).
Air travel demand is still expanding across China and 
Bluesky continues to evaluate opportunities to extend its 
operations to new airport developments with China National 
Aviation Fuels Ltd in Central and Southern China covering 
Guangdong, Guangxi, Hubei, Hunan and Henan provinces.
In 2012 Bluesky started supplying fuel to two more airports 
(Wuzhou and Baise) bringing the total number of airports 
Bluesky supplies to 17.
Maoming Single Point Mooring (SPM)
In 2012 Maoming SPM throughput matched the record 
performance of 2011 of 11.0 million tonnes (2011: 11.0 
million tonnes) handling 57 tankers just one delivery less 
than last year’s record. Throughput revenues in 2012 were 
maintained at £16.4 million (2011: £16.3 million) with a net 
profit of £4.1 million, (2011: £4.0 million). Fortune Oil’s share 
of net profit in 2012 was £1.7 million (2011: £1.6 million).
The original SPM joint venture period expired in February 
2013 and continues pending completion of the new 
arrangements. Fortune Oil and Sinopec are currently in 
discussions regarding the future cooperation on the SPM 
and additional developments to serve the Maoming refinery. 
Management is optimistic of a satisfactory outcome to such 
discussions and, although under the new structure, the 
Company will no longer hold a controlling equity stake in  
the joint venture, the scope of the joint venture with Sinopec 
will be expanded with the potential development of a new 
pipeline and buoy.
Products Terminal and Supply
The West Zhuhai Products Jetty and Storage Terminal 
(South China Petroleum Company) performance was 
maintained over 2012 although the terminal is not operating 
at full capacity due to lower utilisation of the facility by 
Petrochina. The throughput increased slightly to 2.5 million 
tonnes (2011: 2.3 million tonnes), with a slight increase  
in company revenues of £7.2 million (2011: £7.0 million). 
The profit contribution to Fortune Oil decreased to  
£0.8 million compared to £1.1 million in 2011. 
West Zhuhai Oil Products Terminal is now part of 
Petrochina’s “Strategic Oil Products Reserve facilities” 
underlining the strategic importance of the Company’s 
unique storage facility in Southern China. This will help  
to limit the possibility of oil products supply disruption  
in Southern China. More importantly it will also help to 
generate new revenue streams from the recently expanded 
facilities at West Zhuhai. Options to diversify the customer 
base are currently being evaluated in order to help address 
declining volumes.  15 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
The trading business continues to  
focus on the supply and trading of oil  
and petrochemical products.
TRADING BUSINESS 
The trading business continues to focus on the  
supply and trading of oil and petrochemical products.
In 2012 we traded 157,000 tonnes of petroleum products 
and petrochemicals, compared to 144,000 tonnes in 2011. 
Revenues generated by these activities increased by 2 per 
cent to £123.4 million (2011: £121.5 million) with an earnings 
contribution of £1.0 million compared to £1.0 million in 2011. 
The trading business continues to explore options for the 
expansion of products that it trades. 
Fortune Oil obtained in 2012 one of the first licences issued 
to enable the supply and trade of diesel and other refined 
products. Previously this area was limited to the major state 
owned enterprises. Fortune Oil has completed 5 shipments 
with a total inventory of 23,200 tonnes of diesel in 2012. 
During our negotiations with CGH we have also identified 
the opportunity to support their LPG supply requirements 
and are currently in discussions with various suppliers to 
develop this option further. 
Fortune’s licenses will enable the Trading business to support 
CGH’s LPG supply requirements and this is also a clear 
demonstration that the Company’s strategy of developing 
relationships with key JV partners is allowing the Company 
to access markets generally closed off to the competition.
The carbon asset investment fund established with Huaneng 
Carbon Asset Ltd and Vitol S.A. is progressing several 
carbon emission projects. During 2012 25 “Specific Project 
Investment Agreements” have been developed and 
submitted to NDRC for approval. Among these projects,  
14 projects have acquired letters of approval and 3 projects 
have been submitted for UN registration.
Fortune Oil has established a joint venture with Tianjin Gas 
that will be responsible for the supply of LNG to the city of 
Tianjin, China’s sixth most populous city with a population 
of over 12 million. The joint venture company will manage, 
on a non-exclusive basis, the procurement, import and 
supply of LNG to Tianjin Gas including securing reliable and 
competitive overseas LNG supply. Fortune Oil holds 60 per 
cent and Tianjin Gas 40 per cent of the equity interest in the 
joint venture company. This joint venture will not form part  
of the CGH transaction and will remain within Fortune Oil’s 
trading business.
Tianjin Gas is the largest natural gas supplier in Tianjin City 
responsible for gas supply and operations to 18 districts 
and counties in Tianjin City with over 95 per cent of the 
market, 2 million customers and 9,000 km of gas pipelines. 
Tianjin Gas is one of the main shareholders in the Tianjin 
LNG Import and Regasification terminal which is expected 
to start operations in 2013. The terminal will initially import 
2.2 million tonnes (3 bcm) of LNG per annum into China 
using a floating storage and regasification unit (“FSRU”) with 
the plan to expand the LNG import terminal in Tianjin to a 
capacity of 6 million tonnes per annum (8 bcm) from 2015. 16 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
We have natural gas operations in over 
30 cities across 10 provinces and 
municipalities with approximately 
280,000 connected customers  
where we supply gas to households, 
industries and clean vehicle refuelling.
NATURAL GAS BUSINESS
The natural gas business continues to benefit from 
China’s robust economy and thriving natural gas 
demand. We have been steadily expanding our 
upstream and midstream operations as well as our 
downstream city-gas and refuelling operations. 
Through our transaction with China Gas Holdings,  
we will have an ideal platform to accelerate  
this expansion.
Performance
The natural gas business strategy has built, and in 
combination with CGH, will continue to build an integrated 
natural gas business linking upstream gas production  
to supply our chosen downstream markets.
Fortune Oil’s natural gas business develops and operates 
natural gas supply and distribution infrastructure to supply 
natural gas to industrial, commercial, residential and 
transportation sectors. We are working with CGH on a 
combined gas strategy that will encompass the development 
of both upstream and downstream assets, further investment 
in existing city networks and selective acquisitions where 
these can be acquired on economically sensible terms. 
Pending completion of the CGH transaction we are continuing 
with our development plans for the natural gas business.
Revenue including the share of jointly controlled entities  
in the gas division in 2012 increased 30 per cent to  
£91.8 million (2011: £70.6 million). The operating profit  
for the gas business increased 51 per cent to £15.8 million 
(2011: £10.5 million). The natural gas business net profit 
contribution to Fortune Oil increased by 76 per cent to  
£8.8 million (2011: £5.0 million), after taking in to account 
the minority interest held by Wilmar.
In 2012 Fortune Gas sales volumes increased 6 per cent  
to 502 million cubic metres (2011: 472 million cubic metres) 
and 67,907 new customers were connected in 2012 an 
increase in new connections by 79 per cent bringing the 
total number of customers up to approximately 280,000 
(2011: 212,000) a 32 per cent increase.
In 2012 Fortune Oil increased its shareholding, via the CGG 
joint venture in CGH, the largest independent natural gas 
company in China in terms of city network, supplying natural 
gas to over 170 cities. The strategic objective of forming 
this joint venture was to develop cooperative opportunities 
combining CGH’s strengths with those of Fortune Oil and  
to accelerate the growth rate of Fortune  
Oil’s natural gas business in China.
The two companies’ natural gas businesses are highly 
synergistic and the proposed transaction will be the most 
effective means of cooperation. Through this transaction 
Fortune Oil and its associates will become one of the largest 
shareholders in and be involved in the management of CGH. 
As a result, Fortune Oil will continue to create value for our 
shareholders from the rapid growth in China’s natural gas 
market. This enhanced business platform will be better  
able to capture an increased market share in the rapidly 
expanding China natural gas market and create value for  
the shareholders of both companies. This investment 
advances our stated strategic objectives of developing 
Fortune Oil into a leading business in the Chinese natural 
gas supply market.
Upstream CBM Project
Our state pilot project is deploying 
cutting edge in-seam drilling and 
advanced hydraulic fracturing 
technology to commercialise coal  
bed methane in Shanxi. 17 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
Natural gas will continue to be one of the growth engines  
of the Group. Fortune Oil and CGH have identified a number 
of specific expansion opportunities for the combined gas 
business which they will accelerate through their new 
partnership with the aim of CGH becoming one of the top 
three gas companies in China. Fortune Oil will also continue 
to develop new projects together with CGH.
As at April 23 2013 the Company’s joint venture CGG  
and its associates (including shares held directly by  
Mr. Liu Minghui, the Managing Director of CGH) held 
911,550,000 shares in CGH representing 20.0 per cent  
of CGH total issued shares making the joint venture and  
its associates (including shares held directly by Mr Liu 
Minghui, the Managing Director of CGH), the second  
largest shareholder of CGH.
Upstream CBM Project
The CBM project in Liulin covers 183 square kilometres  
and is located in the eastern part of the Ordos basin 500km 
south west of Beijing. Fortune Liulin Gas Company (“FLG”) 
is the foreign contractor in the Production Sharing Contract 
(“PSC”) with China United Coal Bed Methane Corporation 
(“CUCBM”). FLG met its exploration drilling targets for  
the CBM Liulin Block and the Ministry of Commerce has 
approved an extension of the exploration period of the  
PSC for the Liulin CBM block to 29 March 2014. 
Fortune Oil continues to make good progress in the 
development of the Liulin CBM block and first commercial 
gas sales are expected in 2013 following completion of the 
gas gathering system. Total field production from the FLG 
horizontal wells now exceeds 27,000 cubic metres per  
day with the most successful well to-date (H3) currently 
producing over 12,000 cubic metres per day, a rate which 
exceeds all previous wells drilled by FLG. These flow rates 
have been achieved with a bottom hole pressure (“BHP”)  
of 1.6 megapascals (MPa) and gas flow rates are predicted 
to increase as the BHP is reduced further to a target of 
around 0.2 MPa.
In 2012, FLG drilled 2 more horizontal wells which are 
currently being dewatered and undergoing production 
testing. These wells, together with existing wells are 
expected to provide sufficient production volumes to meet 
the requirements of the existing Gas Sales Agreement 
(“GSA”) of 100,000 cubic metres per day. Pricing under  
the GSA, is RMB 1.58 per cubic metre which equates to 
gross sales revenues of RMB 52.1 million (£5.0 million) per 
annum (£2.5 million net to FLG). These inseam wells have 
been designed to optimally drain two independent coal 
seams from the same production well. These wells have 
been designed and supervised by FLG ensuring the 
intellectual property and technical experience remains  
within the FLG project team.
CUCBM have drilled a total of 145 vertical wells and  
4 horizontal wells across the Liulin block. To date 40  
of the vertical wells have been “fracked” to put into test 
production. These wells will enable reserves certification  
for additional coal seams across the block and development 
of the Overall Development Plan (“ODP”) and together with 
the gas produced from the lateral wells on the northern 
section, gas produced from the CUCBM wells will also be 
used to meet the gas sales agreement. The data from these 
wells will be used in conjunction with existing data to review 
the reserves estimates for Liulin in 2013.
Refuelling with Gas
The Group continues to expand  
vehicle gas refuelling business  
which is core to the growth of  
the natural gas business.
City gas businesses
Owns and operates the city networks 
connecting and supplying natural gas  
to apartment complexes and 
commercial buildings.
Wholesale Gas Distribution
Our spur pipelines and wholesale
stations connect the gas from the  
main transnational pipelines to our  
cities and supply gas to the  
downstream customers. 18 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
Fortune Oil received the regulatory approvals for the 
installation of the gas gathering system and construction is 
in progress. The gas gathering system consists of over 20 km 
of gas gathering pipeline which will collect the gas from the 
wells and transfer it to the nodal compression station. Here 
the gas will be purified, compressed and dispatched by an 
8 km pipeline to the Shanxi CUCBM wholesale CNG station. 
The gas from the Liulin block will be marketed by Shanxi 
CUCBM, a joint venture between Fortune Oil and CUCBM 
and the parties have an initial gas sale agreement for  
33 million cubic metres per annum. Fortune Oil is also 
progressing the design and planning to install the gas 
pipeline from the wholesale station to connect Liulin to  
the main national gas network. This will allow both the 
export of gas from Liulin as well as import gas from the 
national grid to the Fortune Gas wholesale station.
The ODP has been prepared for submission in 2013 and  
a summary ODP has been submitted to FLG’s Chinese 
partner CUCBM. The ODP is the final approval procedure 
required for full commercial operations and marks the 
transition of the field from exploration to development  
and operation and is a key step towards the commercial 
production of gas from Liulin.
Midstream Wholesale Gas Distribution
The wholesale gas distribution business continued to 
expand the natural gas pipeline network and wholesale gas 
stations. Our gas pipeline network increased to 1059km  
in 2012 (2011: 771km) and one new natural gas wholesale 
station was opened, bringing the number of natural gas 
wholesale processing stations to 5 with a daily natural  
gas supply capacity of 600,000 m
3
. In 2012 Fortune Oil 
supplied over 87.5 million cubic metres through its 
wholesale stations.
Shanxi CUCBM has completed the Liulin CNG wholesale 
station. This wholesale gas station will compress and 
distribute natural gas produced from the Liulin CBM block 
and supply Shanxi CUCBM refuelling stations and industrial 
customers across Shanxi province further demonstrating  
the effectiveness of Fortune Gas’s integrated natural gas 
business model.
Fortune Gas continues to make good progress in 
developing the local gas pipeline network in Dashiqiao.  
This includes the completion of the first phase of the 
development comprising the connection of the pipeline to 
the industrial zone of the city, where a major magnesium 
industry has significant gas demand. 
TOP Wholesale CNG trailers distribute gas.
BOTTOM LEFT Filling a CNG trailer with 
high pressure gas.
BOTTOM RIGHT Producing gas from our 
CBM block in Liulin.
Finding, producing 
and distributing 
natural gas to serve 
our customers. 19 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
City Gas Business
One new city gas project was launched in Quyang, Hebei 
province in 2012 bringing the number of our city-gas 
businesses to over thirty cities in ten provinces and 
municipalities. This extensive city-gas network forms  
the core of our gas business portfolio.
During the year the Group continued to focus on boosting 
connections in existing projects. A further 67,907 new 
customers were connected in this period (2011: 38,014), 
representing a 79 per cent increase in the rate of 
connections, demonstrating the continued growth post  
the divestments as new city gas networks are connected  
to a gas supply bringing the total of connected customers 
to approximately 280,000 representing an increase of  
32 per cent (2011: 212,000 customers). Market penetration 
rates remain low; typically around 25 per cent of the 
connectable urban populations have been added to the  
city network highlighting the continued opportunity for 
growth in this business.
The Group also provided natural gas connections for 200 
new commercial/industrial (“C/I”) customers (2011: 156)  
an increase of 28 per cent. We continued to focus on 
growing this higher margin sector and at the end of 2012, 
we had 1,000 C/I customers covered by the Group’s 
projects (2011: 800).
Gas Vehicle Refuelling
This year we completed two new vehicle CNG refuelling 
stations, in Sishui and Mingzheng, bringing our total to  
11 refuelling stations located in seven cities. In 2012 
Fortune Oil supplied over 35.3 million cubic metres of  
CNG to refuel buses and taxis representing an increase  
of 22 per cent (2011: 28.8 million cubic meters). Shanxi 
CUCBM commenced operation of the Changzhi retail station 
which will sell CBM gas to refuel natural gas vehicles. The 
rapid expansion in the use of natural gas as a fuel for the 
transportation sector provides Fortune Oil an opportunity  
to invest in vehicle refuelling stations to supply natural gas 
to these vehicles. 
Fortune Oil has installed two LNG refuelling stations on the 
route between Fushun and Shenyang to refuel a fleet  
of thirty LNG inter-city buses. Negotiations are underway  
to supply LNG fuel on the inter city bus routes between 
Shenyang, Liaoyang and Chaoyang across Liaoning province.
Fortune Gas has also established a joint venture in Quyang, 
Hebei province which will develop the city gas infrastructure 
and also install LNG refuelling stations along the key highway 
in the area. This route carries a large volume of coal through 
the province and the operators are looking to switch to LNG 
fuel to reduce their fuel costs. The initial phase will involve 
building five LNG stations along the main highway.
As we expect demand for LNG as a fuel for the transport 
sector in China to continue to grow we will continue to 
evaluate opportunities to increase our exposure to this 
market. First mover advantage will enable Fortune Oil 
together with our collaboration with CGH to capture the 
prime refuelling site locations for these vehicles.
In our joint venture to bring natural gas as a fuel for ships  
on the Yangtze River, the first dual fuel ship successfully 
completed the required river trials and we obtained the first 
full licence for a commercial dual fuel ship of its kind from 
the Chinese authorities. This will enable the start of the full 
scale commercialisation of this technology. The sites for the 
first two permanent LNG ship refuelling stations have been 
identified and Chinese design institutes are progressing the 
design and approvals prior to construction. These are the 
first of a number of stations Fortune Gas is planning to build 
along the Yangtze River. Other major companies including 
the major state owned companies are also planning to 
develop LNG refuelling for ships so first mover advantage  
is critical to access the prime refuelling locations along the 
river front.
Negotiations are progressing with a leading shipping 
company to commence conversion of its ships to dual fuel 
technology and the LNG fuel supply arrangements for these 
ships. Fortune Oil is uniquely placed to expand its LNG 
operations and develop a major, high margin and sustainable 
business in the important rapidly expanding gas market in 
China. Other provinces across China are also looking to 
introduce LNG ships and Fortune Oil is pursuing a number 
of potential opportunities. 20 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
Hrazdan, Armenia
RESOURCES
Fortune Oil is pursuing overseas investment 
opportunities to capitalise on China’s growing  
demand for energy and resources.
As its first move into resources Fortune Oil acquired a  
77.34 per cent effective interest in three Armenian iron ore 
mining and exploration licenses. Fortune Oil completed a 
drilling programme and assay test work on the first of these, 
the Hrazdan mine, to develop the optimised pit design and 
mining plan. SRK Consulting (UK) completed the mining 
plan and has issued the JORC compliant Mineral Resource 
Statement for the Hrazdan iron ore mine. The Resource 
Statement confirmed a total Resource of 21.4 million tonnes 
consisting of an Indicated Mineral Resource of 17.3 million 
tonnes at an average iron ore grade of 26.0 per cent and  
an Inferred Mineral Resource of 4.1 million tonnes at an 
average iron ore grade of 29.4 per cent. 
Design work has continued for a 2.5 million tonnes per 
annum iron ore concentration plant producing in excess 
of 590,000 tonnes of concentrate of approximately  
66 to 68 per cent iron. 
Design work has continued for a 2.5 million tonnes  
per annum iron ore concentration plant producing  
in excess of 590,000 tonnes of concentrate of 
approximately 66 to 68 per cent iron. Sinosteel completed 
the feasibility study including the flow sheet, preliminary 
design for the iron ore processing plant. Our in-house 
technical team are optimising the process design, tailings 
dam and waste rock site with a view to determining the 
viability of developing the Hrazdan mine by the end of 2013. 
Fortune Oil is in negotiations with a number of potential 
customers for the iron ore off-take from the Hrazdan mine 
including customer evaluations to ensure the product from 
the planned facility meets the customer requirements. 
Fortune Oil is actively engaging and has had constructive 
dialogue with the local environmental groups and non-
government organisations to address their concerns in 
relation to the mining development. Fortune Oil will continue 
to work closely with these organisations and the local 
communities throughout the project development. 21 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
Corporate social responsibility is at the cornerstone 
of all of our activities.
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY 
Our Employees
Fortune Oil employed around 2,000 people in 2012, over  
99 per cent of whom are citizens of the PRC. Our people 
are recruited, trained and recompensed according to our 
employment policy of attracting, developing and retaining 
talented people and to provide attractive long term career 
prospects for our employees. We have a long standing 
commitment to create a culture that embraces diversity and 
fosters inclusion. Our goal is to provide equal opportunities, 
career development, promotion, training and reward for all 
employees including those with disabilities.
All senior management of the Company are required to 
adhere to the Company’s code of ethics in relation to  
areas such as supervisory rules, insider dealing, market 
malpractices, whistle blowing policy, conflicts of interest, 
proper use of the Company’s assets and reporting 
requirements for listed companies. The Company ensures 
that all its staff follow internationally recognised governance 
practices in its business dealings and if staff break these 
rules they will face disciplinary action up to and including 
termination of employment. There is also a process that 
enables employees to report any breaches of our 
Company’s code of ethics confidentially. 
Our Community
The Company’s operations are currently principally in  
the PRC although the Resources business has activities  
in Armenia. We ensure that the Company’s operations are  
in compliance with national and local laws and practices. 
Our ongoing success relies on the maintenance of excellent 
relationships and trust of the communities where we operate.
Fortune Oil has a proven track record of safe and reliable 
operation. The Company remains one of the few international 
companies with both oil and gas operations based onshore 
in China. Many of the Company’s businesses are amongst 
the largest foreign-invested enterprises in that area and they 
provide a benchmark for other local companies. As part  
of their social responsibility programmes in China, our 
companies support community activities and provide 
training to customers regarding the safe use of fuels.  
We also interact with local and national government and 
associations to further the development of better policies. 
The Company follows the same principles and practices  
as it develops operations elsewhere in the world.
Health and Safety
We consider the safety of our staff and the communities  
that we operate in as our top priority. We manage safety  
risk across our businesses through rigorous controls and 
compliance systems combined with a safety-focused 
culture. We regularly inspect, test and maintain our facilities 
to ensure they are meeting our standards. We continue to 
build our safety culture among our employees and 
contractors. We expect everyone working for us to intervene 
and stop activities that may be unsafe. We expect 
employees to comply with our safety regulations and if  
any employees break these rules they will face disciplinary 
action up to and including termination of employment. 
In 2012 there were no Lost Time Injuries or fatal  
accidents in the Company’s subsidiaries (where we  
have operational control).
Environmental Policy
Fortune Oil has a policy of minimising the impact of its 
operations on the environment. We aim to apply best 
industry practices wherever we operate to improve 
environmental performance and to foster close relationships 
with the local community. The requirements of our 
environmental and sustainability policy are incorporated 
through the planning, operations and closure of projects 
and this will also cover the new Resources developments 
outside of China.
Oil and Gas Emissions
Our primary environmental focus is to prevent the release  
of hydrocarbons, whether they occur through leaks in 
pipelines, spills or leaks during transfers, the venting of 
tanks or tank overflows. Fortune Oil has clear requirements 
and procedures to prevent spills and programmes in place 
to maintain and improve our facilities and pipelines to 
reduce the risk of any potential leak or spill. We have a 
number of recovery methods in place to minimise the 
impact in the event of any spill or release. In 2012 there 
were no significant spills or releases from our operations.  22 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
Finding, producing and distributing the gas to  
serve our customers.
Drilling for gas in Liulin next to the Yellow River.
Climate Change
The Group’s direct emissions of greenhouse gases are 
small, mainly being methane releases when equipment is 
maintained, flaring of gas from our Liulin wells (as required 
under NDRC guidelines for reserves certification), the 
combustion of gas for power production and the use of 
diesel and gasoline for vehicles. 
Fortune Oil was one of the first operating companies in the 
oil and gas sector in China to measure its own emissions 
with the aim of bringing about awareness among staff and 
customers of the importance of minimising emissions, and 
increase the efficiency of our operations.
Equity Share of Emissions
These are categorised in accordance with UK government 
(DEFRA) guidelines and the 2006 Intergovernmental Panel 
on Climate Change (“IPCC”) Guidelines for National 
Greenhouse Gas Emissions and exclude secondary 
emissions by customers through utilisation of our fuels:
 2012 2011
Methane to Air (tonnes) 75.0 78.2
Greenhouse Gases to Air  
 (tonnes CO 2 equivalent) 14,498 9,298
Local Air Quality pollutants  
 (such as NOx, SOx) Negligible Negligible
Volatile Organic Compounds  
 to Air (tonnes) 125 129
Smog Precursors  
 (such as particulates) Negligible Negligible
Chemical Waste Negligible Negligible
Metals Emissions Negligible Negligible
The increase in greenhouse gas emissions to air (14,498 
tonnes CO 2 equivaler) is associated with flaring at the  
Liulin CBM project. FLG is managing the flowing rate  
and dewatering of the wells to minimise greenhouse 
gas emissions.
Other Environmental Impacts
Availability of water in China is an area of increasing 
environmental concern. The Group’s operations’ use  
of water is primarily for office use and cleaning vehicles. 
Fortune’s CBM development programme has consent levels 
for its water discharge from the CBM wells and the 
discharge is monitored to ensure we remain within the 
consents. We also recycle water in these operations to 
minimise water use. 23 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
business review
GLOSSARY
bcm
Billion cubic metres (1,000,000,000 m
3
), when converted  
to normal conditions of 0.1 MPa (Mega Pascal) pressure 
and 20 degrees Celsius temperature.
CBM
Coal Bed Methane, refers to methane deposits in coal 
seams. CBM is generated during coal formation and 
adsorbed in the natural fracture surfaces in coal. CBM  
can be extracted by drilling prior to coal mining and can 
normally be utilised as natural gas (commonly referred to  
as an unconventional source of gas). 
CMM
Coal Mine Methane which is extracted during coal mining 
operations. It has a lower methane content than CBM 
because of air ingress.
Coal Seam Gas 
Methane gas trapped in coal seams, which may be extracted 
as CBM or CMM.
CNG
Compressed Natural Gas, gas which has been compressed 
to between 4 MPa and 25 MPa of pressure, and is 
transported in tanks as a gas.
CO 2 equivalent
The quantity of greenhouse gases emitted in million tonnes, 
when expressed as though it was carbon dioxide (CO 2), so 
as to indicate the potential impact on global warming.
CUCBM
China United Coalbed Methane Corporation Ltd, the 
principal PRC government entity responsible for entering 
into PSCs with foreign companies for development of  
CBM fields.
dwt
Dead-weight tonnage, the carrying capacity of a ship.
Gas
“Natural gas” for domestic supply contains over 90 per cent 
methane (CH4). Conventional gas is sourced from petroleum 
gas fields but the same quality gas could also come from 
unconventional sources such as coal bed methane.
GDP
Gross Domestic Product.
HSE
Health, Safety and Environment.
Hydrocarbons
Organic compounds sourced from crude oil or gas
JORC
Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australasian Institute  
of Mining and Metallurgy, Australian Institute of Geoscientists 
and Minerals Council of Australia. The JORC code is an 
internationally recognised reporting code as defined by  
the Combined Reserves International Reporting  
Standards Committee. 
KPI
Key Performance Indicator, a measure of the Company’s 
performance.
LNG
Liquefied Natural Gas, gas which has been liquefied by 
cooling to approximately 160 degrees Celsius below zero, 
and is transported in tanks as a liquid. 
LPG
Liquefied Petroleum Gas, a mixture of propane and butane 
(whereas natural gas is mostly methane). Supplied to 
customers under pressure in bottles as a liquid or via a 
pipeline network as a gas, sometimes mixed with air.
LTIFR
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate. An LTI is any work-related 
injury or illness which prevents a person working the 
following day. Calculated as LTIs per million working hours.
m m
3
/a
Million cubic metres per year, when converted to normal 
conditions of 0.1 MPa (Mega Pascal) pressure and  
20 degrees Celsius temperature.
NDRC
National Development and Reform Commission, the 
principal government entity in China for economic and 
energy policy.
ODP
Overall Development Programme for an oil & gas field.
PRC
The People’s Republic of China.
PSC
Production Sharing Contract, an agreement between the 
government and a foreign company for exploration and 
development of a natural resource block.
RMB/m
3
Renminbi per normal cubic metre of gas.
SPM
Single Point Mooring buoy, which allows an oil tanker to 
moor at its bow and through which oil is discharged to a 
sub-sea pipeline. The MKM subsidiary operates the only 
SPM in China for import of crude oil. 24 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
principal risks and uncertainties, 
their effects and our management strategy
Our business is supplying China with energy and resources, 
principally oil and natural gas. We face many risks and 
whilst we can manage some, we have to accept others as 
part of doing business. We face the usual economic risks – 
prices, interest rates, supply and demand for the products 
we produce and deliver which we cannot control. Outlined 
below are the principal risk factors that may affect the 
Group’s business. Any of these risks, as well as the other 
risks and uncertainties discussed in this document, could 
have a material adverse effect on the business. In addition, 
the risks set out below may not be exhaustive, and additional 
risks and uncertainties may arise or become material in the 
future including those associated with achieving completion 
of the CGH transaction and the Maoming SPM cooperation.
Concentration risk
Our principal assets and operations are located in China 
and we sell all our products and services to China. Any 
adverse change in the economic or political environment  
in China would seriously affect the profitability and possibly 
viability of our entire business. We seek, through maintaining 
high level contacts and through providing high quality 
services, to minimise any adverse consequences.
Pricing risks
Our business sells products where we have little or no 
control over the price we achieve. The price we pay for 
product we on-sell is also largely out of our control. The 
interest rate we pay for debt and the interest we receive  
on surplus cash, and the exchange rates applying to 
transactions where we need to exchange currencies,  
are all set by international markets or by governmental 
regulation. Adverse movements in prices, interest rates or 
exchange rates can result in actual losses on transactions, 
increased costs or decreased revenues or losses on 
translation into our reporting currency. We seek to mitigate 
the effects of these risks through management of stocks  
of product in storage or transit, through currency matching 
of the costs of products sold to revenue produced and 
through holding cash in the currencies where expenditure  
is expected. We do not carry out hedging transactions in 
respect of these risks. 
Regulatory and relationships risks
The energy sector in China is subject to a variety of 
regulatory regimes covering many of the Group’s operations, 
both at the national and local government levels. The 
regulatory environment continues to evolve but includes 
restrictions on foreign ownership and participation in  
certain activities; land use and industry permitting; and 
health, safety and environmental obligations. Our operations 
are often carried out in joint ventures or through associated 
companies or, through production sharing contracts (PSC), 
or under mining and exploration licences, or rely on medium 
term and long term supply agreements with State owned 
enterprises. If regulations change, or we or our partners fail 
to abide by regulations or meet the requirements of PSC, or 
mining and explanation licences or supply agreements, then 
we may lose rights or suffer fines or other penalties. Our 
management aims to be aware of any prospective changes 
in regulation and to ensure we comply, and to seeks to 
maintain a positive and constructive working relationship 
with our partners and with State owned companies so that 
decisions can be taken together to ensure compliancy with 
regulation and PSC and supply agreements.
A significant proportion of our business is conducted 
through joint ventures or investment arrangements where 
we do not have board control or control of day-to-day 
operations. We are therefore dependent upon the decision 
making processes and internal controls, put in place by our 
investment partners and operated by the staff of the joint 
ventures or investments. If incorrect business decisions  
are taken or, through lack or overriding of internal controls, 
assets and/or revenues are lost, the value of and income 
from such joint ventures and investments may be materially 
reduced. We seek through involvement in these decision 
making processes, using our rights to appoint directors 
and/or managers, monitoring the results of internal controls, 
and using our rights to access trading information to reduce 
the risk associated with such non-controlled joint ventures 
and investment structures.
Health, Safety and the Environment (HSE)
The Group operates facilities in the oil and gas industry 
where there is an inherent risk of accidents that may harm 
employees, assets, the community or the environment. 
Such accidents may have an adverse impact on the 
ongoing operations, revenues and profits of the Group.  
We seek through the Group’s HSE policies to observe  
all local and national legal and regulatory requirements.  
We also carry out pre-project and regular review risk 
assessments to ensure where possible that processes  
and procedures are in place to reduce and manage  
such incidents.
Attraction and retention of key employees
We rely heavily on a small number of key individuals,  
in particular the Executive Directors at Group and  
subsidiary levels, for the operation of Group`s day-to-day 
activities and implementation of its growth strategy. If a key  25 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
principal risks and uncertainties,  
their effects and our management strategy
employee left we could suffer disruption to projects or a 
business area until a replacement was recruited. We seek  
to set remuneration policies which will attract and retain 
suitably qualified employees but also seek to facilitate 
succession planning and ensure that there is a sharing of 
knowledge and contacts to minimise the impact of any one 
person’s departure.
Development risks
As we grow the business we need to take on new 
developments of a long-term nature; these can be  
exploring and developing new reserves of gas or minerals, 
building pipelines, storage and delivery facilities or 
converting existing transport equipment to use gas. All 
these require national and/or local government consents 
and need to obtain finance, to source appropriate 
equipment and services and to build the necessary 
infrastructure. Whilst we seek to take the investment 
decision based on the best available information, the actual 
process will be affected by delays or changes in regulation, 
reserves proving smaller or more complex than predicted, 
delays in delivery or construction, or facilities or technology 
not reaching expected performance. This may extend the 
completion of projects and delay the start of their income 
production beyond that planned or even make them 
uneconomic. To mitigate this we seek not only at the start 
but during project implementation to work with regulators, 
financiers, partners and contractors to ensure that delays 
are minimised and projects are kept economically viable.
Uninsured risks
We operate with hazardous products and we are not in 
control of all operations in which we participate. In the event 
of an accident, substantial damages may be claimed against 
us due to our actions or omissions or those of a partner or 
sub-contractor. Any indemnities the Group may receive from 
such partners or sub-contractors may be difficult to enforce 
if they lack adequate resources or have themselves not put 
in place adequate insurance cover. We seek to manage this 
risk by selecting good quality, financially secure partners 
and sub-contractors and ensuring they confirm that they 
have appropriate safety procedures and insurance cover, 
and by seeing that our insurance cover is reasonable based 
on the costs of cover and the risks associated with our 
business and industry practice. 26 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
financial review
Disposal group held for sale and  
discontinued operations
The assets and associated liabilities of the Group’s natural 
gas business that are expected to be transferred in 2013 
upon completion of the China Gas transaction have been 
classified in the balance sheet as held for sale as at  
31 December 2012. As a consequence of this classification, 
the results of the Group’s natural gas business are presented 
as a discontinued operations in the income statement and 
cash flow statement for 2012, and the result for 2011 have 
been presented on the same basis.
In order to provide a comprehensive review of all of the 
Group’s operations, on a basis comparable with that 
provided to shareholders in previous years, the discussion 
of financial results below relates to continuing operations 
and discontinued operations combined. The income 
statement distinguishes the results of discontinued 
operations from those of continuing operations.
Revenue and Expenditure
Revenues from all operations including the Group’s share  
of jointly controlled entities increased by 18 per cent to 
£739.4 million in 2012 from £624.6 million in 2011. This was 
largely driven by the rapid growth in the Group’s aviation 
refuelling, and the natural gas businesses. Group revenue 
from all operations excluding jointly controlled entities has 
also increased by 7 per cent in 2012 to £214.6 million from 
£199.8 million in 2011. This is primarily due to organic 
business growth in the natural gas business. 
On 14 February 2012, the Group disposed of its available 
for sale investments in respect of shares held in China Gas 
Holdings Limited (“CGH”), a listed company on the Hong 
Kong Stock Exchange. The shares were held by a wholly 
owned subsidiary and were sold to China Gas Group 
Limited (“CGG”), a jointly controlled entity. The Group  
has realised a gain on disposal of £4.6 million (2011:  
£7.3 million). The gain in 2011 arose from the deemed 
disposal of Fortune Liulin Gas Limited and the disposal  
of a gas business subsidiary.
Operating profit from all operations combined, before the 
gains on disposals and deemed disposal, improved to 
£28.5 million in 2012, compared with £27.4 million in 2011, 
an increase of 4 per cent. The increase was mainly due to 
the steady growth in the natural gas business.
The net profit from all operations attributable to owners of 
the parent was £15.7 million in 2012, a decrease of 14 per 
cent compared with £18.2 million in 2011. Nonetheless,  
the net profit from all operations attributable to owners of 
the parent before gains on disposals and deemed disposal 
was £11.0 million, an increase of 2 per cent compared with 
£10.8 million in 2011. Earnings per share from all operations 
decreased to 0.82 pence in 2012, compared with 0.96 
pence in 2011.
Net profit from continuing operations was £8.0 million in 
2012, increased from £6.5 million in 2011. Earnings per 
share from continuing operations increased to 0.42 pence, 
compared with 0.34 pence in 2011.
Other comprehensive income
Other comprehensive income from all operations was  
£32.6 million in 2012, compared with £10.4 million in 2011. 
This is mainly due to the net gain of £40.3 million in fair  
value of available for sale investments in respect of CGH 
shares held by CGG, less the combined effect of exchange 
differences arising on translation of foreign operations  
of the Group and the sale of its investments in respect  
of CGH shares to CGG during the year.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions
During the year, we invested £59.9 million which primarily 
related to the acquisition of available for sale investments 
(CGH shares) for £30.6 million, along with a loan to CGG  
for £5.0 million. In addition to this, other significant investing 
cash flows relate to capital expenditure of £15.7 million, to 
continue to fund the development of our integrated natural 
gas business, and expenditure on exploration & evaluation 
assets of £4.6 million relating to the iron ore projects. 
Expenditure on acquisitions in the year of £3.8 million 
related to the acquisition of Quyang Province Dafung 
Natural Gas Company.
Financial Position
The net assets of the Group at 31 December 2012 were 
£246.8 million, compared with £196.5 million in 2011. 
Investments in jointly controlled entities of the Group  
at 31 December 2012 were £175.4 million (including the 
investments in jointly controlled entities of £39.8 million  
in the natural gas business), compared with £71.6 million  
in 2011. The increase was mainly due to the revaluation  
of CGH shares (£40.3 million) disclosed within “other 
comprehensive income” above; the acquisition of CGH 
shares for £30.6 million, along with a loan to CGG for  
£5.0 million; and the sale of CGH shares from the Group  
to CGG of £27.9 million. 27 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
financial review
The Group had a net borrowing position of £61.1 million 
(after excluding a net cash of £13.1 million in the natural gas 
business) as at 31 December 2012, compared with £5.7 
million as at 31 December 2011. However, with a cash 
balance of £50.7 million (after excluding a cash balance of 
£23.1 million in natural gas business), the positive operating 
cash flow and the expected cash consideration receivable 
from the China Gas transaction, the Group envisages  
no difficulties in meeting both current loan repayment 
obligations and investment commitments. The net gearing 
ratio (after deduction of cash) for the Group was 25 per  
cent as of 31 December 2012 and 3 per cent as of  
31 December 2011.
Financial Costs and Tax
Finance expenses for the Group from all operations were 
£6.1 million in 2012, compared with £5.3 million in 2011, 
mainly due to the increase in the weighted average Group 
borrowing throughout the year. 
The Group’s total tax charge in 2012 from all operations 
was £8.2 million (2011: £6.8 million) representing an effective 
tax rate of 29 per cent compared with 21 per cent in 2011. 
Since 2008, the PRC corporate tax rate has been unified for 
both domestic and foreign companies at 25 per cent, being 
previously 15 per cent for foreign enterprises and 33 per cent 
for domestic corporations. The overall effective tax rate  
for Fortune Oil has increased as most of the previous tax 
privileges have fallen away.
Foreign Exchange
The revenues and expenses of the Group are primarily 
denominated in China’s renminbi (RMB). The remaining 
expenses are denominated either in pounds sterling (£) or in 
Hong Kong dollars (HK$), which is pegged to the US dollar, 
or United States dollars (US$). On average from 2011 to 
2012, the RMB appreciated against the US$ by 2.2 per  
cent and the pounds sterling depreciated by 1.0 per cent 
against the US$, hence there was an overall 3.2 per cent 
depreciation of the pounds sterling against the RMB. This 
currency movement has had the effect of increasing our 
profits as measured in pounds sterling.
The assets and liabilities of the Group are also primarily 
denominated in RMB, with our Armenian investment being 
denominated in US$. The balance, which represents  
a small proportion of the assets and liabilities, are 
denominated in pounds sterling and HK$. Differing from  
the average annual rates, the closing pounds sterling 
exchange rate appreciated against the RMB and US$  
by 3.0 per cent and 4.0 per cent, respectively.
The Company does not have a policy to hedge currency risk 
and therefore any changes in the RMB/£ exchange rate are 
likely to affect the Group’s results which are presented in 
pounds sterling.
Capital Structure
Most of the Group’s investments and expenses take place 
in the People’s Republic of China and are held through 
Fortune Oil PRC Holdings Limited, a 100 per cent-owned 
Hong Kong based subsidiary of the Company. To facilitate 
potential future inter-company restructuring most of the 
investments in China are held through subsidiary Hong Kong 
registered companies. The Group’s interest in Armenia is 
held through a separate investment structure. The Group’s 
UK operations consist only of local representation as a direct 
expense to the Company.
Dividend Policy
The directors recommend a final dividend of 0.16p per 
ordinary share (2011: 0.18p per ordinary share) to be paid 
on 15 August 2013 to ordinary shareholders on the register 
on 12 July 2013. 28 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
board of directors
Executive Directors 
Mr Daniel CHIU, aged 52, is Executive Vice-Chairman and has been a Director since 9 August 1993. Mr CHIU was Fortune 
Oil’s Chief Executive prior to becoming Vice Chairman in October 1994. He is Chairman of Federal Asia Company Limited,  
a private trading company with extensive operations in China. He is a founder of Harrow International School in Bangkok, 
Beijing and Hong Kong. He is also a Non-executive Director of Far East Consortium International Limited, a company listed 
on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, which together with its subsidiaries, are principally engaged in property development  
and hotel investment and operation, car park investment and management and property investment. He is also a director  
of Fortune Max Holdings Limited, a private company controlled and beneficially owned by him. 
Mr TEE Kiam Poon, aged 62, became Chief Executive on 24 June 2010 and was a Business Development Director since  
1 July 2009. He has over 30 years of experience working for BP and developed many of BP’s joint ventures in Asia including 
BP’s first Chinese LNG Joint Venture. His last position, prior to joining Fortune Oil, was as President for the Coal Venture 
Development. During his career in China, he has been awarded “Friendship Awards” from the Fuzhou Municipal government 
and the Fujian Provincial government. He has also been actively involved in Guangdong’s Governor Advisory conference  
since its inception in 1999. Mr TEE was educated in Malaysia and obtained a BSc (honors) degree majoring in Chemistry  
and an MBA.
Ms LI Ching, aged 55, Executive Director and previously Chief Executive of the Company between 16 April 2001 and  
24 June 2010 and, Joint Chief Executive (Operation) on 30 March 1999. Ms LI, a Non-executive Director of Fortune Oil 
between 9 August 1993 and 15 June 1998 became an Executive Director on 16 June 1998. She was appointed in 1990  
as Executive Director of Kingsleigh Petroleum Limited, nominated by the PRC minority shareholders in the Kingsleigh Group. 
Previously she was Deputy Director of China North Industries Corporation (NORINCO), which she joined after graduating from 
the Economic and Financial Institute of Beijing.
Non-executive Directors
Mr QIAN Benyuan*, aged 68, Non-executive Chairman since 18 May 1997. Mr QIAN was President and CEO of China 
National Electronics Import and Export Corporation (CEIEC) between May 1995 and April 2005. He formally joined Fortune Oil 
PLC after retiring from CEIEC and continues to serve as Non-executive Chairman based in Beijing. Between 1996 and 2006, 
Mr QIAN was also Chairman of China Hewlett-Packard Co., Ltd, and between 2004 and 2007 he was a Director of Shenzhen 
Development Bank. Until 2009, he was a Director of the International Chamber of Commerce, China, a Committee Member  
of the China Council for Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT). He is currently a Vice-Chairman of China Association of 
Energy, a Vice-Chairman of the Coal Bed Methane Industry Association of Shanxi Province, China, and a Director of China 
Society of State-owned Assets Administration and a Director of China Environment Culture Promotion Association. His hard 
work and exceptional contribution earned him a number of honorary titles.
Mr Frank ATTWOOD
†
, aged 70, is Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee. He was appointed  
as Non-executive Director of Fortune Oil on 24 June 2009. He is a chartered accountant and was Deputy Chairman of the 
International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants until 31 December 2009. Mr ATTWOOD was formerly a member of  
the UK Auditing Practices Committee. For 30 years until 2004 he was an audit partner in RSM Robson Rhodes, during which 
time he was also CEO of RSM International and chairman of the UK member firm. Since retirement from that firm he has been 
a consultant and expert witness on accounting and auditing matters. Mr ATTWOOD is also a Non-executive director and 
chairman of the audit committee of Medical Protection Society and of Ridgeon Group, and is Chairman of Urenco UK Pension 
Trustee Company Ltd.
Mr WANG Jinjun*, aged 56, Non-executive Director, was appointed on 26 November 2003 and is Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Mr WANG is based in Hong Kong and was Deputy Managing Director of Top Glory International 
Holdings Limited, a leading hotel management and real estate business which was listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange 
until September 2003, when it was privatised. He is also a director of China National Cereals, Oil and Foodstuffs Import  
& Export Corporation, The Gloria International Hotels Limited and has served as a senior official at China’s Ministry of  
Foreign Trade. 29 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
board of directors
Mr Dennis CHIU*, aged 54, has been appointed as a Non-executive Director of Fortune Oil since 9 August 1993. He is  
also an Executive Director of Far East Consortium International Limited and a non-executive Director of Far East Hotels and 
Entertainment Limited in Hong Kong. Far East Group of companies is listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Limited and  
is principally engaged in property development and hotel operations in China, Singapore and Malaysia. Since 20 March 2005, 
he has been a Director of Agora Hospitality Group Co. Ltd (formerly TOKAI KANKO Co., Ltd) listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 
Mr CHIU received a BA degree from the University of Sussex.
Ms Louisa HO
†
, aged 48, was formerly Finance Director and has become a Non-executive Director since 1 September 2006. 
Ms HO joined Fortune Oil as Financial Controller in 1993 and was appointed as Deputy Chief Executive on 15 August 2001 
and became Finance Director on 29 April 2004. Ms HO is a certified public accountant of Hong Kong Institute of Certified 
Public Accountants (HKICPA) and a fellow member of Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (FCCA). She has an 
MSc in Data Processing from the University of Ulster and a B Soc Sc from the University of Hong Kong. Before joining 
Fortune Oil, she worked in a range of positions in controller and operations departments at Esso Hong Kong Limited.  
She is now the Chief Financial Officer of the Harrow group of international schools.
Mr Ian TAYLOR
†
*, aged 57, Non-executive Director, was an Executive Director of Fortune Oil between 9 August 1993 and  
23 June 1996. He relinquished his executive role and became a Non-executive Director on 24 June 1996. He is President  
and Chief Executive of the Vitol Group of companies. Vitol is a leading international petroleum trading company. He joined 
Vitol S.A. in 1985 from Shell where he held various positions in shipping, operations and trading. He was Managing Director 
of Vitol Asia Pte Limited between 1992 and 1994. Mr TAYLOR received an MA degree in Politics, Philosophy and Economics 
from Oxford University in 1978.
Mr ZHI Yulin, aged 47, Non-executive Director since 30 November 2000, graduated from Beijing Institute of Technology in 
1985, Nanjing Institute of Technology in 1987 and received an EMBA at China Europe International Business School in 2000. 
He joined NORINCO in 1987 and has held various positions since then. He is currently the Vice President of NORINCO.
Mr MAO Tong
†
, aged 55, is Independent Non-executive Director since 30 November 2010. He is a partner at Squire Sanders 
LLP, an international law firm. Prior to rejoining Squire Sanders LLP as a partner on 16 February 2012, Mr MAO was the 
Managing Partner of the Hong Kong office of Bryan Cave LLP, a law firm. He has over 25 years’ experience of advising 
Fortune 100 companies, major Chinese state and private enterprises, private equity funds, technology companies and 
Chinese banks and financial institutions. He has been involved in more than 100 Chinese / foreign joint ventures and foreign 
owned enterprises operating in China. 
Mr LIN Xizhong, aged 67, Independent Non-executive Director since 30 November 2010, has over 35 years of working  
for state owned mining and natural resources business in China and is an experienced financier. He was former Senior Vice 
President of China Minmetals Corporation, Chairman of Axa-Minmetals Assurance Company, Director of AXA APH Holdings 
and Vice Chairman of First Pacific Bank, Hong Kong. Retired from Minmetals, Mr LIN is the head of Audit & Risk Management 
Commission of China National Building Materials Group; Vice Chairman of General Nice Development Ltd., a Hong Kong 
company and also the Executive Vice Chairman of Abterra Ltd., a Singapore-listed company. In 1990s, Mr LIN served as 
China’s representative for the APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC) for several years. He is currently a member of China’s 
PECC (Pacific Economic Cooperation Council) and is also appointed as an external director of China National Building 
Materials Group, China Shipping (Group) Company and State Development and Investment Corporation, all three companies 
are directly under SARSAC of China. 
†
 Member of the Audit Committee
* Member of the Remuneration Committee 30 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
directors’ report
The Directors present their Directors’ Report and the audited Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 
2012 (“financial statements”).
Principal Activities
Fortune Oil PLC (the “Company”) is the ultimate holding company of a group of companies (the “Group”) whose principal 
activities focus on oil, natural gas and resource supply, operations and investments in China. The Group has also started in 
late 2010 pursuing opportunities outside China securing resource projects to meet the growing demands of the China market.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings, associated and subsidiary undertakings of the Company are listed in note 14 
to the Group financial statements on page 92.
Business Review
The Company is required by the Companies Act to set out in this report a fair review of the performance and development  
of the Group’s business during the year, its position at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group (“business review”).
The information that fulfils the business review requirements can be found in the following sections of this report. All the 
information detailed in these sections is incorporated by reference into this report and deemed to form part of this report: 
 Key Performance Indicators on page 5;
 Chairman’s Statement on pages 6 to 8;
 Chief Executive’s Review on pages 9 to 11;
 Business Review on pages 12 to 23, including a Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Review;
 Principal risks and uncertainties, their effects and our management strategy on pages 24 and 25; and
 Financial Review on pages 26 to 27.
The Group has a number of essential counterparties with whom it has contracts or arrangements in respect of its business 
activities. For Bluesky the joint venture partners are BP and China National Aviation Fuel Supply Company Limited (CNAF);  
jet fuel is sourced from other state oil companies and sold to airlines under short-term contracts. For Maoming SPM the 
Sinopec Group is the major joint venture partner and the sole provider of revenue under the term of joint venture contracts. 
For the West Zhuhai Terminal, PetroChina (CNPC) is the major joint venture partner and provider of contracted revenue.
The Group’s gas distribution business has a variety of joint venture partners who bring expertise and relationships in ensuring 
successful business operations. These are principally state-controlled entities such as city governments and PetroChina 
affiliates. Gas is purchased from state-controlled companies such as PetroChina, Sinopec and China United Coal Bed 
Methane Company (CUCBM) under short or long term contracts such as a joint venture agreement entered with Shenyang 
Zhonglian Enterprise Development Ltd and Able Field International Limited is to provide LNG to public transit vehicles in 
Liaoning province. For Liaoning Jianping Fortune Gas Co. Ltd, it is the Liaoning provincial government and CNPC to secure 
for the supply of natural gas. For supplying natural gas in 17 cities within Shijiazhuang Municipal Region, CNPC and Xinao 
Gas are the major joint venture partners. Tianjin Gas Group Company Ltd is the largest natural gas supplier in Tianjin City  
and responsible for operations to 18 districts and counties in Tianjin City. It is one of the main shareholders in the Tianjin LNG 
Import and Regasification terminal, which is expected to start operations in 2013. 
The Group’s CBM project at Liulin, in joint venture with Dart Energy Limited (previously Arrow Energy Limited), is governed by 
a term Production Sharing Contract with CUCBM. Since November 2008 Wilmar International Limited has owned 15 per cent 
in the Group’s gas business but has no operational involvement. The Group has entered into a cooperation agreement with 
the Everthriving Investment Group, a privately owned Chinese LNG and the joint venture agreement with the Yangtze Shipping 
Group to refit ships using LNG dual fuel technology. 
For Armenia Iron Ore project, Bounty Resources Armenia Limited controls three iron ore mining licences through Fortune 
Resources Armenia LLC and Spice Steel Armenia CJSC and have made a strategic alliance with seven Chinese and 
international organisations to develop the project.
Further details of the Group’s joint ventures are in the note 14 to the Group financial statements on page 92. 31 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
directors’ report
Subsequent Events
Details of subsequent events are listed in note 34 to the Group financial statements on page 112.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties, their effects and our management strategy
The principal risks and uncertainties, their effects and our management strategy are given on pages 24 to 25.
Going Concern Statement
The Group’s business activities and associated opportunities and risks are set out in the business review on pages 12 to 23. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial 
review set out on pages 26 to 27. In addition, note 27 to the Group financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments; and its 
exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As explained in note 27 to the Group financial statements, the Group meets part of its capital expenditure requirements  
from medium term loan facilities. On 4 April 2011, the Group signed a US$180 million (£112 million) loan agreement and  
the proceeds were used to repay the 3-year US$80 million (£52 million) loan facility arranged by Standard Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) in April 2010 and the balance of US$100 million (£60 million) has been providing further capital for development. 
The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties as described on page 24.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had a cash balance of £50.7 million (excluding cash balance of £23.1 million in the 
natural gas business), and a net borrowing of £61.1 million (after excluding the net cash balance of £13.1 million in the natural 
gas business). Nevertheless, the Group expects to generate positive cash flow from operations and receive cash consideration 
from China Gas Holdings Limited for the transaction in relation to the Group’s natural gas business. The Group’s current 
forecasts and projections, adjusting for reasonably possible changes in trading conditions, show that the Group will be able 
to meet its obligations under the loan agreements and to operate within the required covenants for the foreseeable future.
Following the decision to enter into the Gas Division disposal transaction, detailed in note 20 to the Group financial statements 
on page 98, notice of the proposed sale was given to the providers of the US$180 million medium term loan facilities. A waiver 
was received, in advanced of the transaction, in respect of the condition for the immediate repayment of these facilities upon 
such a transaction occurring. Subject to the payment of US$18 million (£11.4 million) as an initial accelerated repayment,  
the existing terms of the medium term loan remain unchanged.
After making enquiries, the Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern 
basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
Results and Dividends
The audited results for the year ended 31 December 2012 are set out in the Group income statement on page 66.
The Group’s net profit for the year ended 31 December 2012 attributable to owners of the parent amounted to £15.7 million 
(2011: £18.2 million). No interim dividend was paid during the year 2012 (2011: nil).
Dividend Policy
The Board, continuing the policy adopted since April 2011 and considering the level of net post tax profits for the year ended 
31 December 2012, has determined that it would be appropriate to pay a dividend to shareholders. The Board has determined 
that the dividend should be 0.16 pence per share (2011: 0.18 pence) which represents the same pay-out ratio as last year, 
being approximately 20% of net post tax profits attributable to shareholders.
Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 15 August 2013 to shareholders 
on the register on 12 July 2013.
The Board considers that it is appropriate given the irregularity of earnings over the year that one dividend payment will be 
made per year. 32 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
directors’ report
Key Performance Indicators
Details of the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) monitored by the Board are included on page 5.
Corporate, Social and Environmental Responsibility
The Group is committed to complying with the Health, Safety and Environmental regulations and requirements of China and 
elsewhere in the world where it is operating and to protecting the health, safety, welfare and security of its employees and all 
personnel affected by and involved in its operations and activities. The Group has a primary and continuing commitment to 
minimise the impact of its activities on the environment. Details are set out on pages 21 and 22. A Health, Safety and 
Environment Policy Statement and Code of Ethics Principles approved by the Board have been posted on the Company’s 
website, www.fortune-oil.com
These apply to the Company and to all its managers, employees and contractors. Details are given in the Corporate 
Governance section.
Charitable and Political Contributions
No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure incurred by the Group during the year (2011: nil).
No charitable donations were made or expenditure incurred by the Group in 2012 (2011: nil).
Research and Development
There were no significant Research and Development activities by the Group in 2012 (2011: nil).
Corporate Governance Statement and Remuneration Report under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR) 
7.2.5R and 7.2.7R
The corporate governance statement on pages 40 to 49 forms part of this Directors’ Report.
The report on Directors’ remuneration (the “Remuneration Report”) is set out on pages 50 to 62.
An ordinary resolution to approve the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 62 of the Annual Report will be put to  
the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 18 June 2013.
Directors
All the Directors named below served throughout the year:
Executive Directors
1. Daniel Tatjung CHIU (Vice-Chairman)
2. TEE Kiam Poon (Chief Executive)
3. LI Ching
Non-executive Directors
1. QIAN Benyuan* (Chairman)
2. Frank Albert ATTWOOD
†
 (Senior Independent Director)
3. WANG Jinjun*
4. Dennis Tatshing CHIU*
5. Ian Roper TAYLOR*
†
6. Louisa Yuk-king HO
†
7. ZHI Yulin
8. MAO Tong
†
 (Independent Director) 
9. LIN Xizhong (Independent Director) 
* Member of the Remuneration Committee
†
 Member of the Audit Committee
Brief particulars of the Directors in office at the date of this report are on pages 28 and 29. 33 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
directors’ report
Directors’ election and rotation
TEE Kiam Poon and LI Ching having been appointed since the 2010 AGM, are required by the Articles of Association to  
stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Dennis CHIU, Ian TAYLOR, QIAN Benyuan, ZHI Yulin and WANG Jinjun as Non-executive Directors with more than nine years 
service, will retire under the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and, being eligible, will offer themselves for 
re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
With the exception of TEE Kiam Poon, an Executive Director who has a service contract, none of other Executive Directors 
have a Directors’ service contract. Each such Executive Director has letter of appointment and they are available for inspection.
The Board has given consideration to the balance of skills, knowledge and breadth of experience on the Board and the 
manner in which each of the retiring Directors contributes to that balance. Following the performance evaluation of the Board, 
its Committees, individual Directors and Chairman, conducted shortly after the 2012 year end, the Board is satisfied that all 
the Directors including the Chairman continue to contribute effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles on the 
Board and the Board Committee. The remaining Directors unanimously recommend the re-appointment of each Director 
standing for re-election.
Directors’ Interests in Shares
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the issued capital of the Company are given in the Remuneration 
Report on page 58. Other than as disclosed therein, none of the Directors had any material interest in any contract of 
significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries were a party during the financial year ended 31 December 2012.
Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK law, the following description provides the required 
information for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report. 
Articles of Association
The Company adopted new Articles of Association (the “New Articles”) at the AGM in 2010. These were adopted primarily  
to take account of changes in English company law brought about by certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006, which 
came into force on 1 October 2009 and the implementation in the UK of the Companies (Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 
2009 on 3 August 2009. The following information is given pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 and reflects 
the Articles as they currently stand.
Amendment of the Company’s Articles of Association 
Any amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
1) Structure of the Company’s share capital and rights and obligations attaching to shares
As at the date of this Report, 1,987,466,715 ordinary shares of 1p each are fully paid and being the total number of  
Fortune Oil PLC shares with voting rights. The Company currently has only one class of shares and the shares are listed  
on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the New Articles 
reflect this. Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority 
continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Details of changes to share capital as at 31 December 2012 and of options under the Group’s employee share schemes are 
shown in notes 24 and 25 to the Group financial statements.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are detailed in the Company’s Articles of Association (the “Articles”).
The Articles may be changed with the agreement of the shareholders by the passing of a special resolution at  
a general meeting. 34 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
directors’ report
Subject to the provisions below, shareholders may attend any general meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands,  
a qualifying person (being an individual who is a member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the representative  
of a corporation or a person appointed as a proxy of a member) who is present at a general meeting shall have one vote on 
each resolution and, on a poll, every shareholder who is present or by proxy shall have one vote on each resolution for every 
ordinary share of which they are the registered shareholder. 
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands unless before, or on the declaration of  
the result of, a vote on show of hands, a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting, or by at least five shareholders  
(or their representatives) present in person or by proxy and having the right to vote, or by any shareholders (or their 
representatives) present in person or by proxy and having at least 10% of the total voting rights of all shareholders, or by  
any shareholders (or their representatives) present in person or by proxy and holding ordinary shares on which an aggregate 
sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares, or limitations on the holding of shares. No ordinary shares carry any  
special rights with regard to control of the Company. Major shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all other 
shareholders. There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of  
the shares and there are no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through the employee share schemes and the Senior Executive Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) rank equally with 
other shares in issue.
As at 1 January 2012, 12,562,702 ordinary shares were held in the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust subject to option 
granted to employees (none of whom are Directors). During the year:
i. options over 493,421 ordinary shares exercisable at 6.08 pence per share between 8 June 2008 and 7 June 2015 under 
the 2004 Approved Scheme were exercised on 8 February 2012;
ii. options over 110,000 ordinary shares exercisable at 6.32 pence per share between 8 June 2008 and 7 June 2015 under 
the 2004 Unapproved Scheme were exercised on 8 February 2012; 
iii. options over 1,000,000 ordinary shares exercisable at 6.32 pence per share between 8 June 2008 and 7 June 2015 
under the 2004 Unapproved Scheme were exercised on 10 May 2012; and
iv. options over 186,605 ordinary shares exercisable at 9.41 pence per share between 4 October 2014 and 3 October 2021 
under the 2004 Unapproved Scheme were lapsed due to the cessation of employment. 
As at 31 December 2012, 10,772,676 ordinary shares were held in the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust subject to options 
granted to employees (none of whom are Directors) as follows:
(1) 2,166,579 ordinary shares with respect to the options exercisable at 6.32 pence per share which are exercisable between 
8 June 2008 and 7 June 2015 under the 2004 Unapproved Scheme;
(2) 1,150,000 ordinary shares with respect to the options exercisable at 11.75 pence per share which are exercisable between 
25 June 2011 and 24 June 2018 under the 2004 Unapproved Scheme;
(3) 1,709,000 ordinary shares with respect to the options exercisable at 12.75 pence per share which are exercisable between 
8 June 2014 and 7 June 2021 under the 2004 Unapproved Scheme; 
(4) 5,444,982 ordinary shares with respect to the options exercisable at 9.41 pence per share which are exercisable between 
4 October 2014 and 3 October 2021 under the 2004 Unapproved Scheme; 
(5) 302,115 ordinary shares with respect to the options exercisable at 9.93 pence per share which are exercisable between  
4 October 2014 and 3 October 2021 under the 2004 Approved Scheme,
or, in each case, if earlier, exercisable on the date of cessation of employment with a Participating Company as defined in the 
rules of the 2004 Unapproved Scheme or the 2004 Approved Scheme, as relevant (as detailed in the Remuneration Report). 
The share options referred to in (1) to (5) were granted by the Trustees of the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust on the 
recommendation of the Remuneration Committee of the Board. 35 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
directors’ report
In (4) and (5), there is a financial performance condition attaching to the exercise of options which is a growth of 15% per  
year on average over the 3 year period in profit attributable to equity shareholders (“Attributable Profit”) by the Group.
Employee Benefit Trust (the “EBT” or “Trust”)
The EBT is capable of acquiring shares, by purchase or by subscription, at a price not less than the nominal value of an 
ordinary share of 1p each in the Company and of using any such shares for the purposes of satisfying options under the 
Company’s 2004 Approved Scheme, 2004 Unapproved Scheme and of the Senior Executive Incentive Plan (the “Plan”),  
or as otherwise determined by the Trustees. No shares were acquired by the EBT during the year. 
Four Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) participants (none of whom are directors) in the 2007 awards who had not withdrawn 
their 819,336 shares from the EBT in 2011 would have been entitled to a further top of shares equal to 20% of the original 
award without any further performance conditions as of 26 June 2012. However, due to the failure to achieve two out of the 
six KPIs in respect of the profit attributable to equity shareholders (before other gains) for the financial year 2011 and the lack 
of share price performance, the Remuneration Committee decided that no further increases in 2012 in the number of shares 
under the 2007 Option unless certain further conditions would be satisfied, in particular that:
(1) LTIP participants remain employed until at least 26 June 2013; and
(2) the KPI target which the Company set for the profit attributable to equity shareholders (before other gains) being  
met for the financial year ended 31 December 2012, i.e. a growth of 30 per cent above the results for the year ended  
31 December 2010.
In June 2012, one of the participants chose to withdraw his 208,044 shares to which he was beneficially entitled. The other  
three LTIP participants chose not to remove their 611,292 shares from the EBT so as to be entitled to benefit from another 
possible increase in the number of awarded shares on or after 5th anniversary of the initial award subject to the further 
conditions stated above.
Of the shares awarded pursuant to the Plan in 2009, there were 3,984,594 shares vested unconditionally in 2012; of which  
478,338 shares were transferred out of the EBT by the beneficial owner and five LTIP participants (two of whom are Directors) 
had not withdrawn their 3,506,256 shares from the EBT in 2012. A further 1,603,421 shares were transferred out of the  
EBT during 2012 for the purposes of satisfying options granted under the Company’s 2004 Approved Scheme and 2004 
Unapproved Scheme which were exercised. 
As at 31 December 2012, the EBT held 85,496,806 shares of which 10,772,676 were the subject of options granted to 
employees (none of whom are Directors), 4,117,548 shares have unconditionally vested but have been left in the EBT  
and a further 6,252,446 shares have conditionally vested. Details of Directors interest in these shares are set out in the 
Remuneration Report on page 60.
The Trustees of the EBT is free to exercise the voting rights attributable to all shares held by the Trust as they think fit.  
Neither the Board nor the Remuneration Committee have indicated to the Trustees whether or how they would wish the 
Trustees to vote on any matters.
A shareholder whose name appears on the Company’s register of members can chose whether his shares are evidenced  
by share certificates (i.e. in certificated form) or held in electronic (i.e. uncertificated) form in CREST (the electronic settlement 
system in the UK). 
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to: (i) receive dividends (when declared); (ii) receive copies of the Company’s 
reports and accounts; (iii) to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company; (iv) to appoint proxies; and (v) to  
exercise voting rights.
Any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any general meeting to be effective having been 
correctly completed and returned must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form or in CREST proxy form,  
not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named  
in the appointment of a proxy proposes to vote. Calculation of any such time periods shall not take account of any part of  
a day that is not a working day. 36 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
directors’ report
No shareholder is, unless, the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote (either personally or by proxy) at a general 
meeting or at any separate meeting of the holders of the class of shares, or to exercise any other right arising by virtue of his 
shareholding in relation to any such meeting if he or any person who appears to have an interest in the shares has been sent 
a notice under s.793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with 
respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interest person failed to supply the Company with the information 
requested within the prescribed period of time as stipulated in Article 40.
The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a share which is not fully paid or the transfer of a share on which the Company 
has a lien. The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless: (i) the instrument of transfer is 
lodged, duly stamped, at the registered office of the Company or at such other place as the Board may appoint and is 
accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require 
to show the right the transferor to make the transfer; (ii) is in respect of only one class of share, and (iii) is in favour of not 
more than four transferees.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an 
uncertificated share providing that the refusal is in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.  
The Board may at its discretion suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days in any one year. The Board cannot 
suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without first gaining the consent of CREST. There are no 
other limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company.
If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class 
may be varied either while the Company is a going concern or during or in contemplation of a winding up:
i. in such manner (if any) as may be provided by those rights; or
ii. with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the class, or
iii. with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares  
of the class. 
2) Significant holders of the Company’s shares 
Other than as stated below, as far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings 
in the Company.
As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been informed of, in accordance with the DTR issued by the FSA, the following 
notifiable voting rights in the Company’s issued share capital:
 Number of ordinary Percentage of issued 
 shares held share capital/voting rights
First Level Holdings Limited
1
 647,244,897 32.57
Goldman Sachs Securities (Nominees) 
 Limited ILSEG ACCT
2
 79,706,331 4.01
HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited
3
 84,828,800 4.27
JTC Trustees Limited
4
 85,496,806 4.30
Vidacos Nominees Limited
5
  147,108,505 7.40 37 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
directors’ report
Each ordinary share carries one voting right.
1
 First Level Holdings Limited is a company in which the majority of shares are owned by Daniel Chiu and the remainder by Dennis Chiu.
2
 First Level Holdings Limited has the ultimate beneficial interest in 78,390,715 shares registered in the name of Goldman Sachs Securities 
(Nominees) Limited ILSEG ACCT, representing 3.94 per cent of the issued share capital.
3
 Kerry Holdings Limited, the main investment holding company of the Kuok Group in Hong Kong, has the ultimate beneficial interest in 
84,828,800 ordinary shares registered in the name of HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited. The Kuok Group is a strategic investor of 
Fortune Oil PLC. In 2008 Wilmar International Limited, in which the Kuok Group also has interests, also invested US$36 million (£22.3 million) 
and owns a 15 per cent in Fortune Gas Investment Holdings Limited.
4
 JTC Trustees Limited is the Trustees for the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust under the Senior Executive Incentive Plan.
5
 Vitol Energy (Bermuda) Limited has the beneficial interest in Vidacos Nominees Limited.
Save for the above, no person has notified any interest of 3 per cent or more or any non-material interest equal to or more 
than 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital or in the voting rights of the Company.
3) Appointment and replacement of Directors 
The rules in relation to the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Articles.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by a resolution of  
the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following his 
appointment and may be re-appointed. 
The Articles require that every Director submit himself for re-appointment every three years and will retire and seek  
re-appointment at the next AGM. The Company’s shareholders may remove a Director before the expiration of his period  
of office by passing an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given. The office of a Director shall be vacated if:
i. he ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of the Act or he becomes prohibited by law from being a director; or
ii. he becomes bankrupt or makes an arrangement or composition with his creditors generally; or
iii. he is, or may be, suffering from a mental disorder; or
iv. he resigns by notice in writing to the Company; or
v. he has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of six months without permission and the other Directors 
resolve that he shall cease to be a Director; or
vi. all other Directors require him to resign by notice in writing.
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members.
4) Power of Directors
The powers of the Directors are determined by English law and the Articles provide that the Directors may exercise all  
the Company’s powers provided that the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be 
exercised by the shareholders. The Directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares and have authority to 
make purchases of its shares (subject to provisions in the Companies Act).
5) Change of control
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of 
control following a takeover bid.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office  
or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Company’s share schemes may cause options  
and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover. 38 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
directors’ report
Directors & Officers Liability Insurance
The Company has purchased and maintained appropriate insurance cover for its Directors and Officers and those of its 
subsidiary companies under a Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance policy, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Directors’ Interests and Indemnity 
At no time during the financial year ended 31 December 2012 did any Director have a material interest in any contract of 
significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than the service contract and letters of  
appointment between each of the Directors and the Company.
As at the date of this Report, qualifying third party indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 are in force  
under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by s.234 Companies Act 2006  
as applicable, against any claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising out of, or in connection with,  
the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently  
or deceitfully. 
No claims have been made either under the indemnity or the insurance policy.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Provisions in the Articles permit the Board to consider and, if thought fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an 
interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company. Directors are required to give advance 
notice of any conflict issues to the Board via Company Secretary to declare situational conflicts that can be considered for 
authorisation by the remaining members of the Board. Directors are excluded from the quorum and the vote in respect of  
any matters in which they have an interest.
Policy for Payment of Creditors
The Company’s policy with respect to any contracts with its suppliers is to: (i) fix terms of payment when agreeing the terms 
of each business transaction; (ii) ensure that the supplier is aware of those terms; and (iii) to abide by the agreed terms of 
payment. As at 31 December 2012, trade creditors of the Group were equivalent to 70 (2011: 88) days’ purchases, based on 
the average amount of creditors and the cost of sales. 
Financial Instruments and Risk Management
Note 27 to the Group financial statements on pages 102 to 107 include information on the Company’s use of financial 
instruments.
Details of the Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies are included in note 27 to the Group  
financial statements.
Auditor
Deloitte LLP provide non-audit services to the Group, which are set out in note 4 to the Group financial statements.  
The Directors are satisfied, and will continue to ensure, that Deloitte’s services are in compliance with the relevant ethical 
guidance of the accountancy profession and do not impair the judgement or independence of the auditor.
The Audit Committee continues to review the auditor’s independence and effectiveness. The auditor is subject to  
re-appointment on an annual basis. 
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor of the Company and an ordinary resolution 
reappointing them as auditor and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming  
AGM on 18 June 2013. 39 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
directors’ report
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The AGM will be held at 11am on Tuesday, 18 June 2013 at the Oriental Club, Stratford House, Stratford Place, London W1C 
1ES, United Kingdom. At the 2013 AGM, resolutions will be proposed, amongst other matters, to: (i) declare a final dividend 
(ii) receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements; (iii) approve the Remuneration Report; (iv) elect and re-elect Directors; 
(v) re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor; (vi) renew both the general authority of the Directors to issue shares and to authorise 
the Directors to issue share without applying the statutory pre-emption rights; (vii) to approve the renewal of the Fortune Oil 
PLC Approved Employee Share Scheme; (viii) to approve the renewal of the Fortune Oil PLC (Unapproved) Employee Share 
Scheme; and (ix) to authorise the Directors to hold general meetings at 14 clear days’ notice (where this flexibility is merited 
by the business of the meeting and is thought to be in the interest of shareholders as a whole).
The Notice convening the AGM is being sent to shareholders separately with this Annual Report. The resolutions for  
the AGM are set out in detail in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, which is also available on the Company’s website, 
www.fortune-oil.com
Electronic communications
The Company provides documentation and communication to shareholders via its website, except to those shareholders who 
elect to receive paper copies by post. Electronic copies of the 2012 Annual Report and the Notice of Annual General Meeting 
will be posted on the Company’s website, www.fortune-oil.com The Company’s announcements to the Stock Exchange are 
also available on line through the website.
Shareholders wishing to change their election and receive documents in hard copy form can do so at any time by contacting 
the Company’s Registrar or by logging on to www.capitashareportal.com
Electronic proxy voting
The Company provides electronic proxy voting for this year’s AGM. Shareholders who are not CREST members can appoint a 
proxy and vote online for or against the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM by visiting www.capitashareportal.com The 
onscreen instructions will give details on how to complete the appointment and voting process.
Paper proxy forms will be distributed with the Notice of Annual General Meeting to all shareholders other than those who have 
elected for notification by email.
Statement on disclosure of information to Auditor
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirms that:
 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and
 the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any 
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the requirements of section 418 of the Companies 
Act 2006.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Company’s auditor in connection with 
preparing their Audit Report on the Group financial statements, set out on pages 64 and 65.
A Directors’ Responsibilities Statement for preparing the Group and the Company financial statements and a responsibility 
statement as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is set out on page 63.
By order of the Board
Sandi CHOI
Company Secretary
24 April 2013 40 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
corporate governance
The UK Corporate Governance Code compliance
Listed companies with a Premium Listing of equity shares in the UK are required under the Listing Rules to describe how they 
have complied with the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council 
in June 2010 (“the Code”) which applies for the period covered by this report. Despite having transferred to Standard Listing 
on 20 March 2013 the Company intends to continue to provide this report in the same format as for a Premium Listing.
The Directors consider that the Company has complied with the Main Principle requirements of the Code throughout the year 
ended 31 December 2012 and to the date of this report. The Board believes the Company has been in compliance with the 
provisions set out in the Code with the following exceptions, which the Directors do not consider to be fundamental to the 
practice of good corporate governance.
Areas of Non-Compliance
Provision B.1.1 provides that the Board should determine whether a Non-executive Director is independent in character  
and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect,  
the Director’s judgement. The Company acknowledges that six Non-executive Directors are not considered to be independent 
as defined in the Code. 
Provision B.2.1 states that the Board should establish a Nomination Committee comprising a majority of independent 
Non-executive Directors to make recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. The Board has not 
established a separate Nomination Committee, but as a vacancy occurs a Nomination Panel comprising appropriately 
qualified directors and independent non-executives is constituted to conduct the initial search process and to present  
the whole Board recommendations such that the whole Board performs the function of selecting and appointing new 
directors. The Nomination Panel is instructed to produce recommendation on merit, against objective criteria set for the 
particular position, with due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender, of the Board. The Board considers that the 
diverse requirements for the recruiting of executive directors and senior management involve materially different skills and 
backgrounds. The Board considers that a Panel constituted specifically for each recruitment process enable the appropriate 
Board members to be involved in the initial setting of the requirements and employment terms for the prospective employee 
and to the initial screening of candidates to provide the whole board with a short list.
The Company has not complied with provision D.2.1 which requires the Remuneration Committee to comprise only 
independent Non-executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee comprises three Non-executive Directors and the 
Chairman although he does not chair the Remuneration Committee. None of the three Non-executive Directors is considered 
independent as defined by the Code. The Chairman was considered independent when he was appointed as Chairman, but 
was thereafter considered to be considered independent by virtue of holding the position of Chairman. The Board considers 
that the Non-executive Directors have the right knowledge of international business and the specific conditions in which the 
Group operates to properly manage the setting of remuneration and other benefits and that the reasons why they are not 
independent are not such as to cause them to be ineffective in performing the remuneration and benefit setting function.
The Company has not complied with provision D.2.2 which requires the Remuneration Committee to be responsible for 
setting the Chairman’s remuneration. The setting of the Chairman’s remuneration is the responsibility of the Executive 
Committee which the Board believes to be more appropriate.
This report, together with the Directors’ Report and the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 39 and 50 to 62, describes how 
the Board applied the principles of good governance and complies with the Code.
The Board and Board composition
As the date of this Report, the Board comprises 12 directors: three Executive Directors and nine Non-executive Directors.
The three Executive Directors are Daniel CHIU (Vice-Chairman), TEE Kiam Poon (Chief Executive) and LI Ching.
QIAN Benyuan is the Non-executive Chairman.
There are three independent Non-executive Directors, Frank ATTWOOD, MAO Tong and LIN Xizhong. Frank ATTWOOD is the 
Senior Independent Director.
The Non-executive Directors who take a role in Board Committee meetings are QIAN Benyuan, Frank ATTWOOD, WANG 
Jinjun, Dennis CHIU, Louisa HO, Ian TAYLOR and MAO Tong. Frank ATTWOOD is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and 
WANG Jinjun is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 41 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
corporate governance
MAO Tong and LIN Xizhong are members of the Risk Monitoring Panel of which Frank ATTWOOD is also a member.
The other Non-executive Director is ZHI Yulin, Vice-president of NORINCO, which currently owns 1.7% of the issued shares  
of the Company.
No shareholder has the right to request the appointment of a Director.
Given their knowledge of the business and industry and their integrity, the Board strongly believes all Non-executive Directors 
continue to make a valuable contribution to the Company.
Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown on the board of directors on pages 28 to 29 of this  
Annual Report.
Diversity
The Board’s focus remains on attracting the right talents and skills irrespective of gender or ethnicity. The Board has a good 
record of gender diversity such that women comprise 17% of the Board. Within senior management women represent 
approximately 23% (2011: 20%) of managers. The composition of the Board also reflects a diversity of nationalities such  
as to reflect the operating locations of the Group. The Board includes increasing diversity among its Directors and senior 
executives as a criterion for new appointments.
Board responsibilities and procedures
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company and for providing entrepreneurial leadership 
within a framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed. The Directors’ biographies 
demonstrate that the Directors have a range of experience and are of sufficient calibre to bring independent judgment on 
issues of strategy, performance and resources.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters, which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that  
it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues. These 
matters include:
 The adoption of new Group strategy including major acquisitions and financing considerations;
 The adoption and regular monitoring of the annual Group business plan;
 Major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestments that diverge from the adopted Group strategy or business plan;
 Approval of the publication of the annual and half-year financial results and interim management statements;
 Supervision of the internal control system and risk management;
 Approval and monitoring of the Health, Safety and Environment policies;
 Board appointments and removals and the related terms;
 Company Secretary appointment and removal;
 Senior management structure, responsibilities and succession plans;
 Consideration of Directors’ conflicts of interest; and
 Dividend Policy.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors are provided with relevant information in a timely manner by means 
of briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings and on an ad hoc basis where necessary. The Board meets  
both physically and by teleconference and at these meetings the Board reviews business performance, ensures adequate 
financing, sets and monitors strategy, examines investment and acquisition opportunities. Authority for implementing the 
strategy and decisions taken by the Board is delegated to the Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group (the 
Executive Committee). The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day running of the Group’s business and 
reports the performance of the Group to the Board and provides timely and accurate information to enable the Board to  
make decisions. Other responsibilities are delegated to the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, which 
operate within defined terms of reference.
The Board as a whole rather than a Nomination Committee considered new Board appointments. In making appointments  
the Board considers the recommendation from a Nomination Panel comprising Directors selected from time to time to pre-vet 
potential appointees and to set parameters as regards the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would most 
benefit the Board and may use external recruitment consultants to provide a shortlist of potential interviewees and 
recommendations for the Board to consider. The Board is responsible for considering succession planning and the 
appointment and removal of its own members. 42 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
corporate governance
The Nomination Panel will continue to identify and recommend candidates for the position as independent Non-executive 
Directors. 
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of Chairman (Non-executive) and Chief Executive are separate, ensuring a clear division of responsibility. The 
Chairman, assisted by the Vice-Chairman, is responsible for the leadership of the Board, while the Chief Executive is 
responsible for the development and implementation of policy and strategy and for the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Board support
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary (whose appointment or removal is a matter  
for the Board as a whole) who is responsible for ensuring Board procedures are followed and that all applicable rules and 
regulations are complied with. All Directors, including Non-executive Directors, are able to take independent professional 
advice if necessary, at the Company’s expense, in the furtherance of their duties as Directors.
Induction and professional development
On appointment, new Directors receive a comprehensive induction to the Group’s business including site visits, meetings with 
senior management across the business and Group functions and meetings with major shareholders. As an ongoing process, 
Directors visit operating divisions and local management on a regular basis. Directors are briefed and kept informed of 
changes and developments in the business and on legislative and regulatory issues, as appropriate.
The training needs of Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and additional training requirements are 
identified through an annual performance evaluation process. During 2012, Directors attended an in-house training session  
on “Resources; Decisions by regulators on Dealing; Bribery and Accounts; Corporate Governance” in London. Training plans 
for Directors were implemented in a more personalised approach with a specific budget allocation, taking into account their 
individual professional development.
Executive Directors’ external non-executive directorships
The Board has not imposed a formal policy in relation to the number of external directorships that an Executive Director may 
hold. However, as part of their on-going development, the Executive Directors may seek an external Non-executive role on a 
non-competitor board, for which they may retain the remuneration in respect of the appointment. In order to avoid any conflict 
of interest, all appointments are subject to the Board approval and the Board monitors the extent of Directors’ other interests 
to ensure the effectiveness of the Board is achieved. Mr CHIU is non-executive director of a Hong Kong listed company and 
also the founder of Harrow International School in Bangkok, Beijing and Hong Kong. The fee retained for his non-executive 
directorship of the Hong Kong listed company in the Far East Group in 2012 was £2,000 per annum (HK$25,000) for Far East 
Consortium International Limited. The Board is satisfied that the Executive Vice-Chairman’s other commitments would have 
no material effect on the time which he would have available to commit to the Company.
Independence/Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of two years, subject to a maximum of up to 1 month’s notice 
within that period and also subject to re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of Directors.  
Each of the Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, currently has a letter of appointment with the fixed time 
commitments of not less than 36 days a year. The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are 
available for inspection and a sample letter of appointment is available on the Company’s website, www.fortune-oil.com.  
The Board is also kept informed of the Directors’ other significant commitments and is satisfied that these do not conflict  
with their duties as a Director of the Company.
As required by Code provision B.3.1, the Board has considered Chairman’s other significant commitments, which are his 
directorships of China Society of State-owned Assets Administration, China Environment Culture Promotion Association 
and his vice-chairmanships of China Association of Energy and the CBM Industry Association of Shanxi Province, China.  
The Board is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with the Chairman’s ability to carry out his duties and 
responsibilities and to perform his role as Chairman effectively.
All new Directors are required by Company’s Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual General 
Meeting after their appointment by the Board. Subsequently they are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years. 
A Non-executive Director who has served on the Board longer than nine years is subject to annual re-election in accordance  43 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
corporate governance
with the Code. The Board is satisfied that all the Directors standing for re-election continue to perform effectively and to 
demonstrate commitment to their role. The Directors seeking re-election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting are noted  
in the Directors’ Report on page 33 of this Annual Report and in the Notice of AGM.
Indemnities
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association, Directors have been granted an indemnity permitted by law in 
respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office. The indemnity would not cover where the relevant director or officer  
has acted fraudulently or dishonestly. Throughout the year the Company has also maintained Directors’ and Officers’ liability 
insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors and other officers of the Group.
Board Performance Evaluation 
The Board completed an internal performance evaluation of its own performance and of its Committees and Directors for the 
year 2012. The performance evaluation was primarily based upon answers to questionnaires, which had been updated since 
the previous year’s evaluation. A Review Panel comprising a Non-executive Director, the Chairman and the Senior 
Independent Director discussed their views and gave feedback based on individual questionnaires. The results of the 
evaluation were reported to the Board and where areas for improvement have been identified, actions have been agreed. 
Relevant matters considered in discussion with Directors and Board performance included:
 Size, composition and independence of the Board
 Strategy
 Risk management and internal controls
 Relationships with stakeholders
 Time management
 Communication
 Effectiveness of the Board/Committees/Panels
 Corporate governance
The Directors concluded that the performance evaluation identified areas where some Non-executive Directors felt that they 
required further management input or exposure to the operating businesses and these matters are being addressed in 2013. 
The Board and its Committees operated effectively and the individual Directors were each contributing to the overall 
effectiveness of the Board. 
The evaluation of the Chairman encompasses the general management and conduct of Board meetings, the quality of 
discussion and the extent to which Board meetings are focusing on the right issues. The Senior Independent Director and  
a Non-executive Director reviewed and evaluated the performance of the Chairman. They concluded that the Chairman 
continues to perform effectively and demonstrated commitment to the role of Chairman.
Succession Planning
The Board has determined that a structured focus on succession planning as part of the Group’s overall business 
development strategy is necessary with consideration being given to both the Board and senior management. The current 
developments in the Group’s business and the range of possibilities that exist for growth and methods of financing make  
this a complex exercise and, whilst careful consideration of the developing management requirements of the Group will be 
considered early decisions in this area are unlikely pending clarification of some opportunities The Board is satisfied that the 
individuals currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation have the requisite depth and breadth of 
skills, knowledge and experience.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Directors are required to notify the company secretary of any potential conflicts of interest when they are appointed to the 
Board and, following appointment, as new potential conflicts arise. These notifications are then considered and where 
appropriate authorised by the Board. The Board considers the extent to which such notified conflicts should be authorised 
and such authorisation can only be done in advance.
These procedures have been applied during the year and are now included as a regular item for consideration by the Board  
at its meetings. 44 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
corporate governance
Directors Duties in relation to s.172 of the Companies Act 2006
The provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the duties of Directors create a statutory obligation to act in good faith 
and to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole, and in doing so have regard to certain 
matters set out in s.172 of the Companies Act 2006. These matters include having regard to the interests of the Company’s 
employees, the need to foster the Company’s business relationships with supplier and others, the impact of the Company’s 
operations on the community and environment and the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high 
standards of business conduct. In reaching decisions on the operations and development of the Group the Directors 
recognise these factors in their decisions as follows:
1. Employees
The Company is committed to equal opportunities in recruitment, training and career development and in the fair treatment of 
all employees regardless of their nationality, age, ethnic group, race, religious beliefs or gender, with selection only subject to 
satisfying the operational requirements in the country of deployment.
The Company believes that health and safety for our staff and our community are paramount. The Company’s policies and 
philosophies for Health, Safety and the Environment (HSE) are incorporated in the Staff Handbook and are available on the 
Company’s website, www.fortune-oil.com
2. Ethical and community business practice
The Company expects employees to have high ethical standards in all activities and the Staff Handbook details the 
Company’s code of conduct and anti-corruption measures including that for business gifts. Offering or receiving bribes is  
not permitted and all employees are required to maintain fair commercial behaviour with good judgment and a whistleblowing 
policy is in place for any concerns. 
The Code of Ethical Principles approved by the Board is available on the Company’s website, www.fortune-oil.com for the 
operations where the Group has direct management control. They are:
 Obeying the laws and regulations in the countries which the Group operates;
 Conducting operations in accordance with accepted principles of good corporate governance;
 Managers and employees respect the dignity of the individual and follow the ILO Core Conventions;
 Business dealings should respect the Group’s business principles;
 Open communications within the bounds of commercial confidentiality and regulatory constraints;
 Business integrity;
 Full disclosures in any circumstances that could give rise to a potential conflict of Interests;
 Promoting and defending the Company’s legitimate business interests;
 Operations in accordance with the principles of fair competition; and
 Making a positive social contribution to the community.
Employees are made aware that obligations apply to them as a Group, whether working in China, Hong Kong, UK or 
elsewhere. These include maintaining confidentiality of the Company’s operations, precluding insider trading and acting  
in an ethical manner and avoiding conflicts of interest. The Group’s operating companies also provide assistance to their  
local community, for example through organising safety training programmes for gas customers and promoting local  
cultural activities.
Where the Group does not have direct management control it seeks to ensure that equivalent ethical standards are adopted 
and maintained at least to the level required in the relevant country of operation.
3. Relationship with customers and suppliers
Long-term business relationships are always built on trust, quality, innovation and flexibility. The Company recognises its 
responsibilities and carries out its business with high integrity with both customers and suppliers. For almost twenty years 
Fortune Oil has been developing and operating projects for the safe and reliable supply of fuels to business and households; 
the joint venture partners in these businesses typically include state-controlled companies who are long-term suppliers of 
fuels to the projects.
4. Environment
The Company assesses its impact on the environment as part of its operational controls, for example through assessment  
of greenhouse gas emissions. Environmental impact studies and permits are required for certain projects, which have to be 
agreed with regulatory authorities. 45 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
corporate governance
Board Committees
The Board may delegate any of its powers to any committee consisting of at least two Directors. The Board has established 
an Executive Committee, a Remuneration Committee and an Audit Committee with delegated duties and responsibilities. 
Whilst only Committee members are entitled to attend meetings, other Directors are invited to attend from time to time to 
ensure the Committees’ responsibilities are undertaken with access to the Board’s full breadth of knowledge and experience. 
The Company Secretary is the Secretary for all these Committees. The terms of reference of the Audit Committee and 
Remuneration Committee are available on the Company’s website, www.fortune-oil.com.
Board and Committee meetings
The Company’s Non-executive Directors are considered as either “management Non-executive” or “investment partner 
Non-executive.” While the management Non-executives are encouraged to take an active role in the management of the 
Company, the investment partner Non-executive was appointed to the Board for his connections in China which assist  
the Group’s business operations. The investment partner Non-executive does not normally attend Board meetings of  
the Company and is not a member of Board Committees of the Company.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on ad hoc basis, as required by the business need. The Board 
determines the Company’s business strategy and monitors achievement of strategic aims and overall performance.  
The Board has delegated principal responsibility for the implementation of its objectives to the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee Directors meet informally with individual Non-executive Directors on a regular basis to obtain their 
views on Board and business matters. In addition, when Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the 
matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to convey their thoughts and make their views known to the Vice-Chairman 
prior to the meeting. It should be noted that the time commitment expected from Non-executive Directors is not limited to 
attendance at Board meetings. Their time is spent visiting the Group’s businesses and attending Company events. Meetings 
between the Non-executive Directors, without the presence of Executive Directors are scheduled and held during the year. 
Such sessions help to give a balanced overview of the Company. The Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors also 
meet outside formal meetings to discuss business issues. The investment partner Non-executive is also available for 
consultation on specific issues falling within his particular fields of expertise. The Board is satisfied that all the Directors are 
able to devote sufficient time to their duties to the Group.
As required by Code provision A.1.2, the total number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year to  
31 December 2012 and individual attendance by Directors are shown below:
   Executive  Audit  Remuneration 
 Board  Committee  Committee  Committee 
 (maximum 6)  (maximum 3)  (maximum 3)  (maximum 2)
Executive Directors
Daniel CHIU 6  1  N/A  N/A
TEE Kiam Poon 5  3  N/A  N/A
LI Ching 6  3  N/A  N/A
Non-executive Directors:
(i) Management Non-executive Directors:
QIAN Benyuan 6  N/A  N/A  2
Frank ATTWOOD 6  N/A  3  N/A
WANG Jinjun 0  N/A  N/A  1
Dennis CHIU 3  N/A  N/A  2
Louisa HO 6  N/A  3  N/A
Ian TAYLOR 4  N/A  1  2
MAO Tong 4  N/A  1  N/A
LIN Xizhong 4  N/A  N/A  N/A
(ii) Investment partner Non-executive Director: 
ZHI Yunlin –  N/A  N/A  N/A
N/A = not applicable (where a Director is not a member of the Committee, although he or she may attend meetings at the 
invitation of the Chairman of that Committee). 46 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
corporate governance
The Board has delegated day-to-day operational development, implementation of its objectives for the Group and business 
management control to the Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and the senior managers of the 
Group. The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing Group policy, monitoring performance of the business and 
reporting to the Board thereon.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by WANG Jinjun and additionally comprises Dennis CHIU, QIAN Benyuan and Ian 
TAYLOR. The names and qualification of each of the members are set out on pages 28 to 29. It determines on behalf of the 
Board the remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors of the Company and Senior Executives of the Group. It also 
ensures that the annual review of the levels of awards remain appropriate in light of the Group’s current performance and 
prospects and aligned with the strategy and objectives of the Group. The Board as a whole determines the level of fees of  
the Non-executive Directors. 
The Remuneration Committee adopted terms of reference as required by Code provision D.2.1. The Remuneration 
Committee’s full report appears on pages 50 to 62.
 
The Audit Committee is chaired by Frank ATTWOOD, a chartered accountant, also the Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director, and additionally comprises of Ian TAYLOR, Louisa HO and MAO Tong. Each member for the committee brings 
relevant expertise and financial experience at a senior executive level. The names and qualifications of each of the members 
are set out on pages 28 to 29. The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and its agenda is linked to events  
in the Company’s financial calendar. Additional meetings are called whenever it is considered appropriate. The Committee 
invites relevant Executive Directors and management to attend the meetings as considered appropriate for the matters being 
discussed. The Board is satisfied that the Committee has the resources and expertise to fulfil effectively its responsibilities, 
including those relating to risks and controls. Further training can be provided to the members of the Committee as and  
when required.
Frank ATTWOOD is considered by the Board to have the significant, recent and relevant financial experience required for the 
provisions of the Code and the DTR7.1R of the Listing Rules.
The members of the Audit Committee are expected to have an understanding of the principles of and developments in 
applicable accounting standards as well as key aspects of the Group’s policies. They must use judgement in the presentation 
of annual accounts and any potential audit adjustments or the level of errors identified.
In discharging its responsibilities the most significant issues addressed by the Audit Committee in respect of the financial  
year included:
– reviewing the half year and full year financial results and announcements made to the London Stock Exchange;
– the scope and cost of the external audit;
– considering the independence of the external auditor;
– considering any material matters affecting the Company and its financial reporting and reviewing significant financial 
reporting judgments;
– reviewing the accounting presentation and carrying values for all material investments; 
– reviewing internal financial control and internal audit activities;
– overseeing the relationship with external auditor;
– considering the external auditor’s year end report and the findings of their work and confirmation that all significant 
matters had been satisfactorily resolved;
– reviewing and updating the Company’s complaints and whistle blowing policy, which allows staff to raise concerns in 
confidence about possible improprieties which would be addressed with appropriate follow-up action;
– meeting with external auditor to review planning of the nature and scope of the audit and update on relevant accounting 
developments; and
– reviewing the outcomes of the work performed by the external auditor, any recommendations arising therefrom and the 
response of management.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed:
– the external auditor’s fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any subsequent variations; and
– the robustness of the auditor in its handling of key accounting and audit judgements. 47 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
corporate governance
Representatives of the Company’s auditor is given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members without the presence 
of any executive staff. The Audit Committee considers Deloitte LLP, the Company’s auditor, to be independent of the Company 
and it may be permitted to undertake certain non-audit services under the approval of the Board and Audit Committee. The 
Board does not regard these non-audit services to threaten the auditor’s independence, given that the external auditor’s 
knowledge of the Group’s affairs provides significant advantages which other service providers would not have. The provision 
of non-audit services is assessed on a case-by-case basis to safeguard audit objectivity, and may involve a partner other than 
the audit engagement partner when appropriate.
The Audit Committee set the following policy in respect of non-audit work to be undertaken by the auditor:
(1)  non-audit work costing less than £50,000 total in a year may be approved by management;
(2)  where non-audit work will exceed this amount such excess shall be approved only after consultation with the Chairman  
of the Audit Committee; and
(3) any non-audit service in excess of £100,000 is to be subject to consideration of competitive tender and the appointment 
should be approved by the CFO and the Audit Committee.
The on-going level of such fees will be monitored by the Finance Department, in consultation with the Chairman of  
Audit Committee.
The types of non-audit services to be performed by the external auditor may include assurance services, tax services – 
planning and compliance, due diligence and accounting consultations and support. No other services, e.g. selection, design 
or implementation of major financial systems, maintaining or preparing financial account; provision of out-sourced financial 
system or operational management function; valuation services, litigation support, any other services specifically prohibited  
by UK or other relevant legislation or regulation may be performed by the auditor. 
The objective is to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair or is not perceived to impair, the external 
auditor’s independence or objectivity. 
It is recognised that the external auditor has a significant understanding of the Group’s business and finances and that  
this knowledge and experience can be utilised to the Group’s advantage in many areas. The external auditor also has a 
professional code of conduct, which deals with managing any conflicts of interest.
However, there is a need to balance these advantages against the need to maintain safeguards in those areas where there 
could be an external perception that the external auditor independence and judgment may have been impaired through the 
award of non-audit work.
The total fees paid to Deloitte LLP in the year ended 31 December 2012 were £355,000 (2011: £302,000). During the year 
ended 31 December 2012 non-audit fees were £5,000 (2011: £5,000). In 2012 non-audit services represented the agreed 
upon procedures on interim financial statements. Non-audit services related to corporate finance services in respect of 
reporting accountants for the Class 1 transaction on the disposal of the Company’s natural gas business to China Gas 
Holdings Limited, the final fees for which are subject to negotiation and will be billed and reported as non-audit fees in 2013. 
Further disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year ended 31 December 2012 can be found in note 4 to the Group 
financial statements.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP is reappointed as external auditor. In making the 
recommendation it has taken into consideration the independence matters noted above and the past service of the auditor, 
who was first appointed in 2008 for the 2007 audit.
In considering the year-end planning, the Audit Committee is satisfied that the Board has monitored and responded to 
changes in external risks. The external auditor conducted an audit planning meeting with the Audit Committee to discuss key 
audit matters and any concerns from either side. Impairment tests have been performed where necessary and due care and 
diligence has been applied in evaluating key judgement. These tests have been reviewed as part of the audit process.
The Audit Committee adopted terms of reference as required by Code provision C.3.2. 48 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
corporate governance
Internal Controls and Risk Review
In accordance with the principles of the Code, the Board has overall responsibility for the internal control system of the Group 
with an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks. The risk management system in place 
is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Code guidance. The system is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risks of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against 
material misstatement or loss.
Risk management and corporate governance continue to be a priority on the corporate government agenda. The Group has 
an on-going risk management process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced and continues to 
embed a risk awareness and management culture throughout the Group. Risk Assessment and evaluation take place as an 
integral part of the Group’s annual cycle and this includes identification and consideration by senior management of major 
business risks.
A Risk Monitoring Panel comprises 3 Non-executive Directors: Frank ATTWOOD, MAO Tong and LIN Xizhong. It monitors 
management’s reviews covering material risk controls including governance, strategic, operating, regulatory, financial and 
funding for each of the Group’s business segments, which are classified into 10 areas. These did not cover the Group’s 
associate undertakings. Risk assessment scores based on standardised methodology were used at each of these segments. 
They provide guidance to the Group’s businesses in risk management and control systems. Mitigation plans were required  
to be in place to manage the risks identified. The assessments provide a mechanism for identifying any controls which may 
require strengthening and the Risk Monitoring Panel will support implementing and monitoring action plans to address any 
control weaknesses. These risk assessments are also to be reviewed as part of the Group’s internal audit process.
By these means a review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal controls is conducted at least annually. During 
the course of its review of the system of internal control for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the period to the date of 
this Annual Report, the Board has not identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has deemed to be 
significant. Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions is not required.
The Group has monitored its position in relation to volatility in the financial markets, including its exposure to liquidity risk and 
counterparty default risk. Cash flow forecasts for the Group are prepared for the ensuing 18 months and key risks assessed, 
such as the ability to meet bank loan payments and covenants. Reporting arrangements seek to ensure that high-quality, 
well-controlled and timely management data is available together with regular management reports. With the cash resources 
of the Group and the undrawn borrowing facilities currently in place, the Committee is satisfied that management has put in 
place necessary arrangements reasonably to cover unexpected funding needs.
The Group has a proven system of internal financial controls and reporting procedures, which integrate the financial reports  
of the joint ventures and associate companies. The Board has established a process to examine and update these controls 
and procedures on an ongoing basis. There was no actual fraud or suspected fraud or alleged fraud found during the year  
or to the date of this Annual Report. The Executive Committee meets regularly to review the budgets, financial reports and 
forward cash flow projections for the Group, including its principal joint ventures and associate companies. The joint venture 
companies prepare monthly, six monthly and annual accounts. The Executive Committee is responsible for examining the 
formal system of internal controls and reports and modifying the system where changes in business activities and/or the 
external environment dictate.
The Group has an internal audit function. Internal audit reports are distributed to both Executive Directors and the Audit 
Committee to enable them to assess the effectiveness of the system of internal control. In addition, management actively 
participates in and conducts internal audits of joint ventures and associated companies on a periodic basis. Bluesky 
maintains its own internal audit function which reports to its Board.
The Executive Committee is responsible for establishing guidelines and procedures for the evaluation and development of 
new investment proposals open to the Group. The Executive Committee formally reviews the financial projections and the 
risks inherent in new proposals before submitting significant capital expenditure projects to the Board for its approval.
Most of the Company’s activities are conducted through subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies which have 
their own boards of directors, management structures and accounting/reporting procedures. In all the joint ventures, the 
Company has directors on the boards and its own staff members seconded to key management positions, such that the 
Company can monitor and has the ability to influence operational decisions. 49 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
corporate governance
The Company is developing and implementing new internal systems, risk assessments and controls similar to those already  
in place somewhere in the Group to support the Group’s move into natural resources outside China.
In view of the sale of the Company’s natural gas business to CGH, we have assessed the risks in various finance functions 
through a Separation Plan exercise. The finance functions being assessed included organisation, financial reporting, budget  
and forecast, management reporting, taxation, internal controls and treasury & cash management. The finance function within 
Fortune Oil will remain unchanged post completion save that additional resources (temporary and/or permanent) may be added 
to cover the need to maintain a watch on Fortune Gas post completion for profit clawback control. Within Fortune Gas, the 
finance function will be integrated with that of CGH but the representative directors of Fortune Oil on the Board of CGH will 
ensure that clean accounts for the Company’s natural gas business for 2013 and 2014 can be prepared in accordance with  
the Sale and Purchase Agreement. Furthermore, no changes to other existing systems at Fortune Oil are expected.
Accountability and Audit
For the purposes of Code provision C.1.1, the directors’ responsibilities statement for the preparation of financial statements 
is on page 63 and the going concern statement is included in the Directors’ Report on page 31.
The Independent auditor’s report on the Group financial statements is on pages 64 to 65.
Relations with Shareholders
In accordance with Code provision E.1.1, the Chairman meets as required with the major shareholders. The Senior 
Independent Director also attends meetings with some major shareholders to listen to their views. Other Non-executive 
Directors are also given the opportunity to attend meetings with the major shareholders to discuss their views. The Senior 
Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have specific concerns that cannot be resolved through normal 
channels of communication with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Business presentations are also made for the full year to institutional investors, fund managers and analysts. The Company 
also held meetings with institutional investors, pension fund managers, retail fund managers and other shareholders; these 
were arranged by the Company’s corporate broker, corporate adviser and investor relations consultant, who then provided 
independent feedback. The Non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend presentations to analysts and shareholders.
The Board makes constructive use of the AGM to communicate with private shareholders and investors. A business 
presentation is given at the AGM.
The Company posts the annual report and notice of AGM at least 20 working days before the AGM. At the AGM, separate 
resolutions are proposed on each significant business issue. The Company provides for shareholders voting by proxy with  
the option of withholding their vote on a resolution. Voting is by way of a show of hands by members present at the meeting 
unless a poll is validly called. At the AGM, the Company discloses the number of proxy voting lodged for each resolution 
including votes “For”, “Against” and “Withheld”. The details of proxies lodged at general meetings where votes are taken  
on a show of hands are published on the Company’s website.
The Company’s website is www.fortune-oil.com from which the Company’s financial reports, announcements and other 
information can be downloaded.
Information required for disclosure by DTR7.2 is as follows:
Directors
The information about the appointment and replacement of directors and the powers of directors required to be included  
in this section can be found on page 33 of the Directors’ Report.
Articles of Association
The information about making amendments to the articles of association required to be included in this statement can be 
found on pages 33 and 35 of the Directors’ Report.
Information on structure of share capital and other matters
The information about the structure of share capital required to be included in this report can be found on pages 33 and 35  
of the Directors’ Report. 50 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
The Remuneration Report sets out the policy and disclosures on Executive Directors’ and Senior Executives’ remuneration 
and has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006. The 
report also meets the relevant requirements for the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority (now Financial Conduct 
Authority) and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to Directors’ remuneration in the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. This report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
The Act requires the auditor to report to the Company’s members on certain parts of this report and to state whether in their 
opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations. The report has 
therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
The objectives of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and Senior Executives are:
 to ensure that the remuneration packages attract, retain and motivate individuals of the highest calibre to further the 
success of the business;
 to link reward to both individual and business performance, whilst aligning the interests of Directors and Senior Executives 
with those of shareholders;
 to link the Executives to the long-term success of the Group through incentive share and bonus scheme arrangements 
linked to appropriate Key Performance Indicators and strategic aims.
In discharging its responsibilities, the Remuneration Committee met its objectives by:
1) reviewing the current Remuneration Structure/Policy and its fitness to achieve the objectives given the change in the 
economic environment and the greater emphasis on development of resources business by the Group and recommending 
that the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors remains unchanged for 2012;
2) the annual review of the Executive Directors’ remuneration;
3) recommending grants of LTIP shares under the Senior Executive Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) in respect of the period  
1 June 2012 to 31 May 2013; and
4) approving the Remuneration Report for the Annual Report.
The remuneration policy is designed to reward executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution without the Company 
paying more than necessary to achieve this objective. Independent reviews have shown that remuneration levels for Fortune 
Oil management have historically been below average for the oil & gas sector.
The overall structure of the Group’s remuneration policy is subject to review as the Group grows into new business areas and 
in absolute size with the Committee considering that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take 
account of future changes in the Group’s businesses and operating environment and remuneration practice.
As part of the consideration of the level of remuneration and other benefits of executive directors the Remuneration 
Committee takes into account the levels of remuneration and employment conditions of Group employees generally and  
the graduation of remuneration and other benefits throughout the management structure. This is balanced by the need to 
recruit and retain senior executives for the increasing complexity and geographical spread of the Group’s operations.
SECTION 1: UNAUDITED INFORMATION
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee members are WANG Jinjun (Chairman), Dennis CHIU, QIAN Benyuan and Ian TAYLOR, all of 
whom are Non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Board is satisfied that none of the Remuneration Committee members have any personal financial interest, other than  
as shareholders, in the matters to be decided and no conflicts of interest arising from cross directorship. Each member  
has been determined by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and no Director plays a role in deciding  
his own remuneration. No member of the Remuneration Committee has been an executive director or employee of any  
Group company. 51 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration policy as applied to the Executive Directors of the Company and 
Senior Executives of the Group. The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for approving changes to the Company’s 
share option schemes and also for approving share option grants. In determining the executives to participate in share option 
schemes, the extent of such participation and the conditions attaching thereto the Committee consults with the Executive 
Vice-Chairman and an appropriate Executive Director and has access to professional advice from appropriate internal and 
external sources, as considered necessary. The Company has currently not employed any external remuneration consultants.
The Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference are available at www.fortune-oil.com.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Senior Executives
The policies described in this report have been applied throughout 2012. While these policies are envisaged to be 
consistently applied in subsequent years, the Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor its policies. The Chairman 
and Vice-Chairman of the Board maintain contact as required with the Company’s principal shareholders regarding the 
implementation and effectiveness of the remuneration schemes.
In formulating the remuneration policy and determining the remuneration package for senior executives, due notice has  
been taken of a number of considerations including appropriate comparators, the Group’s positioning and relative size, 
geographical variations and recruitment and retention difficulties.
The remuneration package consists of short-term rewards (basic salary, annual bonus and benefits) together with long-term 
benefits (participations in LTIP share based awards in the Plan). The Committee seeks to strike a balance between fixed and 
performance related elements of pay. Details of the emoluments to Executive Directors and fees payable to Non-executive 
Directors are set out on page 60; they are reported in pounds sterling although most emoluments were agreed and paid in 
HK$ or RMB. The following remuneration components are reviewed to ensure that they are supportive of the Group’s 
business objectives and in the creation of shareholder value:
Each element of an Executive Director’s remuneration package aligns and supports the achievement of different objectives  
as below:
Element  Objective Performance Period Performance metrics
Base salary To reflect the value of the individual Annual Individual skills, experience and  
 and to recognise individual   performance
 responsibility
Annual bonus To drive achievement of individual Annual Personal performance and  
 and Group annual business goals   contribution to business objectives 
   linked to corporate profitability
Special bonus To provide linkage between Discretionary Continuing personal exceptional 
 short-term and long-term   performance on a case-by-case  
   incentives
Benefits Based on local market practice Annual N/A
 and legislation
Long Term To align shareholder interests Annual vesting over Continued employment and 
Incentive Plan with executives and to incentivise  3 years and possible achievement of profitable and  
awards in executives to achieve long-term increase of the awards  sustainable growth for the Group,  
Senior Executive performance and commitment between the 3rd and  Profit Attributable to Equity Shareholders
1
 
Incentive Plan to the Group. 6th anniversary and Total Shareholder Return
1
 Equivalent to Profit Attributable to owners of the parent.
Executive Directors are also eligible to be granted share options under the employee share schemes. 52 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
1. Basic Salary
The basic salary is determined by taking into account an individual’s performance and responsibilities, his/her relevant 
skills and experience, individual circumstances in relation to the particular post and comparator company information for 
similar jobs. Salaries are reviewed against the background of both business and individual performance.
2. Annual Bonus Scheme
Bonuses are awarded at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and in recognition of the individual’s contribution 
to the success of the Company and upon the personal achievement of specified objectives. The features are:
i. All Directors, executives and regular employees are eligible to participate in the scheme (Non-executive Directors may 
not participate in the scheme);
ii. The bonus for achieving on-target performance is a maximum of 25 per cent of basic salary. The maximum bonus is 
50 per cent of basic salary for significant over-achievement, except for employees in the Trading Department whose 
bonus is based on certain percentage of annual trading profits and therefore bears no reference to basic salary. The 
total amount of all bonuses payable shall not exceed 10% of gross annual profit; and
iii. Two types of performance criteria will be considered in connection with the award of the annual bonus and they are:
 Personal Performance riteria
The personal performance criteria of the Executive Directors and Senior Executives are the same as those defined in 
the Long Term Incentive Plan, the 2004 Share Schemes and their annual work objectives.
 Financial Performance riteria
The financial performance criteria are based wholly on challenging financial performance targets. For Executives and 
employees assigned to business units and joint ventures, the financial performance criteria are tied to the annual 
budget of their business units or joint ventures, which is approved by the appropriate board.
For Head Office executives and employees, the financial performance criteria are tied to the profit attributable to equity 
shareholders (“Attributable Profit”). For this purpose, 15 per cent growth per annum is considered the target.
These criteria are used for both short term rewards and the Long Term Incentive Plan which are targeted at both personal 
and Company performance and align the interests of Directors with those of shareholders by linking share and cash 
incentive payments to performance.
Payment of a bonus is carefully considered in each individual case and only made when justified by reference to financial 
and operational yardsticks. A bonus can be in the form of cash or shares.
3. Benefits
Benefits are considered individually and by reference to relevant criteria to ensure the total remuneration package 
conforms to the aims of the remuneration policy.
4. Special bonus 
The Remuneration Committee may make discretionary special bonus awards where exceptional performance results in 
significant benefits to the Group. Such bonuses are considered on a case-by-case basis and the payment of a material 
part of any such bonus is dependent upon continuing exceptional performance over a pre-determined number of years 
and/or achievements of key tasks.
During the year, a special bonus has been made for the Director with responsibility for the Company’s natural gas 
business wherein her bonus is tied to her input to the disposal of the gas business to China Gas Holdings Limited.  
The specific performance targets selected were non-numeric and related to delivery of key elements of the transaction 
process in a timely and were compatible with the Company’s strategic aims. A further payment is to be made upon 
completion of the transaction.
5. Pension
There is no pension provision made for employees of the Group. 53 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
6. Share Option Schemes
The Company’s Share Option Schemes are as follows:
Following approval by shareholders at the AGM in June 2004, the Company adopted two new Employee Share Option 
Schemes, they are intended for staff other than Executive Directors and the Senior Executives. One scheme is approved 
by the Inland Revenue and the other is operated as an unapproved scheme.
The share options under both the 2004 Approved and Unapproved Schemes were granted by the Trustees of the 
Company’s Employee Benefit Trust on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
i The Fortune il PL   Inland Revenue Approved Employee Share Scheme (the  Approved 
Scheme )
Participation under the 2004 Approved Scheme is open to employees who do not have (or have not had in the last  
12 months) a material interest in the Company (i.e. more than 25% of the ordinary share capital). The exercise price is 
specified at the time the options are granted and must not be significantly less than their market value at that time.  
An option will normally be exercisable following the third anniversary of grant and before the tenth anniversary of its 
grant, provided the participant remains in employment and subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions set  
by the Remuneration Committee from time to time. The market value of shares for which a participant may hold 
unexercised options is limited to £30,000, calculated at the time the option is granted. In principle, an individual 
cannot be entitled to shares under option to a value of more than six times his earnings. The total number of shares 
over which options are granted in any ten year period (whether exercised or not), when added to all such options 
granted under all other share schemes of the Company including the Senior Executive Incentive Plan, shall not exceed 
10% of the fully diluted ordinary share capital of the Company in issue at that time.
The option exercise price set is the market value defined as the average of the quotations on the three dealing days 
before grant of the option.
The exercise of all options granted under the 2004 Approved Scheme before 2011 was conditional on the 
achievement of individual performance criteria determined by the Remuneration Committee and there were no  
financial performance conditions attaching to the exercise of such options.
During the year, 493,421 ordinary shares became beneficially owned by an option holder when options granted at 
6.08 pence per share were exercised on 8 February 2012. There were no financial performance conditions attaching 
to this exercise of options.
There is currently an option over 302,115 ordinary shares to an employee. The options entitle the participant to 
exercise the option between 4 October 2014 and 3 October 2021 with an exercise price of 9.93 pence per share. 
The personal performance conditions applying to this grant are reviewed at the end of the performance period and are 
not re-tested and there is a financial performance condition attaching to the exercise of options which is a growth of 
15% per year on average over the 3 year period in Attributable Profit.
ii The Fortune il PL  napproved Employee Share Scheme (the  napproved Scheme )
The principal terms of the 2004 Unapproved Scheme are the same as the 2004 Approved Scheme set out above 
excepted as noted below:
The statutory limit of £30,000 worth of share options per participant does not apply. However, no participant may 
receive options worth more than one times their annual salary in any one year and no participant may receive an 
option whereby the number of shares received under this scheme, when aggregated with the shares under any other 
scheme including the Senior Executive Incentive Plan, exceeds 3.5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company, from time to time. The exercise price on grant may be set at a level other than the market value of the 
shares at the time of grant of the option. In principle, an individual cannot receive options if he would be entitled to 
shares under option to a value of more than six times of his earnings.
During the year, 1,110,000 ordinary shares became beneficially owned by option holders when options exercisable  
at 6.32 pence per share were exercised. There were no financial performance conditions attaching to these exercise  
of options.
During the year, 186,605 ordinary shares ceased to be subject to options exercisable at 9.41 pence per share which 
were exercisable between 4 October 2014 and 3 October 2021 when the relevant options lapsed on 26 March 2012 
due to the cessation of employment. There were financial performance conditions attaching to this exercise of options. 54 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
There are currently options over: 
a) 2,166,579 ordinary shares granted to 10 employees (none of whom are Directors). The options entitle the 
participants to exercise them between 8 June 2008 and 7 June 2015. The exercise price is 6.32 pence per share;
b) 1,150,000 ordinary shares granted to 3 employees (none of whom are Directors). The options entitle the participants 
to exercise them between 25 June 2011 and 24 June 2018. The exercise price is 11.75 pence per share;
c) 1,709,000 ordinary shares granted to 8 employees (none of whom are Directors). The options entitle the participants 
to exercise them between 8 June 2014 and 7 June 2021. The exercise price is 12.75 pence per share; and
d) 5,444,982 ordinary shares granted to 19 employees (none of whom are Directors). The options entitle the participants 
to exercise them between 4 October 2014 and 3 October 2021. The exercise price is 9.41 pence per share.
The Company operates the 2004 Unapproved Scheme for all employees and there are financial performance 
conditions attaching to the exercise of options in d) which is a growth of 15% per year on average over the three year 
period in Attributable Profit.
Options were granted at the closing price prevailing at the date of grant. The exercise of all options granted under  
the 2004 Unapproved Scheme is conditional on the achievement of individual performance criteria determined by the 
Remuneration Committee. The performance criteria set relate to specific job responsibilities. The 2004 Unapproved 
Scheme is structured to reflect the performance of the employees as well of that of the business area of the Group.
The personal performance conditions applying to all options are reviewed at the end of the performance period and are 
not re-tested.
Each of the share option scheme’s rules provide for early exercise in certain circumstances, such as disability, sickness, 
death or where the employee’s employment is ceased and the employee satisfies the requirements for classification as  
a “good leaver”. Our policy also permits awards, where the performance conditions have already been met, to be retained 
by the individual. The Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to allow total or a partial exercise on a pro-rata 
basis for the period of employment. In any other circumstances options would normally lapse.
7. Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) — The Fortune Oil PLC Senior Executive Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) and  
Long Term Incentive Plan, collectively the 2009 LTIP
Conditional nil cost share awards are made by JTC Trustees Limited, as Trustee of the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust 
(“EBT” or the “Trust”), following recommendations made by the Remuneration Committee of the Board. The awards 
normally vest at the end of the three-year performance period, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions 
and continued employment.
At the AGM on 24 June 2009, shareholders approved the renewal of the Long Term Incentive Plan, originally adopted in 
1999 as a stand-alone share scheme, which was amended to incorporate the Plan at the AGM in 2004 to allow for the 
award of share options, as envisaged by the Plan. The Plan is subject to the rules of the LTIP, which was designed to 
operate for a maximum of 10 years from December 1999.
The terms of the 2009 LTIP are similar to those approved by shareholders in December 1999, as revised at the AGM  
in 2004.
The 2009 LTIP has taken into account of current governance guidelines. The maximum number of shares over which 
awards may be made is revised to be restricted to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time  
and that for the measurement of Company performance for the topping up of awards one of the measures is profit 
attributable to equity shareholders.
The Plan is operated by the Trustees of the Company’s EBT, subject to the rules of the LTIP approved by the shareholders 
on 7 December 1999, as amended on 25 June 2004 and 24 June 2009.
The aim of the Plan is to motivate individuals to achieve profitable and sustainable growth for the Company by giving them 
an opportunity to accumulate a meaningful participation in the share capital of the Company, as a reward for achieving 
outstanding returns for shareholders. Executive Directors in Fortune Oil PLC and certain Senior Executives of various 
subsidiaries of the Group are eligible to participate in the Plan, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, but the 
Executive Vice-Chairman does not participate in this scheme. Annual grants are made and for which the performance and 
vesting periods are three years. Under the Plan, these eligible employees are eligible to receive awards of share options, 
the vesting of which are contingent on specified performance targets and continued employment with the Group. 55 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
The maximum award made to the Executive Directors and Senior Executives was 50% of base salary and the minimum 
was 25% of base salary. Awards under the Plan were first made in June 2005.
The number of shares, if any, over which the options granted pursuant to the Plan is subject to personal and Company 
performance criteria being met. If the personal performance criteria are achieved then the share option will give the 
Director or Executive conditional rights over a certain number of shares. If the Company performance criteria are achieved 
then the number of shares subject to the option will be increased. Failure to meet the Company performance criteria will 
not reduce the number of shares over which the Director’s or Executive’s option subsists by virtue of the personal 
performance targets having been met. Each option is a nil cost option over ordinary shares in the Company.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, options will only be exercisable after three years from the grant. They will lapse 
after the tenth anniversary of grant if not exercised before that date. When an option is exercised on or after the third 
anniversary of the grant and the Company’s performance criteria in that three year period have been met then the number 
of shares under the option will be increased. If the Director or Executive delays exercising the option until four or five years 
from the date of grant and the Company’s performance criteria in the three year period have been met then the number of 
shares under the option will be further increased.
The personal performance criteria are an objective measure of productivity of the individual and all people working directly 
for that Director or Executive. They are set at the time the option is granted and will have 2 thresholds reflecting:
(i) good (significantly above average) performance; and
(ii) exceptional performance
The Remuneration Committee determines whether the performance levels have been met, based on personal objectives 
for the year and in line with the Company’s Key Performance Indicators and strategic aims.
The Company performance criteria are an objective measure of economic performance of the Company. The performance 
criteria are set at the time the option is granted and will have 2 thresholds reflecting:
(i) good (significantly above average) performance; and
(ii) exceptional performance
The Company’s performance criteria chosen by the Remuneration Committee for options granted are weighted 60% in 
respect of increased Attributable Profit and 40% in respect of total shareholder return (“TSR”). TSR is measured as being 
the increase in share value plus all dividends paid. In relation to TSR, the performance of the Company is considered to 
be “good” where TSR increases by 15 per cent or more per annum on average and “exceptional” performance is where 
TSR increases by 20 per cent or more per annum on average. In relation to Attributable Profit, the performance of the 
Company is considered to be “good” where Attributable Profit increases by 15 per cent or more on average per annum 
and “exceptional” performance is where Attributable Profit increases by 20 per cent or more on average per annum.
The Remuneration Committee is not aware of any listed companies of similar size and composition whose main business 
activities are comparable in nature to that of Fortune Oil PLC. As a result, there were no comparator group of companies 
or sectors whose performance were considered appropriate to be used to benchmark the performance of management. 
These performance criteria were chosen by the Remuneration Committee after consultation with the Company’s financial 
and legal advisers. The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that these criteria represent a challenging and transparent 
financial measure which can be calculated from published accounting information.
The increase in the number of shares covered by the options as a result of good or exceptional Company performance is 
calculated as follows:
 Increase in number of shares for Increase in number of shares for 
Date of Exercise Good Company Performance Exceptional Company Performance
On or after 3rd anniversary 
 but before 4th anniversary 20% 40%
On or after 4th anniversary 
 but before 5th anniversary 40% 100%
On or after 5th anniversary 100% 200% 56 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
The Plan is operated in conjunction with an EBT. The LTIP rules provide that the maximum number of shares subject to 
options granted under the Plan shall not exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of Fortune Oil PLC, from time to 
time. The LTIP rules also prevent individuals from receiving shares if their cumulative entitlement would exceed 3.5% of 
the issued ordinary shares of Fortune Oil PLC, from time to time.
The total number of shares held in the EBT for issue is 4.3 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The LTIP rules provide that in the event of a change of control of the Company as a result of a takeover and amalgamation 
of the Company, then any award may vest in full or in part, and any option shall become exercisable in full or in part, both 
subject to the Trustees’ discretion at any time and any condition subject to which the offer is made has been satisfied. 
The Trustees shall be able to sell all or part of the shares subject to any award or option.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee of Fortune Oil PLC (the “Remuneration Committee”) considered the 
changes to the Group’s remuneration practices and polices arising from the need to comply with best practice and the 
new UK legislation relating to remuneration practice and resolved to implement for the 2009 LTIP and the Company’s 
Share Option schemes, as follows:
(i) In respect of all awards which rely upon future performance, which previously has been in whole or part personalised 
to the individual, in future such awards shall be made on performance criteria which are either company related or are 
able to be disclosed publicly and are capable of measurement. In addition, a list of comparable companies against 
which the performance of the Company can be measured Is to be prepared when the Group’s strategy has been 
finalised and will be considered by the Remuneration Committee or if less than 4 comparable companies can be 
identified suggested measures for relative company performance will be prepared; and
(ii) In respect of all future awards which are added to by good company performance an additional term is to be added 
whereby should company performance be below “good” the top up element of such award is reduced and can be 
removed in its entirety. In addition, the Company’s existing definition of “bad leavers” will be applied to all awards  
such that bad leavers do not retain any rights therein.
To simplify administration in respect of all LTIP awards made from 2009 to 2012 which have different vesting dates  
in June all vesting dates were adjusted to the median of the current dates.
The Remuneration Committee determined that it was administrative more efficient to standardise or modify certain  
dates and periods in respect to awards made to certain directors and PDMRs. Having consulted with its legal advisor  
the Remuneration Committee concluded that it could make these changes unilaterally since they were only being made 
where it had no known beneficial or otherwise effect on any recipient of an award.
In the past awards have been made, generally in June of each year but the actual date in June of the award has varied. 
This has created an inconvenient set of dates to which calculations must be made or by which date changes in 
circumstances may have occurred occasioning announcements by the Company. The Remuneration Committee has 
determined to bring all those awards made in June of any year which have not yet vested (those made for financial years 
2009 to 2012) into line by in future applying 20 June or the first business day after 20 June as the relevant date for all 
vesting and other determination purposes.
In the past awards under the Company’s LTIP in the Senior Executive Incentive Plan had performance conditions for 
Company performance which ran from and to the dates of the awards. This led to complex calculations and significant 
delay in knowing whether performance criteria had been achieved. The Remuneration Committee have concluded that  
in respect of awards where the performance condition calculation cannot yet be made and therefore no conclusion as  
to whether this change is beneficial or not (those made in 2011 to 2012) and in respect of all future awards:
(i) for awards made in the first half of the year the Company performance period shall be to the last day of the financial 
year or years ending prior to the relevant award date; and
(ii) for awards made in the second half of the year the Company performance period shall be to the last day of half yearly 
period or periods ending prior to the relevant award date.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has determined that in respect of all future awards of benefits under any of the 
Company’s schemes such awards shall be capable of clawback until unconditionally vested or if partially unconditionally 
vested to the extent not unconditionally vested if Company performance falls below that expected. 57 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
Policy on external appointments
Generally Executive Directors may accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Board as non-executive 
directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them. These appointments must not be with a competing 
company and their duties must not materially dilute or adversely affect the Executive Director’s contribution under the terms 
of his/her appointment with the Group. Directors may usually retain payments arising from such appointments. Daniel CHIU, 
the Executive Director, retained fee for external non-executive directorship for the company listed in Hong Kong. The Board  
is satisfied that the external appointment does not interfere with the performance of Mr CHIU’s duties for the Company.
Service Contracts and Termination Policy
The Group has a service contract with Mr TEE Kiam Poon. The Company retains the right to terminate his employment by 
making payment in lieu of notice.
Nature of contract Notice period by Company/Director Compensation provision for early termination
Rolling 3 months None
Mr Daniel CHIU and Ms LI Ching have letters of appointment detailing their employment terms which have been 
supplemented by letters regarding the termination provisions for their employment. In particular, in each case the  
termination notice is six months and no payments will be made in excess of any basic entitlement. For these executive 
directors service contracts are being prepared for signing to replace the existing letters of appointment but without  
changing the basic terms or termination notice periods.
The Company applies in general the principle of mitigation in the event of early termination on its own particular merit. The 
Committee expects Directors and Senior Executives to mitigate any losses arising on termination but will tailor its approach to 
individual cases. In any event under relevant law and regulations applicable to these Senior Executives the notice to be given 
is less than 12 months and any payment in lieu of notice would be equal to or less than the basic salary for the notice period.
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment and do not have contracts of service or contracts for 
service. They are appointed for a two year term and may be appointed for further fixed period subject to the articles of 
association of the Company, after which an appointment may be terminated on one month’s notice by either the Director 
concerned or the Company with no predetermined compensation amount on termination.
Non-executive Directors had been appointed for a fixed term not exceeding three years and, following the implementation  
of the Companies Act 2006, those appointments are normally renewable, with the consent of both parties, for terms not 
exceeding two years.
 Date of first
Non-executive appointment to Start of current  Notice period by
Directors the Board term of office Expiry Date Company/Director
Dennis CHIU* 9 Aug 1993 28 Oct 2011 27 Oct 2013 1 month
Ian TAYLOR*
1
 9 Aug 1993 28 Oct 2011 27 Oct 2013 1 month
QIAN Benyuan* 28 May 1997 28 Oct 2011 27 Oct 2013 1 month
ZHI Yulin* 30 Nov 2000 28 Oct 2011 27 Oct 2013 1 month
Louisa HO
2
 15 June 2001 1 Sep 2011 31 Aug 2013 1 month
WANG Jinjun* 26 Nov 2003 21 Nov 2011 20 Nov 2013 1 month
Frank ATTWOOD 24 June 2009 24 June 2011 23 June 2013 1 month
MAO Tong 30 Nov 2010 30 Nov 2012 29 Nov 2014 1 month
LIN Xizhong 30 Nov 2010 30 Nov 2012 29 Nov 2014 1 month
* Subject to annual re-election according to the requirement of the Code.
1
 Ian TAYLOR became a Non-executive Director on 24 June 1996. He was an Executive Director between 9 August 1993 and 23 June 1996.
2
 Louisa HO became a Non-executive Director on 1 September 2006. She was an Executive Director between 15 June 2001 and  
31 August 2006. 58 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
Policy on Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman
The policy on remuneration of Non-executive Directors is determined by the Board by reference to practice in companies 
similar in size to the Company. The fees payable to Non-executive Directors are ratified by the Board after discussion between 
the Executive Directors. The level of fees is reviewed against market practice and takes into account market rates and the 
required time commitment. Non-executive Directors receive fixed fees plus reimbursement of expenses for attending Board 
and other meetings. They are not eligible for performance-related bonuses or awards under the Company’s Plan or any of the 
Company’s share option schemes.
The setting of the Chairman’s remuneration is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and not the Remuneration 
Committee in accordance with the Code D.2.2. The fees paid to the Chairman include his time for performing his additional 
role on the Remuneration Committee.
Pursuant to the Company’s articles of association, the fees payable to Non-executive Directors are limited to £400,000 per 
annum in the aggregate. This level was established following approval by the shareholders at the AGM held in 2007. The total 
fees paid to Non-executive Directors were £182,000 in 2012 (2011: £178,000).
None of Dennis CHIU, Ian TAYLOR or ZHI Yulin, Non-executive Directors, received any emoluments as employees or fees as 
Directors in the financial year ended 31 December 2012. 
Directors’ Interests in Shares
As at the end of 2011 and 2012 the Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company, all of which are beneficial, were 
as follows:
 Ordinary Shares of 1p each
     Ordinary    Conditional right
     Shares    to receive Ordinary
 Ordinary   Ordinary  vesting   Ordinary  Shares held in the
 Shares   Shares  under  Shares  Company’s Employee 
 held at  acquired  the Plan  held at  Benefit Trust
1
 31/12/2011  during 2012  during 2012
 1
 31/12/2012  31/12/2011  31/12/2012
Executive Directors
Daniel CHIU
2
 725,635,612  –  –  725,635,612  –  –
TEE Kiam Poon –  –  1,199,580  1,199,580  2,034,364  1,854,374
LI Ching
3
 20,769,224  –  1,185,600  21,954,824  1,847,688  1,578,147
Non-executive Directors
Dennis CHIU
2
 725,635,612  –  –  725,635,612  –  –
Louisa HO
4
 2,884,156  –  –  2,884,156  –  –
Frank ATTWOOD
5
 513,150  110,315  –  623,465  –  –
1
 These ordinary shares vested upon the completion of three years of employment following the initial LTIP award on 13 October 2009 and  
24 June 2009 respectively. TEE Kiam Poon and LI Ching had the vested LTIP shares (Performance period 1 June 2009 – 31 May 2012) kept 
In the EBT. Details of movements in interests in conditional rights to receive ordinary shares held in the Company’s EBT pursuant to the Plan 
are given on page 60.
2
 This figure represents a combined interest in ordinary shares held in the names of First Level Holdings Limited (“First Level”) (647,244,897 
ordinary shares) and Goldman Sachs Securities (Nominees) Limited ILSEG ACCT (“Goldman Sachs”) (78,390,715 ordinary shares). First 
Level is a company in which the majority of shares are owned by Daniel CHIU, with the remaining shares being held by Dennis CHIU. The 
above interest of 725,635,612 ordinary shares relate to the same block of ordinary shares. 
3
 LI Ching has her 19,349,224 ordinary shares in Morstan Nominees Limited and 1,420,000 ordinary shares in HSBC Global Custody Nominee 
(UK) Limited respectively, in both of which she has a beneficial interest. 
4
 Louisa HO has 2,304,856 ordinary shares held in a nominee account, in which she has a beneficial interest and 579,300 shares certified in 
her own name. 
5
 On 11 May 2012, Frank ATTWOOD acquired 99,000 ordinary shares at 10 pence each and on 29 June 2012, he purchased further 11,315 
ordinary shares at a price of 9.5934 pence per share through the Company’s Dividend Reinvestment Plan (“DRIP”). His shares are held in a 
nominee account, in which he has a beneficial interest. 59 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
 Performance Graph
 Ian TAYLOR, a Non-executive Director, is the President and Chief Executive of the Vitol Group of Companies. Vitol Energy 
(Bermuda) Limited is a major shareholder with 147,108,505 ordinary shares (representing 7.40% of the total issued share 
capital). ZHI Yulin, a Non-executive Director, is the Vice President of China North Industries Corporation (NORINCO) and 
NORINCO currently owns 33,826,530 ordinary shares (representing 1.7% of the total issued share capital).
None of the other Directors held any interests in ordinary shares in the Company or of those of any other Group company at 
31 December 2012 or at 31 December 2011.
In the period between 1 January 2013 and the date of this report, Mr Frank ATTWOOD acquired 115,116 ordinary shares at 
10.75 pence each.
Performance Graph
The graph below illustrates the total shareholder return (“TSR”) of Fortune Oil PLC over a five year period in respect of a 
holding of the Company’s shares and the TSR in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of a similar kind and number by 
reference to which a broad equity market index is calculated. The Company is a constituent of the FTSE All-Share index and, 
as such, this is considered to be the most appropriate comparator group.
Set out below are the closing mid market share price for the Company’s ordinary shares as at 31 December in each of years 
2008 to 2012.
Fortune Oil
Code: FTO
Year Share price (pence)
2008 6.25
2009 7.79
2010 12.00
2011 12.00
2012 10.50 60 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
SECTION 2: AUDITED INFORMATION
Directors’ Emoluments
Details of emoluments of the Executive Directors and fees payable to Non-executive Directors are set out below:
 Salary/Fees Bonus in cash Benefits
1
 Total emoluments
Amount in £’000 2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011
Executive Directors
Daniel CHIU 34  33  6  6  7  6  47  45
TEE Kiam Poon 216  211  54  81  44  34  314  326
LI Ching 146  137  73  80  17  17  236  234
Total 396  381  133  167  68  57  597  605
Non-executive Directors
QIAN Benyuan 71  67  –  –  –  –  71  67
Frank ATTWOOD 32  32  –  –  –  –  32  32
WANG Jinjun 8  7  –  –  –  –  8  7
Louisa HO 51  50  –  –  –  –  51  50
MAO Tong
2
 10  11  –  –  –  –  10  11
LIN Xizhong
2
 10  11  –  –  –  –  10  11
Total 182  178  –  –  –  –  182  178
All Directors except Frank ATTWOOD were paid in HK$ and RMB. The average exchange rate used for the year was  
£1: HK$12.5272 and £1: RMB 10.0741 (2011: £1: HK$12.5088 and £1: RMB 10.3669).
1
 The principal benefits are the provision of an accommodation allowance, club membership fees, car park allowance and reimbursed  
driver expenses.
2
 Decease in amount due to an appreciation of the RMB.
No other Directors received any remuneration. None of the Directors received any pension contributions. No payments were 
made during 2012 or 2011 in connection with retirement benefits, compensation for loss of office to past Directors and to 
third parties in respect of Director’s services.
Directors’ Interests in ordinary shares under the LTIP awards in the Plan
   Market share  Market share  Earliest date on
 No. of Award price at close of Vested Price prior Balance at which an award
 shares during business prior to during to the date 31 December can become
 awarded 2012 
1
 the date of award 2012 of vesting 2012 
2
 unconditional
TEE Kiam Poon
13.10.2010 1,199,580 – 8.10p  1,199,580 8.95p – –
18.06.2011 834,784 – 12.50p – – 834,784 18.06.2013
19.06.2012 –  1,019,590 10.25p – – 1,019,590 19.06.2014
LI Ching
24.06.2010 1,185,600 – 6.50p  1,185,600 10.25p – –
18.06.2011 662,088 – 12.50p – – 662,088 18.06.2013
19.06.2012 – 916,059 10.25p – – 916,059 19.06.2014
1
 On 20 June 2011 the Company announced the LTIP awards under the Plan to certain Directors and Senior Executives conditional on 
performance targets for the Company and for the executives being met for the year up to 31 May 2012. The announcement confirmed 
number of ordinary shares the subject of the option in 2012 was made on 20 June 2012.
2
 The above awards based on the awards made in 2010 and 2011 following the first anniversary of the grants of the options and were all at 
the price which was the market price at close of business prior to the dates of award.  61 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
Details of Directors’ interest in shares are set out on page 58 in this Remuneration Report. 
Nil cost option awards depend on the satisfaction of personal performance targets measured over a one-year personal 
performance period. The 2011 notional bonus awards made by the Company’s Remuneration Committee for the performance 
period 1 June 2011 to 31 May 2012 under the Plan were as follows: 
   No. of shares awarded
   in June 2012 based
 Notional bonus for Notional bonus for on the market share price
Performance Period Good personal Exceptional personal at close of business
(1 June 2011 to performance (G) performance (E) on 19 June 2012, which was
31 May 2012)  (25% of base salary) (50% of base salary) 10.25 pence per share
TEE Kiam Poon £52,254 £104,508 1,019,590 (E)
LI Ching £46,948 £93,898 916,059 (E)
Usually, the right to receive the shares that have not yet vested is conditional upon the individual remaining an employee of 
the Group for a period of at least two further years from the dates of award. The value of shares may increase depending on 
whether the Company performance criteria are met and the date on which the individual exercises the option. Performance 
conditions attaching to awards made under the Plan are detailed earlier in the Remuneration Report. 
The LTIP participants had the right to choose whether to exercise their options over share awards under the LTIP granted  
to them in June/October 2009 (for the personal performance period 1 June 2009 – 31 May 2012). They are nil cost options, 
remain exercisable and under the Plan the number of awardable shares could increase for participants still employed by the 
Group, depending on the performance of the Company for the three year period from the date of the initial award in 2009. 
The market share price at close of businesses for two sets of options prior to the dates of award in 2009 was 6.50 pence per 
share and 8.10 pence per share respectively prior to the dates of vesting in 2012 was 10.25 pence per share and 8.95 pence 
per share respectively.
In respect of the 2009 awards the performance period was from 24 June 2009 to 23 June 2012, based upon the parameters 
for determining the quantum of any additional awards the Remuneration Committee of the Board will advise the Trustees of 
the EBT the company performance for this period. They will authorise the increase in the number of ordinary shares the 
subject  
of relevant options. There is no consideration for this additional award. 
LI Ching chose to exercise her right not to withdraw her 1,185,600 shares on 24 June 2012 and for TEE Kiam Poon, it being 
a close period on 13 October 2012 when a decision was required, took no action and therefore his 1,199,580 shares remained 
in the Trust. All the other nil cost options still remain exercisable under the Plan and the number of additional shares to be 
awarded will depend upon the decision taken by each beneficiary as to when they remove their shares from the EBT.
During 2012, the Company also announced awards under the Plan to Executive Directors and Senior Executives conditional 
on performance targets for the Company and the executives being met for the performance year 1 June 2012 – 31 May 2013. 
The number of ordinary shares over which the options will be granted is the number of Fortune shares which the notional 
bonus can buy on the first anniversary of the date of grant of the option, i.e. 20 June 2013.
Performance Period Notional bonus for Notional bonus for
(1 June 2012 to Good personal performance (G) Exceptional personal performance (E)
31 May 2013) (25% of base salary) (50% of base salary)
TEE Kiam Poon £54,738 £109,475
LI Ching £49,180 £98,360
It is currently intended that any ordinary shares required to fulfil entitlements under the Plan will be provided by the EBT.  
As beneficiaries under the Trust, those Directors on page 60 are deemed to be interested in certain of the shares held by  
the EBT, which at 31 December 2012, amounted to 3,432,521 ordinary shares. 62 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
remuneration report
In connection with the additional award in the 2007 awards, four LTIP participants (none of whom are directors) who had  
not withdrawn their 819,336 shares from the EBT in 2011 would have been entitled to a further top of shares equal to 20%  
of the original award without any further performance conditions as of 26 June 2012. However, due to the failure to achieve 
two out of the six KPIs in respect of the profit attributable to equity shareholders (before other gains) by the Group for the 
financial year 2011 and the lack of the Company’s share price performance, the Remuneration Committee decided that there 
would be no further increases in 2012 in the number of shares under the 2007 Option unless certain further conditions would 
be satisfied, in particular that:
(i) LTIP participants remain employed until at least 26 June 2013; and 
(ii) the KPI target which the Company set for the profit attributable to equity shareholders (before other gains) being met  
for the financial year ended 31 December 2012, i.e. a growth of 30 per cent above the results for the year ended  
31 December 2010.
In June 2012, one of the participants chose to withdraw his 208,044 shares to which he was beneficially entitled. The other 
three LTIP participants chose not to remove their 611,292 shares from the EBT so as to be entitled to benefit from another 
possible increase in the number of awarded shares on or after 5th anniversary of the initial award subject to the further 
conditions stated above.
As detailed on page 60 conditional rights to shares under the Plan received by to the Directors have been recognised.  
As detailed in note 25 to the Group financial statements, an expense has also been recognised in relation to share-based 
payments.
As at 31 December 2012, a total of 85,496,806 ordinary shares were held by JTC Trustees Limited, the Trustees of the 
company’s EBT. Of these shares, 6,252,446 ordinary shares have been allocated to options granted under the Plan, 
4,117,548 ordinary shares vested and not withdrawn in the Plan and 10,772,676 shares have been allocated to satisfy  
options granted under the Company’s Share Option Schemes.
The market value of the 85,496,806 ordinary shares held in the Trust at 31 December 2012 was £8,977,165 (31 December 
2011: 87,786,609 ordinary shares, £10,534,393). It is intended that these shares are continued to be used to provide bonus 
shares and any share options exercised under any of the 2004 Approved Scheme, the 2004 Unapproved Scheme and the 
2009 LTIP.
The number of unallocated ordinary shares held within the EBT was 64,354,136 (3.24%), (2011: 67,676,761, 3.40%) and this 
represented less than 5% best practice limit as endorsed by the ABI.
Share Price
The closing price of the Company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2012 was 10.50 pence (2011: 12.00 pence). The highest 
and lowest closing prices for the shares during the year were 12.13 pence and 7.86 pence, respectively.
A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on Tuesday, 18 June 2013 to approve the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report. It is an advisory vote and the Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the approval  
of this Report.
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board and signed on 24 April 2013 its behalf by
WANG Jinjun
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 63 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law). Under Company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements;
 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:
 properly select and apply accounting policies;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
 make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them  
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding  
the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and  
other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements 
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement 
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the 
consolidation taken as a whole; and
 the management report, which is incorporated into the directors’ report, includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken  
as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board
TEE Kiam Poon LI Ching
Chief Executive Executive Director
24 April 2013 24 April 2013
directors’ responsibilities statement 64 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
We have audited the Group financial statements of Fortune Oil PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise  
the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of 
financial position, the consolidated cashflow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related 
notes 1 to 35. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express 
an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in 
the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that 
is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of 
performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then 
ended;
 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to  
apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards 
Board (IASB).
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Fortune Oil PLC 65 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Fortune Oil PLC for the year ended and on the 
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited. 
Although not required to do so, the directors have voluntarily chosen to make a corporate governance statement detailing  
the extent of their compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. We reviewed:
 the directors’ statement, contained within the Directors’ report, in relation to going concern; 
 the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the  
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors’ remuneration.
Bevan Whitehead (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, UK
24 April 2013
independent auditor’s report to the members of Fortune Oil PLC 66 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
  Continuing  Discontinued    Continuing  Discontinued
  operations  operations  Total  operations  operations  Total
Amount in £’000 Notes 2012  2012  2012  2011  2011  2011
Revenue including share of  
 jointly controlled entities 2 647,572  91,830  739,402  554,074  70,560  624,634
Share of revenue of  
 jointly controlled entities 2 (506,853 ) (17,961 ) (524,814 ) (415,363 ) (9,498 ) (424,861 )
Group revenue 2 140,719  73,869  214,588  138,711  61,062  199,773
Cost of sales  (133,904 ) (46,057 ) (179,961 ) (129,787 ) (40,107 ) (169,894 )
Gross profit  6,815  27,812  34,627  8,924  20,955  29,879
Distribution expenses  (121 ) (7,046 ) (7,167 ) –  (5,528 ) (5,528 )
Administrative expenses  (7,171 ) (6,395 ) (13,566 ) (6,569 ) (5,110 ) (11,679 )
Share of results of  
 jointly controlled entities 14 13,197  1,371  14,568  13,094  1,730  14,824
Share of results of associates 14 –  52  52  –  (72 ) (72 )
Profit from operations  12,720  15,794  28,514  15,449  11,975  27,424
Other gains/(losses) 15 4,645  –  4,645  –  7,323  7,323
Finance costs 5 (5,008 ) (1,087 ) (6,095 ) (4,216 ) (1,065 ) (5,281 )
Investment revenue 6 1,079  581  1,660  969  1,217  2,186
Profit before tax  13,436  15,288  28,724  12,202  19,450  31,652
Income tax charge 7 (4,542 ) (3,704 ) (8,246 ) (3,536 ) (3,265 ) (6,801 )
Profit for the year  8,894  11,584  20,478  8,666  16,185  24,851
Attributable to
Owners of the parent  8,013  7,653  15,666  6,463  11,701  18,164
Non-controlling interests  881  3,931  4,812  2,203  4,484  6,687
  8,894  11,584  20,478  8,666  16,185  24,851
Earnings per share
Basic 9 0.42p  0.40p  0.82p  0.34p  0.62p  0.96p
Diluted 9 0.42p  0.40p  0.82p  0.34p  0.61p  0.95p
consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2012 67 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
Amount in £’000 Notes 2012  2011
Profit for the year  20,478  24,851
Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations  (4,545 ) 6,699
Net gain in fair value of available for sale investments  773  3,180
Disposal of available for sale investments 15 (3,953 ) –
Share of net gain in fair value of available for sale investments in  
 jointly controlled entities 14 40,347  –
Loss on cash flow hedges arising during the year  –  (111 )
Loss on cash flow hedges transferred to income statement  –  675
Other comprehensive income for the year  32,622  10,443
Total comprehensive income for the year  53,100  35,294
Attributable to
Owners of the parent  49,488  27,282
Non-controlling interests  3,612  8,012
  53,100  35,294
consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2012 68 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
  Before the  Disposal  After the
  reclassification  Group  reclassification
Amount in £’000 Notes 2012  2012  2012  2011
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 64,723  60,504  4,219  58,580
Goodwill 11 3,007  3,007  –  3,109
Intangible assets 12 52,622  14,155  38,467  46,602
Prepaid lease payments 13 2,749  2,749  –  1,731
Other non-current receivables 17 3,839  1,426  2,413  3,958
Investments in jointly controlled entities 14 175,351  39,832  135,519  71,643
Investments in associates 14 969  969  –  945
Available for sale investments 15 1,948  –  1,948  29,860
  305,208  122,642  182,566  216,428
Current assets
Inventories 16 9,948  3,564  6,384  9,697
Trade and other receivables 17 42,193  19,682  22,511  33,203
Cash and cash equivalents 18 73,849  23,123  50,726  128,440
  125,990  46,369  79,621  171,340
Assets classified as held for sale 20 –  (169,011 ) 169,011  –
  125,990  (122,642 ) 248,632  171,340
Total Assets  431,198  –  431,198  387,768
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Borrowings 21 76,956  8,745  68,211  21,905
Trade and other payables 19 47,156  23,962  23,194  41,109
Current tax liabilities  3,199  2,306  893  3,881
  127,311  35,013  92,298  66,895
Liabilities directly associated with  
 disposal group classified as held for sale 20 –  (38,894 ) 38,894  –
  127,311  (3,881 ) 131,192  66,895
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 44,879  1,298  43,581  112,222
Deferred tax liabilities 23 4,069  2,583  1,486  2,767
Other non-current liabilities 22 8,129  –  8,129  9,392
  57,077  3,881  53,196  124,381
Total Liabilities  184,388  –  184,388  191,276
Net Assets  246,810  –  246,810  196,492
Equity
Capital and reserves
Ordinary shares 24     19,875  19,875
Treasury shares 26     (678 ) (878 )
Share premium      10,129  10,129
Other reserves      40,347  3,180
Foreign currency translation reserve 26     25,189  28,534
Retained earnings      93,551  80,241
Equity attributable to owners of the parent      188,413  141,081
Non-controlling interests      58,397  55,411
Total Equity      246,810  196,492
The financial statements of Fortune Oil PLC, registered number 2173279, were authorised for issue and approved by  
the Board on 24 April 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
Li Ching Tee Kiam Poon
Director Director
The notes on pages 71 to 112 form part of these financial statements.
consolidated statement of financial position
at 31 December 2012 69 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
Amount in £’000 Notes 2012  2011
Net cash from operating activities 33 16,050  16,922
Interest received 6 1,660  2,186
Dividend received from jointly controlled entities 14 13,020  11,104
Payment for property, plant and equipment  (15,704 ) (19,552 )
Payment for intangible assets  (263 ) (7,542 )
Payment for exploration and evaluation assets  (4,623 ) (3,853 )
Payment for prepaid lease payments  (1,130 ) (91 )
Receipt from disposal of subsidiary undertakings  –  1,255
Payment for acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 31 (3,765 ) (1,326 )
Receipt from disposal of property, plant and equipment  152  1,135
Government grant received  1,092  –
Acquisition of investments in associates  –  (1,023 )
Acquisition of available for sale investments  (30,562 ) (26,680 )
Loan to jointly controlled entities  (10,809 ) (1,623 )
Repayment from jointly controlled entities  5,847  –
Placement of investment deposit  (1,620 ) –
Withdrawal of investment deposit  1,620  –
Net cash used in investing activities  (45,085 ) (46,010 )
Interest paid  (5,855 ) (4,243 )
Dividend payment to owners of the parent  (3,424 ) (2,468 )
Net loans (repayment of loans to)/from non-controlling shareholders  (259 ) 190
Dividend paid to non-controlling shareholders  (4,168 ) (3,873 )
Net capital contribution receipt from non-controlling shareholders  –  871
Net proceeds from issue of new borrowings  6,975  113,230
Repayment of borrowings  (14,887 ) (50,723 )
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities  (21,618 ) 52,984
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents  (50,653 ) 23,896
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year  128,440  100,349
Net effect of foreign exchange rate changes  (3,938 ) 4,195
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  73,849  128,440
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year-discontinued operation  (23,123 ) –
Net cash and cash equivalents at end of the year  50,726  128,440
consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2012 70 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
          Foreign
 Issued capital         currency    Attributable  Non-
 Ordinary  Treasury  Share  Other  Hedging  translation  Retained  to owners  controlling
Amount in £’000 shares  shares  premium  reserve  reserve  reserve  earnings   of the parent  interests  Total
Balance at 1 January 2011 19,875  (898 ) 10,129  3,422  (564 ) 23,653  60,316  115,933  50,387  166,320
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  –  –  18,164  18,164  6,687  24,851
Exchange differences  
 arising on translation  
 of foreign operations –  –  –  –  –  5,374  –  5,374  1,325  6,699
Net gain in fair value of available  
 for sale investments –  –  –  3,180  –  –  –  3,180  –  3,180
Cash flow hedges –  –  –  –  564  –  –  564  –  564
Total comprehensive income  
 for the year –  –  –  3,180  564  5,374  18,164  27,282  8,012  35,294
Payment of dividends to  
 non-controlling interests –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (3,873 ) (3,873 )
Dividend paid to owners  
 of the parent –  –  –  –  –  –  (2,468 ) (2,468 ) –  (2,468 )
Movement in treasury shares –  20  –  –  –  –  (17 ) 3  –  3
Acquisition of subsidiaries –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  20,211  20,211
Net capital contribution from  
 non-controlling interests –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  871  871
Disposal of subsidiaries –  –  –  (3,422 ) –  (493 ) 3,422  (493 ) (10,818 ) (11,311 )
Adjustment arising from changes  
 in non-controlling interests –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (9,379 ) (9,379 )
Issuance of warrants –  –  –  –  –  –  424  424  –  424
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  –  –  400  400  –  400
Balance at 31 December 2011 19,875  (878 ) 10,129  3,180  –  28,534  80,241  141,081  55,411  196,492
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  –  –  15,666  15,666  4,812  20,478
Exchange differences  
 arising on translation  
 of foreign operations –  –  –  –  –  (3,345 ) –  (3,345 ) (1,200 ) (4,545 )
Net gain in fair value of available  
 for sale investments –  –  –  773  –  –  –  773  –  773
Disposal of available for  
 sale investments –  –  –  (3,953 ) –  –  –  (3,953 ) –  (3,953 )
Share of net gain in fair value of 
 available for sale investments 
 in jointly controlled entities –  –  –  40,347  –  –  –  40,347  –  40,347
Total comprehensive income  
 for the year –  –  –  37,167  –  (3,345 ) 15,666  49,488  3,612  53,100
Payment of dividends to  
 non-controlling interests –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  (4,168 ) (4,168 )
Dividend paid to owners  
 of the parent –  –  –  –  –  –  (3,424 ) (3,424 ) –  (3,424 )
Movement in treasury shares –  200  –  –  –  –  –  200  –  200
Acquisition of a subsidiary –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  3,910  3,910
Adjustment arising from changes  
 in non-controlling interests –  –  –  –  –  –  368  368  (368 ) –
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  –  –  700  700  –  700
Balance at 31 December 2012 19,875  (678 ) 10,129  40,347  –  25,189  93,551  188,413  58,397  246,810
consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2012 71 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
General information
Fortune Oil PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act. The address of the registered 
office is given on the back cover page. The nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the 
Directors’ Report on pages 30 to 39 and in the Business Review on pages 12 to 23.
1. Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs)  
and related interpretations from the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and those parts of  
the Companies Act applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs. The financial statements have also been prepared  
in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use within the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU  
IAS Regulations.
Adoption of new and revised standards
In the current year, the Group has applied, for the first time, the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations, 
which are effective for the Group’s financial year beginning 1 January 2012, but have not had any significant impact on  
the financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures – transfers of financial assets;
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of items of other comprehensive income; and
Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax – recovery of underlying assets.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have not been 
applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective:
From the year beginning 1 January 2013
IFRS 1 (amended) Government loans;
IFRS 7 (amended) Disclosures: Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities;
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements;
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements;
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities;
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement;
lAS 19 (revised) Employee benefits;
lAS 27 (revised) Separate financial statements;
lAS 28 (revised) Investments in associates and joint ventures; 
 Annual improvements to IFRS 2009-2011 cycle (various standards).
From the year beginning 1 January 2014
lAS 32 (amended) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
lAS 1 (amended) Presentation of financial statements — other comprehensive income
From the year beginning 1 January 2015
IFRS 9 Financial instruments Classification and measurement 72 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Accounting policies continued 
The Group did not early adopt any of these new or revised standards, amendments to standards and interpretations to 
existing standards. The Group is in the process of assessing the impact of these new or revised standards, amendments to 
standards and interpretations to existing standards on the Group’s results and financial position in the future. The Directors 
do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the 
Group in future periods, except as follows:
1. IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments;
2. IFRS 10 may impact the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements as it provides a single basis for 
consolidation with a new definition of control;
3. IFRS 11 may result in changes in the accounting of the Group’s jointly-controlled entities that are currently accounted for 
using proportionate consolidation. Under IFRS 11, a joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a joint 
venture, and the option to proportionately consolidate joint ventures has been removed. Interests in joint ventures must be 
equity accounted;
4. IFRS 12 will impact the disclosure of interests Fortune Oil has in other entities such as subsidiaries, joint arrangements, 
associates and/or unconsolidated structured entities; and
5. IFRS 13 will impact the measurement of fair value for certain assets and liabilities as well as the associated disclosures. 
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until  
a detailed review has been completed.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain properties, 
available for sale investments and share-based payments and share options written as part of the restructure of interests  
in Liulin. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and 
include the results of jointly controlled entities and associates. The results and net assets of subsidiary undertakings acquired 
or disposed of during a financial year are included in the Group income statement and statement of financial position from the 
effective date of acquisition or to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. All intra-group transactions, balances, income 
and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the 
Group’s equity therein.
Subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated using the acquisition method of accounting and jointly controlled entities  
are included in accordance with the accounting policies noted below. For each business combination, the interests of 
non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share  
of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition 
basis. Where the Group has acquired assets held in subsidiary undertakings that do not meet the definition of a business 
combination, purchase consideration is allocated to the net assets acquired and the interests of non-controlling shareholders 
are initially measured at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the net assets value of the acquiree’s identifiable 
net assets. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at 
initially recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. Total comprehensive income is 
attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Where the Group increases it’s ownership interest in a subsidiary undertaking, goodwill may arise and is calculated as  
the difference between the consideration paid for the additional interest and the carrying amount of the net assets of the 
subsidiary. A gain or loss may arise where the Group decreases its interest in a subsidiary without the loss of control, 
calculated as the difference between the consideration received and the carrying amount of the interest disposed, including  
a proportionate share of goodwill.
Changes in the Group’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity  
transactions. The carrying amount of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the  
changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling 
interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed  
to the owners of the Company. 73 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Accounting policies continued 
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the 
aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous  
carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), less liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. Amounts 
previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for (i.e. reclassified to profit 
or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings) in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities 
are disposed of. The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded 
as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement or, when applicable, the costs on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Going Concern
The Group’s business activities and associated opportunities and risks are set out in the business review on pages 12 to 23. 
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial 
review set out on pages 26 to 27. In addition, note 27 to the Group financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, 
policies and processes for its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its financial instruments; and its 
exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As explained in note 27 to the Group financial statements, the Group meets part of its capital expenditure requirements  
from medium term loan facilities. On 4 April 2011, the Group signed a US$180 million (£112 million) loan agreement and  
the proceeds were used to repay the 3-year US$80 million (£52 million) loan facility arranged by Standard Chartered Bank 
(Hong Kong) in April 2010 and the balance of US$100 million (£60 million) has been providing further capital for development.
The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties as described on page 24.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had a cash balance of £50.7 million (excluding the cash balance of £23.1 million in the 
natural gas business) and a net borrowing of £61.1 million (after excluding the net cash balance of £13.1 million in the natural  
gas business). Nonetheless, the Group expects to generate positive cash flow from operations and receive cash consideration 
from China Gas Holdings Limited for the transaction in relation to the Group’s natural gas business. The Group’s current 
forecasts and projections, adjusting for reasonably possible changes in trading conditions, show that the Group will be able 
to meet its obligations under the loan agreements and to operate within the required covenants for the foreseeable future.
Following the decision to enter into the Gas Division disposal transaction, detailed in note 20 to the Group financial statements 
on page 98, notice of the proposed sale was given to the providers of the US$180 million medium term loan facilities. A waiver 
was received, in advanced of the transaction, in respect of the condition for the immediate repayment of these facilities upon 
such a transaction occurring. Subject to the payment of US$18 million (£11.4 million) as an initial accelerated repayment,  
the existing terms of the medium term loan remain unchanged.
After making enquiries, the Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have 
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt  
the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
Investments in the PRC
In respect of major infrastructure projects, the Group’s investment in an undertaking in the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) 
is made with one or more other parties under a “joint venture” arrangement, with the parties involved taking an agreed interest 
in the issued share capital of the undertaking. The arrangement is intended to provide necessary financial and operational 
support to the project as well as providing strong local connections and typically an arrangement will include at least one 
representative from the PRC. The arrangement is supported by a “joint venture agreement” between the parties that specifies 
the terms of the arrangement, including details regarding the structure and composition of the board of directors and practical 
working arrangements. The amount of equity interest and the terms of the joint venture agreement will generally determine 
whether the investment is recorded as a subsidiary or jointly controlled entity, primarily based on the control of the board and 
the ability to control the strategic financial and operating policies of the undertaking. 74 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Accounting policies continued 
Subsidiary undertakings
The Group’s interest in subsidiary undertakings comprises investments in undertakings where the Group either holds in 
excess of 50 per cent of the issued share capital of the undertaking and owns more than half of the voting power or where 
the Group has the power to control the strategic, financial and operating policies of the undertaking concerned.
Jointly controlled entities
The Group’s interests in jointly controlled entities comprise investments in undertakings where the Group normally owns 
between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the voting power of the undertaking and where the Group exercises joint control of 
the strategic financial and operating policies of the undertaking concerned by agreement. Jointly controlled entities are 
accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Associates
The Group’s interests in associates comprise investments in undertakings where the Group normally holds between 20 per 
cent and 50 per cent of the issued capital of the undertaking and where the Group exercises significant influence, but neither 
joint control nor control, over the strategic financial and operating policies of the undertaking concerned. Associates are 
accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Equity method
Under the equity method, investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are carried in the consolidated balance 
sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any 
impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses of a jointly controlled entity or an associate in excess of the Group’s 
interest in that jointly controlled entity or associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or 
constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. Where a group entity transacts with an associate  
of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the relevant jointly controlled entity  
and associate.
Other investments
Investments are recorded at cost less provision for impairment to the extent considered necessary.
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair 
value less cost to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale 
transaction rather than through continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and 
the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management must be committed to the 
sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that 
subsidiary are classified as held for sale when the criteria described above are met, regardless of whether the Group will 
retain a non-controlling interests in its former subsidiary after the sale. 75 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Accounting policies continued 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions
Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired (the acquisition date). 
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests  
in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest (if any) in the entity over the net of the 
acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill arising from an acquisition is allocated to each of the relevant cash-
generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.  
A cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an 
indication that the unit may be impaired. When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying 
amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit first, 
and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment 
loss for goodwill is recognised directly in the consolidated income statement. An impairment loss for goodwill is not reversed 
in subsequent periods.
On subsequent disposal of the relevant cash-generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill capitalised is included in the 
determination of the amount of profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisition before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UKGAAP amounts 
subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated as to write off the cost of assets less their residual values over their expected 
useful lives using the straight-line basis method, as follows:
Motor vehicles, fixtures and fittings 3 to 6 years
Single point mooring buoy and related equipment 6 to 18 years (over the term of the contract)
Leasehold property/improvements over the leasehold period
LPG tanks and facilities 20 years
Storage tanks and jetty 3 to 38 years
Pipelines 20 to 30 years (over the term of the contract)
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
Oil and gas development assets
Oil and gas development assets represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into 
production, together with exploration and evaluation (“E&E”) expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves transferred 
from intangible E&E assets.
Depreciation is calculated on the net book values of producing assets using the unit of production method from the date  
of first commercial production. The unit of production method refers to the ratio of production in the reporting year as a 
proportion of the proved and probable reserves of the relevant field, taking into account future development expenditures 
necessary to bring those reserves into production.
Producing assets are generally grouped with other assets that are dedicated to serving the same reserves for depreciation 
purposes, but are depreciated separately from producing assets that serve other reserves. 76 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Accounting policies continued 
Intangible assets
The intangible assets have definite useful lives. Such intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the  
following periods:
Software 5 years
Club debentures 10 years
Technology rights 40 years
Distribution rights 28 – 30 years
Software, gas distribution rights and technology rights
Software, gas distribution rights and technology rights are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation which is charged  
to the income statement over the estimated life of the intangible asset. Amounts acquired from third parties are initially 
recognised at fair value and then amortised.
Exploration and evaluation assets
The Group adopts the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation costs. All licence acquisition, 
exploration and evaluation costs and directly attributable administration are initially capitalised in well, field or exploration  
area cost centres, as appropriate. Interest payable is capitalised insofar as it relates to specific exploration and development 
activities. These costs are then written off unless the exploration and evaluation activity is related to an established discovery 
for which commercially recoverable reserves have already been established or at the balance sheet date, exploration and 
evaluation activity has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially 
recoverable reserves. Pre-licence costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Capitalised exploration  
and evaluation costs are not amortised. At a future date, when it is determined that these costs will be recouped through 
successful development and exploitation, it is intended that expenditure will be transferred to property, plant and equipment.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
The carrying amount of the Group’s assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any 
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment loss is 
recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised  
in the income statement.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated 
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments 
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Prepaid lease payments
Prepaid lease payments represent the purchase cost of land use rights in the PRC and are charged to the income statement 
on a straight-line basis over the terms of the relevant leases.
Leasing
The Group as lessor
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
The Group as lessee
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Inventories
Inventories held in the trading business are valued at net realisable value. Other inventories are valued at the lower of cost 
and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated 
selling expenses. Cost is determined on the first-in first-out basis and includes all costs incurred in acquiring the inventories 
and bringing them to their present location and condition. 77 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Accounting policies continued 
Segment reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the board of directors of the 
Company who are responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises both current and deferred tax. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the 
taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments 
to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all deductible temporary differences except in respect of taxable temporary 
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in jointly controlled entities where the timing of the 
reversal of the temporary difference cannot be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in 
the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset  
is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against 
which the asset can be utilised.
Under the prevailing PRC income tax law and its relevant regulations, foreign corporate investors are levied PRC dividend 
withholding tax at a rate of 5% or 10%, unless reduced by tax treaties or arrangements, on dividends declared by PRC-resident 
enterprises for profits earned subsequent to 1 January 2008. Deferred tax liabilities have been recognised in respect of the 
undistributed earnings to the extent that remittance is probable in the foreseeable future.
Foreign currencies
The functional and presentation currency of Fortune Oil PLC is pounds sterling. The functional currencies of foreign 
operations are the currency of that primary economic environment in which it operates. In the financial statements of 
individual Group companies, the Group translates foreign currency transactions into the functional currency at the rate of 
exchange prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated  
into the functional currency at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising are 
taken to profit and loss.
Exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is  
neither planned nor likely to occur, which form part of the net investment in a foreign operation, are recognised in the 
translation reserve.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are retranslated into the presentation currency of 
Fortune Oil PLC at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated at the 
average exchange rate for the year. The exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to a separate 
component of equity. On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that  
particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
The Group has elected not to record cumulative translation differences arising prior to the transition date as permitted by 
IFRS 1. In utilising this exemption, all cumulative translation differences are deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004 and  
all subsequent disposals shall exclude any transaction differences arising prior to the date of transition. 78 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Accounting policies continued 
Financial instruments
Trade receivables and payables
Trade receivables do not generally carry any interest and are normally stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate 
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. Trade payables are generally not interest-bearing and are normally stated at 
their nominal value.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments  
that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liability and equity
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements  
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after  
deducting all of its liabilities.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group has entered into derivative financial instruments by granting options for future investment in Fortune subsidiary 
undertakings. Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 27.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the share subscription agreement was entered into and are 
subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit  
or loss immediately.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is 
recognised as a financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining 
maturity of the instrument is more than twelve months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within twelve months. 
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Transaction costs are incremental costs  
that are directly attributable to the issue of a financial asset or financial liability, including fees and commissions paid to 
agents, advisers, brokers and dealers, levies by regulatory agencies and securities exchanges, and transfer taxes and duties. 
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and 
the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest 
method except for borrowing costs capitalised for qualifying assets.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated or not classified as financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss, loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments.
For available for sale equity investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value 
cannot be reliably measured and derivatives that are linked to and must be settled by delivery of such unquoted equity 
instruments, they are measured at cost less any identified impairment losses at each balance sheet date subsequent to  
initial recognition.
Available for sale financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are 
impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of 
the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the financial assets have been impacted. For an available for sale equity 
investment, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of that investment below its cost is considered to be objective 
evidence of impairment. 79 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Accounting policies continued 
Provision
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is 
probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of  
the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the 
balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When a provision is measured 
using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flow.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for 
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and sales related taxes. Sales of gas are 
recognised when goods are delivered and title has been passed. In respect of oil trading transactions, where the Group  
does not act as the principal, then only management fees and commission are recognised as revenue.
Revenue from connection fees is recognised in full once the connections work has been completed as the Group remaining 
obligation is inconsequential.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established 
(provided that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be  
measured reliably).
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate 
applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial 
asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions 
attaching to them and that the grants will be received. 
Government grants are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Group recognises as 
expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate. Specifically, government grants whose primary 
condition is that the Group should purchase, construct or otherwise acquire non-current assets are recognised as deferred 
revenue in the consolidated statement of financial position and transferred to profit or loss on a systematic and rational basis 
over the useful lives of the related assets. 
Government grants that are receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or for the purpose of giving 
immediate financial support to the Group with no future related costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which 
they become receivable. 80 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Accounting policies continued 
Share-based payments
The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of  
the related share options or share allocations. The cost is based on the fair value of the options or shares granted and the 
number of awards expected to vest. The fair value of each option is determined using an appropriate pricing model at the 
date of granting. Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share. Non market related 
performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number of awards expected to vest.
Treasury shares
Company shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trust are presented within reserves until such time as 
the interest in shares is transferred unconditionally to the employees. Costs of administering the trust are charged to the 
income statement as incurred.
Pensions
The Group does not operate any pension schemes that carry obligations similar to defined benefit arrangements. 
Contributions to social benefits for employees are charged to profit as incurred.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, 
seldom equal the related actual results. The main estimates and judgements that have the most significant effect on the 
amounts recognised in the financial statements are as follows:
a) Acquisition of business assets
IFRS 3 Business Combinations applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a business combination. 
When acquiring new entities or assets, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed constitute an integrated set of activities and thus whether the transaction constitutes a business combination,  
using the guidance provided in the standard. In making this determination, management evaluates the inputs, processes  
and outputs of the asset or entity required.
b) Recognition and measurement of intangible assets under business combinations
In order to determine the value of the separately identifiable intangible assets in a business combination, management are 
required to make estimates of gas distribution right agreements, secured customer contracts, other contracts, customer 
relationships and goodwill. For material acquisition, the Group engages outside independent parties to perform these 
calculations and determine the fair value and estimated useful lives of these assets. The carrying amount of intangible  
assets at 31 December 2012 is shown in note 12.
c) Estimated impairment of goodwill
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the 
goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an estimate to be made of the timing and amount of cash 
flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.  
The discount rate applied reflects the market assessment of the time value of money and risks specific to the asset. Further 
details are provided in note 11. 81 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
1. Accounting policies continued 
d) Carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets
The Group reviews the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets each year to ascertain if 
there are any indications of impairment. This assessment, and any impairment testing, requires the use of certain judgements 
and estimates regarding the future cash flows expected to arise from the asset and a suitable discount rate. The carrying 
amount of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets at 31 December 2012 are shown in notes 10 and  
12 respectively.
e) Recoverability of exploration and evaluation assets
Determining whether an exploration and evaluation asset is impaired requires an assessment of whether there are any 
indicators of impairment, including by reference to the specific impairment indicators prescribed in IFRS 6 Exploration for  
and Evaluation of Mineral Resources. If there is any indication of potential impairment, an impairment test is required based 
on value in use of the asset. The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to 
arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. The carrying amount  
of exploration and evaluation assets at 31 December 2012 is shown in note 10.
f) Taxation
Tax provisions are made based on the Group best estimate of the amount expected to be paid. Tax legislation is open to 
interpretation and accordingly, tax provision may change as agreement is reached with the relevant taxation authority. Full 
provision is made for deferred taxation at the rate of tax prevailing at the period end dates unless future rates have been 
substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is considered more likely than not they will be recovered, 
taking into account the nature of the losses, and the certainty of the relevant offsetting income streams.
g) Reserve estimates
Proven and probable reserve estimates are based on reviews undertaken using standard recognised valuation techniques. 
The amount that will ultimately be recovered cannot be known with certainty until the end of the asset life.
h) Deferred consideration on acquisition of Everthriving Energy
The purchase agreement for Beijing Everthriving Energy Technology Co. Ltd (“Everthriving Energy”) in 2010 specifies that 
additional consideration of RMB 50 million (£4.9 million) is payable after certain conditions are met, including receipt of 
government approval for refitting marine diesel oil-LNG dual fuel technology, execution of not less than 1,500,000 tons of 
marine diesel oil-LNG dual fuel refitting, and obtaining government approval for six LNG refuelling stations along Yangtze  
river. In 2011, the directors consider it probable that all of the conditions will be met by June 2019 based on the development 
of the project to date, and therefore a provision for additional consideration of £1.2 million has been recorded from the date  
of acquisition, using a discount rate of 17.8%. 82 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
2. Segmental Reporting
The Group has adopted IFRS 8 Operating Segments to identify eight operating segments on the basis of internal reports 
about components of the Group which are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker in order to allocate 
resources to the segment and to assess its performance.
The Group has classified the operating divisions and the reportable segments under IFRS 8 as “Investment Holding”, “Natural 
Gas”, “Single point mooring facility”, “Aviation Refuelling”, “Trading”, “Products Terminal”, “Resources” and “Others”.
Information regarding these segments is presented below.
a) Operating segments
  Discontinued
 Oil operations
  
 Investment Single point Aviation  Products   Continuing 
 Holding mooring facility Refuelling Trading Terminal Resources Others** operations Natural Gas Group
Amount in £’000 2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011
Revenue including  
 share of jointly  
 controlled entities –  –  17,308  17,224  495,239  403,745  123,411  121,487  2,672  2,606  –  –  8,942  9,012  647,572  554,074  91,830  70,560  739,402  624,634
Share of revenue of  
 jointly controlled  
 entities –  –  –  –  (495,239 ) (403,745 ) –  –  (2,672 ) (2,606 ) –  –  (8,942 ) (9,012 ) (506,853 ) (415,363 ) (17,961 ) (9,498 ) (524,814 ) (424,861 )
Group revenue –  –  17,308  17,224  –  –  123,411  121,487  –  –  –  –  –  –  140,719  138,711  73,869  61,062  214,588  199,773
Profit from operations  
 (including share of  
 results of jointly  
 controlled entities) 103  –  5,453  5,849  11,545  11,606  1,043  1,037  787  1,063  (784 ) –  (1,082 ) (1,092 ) 17,065  18,463  15,794  11,975  32,859  30,438
Office overheads*                             (4,345 ) (3,014 ) –  –  (4,345 ) (3,014 )
Operating profit,  
 net of overheads                             12,720  15,449  15,794  11,975  28,514  27,424
Other gains or losses 4,645  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  4,645  –  –  7,323  4,645  7,323
Finance costs                             (5,008 ) (4,216 ) (1,087 ) (1,065 ) (6,095 ) (5,281 )
Investment revenue                             1,079  969  581  1,217  1,660  2,186
Profit before taxation                             13,436  12,202  15,288  19,450  28,724  31,652
Taxation                             (4,542 ) (3,536 ) (3,704 ) (3,265 ) (8,246 ) (6,801 )
Profit for the year                             8,894  8,666  11,584  16,185  20,478  24,851
Attributable to
Owners of the parent                             8,013  6,463  7,653  11,701  15,666  18,164
Non-controlling interests                             881  2,203  3,931  4,484  4,812  6,687
Capital additions – FA –  –  3,865  2,395  55  –  58  24  –  –  100  139  –  –  4,078  2,558  11,626  17,695  15,704  20,253
Addition to intangible –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  –  4,635  30,436  240  –  4,875  30,436  11  3,877  4,886  34,313
Depreciation and  
 amortisation –  –  4,823  3,925  9  7  51  51  –  –  35  18  25  –  4,943  4,001  3,257  2,555  8,200  6,556 83 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
2. Segmental reporting continued
  Discontinued
 Oil operations
  
 Investment Single point Aviation  Products   Continuing 
 Holding mooring facility Refuelling Trading Terminal Resources Others** operations Natural Gas Group
Amount in £’000 2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011
Net assets: by class  
 of business
Assets
 Segment assets 98,655  –  17,129  19,910  31,981  33,531  53,798  107,204  5,154  5,171  46,288  47,004  8,691  41,269  261,696  254,089  169,011  133,361  430,707  387,450
 Unallocated assets                             491  318  –  –  491  318
Consolidated  
 total assets                             262,187  254,407  169,011  133,361  431,198  387,768
Liabilities
 Segment liabilities –  –  (2,582 ) (3,178 ) (484 ) (1,661 ) (17,283 ) (9,656 ) –  –  (8,327 ) (8,525 ) (2,328 ) (4,478 ) (31,004 ) (27,498 ) (38,894 ) (36,814 ) (69,898 ) (64,312 )
 Unallocated liabilities***                             (114,490 ) (126,964 ) –  –  (114,490 ) (126,964 )
Consolidated  
 total liabilities                             (145,494 ) (154,462 ) (38,894 ) (36,814 ) (184,388 ) (191,276 )
                             116,693  99,945  130,117  96,547  246,810  196,492
* Includes overheads in UK/HK/PRC offices.
** Others include retail and distribution.
*** Includes bank loan, deferred tax and dividend withholding tax.
b) Geographical operations
All Group’s revenues are attributed to PRC and Hong Kong. Aside from the amount of £34.4 million (2011: £31.2 million) 
which are located in Armenia, all of the Group’s non-current assets, are held in PRC and Hong Kong. The Directors are of  
the opinion that the PRC and Hong Kong form one geographical segment.
c) Analysis of group revenue
 Year  Year
 ended  ended
Amount in £’000 31.12.12  31.12.11
Sales of goods 191,365  185,822
Income from gas connection contracts 21,185  10,946
Rental income 899  950
Others 1,139  2,055
 214,588  199,773
Investment revenue 1,660  2,186
 216,248  201,959
d) Major customers
None of the customers individually account for more than 10% of the Group’s revenue during the current and previous year. 84 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
2. Segmental reporting continued
e) Segment information
i) Revenues attributable to the natural gas segment are derived from the sale of gas, connection fees and the operation of 
gas stations in the PRC;
ii) Revenues attributable to the single point mooring facility are based on volume throughput;
iii) Revenues attributable to the aviation refuelling segment are derived from the sale and storage of jet fuel in the PRC;
iv) Revenues attributable to the trading segment are derived from the trading of petroleum products in the PRC and  
Hong Kong; and
v) Revenues attributable to the product terminal segment are derived from the storage of petroleum products in the PRC.
3. Staff costs
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Staff costs, including directors:
Wages and salaries 7,471  7,300
Social security costs 16  13
Share-based payments 700  400
 8,187  7,713
Number 2012  2011
The average monthly number of employees during the year, including directors:
Management and administration 330  313
Engineering and operations 689  638
Oil trading, marketing and project development 62  51
 1,081  1,002
A proportion of the Group’s staff costs shown above is capitalised into the cost of fixed assets. The net staff costs recognised 
in the income statement is £6,319,000 (2011: £6,929,000).
Directors’ emoluments
Details of Directors’ emoluments are set out below.
 Highest paid Director All Directors
Amount in £’000 2012  2011  2012  2011
Fees –  –  182  178
Salaries and benefits 314  326  597  605
Share-based payments 134  100  251  182
Total 448  426  1,030  965
None of the Directors accrue retirement benefits under money purchase or defined benefit schemes.
Further details in respect of Directors’ emoluments are set out in the audited section of the Directors’ Remuneration report. 85 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
4. Profit for the year
Profit for the year is arrived at after charging/(crediting) the following:
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets (see note 10) 7,426  6,052
Amortisation of prepaid lease payments and other intangible assets (see note 12 and 13) 834  579
Staff costs (see note 3) 6,319  6,929
Auditors’ remuneration (see below)
– audit fees 350  297
– non-audit fees 5  5
Foreign exchange loss 1,052  852
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,813  1,832
Operating lease rentals – land and buildings 551  855
Cost of inventories recognised as cost of sale 100,796  145,034
Gain on disposal of interest in subsidiaries  –  (7,633 )
Loss on disposal of 5% interest in jointly controlled entity  –  310
Gain on disposal of available for sale investments (see note 15) (4,645 ) –
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Audit fees
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for the audit  
 of the Company’s annual accounts 131 * 113 
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor and their associates for other services to the Group:
 The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 219  184
Total audit fees 350  297
Non-audit fees
 Audit-related assurance services 5  5
Non-audit fees 5  5
* Includes £30,000 in respect of 2011. 86 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
5. Finance costs
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Finance costs:
 on bank loans 5,371  3,111
 on other loans 484  1,541
 unwind of discount on provision (see note 22) 240  629
Total finance costs 6,095  5,281
6. Investment income
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Investment income
 on bank deposits 933  1,986
 others 727  200
Total investment income 1,660  2,186
7. Taxation
The taxation charge for the year is analysed below:
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Withholding tax
Group withholding tax (see note 23) 1,552  1,396
Total withholding tax 1,552  1,396
Current tax
Group current tax
UK tax (300 ) 300
Foreign tax 7,624  6,821
Total current tax 7,324  7,121
Deferred tax
Group deferred tax (see note 23) (630 ) (1,716 )
Total deferred tax (630 ) (1,716 )
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8,246  6,801 87 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
7. Taxation continued
The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax and is explained below.
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Profit from continuing and discontinued operations before taxation 28,724  31,652
Theoretical tax at PRC corporation tax rate 25% (2011: 25%) 7,181  7,913
Effects of:
– Share of results of jointly controlled entities (3,642 ) (3,706 )
– Share of results of associates (13 ) – 
– Income tax on concessionary rates (85 ) –
– Nil or lower tax in PRC –  (75 )
– Tax losses not recognised 526  225
– Utilisation of tax losses credit not previously recognised (831 ) (234 )
– Other expenditure that is not tax deductible 3,794  3,429
– Income not taxable (1,861 ) (2,123 )
– Withholding tax on dividend income 1,552  1,396
– Derecognition of deferred tax assets 1,625  –
– Different tax rate –  (24 )
Total tax 8,246  6,801
The above reconciliation uses a 25% (2011: 25%) standard rate of tax, being the standard rate of tax payable in the PRC, 
where the majority of the Group’s activities take place.
Pursuant to the relevant laws and regulations in the PRC, certain of the Group’s PRC subsidiaries are entitled to exemption 
from PRC income tax for two years starting from their first profit-making year, followed by a 50% reduction for the next  
three years. In 2012, one of the PRC subsidiaries enjoyed the last year of 50% reduction.
The Group tax charge above does not include any amounts for jointly controlled entities, whose results are disclosed in the 
income statement net of tax.
8. Dividends
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year:
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 0.18p (2010: 0.13p) per share 3,424  2,468
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 0.16p  
 (2011: 0.18p) per share 3,180  3,424
9. Earnings per share
Earnings per share has been calculated on the earnings activities after taxation and non-controlling interests of £8,013,000 
(2011: profit of £6,463,000) for continuing operations, £7,653,000 (2011: profit of £11,701,000) for discontinued operations 
and £15,666,000 (2011: profit of £18,164,000) for total.
 2012 2011
  No.    No.    No.    No.
  ’000  pence  ’000  pence  ’000  pence  ’000  pence
 Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total
Basic 1,901,220  0.42  1,901,220  0.40  1,901,220  0.82  1,898,617  0.96
Share option adjustment 15,558  –  15,558  –  15,558  –  14,320  –
Diluted 1,916,778  0.42  1,916,778  0.40  1,916,778  0.82  1,912,937  0.95 88 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
10. Property, plant and equipment
Group   Motor  Single  Short
 Assets in  vehicles,  point  Leasehold    Oil and gas
 the course of  fixtures  mooring  property &    development
Amount in £’000 construction  & fittings  buoy  improvements  Pipelines  assets  Total
Cost
At 1 January 2011 7,516  4,185  32,568  4,315  33,307  15,881  97,772
Exchange differences 293  100  1,032  160  1,169  (51 ) 2,703
Additions 11,768  1,117  2,394  –  1,805  3,018  20,102
Acquisition 135  16  –  –  –  –  151
Disposal of subsidiaries –  (511 ) –  –  –  (18,848 ) (19,359 )
Other disposals –  (242 ) (3,070 ) –  (1,287 ) –  (4,599 )
Reclassification (8,120 ) (9 ) –  2,306  5,823  –  –
At 31 December 2011 11,592  4,656  32,924  6,781  40,817  –  96,770
Exchange differences (343 ) (161 ) (923 ) (198 ) (1,189 ) –  (2,814 )
Additions 8,566  1,990  3,864  127  1,157  –  15,704
Acquisition (see note 31) 1,137  71  –  178  122  –  1,508
Other disposals –  (299 ) (1,364 ) (253 ) (453 ) –  (2,369 )
Reclassification (7,559 ) 65  –  1,823  5,671  –  –
Transfer to assets held for sale  
 (see note 20) (13,393 ) (4,552 ) –  (8,019 ) (46,125 ) –  (72,089 )
At 31 December 2012 –  1,770  34,501  439  –  –  36,710
Depreciation
At 1 January 2011 –  2,336  23,193  1,080  5,969  –  32,578
Exchange differences –  78  886  50  298  –  1,312
Charge for the year –  488  3,862  193  1,509  –  6,052
Disposal of subsidiaries –  (168 ) –  –  –  –  (168 )
Other disposals –  (133 ) (1,185 ) –  (266 ) –  (1,584 )
Reclassification –  (12 ) –  –  12  –  –
At 31 December 2011 –  2,589  26,756  1,323  7,522  –  38,190
Exchange differences –  (89 ) (801 ) (40 ) (226 ) –  (1,156 )
Charge for the year –  589  4,773  279  1,785  –  7,426
Acquisition (see note 31) –  11  –  34  3  –  48
Other disposals –  (270 ) (69 ) (18 ) (75 ) –  (432 )
Reclassification –  (17 ) –  –  17  –  –
Transfer to assets held for sale  
 (see note 20) –  (1,420 ) –  (1,139 ) (9,026 ) –  (11,585 )
At 31 December 2012 –  1,393  30,659  439  –  –  32,491
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 –  377  3,842  –  –  –  4,219
At 31 December 2011 11,592  2,067  6,168  5,458  33,295  –  58,580 89 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
11. Goodwill
Amount in £’000 Goodwill
Cost
At 1 January 2011 4,068
Exchange differences 20
Disposals (979 )
At 31 December 2011 3,109
Exchange differences (102 )
Transfer to assets held for sale (see note 20) (3,007 )
At 31 December 2012  –
Accumulated impairment
At 1 January 2011, 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2012 –
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2012 –
At 31 December 2011 3,109
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are 
expected to benefit from that business combination. Before recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of  
goodwill had been allocated as follows:
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Beijing Fortune Huiyuan Gas –  1,192
China United Shanxi CBM –  562
Xinyang Fortune Gas –  1,355
 –  3,109
On 17 December 2012, the Group announced that it has conditionally agreed to inject its natural gas business into China  
Gas Holdings Limited for a total consideration of US$400 million (the “Proposed Transaction”), of which the Group shares 
US$340 million. All goodwill was transferred to assets held for sale at the year end.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. 
All of the goodwill is allocated to the natural gas operating segment which was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2012 
and therefore a separate value in use impairment test for goodwill was therefore not completed. The proceeds of disposal are 
expected to substantially exceed the book value of the related net assets. 90 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
12. Intangible assets
         Exploration
   Club  Technology  Distribution  and evaluation  Operating
Amount in £’000 Software  Debentures  Rights  Rights  assets  Rights   Total
Cost
At 1 January 2011 29  319  6,563  8,155  –  –  15,066
Exchange differences 1  6  308  522  497  –  1,334
Acquired on acquisition  
 of a subsidiary –  –  1,033  2,342  –  –  3,375
Disposal of subsidiaries (5 ) –  –  –  –  –  (5 )
Disposal (1 ) –  –  –  –  –  (1 )
Change in estimate –  –  (2,960 ) –  –  –  (2,960 )
Additions 19  –  483  –  30,436  –  30,938
At 31 December 2011 43  325  5,427  11,019  30,933  –  47,747
Exchange differences (1 ) (11 ) (158 ) (322 ) (1,187 ) (16 ) (1,695 )
Acquired on acquisition  
 of a subsidiary (see note 31) 6  –  –  239  –  3,323  3,568
Additions 24  239  –  –  4,623  –  4,886
Transfer to assets held for sale  
 (see note 20) (57 ) (182 ) (1,063 ) (10,936 ) –  (3,307 ) (15,545 )
At 31 December 2012 15  371  4,206  –  34,369  –  38,961
Amortisation
At 1 January 2011 13  48  –  532  –  –  593
Exchange differences 1  2  12  36  –  –  51
Disposal of subsidiaries (2 ) –  –  –  –  –  (2 )
Disposal (1 ) –  –  –  –  –  (1 )
Charge for the year 7  18  209  270  –  –  504
At 31 December 2011 18  68  221  838  –  –  1,145
Exchange differences –  (2 ) (7 ) (26 ) –  –  (35 )
Charge for the year 10  18  384  362  –  –  774
Transfer to assets held for sale  
 (see note 20) (26 ) (84 ) (106 ) (1,174 ) –  –  (1,390 )
At 31 December 2012 2  –  492  –  –  –  494
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 13  371  3,714  –  34,369  –  38,467
At 31 December 2011 25  257  5,206  10,181  30,933  –  46,602 91 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
12. Intangible assets continued
All of the Group’s software, club debentures, technology rights and distribution rights were acquired from third parties.
The amortisation of software and club debentures is presented in administration expenses in the income statement. The 
amortisation of all other intangible assets are included in distribution expenses.
Technology rights represent the right to use the diesel engine oil-LNG dual fuel technology that will be used to develop LNG 
refueling stations in the Yangtze River and distribution rights represent the right to develop spur pipeline and gas distribution.
Included in distribution rights is an amount of £5,675,000 (2011: £6,074,000) representing the city gas operation right in 
Xinyang. The rights entitle the Group to operate city gas for 30 years from the date of acquisition. The net carrying amount 
will therefore be amortised over the remaining useful life of 26 (2011: 27) years.
£1,064,000 (2011: £1,096,000) of technology rights were acquired in respect of Beijing Fortune Power Technology Company 
Limited. £4,283,000 (2011: £4,167,000) of distribution rights were acquired in respect of Liaoning Fortune Gas Company 
Limited, Liaoning Jianping Fortune Gas Company Limited, Fu Song Jin Run Natural Gas Limited and Quyang Province Dafung 
Natural Gas Company Limited. These are not yet available for use and accordingly have not been amortised during the year, 
however as part of the natural gas operating segment which was reclassified as held for sale at 31 December 2012 no 
separate impairment test was performed.
£4,144,000 (2011: £6,615,000) of technology rights were acquired in respect of Beijing Everthriving Energy Technology 
Company Limited and will be amortised over the remaining useful life of 37 years.
The amounts shown for exploration and evaluation assets related to the Group’s iron ore exploration projects located in 
Armenia. The costs are accounted for under IFRS 6, “Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources” as the technical 
feasibility and commercial viability of the projects is not yet demonstrable and the determination process is still in progress. 
There is no indication of impairment at 31 December 2012. The outcome of ongoing exploration and evaluation, and therefore 
whether the carrying value of exploration and evaluation assets will ultimately be recovered, is inherently uncertain.
13. Prepaid lease payments
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
The Group’s prepaid lease payments comprise:
Leasehold land in PRC with medium-term leases –  1,811
 –  1,811
 2012  2011
Analysed for reporting purposes as:
 Current asset (included in trade and other receivables – see note 17) –  80
 Non-current assets –  1,731
 –  1,811
Amortisation of prepaid lease payments amounted to £60,000 (2011: £75,000) during the year.
All prepaid lease payments are held by the gas group and hence have been reclassified to “assets held for sale” at  
31 December 2012. 92 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
14. Investments
The following are the Company’s principal subsidiary undertakings**:
   Interest in
  Country of ordinary shares Percentage Percentage
  incorporation and voting rights share of control of
Company and operation Parent* Group* profit board Nature of business
Maoming King Ming China 56.00% 56.00% 40.00% 57.10% Construction and
Petroleum Company      operation of single
Limited (note 1)      point mooring facility
Guangzhou Fortune Oil China 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% Trading in petroleum
Company Limited      products and investment
       in retail petrol stations 
       in Beijing
Fortune Resources LLC Armenia 72.00% 66.00% 72.00% 100.00% Exploration and
       production of iron ore
Spice Steel Armenia Armenia 99.90% 65.93% 99.90% 100.00% Exploration and
SJSC      production of iron ore
* Parent represents the effective interest which the immediate holding company hold directly in the subsidiaries and Group represents the 
effective interest which the Group hold indirectly in the subsidiaries.
** Principal subsidiary undertakings in the discontinued operations have not been included in this table.
All companies are held indirectly through subsidiary companies.
A full list of subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities is produced in the Annual Return in the Company Registrars of their 
respective countries of incorporation.
1. Maoming King Ming Petroleum Company Limited (MKM) is controlled through an arrangement where the foreign companies as an alliance  
in the arrangement own 70 per cent of the equity of MKM and are entitled to receive 50 per cent of its retained profits through annual and 
final distributions. Fortune itself owns 56 per cent of the equity of MKM and is entitled to 40 per cent of retained profits. The joint venture 
agreement was expired on 5 February 2013, the winding up procedure was commenced and the activities are expected to continue until  
the revised venture agreement is in place, after which they will continue under the terms of the revised agreement, and MKM will cease to  
be a subsidiary of the Group.
2. In August 2012, the gas division of the Group acquired 51 per cent of the issued share capital of Quyang Province Dafung Natural Gas 
Company Limited (see note 31).
3. On 16 December 2012, Beijing Everthriving Energy Technology Company Limited which was held under gas division of the Group was 
transferred to oil division of the Group.
4. On 17 December 2012, the Group announced that it has conditionally agreed to inject its natural gas business into China Gas Holdings 
Limited for a total consideration of US$400 million (the “Proposed Transaction”), of which the Group shares US$340 million. Therefore,  
all assets and liabilities of natural gas group were reclassified as assets held for sale at the ended of the year.
Jointly controlled entities Interest in  Net loans  Total
  jointly  to jointly  jointly
  controlled  controlled  controlled
Amount in £’000 entities  entities  entities
Share of net assets/cost
At 1 January 2012 61,488  10,155  71,643
Exchange rate difference (2,118 ) (390 ) (2,508 )
Advances –  62,307  62,307
Dividend (13,020 ) –  (13,020 )
Share of profit 14,568  –  14,568
Gain on establishment of new jointly controlled entity (see note 15) 2,014  –  2,014
Share of movement in reserves 40,347  –  40,347
Transfer to assets held for sale (see note 20) (23,784 ) (16,048 ) (39,832 )
At 31 December 2012 79,495  56,024  135,519 93 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
14. Investments continued
Jointly controlled entities
The following are the Group’s principal jointly controlled entities:
     Term
 Country of  Percentage Percentage of initial
 incorporation  share of control of contract Group
Company and operation Principal activity profit* board (years) interest*
South China Bluesky Aviation China Construction and 24.50% 25.00% 25 24.50%
Oil Company Limited  operation of aviation
  oil storage and 
  supply facilities
Zhuhai Special Economic Zone China Storage of petroleum 37.00% 33.30% 30 37.00%
South China Petroleum  products and
Company Limited  operation of jetty
Beijing City Badaling China Operation of gasoline 55.00% 50.00% 15 55.00%
Highway Service Station  stations
China Gas Group Limited** Hong Kong Investment holding 50.00% 50.00% Indefinite 50.00%
  company
For the companies above, the control of strategic, financial and operating policies are shared between two or more parties 
that are involved in the jointly controlled entities.
There is no Board of Directors in Beijing City Badaling Highway Service Station but Fortune Oil controls 50% of the 
management committee.
* Percentage share of profit represents the percentage of profit directly shared by the immediate holding company and Group interest 
represents the percentage of profit indirectly shared by the Group.
** During the year, the Group’s subsidiary – Fortune Oil PRC Holdings Limited and Joint Coast Alliance Market Development Limited 
established China Gas Group Limited as an investment holding company to hold shares in China Gas Holdings Limited.
Note to Jointly controlled entities
The Group’s share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities is shown below:
 2012 2011
 Discontinued operations Discontinued operations
  
       Natural            Natural
Amount in £’000 Bluesky * CGGL  Others  Gas  FLG  Total  Bluesky * CGGL  Others  Gas  FLG  Total
Revenue 495,239  –  11,614  17,961  –  524,814  403,745  –  11,619  9,497  –  424,861
Expenses/(income) 480,318  (453 ) 9,995  15,858  281  505,999  388,636  –  9,812  7,594  (281 ) 405,761
Profit before tax 14,921  453  1,619  2,103  (281 ) 18,815  15,109  –  1,807  1,903  281  19,100
Profit after tax 11,567  453  1,177  1,652  (281 ) 14,568  11,606  –  1,488  1,449  281  14,824
Non-current assets 24,431  101,502  7,367  13,368  17,722  164,390  26,888  –  5,728  11,064  20,331  64,011
Current assets 59,676  15,452  1,195  5,023  390  81,736  65,737  –  2,181  4,784  578  73,280
Current liabilities (52,556 ) (74,178 ) (3,394 ) (10,927 ) (1,792 ) (142,847 ) (60,163 ) –  (2,627 ) (9,363 ) (3,650 ) (75,803 )
Net assets 31,551  42,776  5,168  7,464  16,320  103,279  32,462  –  5,282  6,485  17,259  61,488
* South China Bluesky Aviation Oil Company Limited. 94 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
14. Investments continued
Associates
 Interest in associates
Amount in £’000 2012  2011 
Share of net assets/cost
At 1 January  945  –
Exchange rate difference (28 ) (6 )
Additions –  1,023
Share of loss 52  (72 )
Transfer to assets held for sale (see note 20) (969 ) – 
At 31 December  –  945
Note to Associates
The Group’s share of the results and net assets of its associates is shown below:
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Revenue 820  –
Expenses 768  72
Profit before tax 52  (72 )
Profit after tax 52  (72 )
Non-current assets –  –
Current assets –  1,258
Current liabilities –  (313 )
Net assets –  945
15. Available for sale investments
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Available for sale investments comprise:
Listed securities:
– Equity securities* –  27,815
Unlisted securities:
– Investment fund 1,948  2,045
 1,948  29,860
* During the year, the Group disposed of its shares in China Gas Holdings Limited (“CGH”), a listed company in the Hong Kong Exchange. 
These shares were previously held as an available for sale investments, and were sold by a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group to the 
newly formed jointly controlled entity, China Gas Group Limited. 95 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
15. Available for sale investments continued
 Investment in China  
 Gas Holdings Limited
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Balance at the beginning of the year 27,815  –
Additions 30,562  23,839
Movement in fair value 773  3,180
Foreign currency exchange difference (545 ) 796
Balance at the date of disposal to jointly controlled entity 58,605  27,815
The consideration for these shares transferred to the jointly controlled entity China Gas Group Limited, was made in a  
form of a loan HK$700 million (£57.3 million). Accordingly a loss on disposal of £1.3 million has been recognised in the 
income statement.
On the date of disposal, £4 million representing the net gain arising from changes in fair value, which were previously 
recognised in equity was reclassified to the income statement.
Other gain in the income statement represents:
Amount in £’000
Loss on disposal of available for sale assets (1,322 )
Net gain arising from change in fair value of available for sale assets 3,953
Gain on establishment of new jointly controlled entity (note 14) 2,014
Other gain 4,645
Reference to the table on page 94, in 2011, the Group acquired Huaneng Carbon Assets Development Fund Plan, a private 
company. This investment are not held for trading and accordingly are classified as available for sale. There has been no gain 
or loss recognised in respect of Huaneng Carbon Assets Development Fund Plan, other than exchange loss of £97,000.
16. Inventories
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Raw material –  2,692
Work in progress 5  2,421
Finished goods 6,379  4,584
 6,384  9,697
Finished goods represents mainly inventory held in the trading business. The Group recognised a loss of £nil (2011:  
£0.2 million) in the income statement on the valuation of inventory to its net realisable value. 96 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
17. Trade and other receivables
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Trade receivables* 13,690  12,606
Due from customer for contract work* –  1,191
Other receivables*
†
 10,813  22,827
Prepaid lease payments* (see note 13) –  80
Prepayments and accrued income 421  457
Total trade and other receivables 24,924  37,161
Less: other non-current receivables (2,413 ) (3,958 )
Trade and other receivables – current 22,511  33,203
* The decrease in trade receivables due from customer for contract work, other receivables and prepaid lease payment was mainly because 
the Group announced that it has conditionally agreed to inject its natural gas business into China Gas Holdings Limited and those 
receivables were reclassified as assets held for sales at the year end.
†
 The amount primarily represents loans to non-controlling interests at £5,349,000 (2011: £5,451,000) (see note 30), advance payments for 
gas sales and construction £nil (2011: £10,342,000) and deposits for an acquisition £nil (2011: £511,000).
The following is an aged analysis of trade receivables net of allowance for doubtful debts at the balance sheet date:
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
0 –30 days 13,690  10,579
31–60 days –  386
61–90 days –  237
91–120 days –  308
Over 120 days –  1,096
 13,690  12,606
Included in the Group’s trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £nil (2011: £1,738,000) which  
are past due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided for impairment loss.
Ageing of trade receivables which are past due but not impaired
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
0–30 days –  –
31–60 days –  97
61–90 days –  237
91–120 days –  308
Over 120 days –  1,096
 –  1,738 97 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
18. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the statement of financial position) comprise 
cash at bank and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The carrying value of these 
assets is approximately equal to their fair value.
Bank balances carry interest at market rates which range from 0.01% to 0.40% (2011: 0.01% to 0.40%) per annum.
19. Trade and other payables
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Trade payables 16,584  9,762
Other payables* 5,182  12,043
Receipts in advance for gas connection fee* –  15,833
Payables for taxation and social security 290  –
Accruals and deferred income 1,138  3,471
 23,194  41,109
* Significant decrease in other payables and receipts in advance for gas connection fee was mainly because the Group announced that it 
has conditionally agreed to inject its natural gas business into China Gas Holdings Limited and those liabilities were reclassified as liabilities 
held for sale at the year end.
The following is an aged analysis of trade payables at the balance sheet date:
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
0–30 days 11,159  4,569
31–60 days 4,981  725
61–90 days 410  172
91–120 days 34  2,802
Over 120 days –  1,494
 16,584  9,762 98 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
20. Assets classified as held for sale
On 17 December 2012, the Group announced it had conditionally agreed to inject its natural gas business into China Gas 
Holdings Limited for a total consideration of £247.5 million (US$400 million) (the “Proposed Transaction”), of which the 
Group’s share is £210.4 million (US$340 million), with the balance payable to non-controlling interests.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries classified as held for sale are as follows:
 Fortune Gas Investment
Amount in £’000 Holdings Ltd
Interests in jointly controlled entities (see note 14) 39,832
Interests in associates (see note 14) 969
Property, plant and equipment (see note 10) 60,504
Intangible assets (see note 12) 14,155
Goodwill (see note 11) 3,007
Prepaid lease payment 2,749
Other non-current receivables 1,426
Inventories 3,564
Bank and cash balance 23,123
Trade and other receivables 19,682
Total assets classified as held for sale 169,011
Trade and other payables (23,962 )
Borrowings (10,043 )
Current tax liabilities (2,306 )
Deferred tax liabilities (see note 23) (2,583 )
Total liabilities classified as held for sale (38,894 )
The cash flow statement for the discontinued operations is as follows:
Amount in £’000
Net cash from operating activities 9,838
Net cash used in investing activities (21,320 )
Net cash used in financing activities (5,539 )
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalent (17,021 )
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 41,869
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (1,725 )
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 23,123
The disposal group is materially all of the natural gas operating segment. Fortune Gas Technology Company Limited and 
subsidiaries were sold to the continuing group prior to signature of the conditional Sales and purchase agreement, however 
the net assets associated with these companies are not significant. The sale was subject to five conditions precedent 
including 1) approval by Fortune Oil shareholders; 2) approval by CGH shareholders; 3) the consent or waiver being obtained 
from the facility agent on behalf of the majority of lenders from Fortune Oil group’s syndication loan; 4) receipt of regulatory 
approval from the Anti-Monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce of the PRC; and 5) on negative confirmation from the 
Hong Kong Takeovers Executive or Takeovers and Mergers Panel. Approval by the Fortune and China Gas shareholders was 
received on 19 February 2013 and 8 February 2013 respectively. At the date of this report, the receipt of regulatory approval 
from the Anti-Monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce of the PRC and negative confirmation from the Hong Kong 
Takeovers Executive or Takeovers and Mergers Panel is still outstanding, however is expected to be received prior to the  
long stop date of 30 June 2013. The proceeds of disposal are expected to substantially exceed the book value of the related 
net assets and accordingly no impairment losses have been recognised on the classification of these assets and liabilities  
as held for sale. 99 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
21. Borrowings
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Current liabilities
Bank loans 68,211  16,077
Other loans –  5,828
 68,211  21,905
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans (see note 27) 43,581  110,618
Loan from non-controlling interests –  1,604
 43,581  112,222
Total borrowings 111,792  134,127
Bank loans amounting to £6,948,000 (2011: £7,157,000) are secured, interest bearing from 6.6% to 7.782% p.a. and are 
repayable within 12 months.
In April 2011, the Group restructured its facility arrangement and Fortune PRC Holdings Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of 
the Company, entered into a new loan facility with Morgan Stanley Asia Limited (“Morgan Stanley”) amounting to £112 million 
(US$180 million) which is guaranteed by the Company, secured over its various of the Group’s subsidiaries and bears interest 
at a margin of 2.6% above LIBOR (the “Morgan Stanley syndicated loan”). £61,262,000 (2011: £5,791,000) of the Morgan 
Stanley syndicated loan is repayable within 12 months and the remaining balance is repayable after 12 months. The proceeds 
were used to repay the 3-year US$80 million loan facility (£52 million) arranged by Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) in 
April 2010.
In connection with this loan, the Company granted to Morgan Stanley warrants to subscribe for 16,027,957 (representing 
0.80% of the issued share capital of the Company) new ordinary shares of 1p each in the Company at an exercise price of 
15.27p per share. The option is exercisable at any time up to 8 June 2013. The value of the warrants, of £424,000 which  
has been determined using a Trinomial valuation model, have been considered part of the transaction costs of the loan.  
The inputs into the valuation model were as follows:
Fair value at grant date 2.55p
Share price at grant date 11.31p
Exercise price 15.27p
Expected volatility 1
Warrants life 2 years
Expected dividend yield nil
Risk-free interest rate 1.36%
On 17 December 2012, the Group announced that it has conditionally agreed to inject its natural gas business into China Gas 
Holdings Limited and those bank loans of £3,087,000, other loans of £5,658,000 and loan from non-controlling interests  
of £1,298,000 were reclassified as liabilities held for sale at the year end.
Other loans are unsecured, interest bearing at the range at 2.55% p.a. in 2011.
Included in the above are bank loans with a carrying amount of £111,792,000 (2011: £126,695,000). The Group has fully 
complied with the covenants attached to these loans. These covenants relate to total equity, net borrowings to total equity 
and EBITDA to gross interest paid by the Group. 100 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
22. Other non-current liabilities
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Deferred payment 6,775  8,242
Other provision 1,354  1,150
 8,129  9,392
In 2011, the Group acquired an interest in three mining licences. Part of the purchase consideration includes a payment 
deferred until 2015, which has been discounted at a risk free rate at 1.95%.
The purchase agreement for Everthriving Energy in 2010 specifies that additional consideration of RMB50 million  
(£4.93 million) is payable after certain conditions are met, including receipt of government approval for refitting marine  
diesel oil-LNG dual fuel technology, execution of not less than 1,500,000 tons of marine diesel oil-LNG dual fuel refitting,  
and obtaining government approval for six LNG refuelling stations along Yangtze river. The Directors consider it probable  
that all of the conditions will be met by June 2019 based on the development of the project to date, and therefore a  
provision for additional consideration of £1.2 million has been recorded, using a discount rate of 17.8%. During 2012 the 
Group recognised in the income statement £0.2 million (2011: £0.6 million) for the unwinding of the discount in respect  
of the liability. Given the change in the expected timing to settle the obligation, the £2.9 million of change of the estimate  
has resulted in a reduction to the deferred consideration provision and the cost of the intangible technology rights.
23. Deferred tax liabilities
Deferred tax comprises:
      Revaluation
  Accelerated  Revaluation  of intangible
Amount in £’000 tax depreciation  of PP&E  assets  Other  Total
At 1 January 2011 (352 ) (107 ) 1,339  1,126  2,006
Exchange differences (25 ) (4 ) 118  179  268
Acquisition of subsidiaries –  –  813  –  813
Withholding tax on dividend (see note 7) –  –  –  1,396  1,396
(Credited)/charged to income statement (493 ) 4  (48 ) (1,179 ) (1,716 )
At 31 December 2011 (870 ) (107 ) 2,222  1,522  2,767
Exchange differences 28  3  (68 ) (184 ) (221 )
Acquisition of a subsidiary –  (139 ) 740  –  601
Withholding tax on dividend (see note 7) –  –  –  1,552  1,552
Changed/(credited) to income statement 842  4  (72 ) (1,404 ) (630 )
Transfer to assets held for sale (see note 20) –  239  (2,822 ) –  (2,583 )
At 31 December 2012 –  –  –  1,486  1,486
At the balance sheet date the Group had unused tax losses of £4,207,000 (2011: £11,111,000) arising from operations in the 
PRC, Hong Kong and the United Kingdom. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of such tax loss due to 
unpredictability of future profits. The tax losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
From 2008, dividends distributed overseas by foreign invested enterprises in China were subject to tax. The tax rate is 10% 
for Bluesky and Maoming Single Point Mooring dividends and 5% for West Zhuhai Terminal.
There are no material temporary difference associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in jointly 
ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have been recognised. 101 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
24. Share capital
Group Number of shares Share Capital
 2012  2011  2012  2011
 ’000  ’000  £’000  £’000
Ordinary shares of 1p each
Authorised
At beginning and end of year 3,500,000  3,500,000  35,000  35,000
Issued and fully paid
At beginning and end of year 1,987,467  1,987,467  19,875  19,875
25. Share-based payments
Analysis of share options at as 31 December 2012:
 2012 2011
   Weighted    Weighted
   average    average
 Options  exercise price  Options  exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 12,562,702  9.15p  6,700,000  7.40p
Granted during the year –  –  7,642,702  10.18p
Exercised during the year (1,603,421 ) 6.25p  (1,650,000 ) 6.98p
Lapsed during the year (186,605 ) 9.41p  (130,000 ) 6.32p
Outstanding at the end of the year 10,772,676  9.58p  12,562,702  9.15p
Exercisable at the end of the year 3,316,579  8.20p  4,920,000  7.57p
The weighted average closing share prices at the settlement dates for share options exercised during the year were  
10.42 pence (2011: 13.92 pence).
The options outstanding at the end of the year have an exercise price in a range from 6.32 pence up to 12.75 pence and  
a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7.6 years (2011: 7.5 years).
Summary of Share Options Granted as follows:
Date of Grant 08.06.05  25.06.08  08.06.11  04.10.11  04.10.11
Number of Options Issued 6,230,000  1,350,000  1,709,000  5,631,587  302,115
Name of Scheme* 2004 Approved   2004  2004  2004  2004 
 Scheme and   Unapproved  Unapproved  Unapproved  Approved 
 2004 Unapproved  Scheme  Scheme  Scheme  Scheme 
 Scheme
Using Trinomial Valuation Model  
 with the following Assumptions
  Fair Value at Grant Date (pence) 3.39  6.49  6.87  4.95  4.80
  Share Price at Grant Date (pence) 6.32  11.75  12.75  9.41  9.41
  Exercise Price (pence) 6.32  11.75  12.75  9.41  9.93 **
  Expected Volatility (%) 46.36%  35.54%  56.17%  54.72%  54.72%
  Option Life (years) 10 years  10 years  10 years  10 years  10 years
  Expected Dividend Yield (pence) nil  nil  nil  nil  nil
  Risk-Free Interest Rate (%) 4.145%  5.115%  3.555%  2.349%  2.349%
* For further details, please refer to pages 53 to 54.
** Calculated based on a 3 days average.
The Group recognised a charge of £700,000 (2011: £400,000) related to share-based payments transactions which included 
LTIP charge. Disclosures required under IFRS 2 “Share-based Payments” in respect to the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”), 
which details are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report, have been omitted because the amounts involved are  
not material. 102 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
26. Reserves
Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial 
statements of the PRC, Hong Kong and Armenian operations.
Treasury shares
The shares are held by JTC Trustees Limited as the trustee for future distribution to employees.
Following the shareholder approval at the AGM on 25 June 2004, the 2004 Senior Executive Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) had 
been operated by the trustee of the Company’s Employee Benefit Trust, subject to the rules of the Long Term Incentive Plan 
(the “LTIP”) as amended in 2004. On 24 June 2009, shareholders have approved the renewal of the LTIP and Plan at the AGM 
(with details on pages 54 to 56). There is a specified Remuneration Committee Policy in relation to the operation of the Plan 
under the LTIP rules.
The total number of shares held in the name of JTC Trustees Limited is 85,496,806 (2011: 87,786,609). The nominal value of 
these shares is £678,000 (2011: £878,000).
At 31 December 2012, the investment represented 4.3 per cent (2011: 4.4 per cent) of the called up ordinary share capital of 
Fortune Oil PLC. Additional details are given in the Remuneration Report.
The market value of shares was £8,977,165 at 31 December 2012 (2011: £10,534,393).
27. Financial Instruments
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted (including the criteria for recognition, the basis of 
measurement and the bases for recognition of income and expenses) for each class of financial asset, financial liability  
and equity instrument are disclosed in note 1.
a) Categories of financial instruments
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Financial assets
Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents) 75,229  160,766
Available for sale investments (see note 15) 1,948  29,860
 77,177  190,626
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 143,115  184,628
Derivative financial liabilities 68  71
Financial liabilities 143,183  184,699 103 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
27. Financial Instruments continued
Financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value are grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on 
the degree to which the fair value is observable:
 Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets 
or liabilities;
 Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are 
observable for the asset or liabilities, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
 Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liabilities 
that are not based on observable market date (unobservable inputs).
The fair value of the derivate financial liabilities are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models  
based on the fair value of Fortune Liulin Gas Company Limited. The fair value measurements were derived from valuation 
techniques that include inputs that are not based on observable market data and as such have been classified as a Level 3 
fair value measurement.
There were no transfers between levels during the year.
 2012 2011
Amount in £’000 Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Total  Level 1  Level 2  Level 3  Total
Financial assets
Available for sale investments – quoted –  –  –  –  27,815  –  –  27,815
Available for sale investments – unquoted 
 (see note 15) –  –  1,948  1,948  –  –  2,045  2,045
 –  –  1,948  1,948  27,815  –  2,045  29,860
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities – option –  –  68  68  –  –  71  71
There were no transfers between levels during the year.
Derivative financial liabilities
Amount in £’000
Balance at 1 January 2012 71
Exchange difference (3 )
Balance at 31 December 2012 68 104 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
27. Financial Instruments continued
b) Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s significant financial assets and financial liabilities included available for sale investments, trade and other 
receivables, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, and trade and other payables. Details of these financial instruments are 
disclosed in a) above, and in the respective notes. The risks associated with these financial instruments include market risk 
(currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The carrying amounts of financial assets and 
financial liabilities recorded in the Group financial statements approximate their fair value.
Market risk
i) Currency risk
At present, no foreign exchange hedging is undertaken by the Group. However, management monitors the related foreign 
currency exposure closely and will consider hedging significant foreign currency exposure should the need arise.
The carrying amount of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents and borrowings denominated in foreign currency is as follows:
 Cash and cash equivalents Borrowing
Amount in £’000   2012  2011  2012  2011
US dollars   14,897  55,958  104,844  113,230
HK dollars   7,727  473  –  –
Chinese renminbi   50,703  71,615  16,991  20,897
The following table details the Group sensitivity to a 20% increase and decrease in the relevant foreign currencies against 
GBP. 20% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and 
represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The table shows  
the decrease in equity that would result from a 20% strengthening of the GBP against the relevant currency. A 20% 
weakening of the GBP against the relevant currency would increase equity by an equivalent amount.
 RMB Impact HK$ Impact US$ Impact
Amount in £’000 2012  2011  2012  2011  2012  2011
Equity – translation reserve 27,403  25,514  5,674  5,120  612  791
The following table details the Group sensitivity to a 20% increase and decrease in the relevant foreign currencies against 
RMB. 20% is the sensitivity rate use when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and 
represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. The table shows the 
impact on profit of a 20% strengthening of the RMB against the relevant currency. A 20% weakening of the RMB against the 
relevant currency would have an equivalent, opposite impact on profit.
 HK$ Impact US$ Impact
Amount in £’000   2012  2011  2012  2011
Profit or (loss)   (155 ) (595 ) (4,430 ) (3,237 ) 105 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
27. Financial Instruments continued
ii) Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk in relation to variable-rate bank borrowings. (See note 21 for details of 
these borrowings).
The Group’s borrowings at the balance sheet date were as follows:
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Non-interest bearing –  1,369
Floating rate 111,792  132,758
 111,792  134,127
The Group cash flow interest rate is mainly concentrated on the fluctuation of LIBOR, HIBOR and the PRC prevailing 
borrowing rate. 
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for variable-rate. If interest rates 
had been 5% higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the year ended 31 December 
2012 would decrease or increase by £559,000. (2011: decrease or increase by £658,000).
iii) Commodity price risk
The Group generally considers the volatility in commodity prices to be part of its business environment and accordingly does 
not hedge market risk resulting from fluctuations in gas and oil prices. The Group holds no financial instruments which are 
sensitive to commodity price risk.
iv) Other price risk
The Group is exposed to equity price risk on its available for sale equity investments.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the equity values of the available for sale investments held 
as at the reporting date. If the value of the available for sale investments had increased by 10% as at the reporting date, equity 
would have increased by £0.2 million (2011: £3.0 million). There would have been no impact on the income statement.
These sensitivity disclosures above exclude any exposure to price risk arising from the Group’s investments in associates and 
joint ventures.
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the 
Group. Credit risk arises on financial instruments such as cash and cash equivalent and trade and other receivables.
For cash and cash equivalent, the Group deposits money into state-owned banks and regional banks, with high credit-ratings 
assigned by international credit-rating agencies. For trade and other receivables, the Group has adopted a policy of only 
dealing with creditworthy counterparties, and monitors the credit risk by scrutinising customers’ profiles and periodical review 
of ageing of amounts due. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. 
Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by the management.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in 2012 is £75,299,000 (2011: £160,766,000) which is the total cash equivalents and 
trade and other receivables. 106 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
27. Financial Instruments continued
Liquidity risk management
In the management of liquidity risk, the Group monitors and maintains a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed  
adequate by the management to finance the Group’s operations and mitigate the effects of fluctuations in cash flows.  
In addition, the Group has aggregate letter of credit facilities, which are floating rate, of £115,183,000 (US$186,136,000). 
(2011: £102,956,000 (US$159,993,000)) as at 31 December 2012.
The average interest rate incurred on debt for the year ended 31 December 2012 is 4.62% p.a. (2011: 4.63%)
The following table shows the details of the Group’s expected maturity of the financial instruments, which are different from
the actual contract dates.
 Weight average
 effective          Total
 interest rate  Repayable    3 months  Over  undiscounted   Carrying
Amount in £’000 %  on demand  1– 3 months  to 1 year  1 year  cash flows  amount
2012
Non-derivative financial  
 liabilities
Trade and other payables N/A  12,765  4,566  5,863  –  23,194  23,194
Bank loans due over 1 year 4.57%  –  –  –  46,854  46,854  43,581
Bank loans due less than 1 year 4.73%  –  5,569  64,078  –  69,647  68,211
Other non-current liabilities N/A  –  –  –  8,575  8,575  8,129
   12,765  10,135  69,941  55,429  148,270  143,115
 Weight average
 effective          Total
 interest rate  Repayable    3 months  Over  undiscounted   Carrying
Amount in £’000 %  on demand  1– 3 months  to 1 year  1 year  cash flows  amount
2011
Non-derivative financial  
 liabilities
Trade and other payables N/A  23,572  6,508  11,029  –  41,109  41,109
Bank loans due over 1 year 4.64%  –  –  –  122,710  122,710  110,618
Bank loans due less than 1 year 5.75%  –  7,191  9,344  –  16,535  16,077
Other loans due less than 1 year 2.55%  5,112  –  725  –  5,837  5,828
Other loans due over 1 year 0.37%  –  –  –  1,620  1,620  1,604
Other non-current liabilities N/A  –  –  –  19,027  19,027  9,392
   28,684  13,699  21,098  143,357  206,838  184,628 107 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
27. Financial Instruments continued
Maturity profile of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Group’s non-current borrowings is as follows:
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
One to two years 43,581  71,681
Between two and five years –  40,541
 43,581  112,222
Interest 3,273  12,108
Cash flows 46,854  124,330
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives are to return capital to shareholders while leaving the Group with sufficient funds to progress its short, 
medium and long-term growth plans as well as preserving the financial flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they 
may arise. This policy remains unchanged. During the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011, the Group has generated 
operating cash flow which has been used to partially fund acquisitions and the ongoing development of the Group. In addition, 
the Group utilises external borrowings, which were renegotiated in the prior year, as detailed in note 21.
The Group actively reviews and monitors its capital structure on a regular basis to maintain a healthy gearing ratio which is 
net debt/(cash) divided by shareholders’ funds. For this purpose the Group defines net debt/(cash) as borrowings less cash 
and cash equivalents. The Group’s total cash is held in demand and term deposits. Shareholders’ funds comprise share 
capital, share premium and reserves attributable to the Company’s shareholders as shown in the consolidated statement  
of financial position. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the payment of dividends,  
issue new shares, raise new debt financing or sell assets to reduce debt.
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Borrowing 111,792  134,127
Cash 50,726  128,440
Net Debt 61,066  5,687
Equity 189,053  141,081
Externally imposed capital requirement
The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. 108 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
28. Operating lease arrangements
The Group as lessee:
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments (excluding those operating commitment in the natural 
gas business) for future minimum lease payment under non-cancellable operating leases in respect of property, which fall  
due as follows:
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Within one year 740  484
In two to five years 466  369
Over five years –  113
 1,206  966
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties. Leases are negotiated for 
an average term of two to six years and rentals are fixed for an average of two to six years.
The Group as lessor:
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding future minimum lease receivables under non-cancellable operating 
leases, which fall due as follows:
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Commitments under operating lease (receivables):
Within one year –  9
In two to five years –  13
 –  22
Property rental income earned during the year was £9,000 (2011: £9,000). The properties are expected to generate rental 
yields of 6.5% on an ongoing basis. All of the properties held have committed tenants for the next two to five years.
29. Capital commitments
 2012 2011
 Commitments for Commitments for
 capital expenditure in capital expenditure in
   jointly controlled    jointly controlled
Amount in £’000 subsidiaries * entities * subsidiaries  entities
Outstanding at 31 December 2012
Contracted for but not provided for  
 in the financial statements 3,044  3,767  60,660  826
* The amount was excluding those capital commitment in the natural gas business. 109 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
30. Related party transactions and significant contracts
The Group’s related parties, the nature of the relationship and the extent of transactions with them are summarised below:
Amount in £’000 Sub note 2012  2011
Loans from equity non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (see note 21) 1 –  (1,604 )
Loans to equity non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (see note 17) 1 5,349  5,451
Trade account receivables from non-controlling shareholders 2 876  4,208
Trade account payables from non-controlling shareholders 2 1,585  2,672
Shareholder loans to jointly controlled entities (see note 14) 3 56,024  10,155
Sales of goods to Vitol Asia 4 –  3,212
Sales of goods to jointly controlled entities 4 4,241  3,456
Purchase of goods from Vitol Asia 4 –  6,852
Purchase of goods from jointly controlled entities 4 2,310  1,629
Current account with Vitol Asia 4 (476 ) (490 )
Current account with jointly controlled entities 4 –  (37 )
Key management remuneration is disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements.
Sub Notes
1. On 17 December 2012, the Group conditionally agreed to inject its natural gas business into China Gas Holdings Limited. Natural gas 
group’s loans from equity non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are transferred into assets held for sale at the year ended. The loans of 
£1,604,000 in 2011 comprised loans from the non-controlling shareholders of Shuozhou Jingshuo Natural Gas Limited, Luquan Fu Xin Gas 
Company Limited, Shuozhou Fu Hua Natural Gas Limited and Qufu Fu Hua Gas Company Limited which are unsecured, interest free and 
without fixed payment terms, except for the loan of £228,000 which was interest bearing at 2.5% p.a. and repayable in 2024. Loans  
of £5,349,000 (2011: £5,541,000) comprised mainly loans to the non-controlling shareholders. A £1,450,000 (2011: £1,494,000) loan  
to the non-controlling shareholders of Beijing Everthriving Energy Technology Company Limited is unsecured interest free and without  
fixed payment terms. A £3,899,000 (2011: £3,957,000) loan to the non-controlling shareholders of Bounty Resources Armenia Limited  
is guaranteed, interest bearing at a margin of 4% over LIBOR p.a. and repayable in June 2014.
2. Maoming Petrochemical Corporation (MPCC) is a corporate shareholder of the Group’s subsidiary, Maoming King Ming Petroleum 
Company. Throughputting turnover from MPCC amounted to £16,397,000 (2011: £16,311,000) of which £876,000 (2011: £4,208,000)  
was owed at 31 December 2012. Processing fee to MPCC amounted to £5,404,000 (2011: £5,251,000) of which £1,585,000 (2011: 
£2,672,000) was payable at 31 December 2012.
3. The shareholder loans are part of shareholders’ investment in the jointly controlled entities. These are common methods of making  
an investment in jointly controlled entities in China. £10,155,000 in 2011 was due from Tianjin Tianhui Natural Gas Limited, Jining Qufu  
New Fu Hong Gas Limited, Beijing Fuhua Natural Gas Logistics Limited and Fortune Liulin Gas Company Limited. Since the Group was 
conditionally disposed natural gas business to China Gas Hollings Limited, all amounts due from natural gas group’s jointly controlled 
entities were transferred into assets held for sale at the year ended. £55,878,000 was loaned to China Gas Group Limited which is 
established in Hong Kong and £146,000 was due from Zhuhai Special Economic Zone South China Petroleum Company Limited.
4. Vitol Energy (Bermuda) Limited is a shareholder of the Company. Sales from a Group’s subsidiary, Fortune Oil Holdings Limited, to Vitol Asia 
Pte Limited amounted to £nil (2011: £3,212,000). Purchase from Vitol Asia Pte Limited amounted to £nil (2011: £6,852,000) and purchase 
from jointly controlled entity – Jining Qufu New Fu Hong Gas Limited amounted to £2,310,000 (2011: £1,629,000) respectively. Sales  
from Group’s subsidiary, Xinyang Fortune Gas Company Limited to Group’s jointly controlled entity, Xinyang Fortune Vehicle Gas Company 
Limited, amounted to £4,241,000 (2011: £3,456,000).
 Current account due to Vitol Energy (Bermuda) Limited amounted to £476,000 (2011: £490,000). Since the Group conditionally disposed 
the natural gas business, all current account with jointly controlled entities was transferred into assets held for sale at the year ended. 
Current account due to jointly controlled entity, Jining Qufu New Fu Hong Gas Limited, amounted to £42,000 and current account due  
from jointly controlled entity, Beijing Fortune Natural Gas Logistics Limited, amounted to £5,000 in 2011.
5. Fortune Max Holdings Limited (“FMH”) is a private company controlled and beneficially owned by Mr. Daniel Chiu. During 2012, FMH has 
entered into arrangements with lenders to finance the purchase of China Gas Holdings Limited (“CGH”) shares, and then entered into a 
verbal understanding to sell any such CGH shares to CGG, at all cost associated with the purchase and financing of any CGH shares 
acquired as and when these are transferred to CGG, and any losses arising on the CGH shares acquired by FMH. In April 2013, CGG has 
acquired all the 207,968,000 CGH shares previously purchased by FMH by its own financing capacity (see note 34).
6. As at 31 December 2012, 200 million CGH shares held by CGG are pledged for a loan of First Level Holdings Limited, a company controlled 
and beneficially owned by Mr. Daniel Chiu, executive director of the Company. 110 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
31. Acquisition of subsidiaries
On 20 July 2012, the Group acquired 51% of the issued share capital of Quyang Province Dafung Natural Gas Company 
Limited for cash consideration of £4.07 million (US$6.39 million).
The Group obtained control of the subsidiary as a result of being able to exercised control over the respective board  
of directors.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as set out in the following.
 Quyang Province
 Dafung Natural Gas  Fair value
Amount in £’000 Company Limited  adjustments  Fair value
Net assets acquired:
Property, plant and equipment (see note 10) 2,018  (558 ) 1,460
Intangible assets (see note 12) 6  3,562  3,568
Other receivables 4,436  –  4,436
Inventory 251  –  251
Bank balance and cash 304  –  304
Loan from Fortune Oil (698 ) –  (698 )
Borrowings (139 ) –  (139 )
Other payables (616 ) –  (616 )
Deferred tax liabilities (see note 23) –  (601 ) (601 )
Taxation 14  –  14
 5,576  2,403  7,979
Non-controlling interests (2,732 ) (1,178 ) (3,910 )
Consideration satisfied in cash     4,069
Satisfied by:
Cash and cash equivalents     4,069
Net cash outflows arising on acquisition:
 Cash consideration paid     4,069
 Bank balance and cash acquired     (304 )
     3,765
Acquisition related costs incurred are immaterial and have been recognised in the income statement.
Quyang Province Dafung Natural Gas Company Limited contribution to the Group’s revenue and net profit for the period was 
negligible between the date of acquisition and the balance sheet date. If the acquisition of the subsidiary had been completed 
on the first day of the financial year, the Group’s revenues and net profit would have not materially changed.
In May 2011, the Group acquired 51% of the issued share capital of Liaoning Jiaoning Fortune Gas Company Limited and  
Fu Song Jin Run Natural Gas Limited for cash consideration of £1.1 miliion.
In June 2011, the Group acquired 55% of the issued share capital of Beijing Fortune Power Technology Company Limited  
for cash consideration of £0.4 million. 111 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
32. Hedging reserve
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
At 1 January –  564
Loss on cash flow hedges arising during the year –  111
Loss on cash flow hedges transferred to income statement –  (675 )
At 31 December  –  –
The hedging reserve represents the cumulative portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments deemed effective in  
cash flow hedges. The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in profit or loss only when 
the hedged transaction impacts the profit or loss, or is included as a basis adjustment to the non-financial hedged item, 
consistent with the applicable accounting policy.
33. Note to cash flow statement
Amount in £’000 Notes 2012  2011
Net cash from operating activities
Profit for the year  20,478  24,851
Adjustments for:
 Share of post-tax results of jointly controlled entities 14 (14,568 ) (14,824 )
 Share of post-tax results of associates 14 (52 ) 72
 Taxation 7 8,246  6,801
 Amortisation 12, 13 834  579
 Depreciation 10 7,426  6,052
 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  1,813  1,832
 Government grant income  (1,092 ) –
 Gain on disposal of subsidiary undertakings  –  (7,633 )
 Loss on disposal of jointly controlled entities  –  310
 Gain on disposal of available for sale investments 15 (4,645 ) –
 Share-based payments  700  400
 Investment revenue 6 (1,660 ) (2,186 )
 Finance costs 5 6,095  5,281
Increase in inventories  (282 ) (5,257 )
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables  (5,433 ) 17,476
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables  6,088  (10,596 )
Net cash from operations  23,948  23,158
Taxation paid  (7,898 ) (6,236 )
Net cash from operating activities  16,050  16,922
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and bank balances  50,726  128,440
Cash and bank balances classified as assets held for sale 20 23,123  –
 73,849  128,440 112 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the group financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
34. Post balance sheet events
On 17 December 2012, Fortune Oil conditionally agreed to inject its natural gas business into CGH, a Hong Kong listed 
company, by selling its stake in Fortune Gas Investment Holdings Limited (the “Proposed Transaction”). As at the date of  
this report, three out of five conditions precedent have been fulfilled, with the Proposed Transaction still being conditional  
on receipt of regulatory approval from the Anti-Monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce of the Peoples’ Republic of 
China (“PRC”), and on negative confirmation from the Hong Kong Takeovers Executive or Takeovers and Mergers Panel.  
It is expected the remaining conditions will have been fulfilled by mid-year of 2013. 
Fortune Oil holds its investment in CGH through China Gas Group Limited (“CGG”), a joint venture company between  
Fortune Oil and Mr. Liu Minghui, the founder of CGH. In April 2013, CGG acquired the 207,968,000 CGH shares previously 
held by FMH. This purchase was financed by an additional debt facility, Following this transaction, CGG holds 702,446,000 
CGH shares, representing 15.4% of CGH’s total issued shares as at the date of this report. As a result of this transaction, 
FMH no longer holds any CGH shares. Under the terms of the verbal understanding with CGG, FMH has generated neither 
profit nor incurred any loss from its transaction in CGH shares, however CGG will recognise a gain of over £60 million based 
on the market value at the date of transfer, with Fortune Oil’s share being over £30 million.
The Board of Directors proposed a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 0.16p per share. Please refer to 
note 8 “Dividends” for detail.
35. Litigation
In April 2012, an action was commenced in the High Court of Hong Kong against inter alia, the Company and Giant Global 
Development Limited (“GGDL”), its wholly owned subsidiary, in relation to the sale of a 16.7 per cent shareholding in Caspian 
Bounty Steel Limited (“CBSL”) to GGDL in January 2011. CBSL is the company through which Fortune Oil holds, partly, its 
interests in an iron ore mining project located in Armenia. GGDL successfully applied in September 2012 to the High Court of 
Hong Kong for security for costs to be given by Caspian Resources Development Pte Limited, and to the best of knowledge 
of Fortune Oil, the claim has not been progressed since. Both the Company and GGDL deny all allegations against them and 
will strenuously defend their case. The statement of claim does not include the amount claimed.
In January 2013, the Company received correspondence from the solicitors of its joint venture partner in Fortune Liulin  
Gas (“FLG”), Dart Energy (FLG) Pte. Ltd. (“Dart”), alleging that the Proposed Transaction would constitute a breach of the 
obligations of subsidiaries of the Company, under the joint venture agreement that governs the operations of FLG. As at the 
date of this report, no formal proceedings have been filed. The management, on legal advice, believes no breach has or will 
occur and the Company will vigorously defend its position if necessary. 
Fortune Oil is currently unable to quantify any potential damages that could arise from any such claims; however, 
management believes that the outcome of these claims is likely to be in the Group’s favour and therefore should not have any 
significant adverse effect on the Group. 113 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
Amount in £’000 2012  2011  2010   2009  2008
Revenue: group and share of  
 jointly controlled entities 739,402  624,634  566,886  403,745  364,722
Profit before tax 28,724  31,652  26,068  18,057  15,676
Income tax charge (8,246 ) (6,801 ) (6,526 ) (2,784 ) (1,501 )
Profit for the year 20,478  24,851  19,542  15,273  14,175
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (4,812 ) (6,687 ) (6,459 ) (6,431 ) (5,198 )
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 15,666  18,164  13,083  8,842  8,977
Employment of Group capital
Non-current assets 305,208  216,428  133,068  143,399  137,564
Net current (liabilities)/assets (1,321 ) 104,445  95,327  12,167  36,235
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (44,879 ) (112,222 ) (56,185 ) (18,346 ) (34,633 )
Deferred tax liabilities (4,069 ) (2,767 ) (2,006 ) (3,024 ) (2,556 )
Other non-current liabilities (8,129 ) (9,392 ) (3,320 ) –  –
Financial liabilities – cash flow hedges –  –  (564 ) –  –
Net assets 246,810  196,492  166,320  134,196  136,610
Basic earnings per share 0.82p  0.96p  0.69p  0.47p  0.49p
This information is unaudited.
five year summary 114 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
independent auditor’s report to the members  
of Fortune Oil PLC
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Fortune Oil PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 which 
comprise the Company statement of financial position and the related notes 1 to 7. The financial reporting framework that  
has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies 
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are 
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit 
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company’s circumstances  
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 
by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently 
materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing  
the audit. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements  
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
 give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2012
 have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
 the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the parent company financial statements. 115 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
independent auditor’s report to the members of Fortune Oil PLC
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
 the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Fortune Oil PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Bevan Whitehead (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London, UK
24 April 2013 116 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
Amount in £’000 Notes 2012  2011
Non-current assets
Investments 2 58,192  59,515
  58,192  59,515
Current assets
Debtors: amount falling due within one year 3 23,064  23,072
Cash and cash equivalents  396  236
  23,460  23,308
Total assets  81,652  82,823
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 4 (18,111 ) (16,457 )
Net assets  63,541  66,366
Capital and reserves
Share capital 5 19,875  19,875
Investment in own shares 6 (678 ) (878 )
Share premium account 6 10,129  10,129
Merger relief reserves 6 19,048  19,048
Capital reduction account 6 3,327  3,327
Profit and loss account 6 11,840  14,865
Equity shareholders’ equity 7 63,541  66,366
The financial statements of Fortune Oil PLC, registered number 2173279, were authorised for issue and approved by  
the Board on 24 April 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
Li Ching Tee Kiam Poon
Director Director
The notes on pages 117 to 120 form part of these financial statements.
company statement of financial position
at 31 December 2012 117 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
1. Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK 
accounting standards and law. As permitted by the Companies Act, the profit and loss of the parent company has not been 
separately presented in the financial statements. The loss of the Company during the year is £301,000 (2011: £574,000).  
A cash flow statement has not been presented as permitted by FRS 1 (revised) “Cash flow statements”.
The Parent Company financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the going concern 
statement in the Directors’ Report.
Investments
In the Company’s financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost, less provision for  
any impairment.
Share-based payments
The cost of providing share-based payments to employees is charged to the income statement of the entity receiving the 
service. The Company records an increase in investment to subsidiaries when share-based payments are made to employees 
of a subsidiary. Details of the share schemes can be found in the Remuneration Report and the notes to the Group accounts.
Investment in own shares
Company shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trust are presented within reserves until such time  
as the interest in shares is transferred unconditionally to the employees. Costs of administering the Trust are charged to  
the income statement as incurred.
FRS 29 Exemption
The Company, as a parent company of a group drawing up consolidated financial statements that meet the requirements of 
IFRS 7, is exempt from disclosures that comply with its UK GAAP equivalent, FRS 29 “Financial Statements: Disclosure”.
Related parties disclosures exemption
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by FRS 8 “Related Party Disclosures” which allows it not  
to disclose transactions with Group undertakings as the Company’s financial statements are presented together with the 
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Dividends payable
Dividends proposed are recognised when they represent a present obligation, i.e. in the period in which they are formally 
approved for payment. Accordingly, an interim dividend is recognised when paid and a final dividend is recognised when 
approved by shareholders.
Cash at bank and in hand
Cash at bank and in hand comprise cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial guarantees
Financial guarantees are fair valued at inception and subsequently amortised over the life of the guarantee provided  
of received.
notes to the company financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012 118 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the company financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
2. Investments
Amount in £’000 
Cost of investment in shares and loans
At 1 January 2012 71,003
Additional investment 4,479
Written off  (11,488 )
Transfer to debtor  (5,802 )
At 31 December 2012 58,192
Amounts provided
At 1 January 2012 11,488
Written off (11,488 )
At 31 December 2012 –
Net book value
At 31 December 2012 58,192
At 31 December 2011 59,515
At the balance sheet date, the cost of investment comprises investment in shares of £17.3 million (2011: £55.3 million) and 
investment in loans of £40.9 million (2011: £4.2 million).
During the year, amounts due from subsidiary undertakings were reclassified from investments to debtors as their settlement 
is planned and likely to occur, and therefore these amounts no longer form part of the Company’s net investment in those 
subsidiary undertakings.
The Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
3. Debtors
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Other debtors 40  31
Prepayment 57  50
Financial asset – financial guarantee 
1
 3,035  5,036
Amount due from subsidiaries 
2
 19,932  17,955
 23,064  23,072
1
 The Company has received financial guarantees from two of the subsidiary undertakings over banking facilities agreements entered into by 
its subsidiaries, for which the Company has provided equal financial guarantees to banks.
2
 The amounts are unsecured, carry interest bearing at 2.5% p.a. and repayable on demand. 119 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the company financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
4. Creditors
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Financial liability – financial guarantee 3,035  5,036
Amount due to subsidiaries 14,774  10,137
Other creditors 45  857
Accruals and deferred income 250  127
Creditors for taxation and social security 7  300
 18,111  16,457
The Company has provided financial guarantees to certain banks over banking facilities agreements entered into by  
its subsidiaries.
5. Share capital
 Number of shares Share Capital
 2012  2011  2012  2011
Amount in £’000 ’000  ’000  £’000  £’000
Ordinary shares of 1p each
Authorised
At beginning and end of year 3,500,000  3,500,000  35,000  35,000
Issued and fully paid
At beginning and end of year 1,987,467  1,987,467  19,875  19,875
No movement of the authorised share capital in the current or prior years. 120 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
notes to the company financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2012
6. Reserves
Company Investment  Share  Merger  Capital  Profit
 in own  premium  relief  reduction  and loss
Amount in £’000 shares * account  reserves  account  account  Total
At 1 January 2011 (898 ) 10,129  19,048  3,327  17,100  48,706
Movement in investment in own shares 20  –  –  –  (17 ) 3
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  400  400
Issuance of warrants –  –  –  –  424  424
Dividend paid –  –  –  –  (2,468 ) (2,468 )
Loss for the year –  –  –  –  (574 ) (574 )
At 31 December 2011 (878 ) 10,129  19,048  3,327  14,865  46,491
Movement in investment in own shares 200  –  –  –  –  200
Share-based payments –  –  –  –  700  700
Dividend paid –  –  –  –  (3,424 ) (3,424 )
Loss for the year –  –  –  –  (301 ) (301 )
At 31 December 2012 (678 ) 10,129  19,048  3,327  11,840  43,666
* The shares are held by JTC Trustees Limited as the trustee for future distribution to employees. Following the shareholder approval at  
the AGM on 25 June 2004, the 2004 Senior Executive Incentive Plan (the “Plan”) is currently operated by the trustee of the Company’s 
Employee Benefit Trust, subject to the rules of the Long Term Incentive Plan as amended in 2004 (“LTIP”). There is a specified Remuneration 
Committee Policy in relation to the operation of the Plan under the LTIP rules.
The Company’s investment in own shares is disclosed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
In 2011, the Company granted to Morgan Stanley warrants in connection with the Morgan Stanley Syndicated loan. Details of 
the warrants are disclosed in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
7. Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
Amount in £’000 2012  2011
Loss for the year (301 ) (574 )
Movement in investment in own shares 200  3
Dividend paid (3,424 ) (2,468 )
Share-based payments 700  400
Issuance of warrant –  424
Net decrease in shareholders’ funds (2,825 ) (2,215 )
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 66,366  68,581
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 63,541  66,366 121 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
Registrar
Enquiries and notifications concerning dividends, share 
certificates, transfers and address change, replacement 
share certificate should be addressed to the Company’s 
Registrar, whose address is:
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent
BR3 4TU
Shareholders’ Helpline:
UK: 0871 664 0300 (Calls to this number cost 10p per 
minute plus any network extras. Lines are open from 
9am-5.30pm, Monday-Friday)
International: + 44 (0) 20 8639 3399
In any correspondence with the registrars, please refer to 
Fortune Oil PLC and state clearly the registered name and 
address of the shareholder.
Dividend Information
Annual General Meeting  18 June 2013
Ex-dividend Date 10 July 2013
Record Date 12 July 2013
Final Dividend Payment Date 15 August 2013
Direct Dividend payments
If you would like to have your dividend paid directly into a 
UK bank or building society account, please contact Capita 
Registrars by calling their shareholder helpline or completing 
the dividend mandate attached to your dividend cheque. 
The associated tax voucher will still be sent to your 
registered address.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP)
The Company offers a dividend reinvestment plan to 
registered shareholders as a cost-efficient way of increasing 
their shareholding by using cash dividends under a standing 
election to buy additional shares in the Company. The  
DRIP is administered by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd (“CIRGT”). 
CIRGT will instruct the broker to buy shares on the dividend 
payment date at the then current market price. Any cash left 
over which is insufficient to purchase a whole share will be 
carried forward and held, without interest, in a client money 
bank account. The DRIP commission charged to the 
shareholder is 1% of the purchase price of the shares, with 
a minimum charge of £2.50. This is exclusive of stamp duty 
reserve tax at 0.5% of the deal value.
Should shareholders wish to participate in the DRIP,  
please contact the Registrar on 0871 664 0381 (calls cost 
10p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open from 
9am-5.30pm, Monday-Friday) or; if calling from overseas,  
+ 44 20 8639 3402; alternatively you can email  
shares@capitaregistrars.com
shareholder information
International dividend payment service
Capita Registrars has partnered with Western Union to 
provide shareholders with a service that will convert 
shareholders’ sterling dividends into their local currency  
at a competitive rate. Shareholders can choose to receive 
payment directly into the bank account or alternatively,  
we can send shareholders a currency draft. For further 
information, please call Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0385 
(calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras. Lines are 
open from 9am-5.30pm, Monday-Friday.) or; if calling from 
overseas, + 44 20 8639 3405; alternatively you can email 
ips@capitaregistrars.com
Online share portal
Registered shareholders can register and access 
information regarding their shareholdings by using  
the Shareholder Portal at www.capitashareportal.com 
Shareholders will need their investor code (IVC) which  
can be found on their share certificate(s). The share portal 
allows shareholders to:






 
notify shareholders by email that certain documents are 
available to view on its website.
Share Dealing Service
Share dealing services are available for shareholders to 
either sell or buy Fortune Oil shares.
UK shareholders only – Capita Share Dealing Services
www.capitadeal.com (on-line dealing)
0871 664 0454 (telephone dealing – Calls to this number 
cost 10p per minute plus any network extras. Lines are 
open from 8am-4.30pm, Monday-Friday)
To deal online or by telephone all you need is your surname, 
Investor Code reference number, full postcode and your 
date of birth. Your investor code can be found on a recent 
share certificate, statement or tax voucher. Please have the 
appropriate documents to hand when you log on or call,  
as this information will be needed before you can buy or  
sell shares.
Full terms, conditions and risks apply and are available on 
request or by visiting www.capitadeal.com.
This is not a recommendation to buy or sell shares.  
The price of shares can go down as well as up, and you  
are not guaranteed to get back the amount that you 
originally invested.
Capita Share Dealing Services is a trading name of Capita 
IRG Trustees Limited which is authorised and regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. 122 Fortune Oil PLC annual report 2012
shareholder information
Share Price Information
The current share price of Fortune Oil PLC is available on 
the interactive FT Cityline service on 09058 171 690 and 
listen to current FTSE 100 index, then simply say “Fortune 
Oil”. Calls are charged at 75p per minute from a BT landline. 
Average call duration will be 1 minute per stock. Cost from 
other networks and mobile phones, may be higher.
Warning to shareholders
Unsolicited mail
Fortune Oil PLC is obliged by law to make its share register 
publicly available and, as a consequence, some shareholder 
may receive unsolicited mail. If you wish to limit the receipt 
of unsolicited mail, you may do so by contacting the Mailing 
Preference Service, an independent organisation whose 
services are free to you.
Mailing Preference Service (MPS)
MPS FREEPOST 29LON20771
London W1E 0ZT
MPS Registration Line: 0845 703 4599
Or via their website at www.mpsonline.org.uk
Unsolicited calls or correspondence
We are aware that a small number of shareholders have 
received unsolicited telephone calls concerning their 
investment in Fortune Oil PLC. These calls are from 
overseas based organisations who offer to buy Fortune Oil 
PLC shares for considerably more than the current market 
price. In some cases the caller has suggested that there is 
currently a takeover offer for Fortune Oil PLC. There is no 
such offer and we suspect that the calls were bogus.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited 
investment advice, offers of free company reports. 
Operations, commonly known as “boiler rooms”, are 
targeting UK shareholders are callers can be very persistent 
and extremely persuasive. We are aware that they attempt 
to persuade individuals to provide email addresses or other 
personal information; shareholders are strongly advised not 
to provide any such details.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:

Conduct Authority by visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/fsaregister 
and contacting the firm using the details on the register;

111 6768 or by completing an online form at http://www.
fca.org.uk/consumers/scams/investment-scams/share- 
fraud-and-boiler-room-scams/reporting-form; or
 
cost 10p per minute plus network extras. Lines are  
open from 9am-5.30pm, Monday-Friday) or email  
ssd@capitaregistrars.com. They are not able to 
investigate such incidents themselves but will record  
the details and pass them on to us; and

If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be  
eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company 
endorses is available on www.capitadeal.com
More detailed information on this or similar activity can  
be found on the FCA website http://www.fca.org.uk/
consumers/scams/investment-scams
Electronic and web communications
At the annual general meeting of the Company held on  
15 June 2010, resolutions were passed, whereby 
shareholders’ consent was obtained and the new  
articles of association were adopted, to enable the 
Company to communicate with shareholders by electronic 
communications further to the web communication since 
July 2007.
The Companies Act 2006 permits UK registered companies 
to send, or make available to their shareholders, their annual 
reports and accounts, notices of general meetings and 
other communications (the “Company communication”)  
by electronic means rather than by means of hard copies 
sent through the postal service (except to those who have 
specifically elected to receive a paper copy). Receiving your 
communications electronically offers advantages in terms of 
speed and convenience and is a secure method of obtaining 
your shareholder documentation, which also allows the 
Company to communicate in a more environmentally friendly 
and effective way.
Notices of general meetings and the Reports and Accounts, 
in Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF), are 
supplied via the Company’s website (www.fortune-oil.com) 
to shareholders who have not requested a hard copy of 
these documents.
Relating to beneficial owners of shares with 
“information rights”
Please note that beneficial owners of shares who  
have been nominated by the registered holder of those 
shares to receive information rights under section 146  
of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all 
communications to the registered holder of their shares 
rather than to the Company’s registrar, Capita Registrars,  
or to the Company directly. Bankers
Morgan Stanley Asia Limited
Level 46 International Commerce Centre
1 Austin Road West
Kowloon, Hong Kong
Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) 
Limited
Standard Chartered Bank Building
4 – 4A Des Voeux Road, Central
Hong Kong
The Hongkong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation Limited
HSBC Main Building
1 Queen’s Road Central
Hong Kong
CITIC Bank International Limited
80 Fl. International Commerce Centre 
1 Austin Road West
Kowloon, Hong Kong 
DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited
16th Floor, The Center
99 Queen’s Road Central 
Central, Hong Kong
Shenzhen Development Bank Co., Ltd.
Guangzhou Branch
No. 66 Huacheng Dadao
Zhujiang Xincheng, Guangzhou
China
Barclays Bank plc
Knightsbridge Business Centre
P.O. Box 32014
London NW1 2ZG
United Kingdom
P R Adviser
Pelham Bell Pottinger
5th Floor, Holborn Gate
330 High Holborn
London WC1V 7QD
United Kingdom
Financial Adviser & Stockbroker 
Oriel Securities Limited
150 Cheapside
London EC2V 6ET
United Kingdom
Corporate Consultant
S.Goschalk Limited
41 Meadway
London NW11 7AX
United Kingdom
Corporate Adviser
VSA Capital Limited
Fourth Floor
New Liverpool House
15-17 Eldon Street
London
EC2M 7LD
Investor Relations Consultant
Scott Harris 
Victoria House
1–3 College Hill
London EC4R 2RA
United Kingdom
Solicitors
Jun He Law Offices
Suite 2208, 22/F., Jardine House
One Connaught Place
Central, Hong Kong
Reed Smith LLP
The Broadgate Tower
20 Primrose Street
London EC2A 2RS
United Kingdom
Directors
QIAN Benyuan
Chairman (Non-executive)
Daniel CHIU
Executive Vice-Chairman
TEE Kiam Poon
Chief Executive
LI Ching (Ms)
Executive Director
Frank ATTWOOD
Senior Independent Director
LIN Xizhong
MAO Tong
Dennis CHIU
Louisa HO (Ms)
Ian TAYLOR
WANG Jinjun
ZHI Yulin
Non-executive Directors
Company Secretary
Sandi CHOI (Ms)
Registered Office
6/F., Belgrave House
76 Buckingham Palace Road
London SW1W 9TQ
United Kingdom
Registered Number
2173279
Auditors
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square
London EC4A 3BZ
United Kingdom
company information 
