 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014
Quality, Service and Pride
Every hour, every day
Fuller Smith & Turner P .L.C. 
Annual Report 2014 Fuller, Smith & Turner P .L.C.
Operating from the historic Griffin Brewery 
site in Chiswick since 1845, Fuller’s is an 
independent family brewer and premium 
pub company with beer brands including the 
award-winning London Pride and ESB.
Fuller’s has an estate of 386 pubs and hotels, 
split between managed and tenanted houses, 
including 168 sited within the M25. 
Overview
2 Financial Highlights
3 Chairman’s Statement
Strategic Report
6 At a Glance
10 Chief Executive’s Review
18 Financial Review
22 Principal Risks and Uncertainties
26 Corporate Social Responsibility
Governance
32 Board of Directors
34 Directors’ Report
37 Directors’ Statement
38 Corporate Governance Report
44 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
62 Independent Auditor’s Report
66 Group Income Statement
67  Group and Company Statements of 
Comprehensive Income
68 Group and Company Balance Sheets
69  Group and Company Statements of  
Changes in Equity
70 Group and Company Cash Flow Statements
71 Notes to the Financial Statements
Additional Information
113 Directors and Advisers
114 Shareholder Information
115 Glossary
117 Five Years’ Progress Overview
	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 1
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
06.00	Griffin	Brewery
Leaving early
Work	starts	early	at	the	Brewery	with	the	first	drays	being 	
loaded	from	5am	each	morning.	Last	year,	the	33	vehicles 	 	
in	our	branded	fleet	covered	over	500,000	miles. 2	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
 £m
2014 288.0
2013 271.5
2012 253.0
 p
2014 46.94
2013 42.18
2012 39.47
 £m
2014 34.1
2013 31.1
2012 30.0
 p
2014 15.10
2013 13.70
2012 12.85
 £m
2014 54.5
2013 51.2
2012 47.8
 
2014 2.5
2013 2.6
2012 2.7
times
Financial Highlights
This year we brewed 209,000 barrels of award-
winning ale at the Griffin Brewery, beside the 
Thames in Chiswick. From here we supply our 
estate, which comprises 180 Managed Pubs and 
Hotels and 206 Tenanted Inns, as well as pubs,  
clubs and supermarkets across the UK and overseas.
Managed Pubs and Hotels like for like sales up  
8.3% and profits up 16%.
Tenanted Inns like for like profits up 2% and average  
EBITDA per pub up 1%.
The Fuller’s Beer Company total sales up 2%  
and total beer and cider volumes up 1%. 
Adjusted earnings per share
2
46.94p
+11%
Total dividend per share
15.10p
+10%
Revenue
£288.0m
+6%
Adjusted profit
1, 2
£34.1m
+10%
EBITDA
£54.5m
+6%
Pro forma net debt to EBITDA
3
2.5 times 
	
1			
Adjusted	profit	before	tax	excluding	exceptionals.	The	Directors	believe	that	this	measure	provides	useful	information	for	shareholders	as	to	the	internal	measures	of	the	performance	of	the	Group.
2			
Comparatives	for	2013	and	2012	have	been	restated	for	the	change	in	IAS	19	–	see	note	1	to	the	financial	statements.
3			
Pro	forma	net	debt	to	EBITDA	is	adjusted	as	appropriate	for	the	pubs	acquired	or	disposed	in	the	period.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 3
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
“We continue to deliver industry leading results 
with like for like sales in our Managed Pubs and 
Hotels rising by 8.3%, led by a superb performance 
in both food sales and accommodation.”
I am delighted to present a very strong set  
of results for the Group and I would like to 
congratulate all those involved in delivering 
these numbers. Our Managed Pubs and 
Hotels division has had an excellent year  
and across the business we are reaping the 
rewards of some great acquisitions and a 
well-invested estate underpinned by a 
premium brand portfolio, delicious fresh  
food and exceptional people.
Group	revenues	rose	by	6%	to	£288.0	million	(2013: 	
£271.5	million),	which	resulted	in	adjusted	profit 	
before	tax	(excluding	exceptional	items)	growing 	
by	10%	to	£34.1	million	(2013:	£31.1	million
4
).	Our 	
adjusted	earnings	per	share,	our	favoured	measure 	
for	shareholders,	rose	11%	to	46.94p	(2013:	42.18p
4
).
We	continue	to	deliver	industry	leading	results	with 	
like	for	like	sales	in	our	Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels 	
rising	by	8.3%,	led	by	a	superb	performance	in	both 	
food	sales	and	accommodation	–	two	areas	that 	
have	seen	increased	focus	over	recent	years. 	
Operating	profits	for	this	division	rose	by	16%	with 	
strong	margins.
In	our	Tenanted	Division,	revenue	has	also	risen. 	
We	have	invested	for	the	future	in	our	Tenanted 	
estate	and	this	increase	in	repairs	has	led	to	a	1% 	
rise	in	profits
5
	from	a	2%	rise	in	revenue.	On	a	like 	
for	like	basis,	we	were	pleased	to	see	profits	rise 	 	
by	2%.
The	Fuller’s	Beer	Company	has	had	a	very 	
interesting	year	with	the	launch	of	Frontier,	a	craft 	
lager,	in	May	2013	and	the	purchase	of	Cornish 	
Orchards,	a	traditional	cider	maker,	in	June	last 	
year.	The	year	has	been	rounded	off	with	the 	
acquisition	of	the	UK	distribution	rights	to	US	craft 	
beer	Sierra	Nevada.	These	elements	widen	our 	
range,	providing	a	solid	basis	for	future	growth, 	 	
and	give	the	Beer	Company	an	outstanding	range 	 	
of	premium	brands	to	offer	to	our	pubs	and	free 	
trade	 customers.
Dividend
The	Board	recommends	that	a	final	dividend	of 	
9.30p	per	40p	‘A’	and	‘C’	ordinary	share	and	0.93p 	
per	4p	‘B’	ordinary	share	be	paid	on	28	July	2014	to 	
shareholders	on	the	share	register	as	at	27	June 	
2014.	This	is	an	increase	of	11%	on	last	year’s	final 	
dividend.	The	total	dividend	per	share	of	15.10p	per 	
40p	‘A’	and	‘C’	ordinary	share	and	1.51p	per	4p	‘B’ 	
ordinary	share	represents	a	10%	increase	on	last 	
year	and	will	be	covered	more	than	three	times	by 	
adjusted	earnings	per	share.
Michael Turner
Chairman
5	June	2014
4		
2013	adjusted	profit	and	adjusted	earnings	per	share	are	restated	to	exclude	pension	scheme	finance	costs/income	from	adjusted	profit.	See	note	1	to	the	financial	statements	for	details.
5		
Operating	profit	before	exceptional	items.
Made of London
Phase	two	of	the	Made of London	campaign 	
included	500	poster	sites	around	the	Capital, 	
viewed	by	over	eight	million	Londoners. 4 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Transport Hubs
Fuller’s	opened	the	doors	on	its	first	transport 	
hub	site,	The	Mad	Bishop	and	Bear	at	Paddington 	
Station,	in	1999.	The	Tap	on	the	Line	is	located 	
right	on	the	Platform	at	Kew	Gardens	station, 	 	
we	have	The	Doric	Arch	at	Euston,	The	Wellington 	
at	Waterloo	and	The	Grand	Central	in	Brighton. 	
Our	most	successful	train	station	venture	is	The 	
Parcel	Yard	at	King’s	Cross,	which	is	next	to 	
platform	9	–	and	the	Harry	Potter	store	complete 	
with	disappearing	luggage	trolley.	It	might	have	a 	
famous	neighbour,	but	the	real	attraction	is	The 	
Parcel	Yard’s	two	floors	dedicated	to	serving 	
hungry	and	thirsty	travellers	throughout	the	day.
The	Parcel	Yard	sells	more	cask	ale	than	any 	 	
other	pub	in	our	estate	and	the	demand	for	space, 	
due	to	its	popularity,	has	resulted	in	the	opening 	
this	year	of	an	additional	four	function	rooms,	all 	
stylishly	designed	for	those	who	want	to	eat,	drink 	
or	socialise	without	comprising	on	quality.	The 	
Parcel	Yard	really	is	a	great	Fuller’s	pub	and	we	like 	
to	think	it	has	changed	the	train	station	pub	forever.
This	success	has	also	encouraged	us	to	look	further 	
afield	and	we	have	just	opened	our	first	airport	site 	
with	London’s	Pride	at	The	Queen’s	Terminal	– 	
Heathrow	Terminal	2.	There’s	more	on	that 	 	
to	follow… Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 5
08.30	Tap	on	the	Line
Breakfast on the Move
It’s	time	for	Eggs	Benedict	or	a	quick	coffee	before	grabbing 	
the	train	or	plane	–	and	at	The	Tap	on	the	Line,	you	can 	
actually	watch	the	trains	at	Kew	Gardens	station	come 	 	
and	go	with	a	ringside	seat. 6	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Strategic Report
At a Glance
Managed Pubs and Hotels
Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels	are	operated	by 	
Fuller’s	employees	and	include	180	pubs	and 	
hotels.	Our	acquisitions	are	carefully	targeted 	
towards	prime	locations	in	market	towns	with 	
our	target	demographics,	high	footfall 	
locations	in	transport	hubs	and	iconic	pubs 	 	
in	our	home	city	of	London.
Our	estate	is	primarily	in	the	South	and	South 	
East	of	the	UK	and	includes	111	pubs	within	the 	
M25.	We	focus	on	freshly	prepared	seasonal 	
food	and	an	aspirational	premium	drinks 	
range,	delivered	with	exceptional	service 	 	
and	in	a	stylish	and	comfortable	environment. 	 	
We	also	have	622	boutique	bedrooms	across 	
our	12	hotels	and	14	pubs	with	rooms.
Tenanted Inns
The	Tenanted	Inns	division	has	206	pubs, 	
where	the	individual	pubs	are	run	by	self- 	
employed	entrepreneurs,	who	work	in 	
partnership	with	us,	selling	our	beer	and 	
operating	under	the	Fuller’s	brand.
We	offer	our	tenants	a	high	level	of	support, 	
including	a	variety	of	tools	and	services	to	help 	
them	grow	their	businesses.	This	includes 	 	
a	bespoke	website,	a	property	compliance 	
package,	free	WiFi	and	subsidised	training 	 	
for	their	staff.
The Fuller’s Beer Company
As	London’s	longest	standing	brewer,	we 	
continually	bring	new	products	to	market 	
whilst	proudly	brewing	the	UK’s	No.1	premium 	
ale,	London	Pride.	We	proactively	develop 	 	
our	portfolio	of	beers,	providing	variety	and 	
interest	for	consumers,	producing	a	different 	
seasonal	ale	every	month.	This	year	we 	
acquired	Cornish	Orchards,	a	craft	cider 	
producer	in	Cornwall,	to	expand	our	range 	
of	premium	authentic	drinks.
We	directly	deliver	our	own	beer	and	cider,	as 	
well	as	other	drinks	products	to	our	pubs	and 	
our	free	trade	customers	in	the	South	East. 	
Our	customers	value	the	high	quality	service 	
we	 provide.	
180
Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels 	
206
Tenanted	Inns 	
No. 1
Premium	ale	in	the	UK 	
 
 
 
Group operating profit by division
1
 £m
Fuller’s Managed Pubs and Hotels 22.5
Fuller’s Tenanted Inns 12.3
Fuller’s Beer Company 8.5
 
 
 
Total beer barrels by channel
Fuller's Tenanted Inns 12.4%
Fuller's Managed Pubs and Hotels 22.6%
Free On Trade
Off Trade
Exports
39.2%
11.7%
14.1%
 
 
Managed and Tenanted houses
Managed pubs within M25 111
Tenanted pubs within M25 58
Tenanted pubs outside M25 148
Managed pubs outside M25 69 1	
Excludes	central	costs.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 7
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
“ We will create and operate the most stylish pubs  
and hotels whilst brewing Britain’s most coveted 
premium brands for discerning customers both  
at home and abroad.”
The Fuller’s Vision
Distinctive Pub  
and Hotel experience
Targeted acquisitions  
and developments
Premium  
brand portfolio
Investing in:
—		 Our	people
—		 Our	retail	offer
—		 Behind	the	scenes
—		 Customer	experience
—		 Customer	feedback
Target acquisitions and  
developments in:
—	High	footfall	transport	hubs
—	Iconic	London	pubs
—	Affluent	market	towns
Focusing on:
—	Well	invested	equipment	and	processes
—	Skilled	brewers
—	Constant	innovation
—	Putting	flavour	first
Progress in FY 2014 Progress in FY 2014 Progress in FY 2014
—	 	 Only	at	Fuller’s 	continues	to	provide	unique 	
beer	and	food	collaborations.
—		 Like	for	like	(LFL)	food	sales	up	10.4%	driven	by 	
our	freshly)	prepared	seasonal	offer.
—		 Accommodation	LFL	sales	up	10.4%	building 	
on	previous	strong	Olympic	year.
—		 Increased	investment	in	our	people,	which 	 	
is	fundamental	to	great	service	for	our 	
customers.
—		 Three	new	pubs	purchased	for	a	total	of 	 	
£7.6	 million.	
—		 Development	of	two	new	sites:	Cams	Mill 	 	
on	Fareham	estuary	opened	November	2013 	
and	London’s	Pride,	Heathrow	Terminal	2, 	
developed	during	the	year	and	opened 	 	
4	June	2014.
—		 £10.6	million	spent	on	significant 	
redevelopment	of	28	houses.
—		 Cornish	Orchards	acquired	in	June	2013	and 	
successfully	 integrated.
—		 Launch	of	new	wave	craft	lager,	Frontier, 	 	
in	June	2013.
—		 Made	of	London	advertising	campaign 	
emphasising	our	London	heritage.
—		 Sierra	Nevada	added	to	Fuller’s	agency 	
portfolio	of	world	class	beers.
Priorities for FY 2015 Priorities for FY 2015 Priorities for FY 2015
—		 Continue	to	invest	through	the	business 	 	
cycle	helping	to	drive	LFL	sales	growth 	 	
and	gross	margins.
—		 Invest	in	the	upgrade	of	remaining	bedrooms 	
to	our	boutique	standard.
—		 Launch	of	new	approach	to	recruitment 	
including	an	updated	Fuller’s	portal.
—		 Development	of	One	over	the	Ait,	Kew	Bridge, 	
The	Tideway,	Fulham	Reach	and	The	Sail 	 	
Loft,	Greenwich.
—		 Development	of	15	new	rooms	at	The	Mad 	
Hatter,	SE1.
—		 Further	refurbishments	and	repositionings 	 	
of	existing	properties.
—		 10	new	conditioning	tanks	being	added	in 	
spring	2014	to	increase	capacity	by	25,000 	
barrels	per	year.
—		 Further	investment	in	Cornish	Orchards 	 	
to	increase	production	capacity	and 	 	
widen	distribution.
—		 Focus	on	opening	new	markets	via	Westside 	
Drinks,	targeting	stylish	bars	and	restaurants.
Market influence Market influence Market influence
—		 Current	consumer	trends	include	a	focus 	
on	provenance	of	food,	healthier	options 	
and	good	value.
—		 London	and	the	South	East	continue	to 	
outperform	the	rest	of	the	UK	market.
—		 Consumers	increasingly	want	more	interesting 	
choices	and	are	prepared	to	pay	a	premium	for 	
quality	craft	products.
The	Strategic	Report,	encompassing	pages	6	to	29,	was	approved	by	the	Board	and	signed	on	its	behalf	on	5	June	2014: 	
Simon Emeny James Douglas
Chief	Executive	 Finance	Director 8 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
10.30	The	White	Buck
It’s Checking Out Time
We	completed	a	significant	investment	this	year	at	the	White 	
Buck	at	Burley	–	a	fantastic	pub	and	hotel	in	the	New	Forest	– 	
including	the	addition	of	eight	further	boutique	bedrooms. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 9
Bedroom Business
There	are	now	622	bedrooms	across	Fuller’s 	
Managed	pubs	and	Hotels	estate	and	we	are 	
delighted	that	like	for	like	sales	have	risen	by	10.4% 	
this	year.	This	figure	is	especially	pleasing	as	it 	
follows	a	prior	year	that	included	the	Olympics.
We	 pride	 ourselves	 on	 creating	 boutique	 bedrooms	
that	offer	something	extra	special	and	quirky. 	 	
We	avoid	any	identikit	furniture	and	we	always 	 	
aim	to	ensure	the	great	service	our	customers 	
expect	in	a	Fuller’s	pub	runs	right	through	the 	
customer	experience.
We	also	strive	to	add	interesting	design	touches	–	
where	possible	with	a	relevance	to	the	local	area 	
too.	For	instance,	at	The	Pilot	in	Greenwich,	our 	
rooms	all	have	a	clock	on	the	door	as	a	nod	to 	 	
the	Greenwich	Meridian	and	the	time	showing 	
denotes	the	room	number.
If	you	are	looking	for	an	overnight	stay	that	is 	
comfortable,	clean,	stylish	and	that	comes	with	a 	
great	pint,	an	excellent	breakfast	and	a	fantastic 	
choice	of	wines	–	then	look	no	further.	We	are 	 	
here	and	ready	to	serve. 10	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Chief Executive’s Review
Our	vision	is	to	create	and	operate	the	most	stylish 	
pubs	and	hotels	whilst	brewing	Britain’s	most 	
coveted	premium	brands	for	discerning	customers 	
both	at	home	and	abroad.	To	deliver	this	vision, 	 	
we	will	continue	to	focus	on	three	key	drivers 	 	
for	growth:
•	 Providing	a	distinctive	pub	and	hotel	experience
•	 Identifying	targeted	acquisitions	and 	
developments	
•	 Further	developing	our	premium	brand	portfolio.
One	area	that	is	of	particular	note	during	the	last 	
year	is	the	commitment	we	have	put	behind 	
specific	training	programmes	right	across	the 	
business.	From	wine	training	in	Fuller’s	Inns	to	sales 	
training	in	the	Beer	Company,	more	of	our	people 	
have	benefited	from	greater	investment	in	their 	
personal	development.	We	will	never	rest	on	our 	
laurels	and	in	order	to	build	on	the	great	results	of 	
this	year,	we	remain	committed	to	ensuring	our 	
people	are	equipped	with	the	best	skills	to	deliver 	
outstanding	beer	and	delicious	food	in	wonderful 	
pubs	with	great	service.	This	is	how	we	will	stay 	
ahead	of	our	competitors.
Our	strong	culture	is	at	the	heart	of	everything	we 	
do.	Whether	it’s	the	brewer,	a	drayman,	a	cellar 	
services	technician,	an	accountant	or	anyone	at 	
head	office,	or	a	manager,	tenant	or	barmaid	– 	
everyone	at	Fuller’s	is	focused	on	delivering 	
exemplary	service	to	our	customers.	Our	people 	
are	responsible	for	the	success	of	this	business	and 	
I’d	like	to	personally	thank	them	all	for	their 	
enthusiasm	and	dedication.
Approaching the end of my first full year as 
Chief Executive, I am pleased to report that 
Fuller’s has had another very strong year. As a 
company, we know our strength is in operating 
at the premium end of the market and we 
have a clear vision of where we are going and 
how we will get there. This provides a focus for 
the team while encouraging individuality, 
innovation and flexibility to flourish. 
Distinctive Pub and Hotel Experience
Fuller’s	Inns	has	had	an	excellent	year	with	like	for 	
like	sales	in	the	Managed	business	rising	by	8.3% 	
and	Tenanted	like	for	like	profits	rising	by	2%.	At	the 	
year	end,	our	estate	comprised	384	pubs	of	which 	
207	are	Tenanted	pubs	run	by	entrepreneurial 	
licensees	and	177	are	in	our	Managed	Pubs	and 	
Hotels	division.	Having	a	balanced	business 	
operating	both	Managed	and	Tenanted	houses 	
allows	us	the	flexibility	of	moving	sites	between	the 	
two	and	this	year	has	seen	seven	pubs	move 	
between	the	two	divisions.
Managed Pubs and Hotels
2014 2013
Invested LFL sales +8.3% +2.1%
Wet LFL sales +7.5% +0.9%
Food LFL sales +10.4% +3.9%
Accommodation 
LFL sales +10.4% +8.2%
Revenue £186.0m £170.1m
Operating profit £22.5m £19.4m
EBITDA £32.5m £29.0m
Our	Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels	division	has 	
enjoyed	another	stellar	year	with	strong	like	for 	 	
like	sales	growth	from	all	areas	of	the	business	– 	
notably	food	and	accommodation.	Total	like	for 	
like	sales	were	up	by	8.3%.
Total	revenues	increased	9%	from	£170.1	million	to 	
£186.0	million	and	our	operating	margin	expanded 	
from	11.4%	to	12.1%,	driven	by	improved	gross 	
margins	achieved	on	food	and	drink	and	a	lower 	
payroll	percentage.	This	increase	was	partly	offset 	
by	higher	investment,	resulting	in	a	16%	increase 	 	
in	profits
6
	to	£22.5	million	(2013:	£19.4	million).
Our	food	sales,	driven	by	a	continued	focus	on 	
food	that	is	fresh,	locally	sourced	where	possible 	
and	prepared	by	trained	chefs	on	site,	have	risen 	 	
by	10.4%	on	a	like	for	like	basis.	Accommodation 	
has	had	a	great	year	too	with	like	for	like	sales 	
across	our	622	boutique	bedrooms	also	rising 	 	
by	10.4%	–	a	figure	that	is	particularly	impressive 	
following	a	year	that	benefited	from	the	Olympic 	
Games	in	our	London	heartland.	We	have 	
improved	the	customer	journey	on	our	online 	
booking	system	and	this	is	reaping	rewards	with 	
initial	results	showing	a	60%	increase	in	bookings 	
coming	through	this	medium. 	
Food	continues	to	rise	in	importance	throughout 	
the	Fuller’s	estate	and	this	has	led	us	to	increase 	
our	focus	on	food	marketing	and	improve	the 	
training	programmes	and	career	structure	we	have 	
in	place.	As	well	as	the	chef-led	kitchen	teams	in 	
the	pubs,	we	have	a	team	of	nine	Executive	Chefs 	
Frontier
Frontier	is	our	new	wave	craft	lager,	launched 	 	
in	May	2013	and	now	available	in	over	230	locations 	
across	the	UK.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 11
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
under	the	stewardship	of	our	Head	of	Food.	This 	
year	has	seen	our	chef	development	programme 	
extended	to	include	more	junior	team	members, 	
with	the	aim	of	producing	home-grown	Executive 	
Chefs	for	the	future.
The	programme	comprises	a	three	level	Chef 	
Scholarship	and	65	of	the	850	kitchen	staff	in	our 	
managed	estate	have	already	participated, 	
including	a	number	of	food	assistants	who	are	just 	
starting	their	careers	in	the	food	arena.	We	have 	
just	completed	a	full	year	of	the	first	two	levels	of 	
this	initiative,	while	the	second	full	year	is	coming 	
to	a	close	for	those	sous	chefs	looking	to	take	up	a 	
role	as	head	chef.
The	food	team	also	continues	to	work	on	products 	
that	are	available	 Only	at	Fuller’s 	and	our	London 	
Porter	Smoked	Salmon	is	still	our	best-selling 	
starter	while	Vintage	Ale	Sticky	Toffee	Pudding	is 	
our	most	popular	dessert.	Recent	innovations 	
include	a	Cornish	Orchards	cider	pork	sausage.
As	well	as	new	courses	for	our	chefs,	the	rest	of	the 	
3,200	employees	in	our	Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels 	
team	have	benefited	too	with	almost	10,000	days 	
invested	on	pub	staff	training	during	the	year	– 	
which	works	out	at	around	400	training	hours	per 	
pub.	Much	of	this	development	has	been	targeted 	
at	the	customer	experience	and	we	now	have 	
around	50	Service	Coaches	in	the	estate. 	
The	impact	of	these	coaches	cannot	be 	
underestimated	and	they	have	a	pride	in	their 	
job	that	enthuses	the	wider	team	around	them.
During	the	year,	we	held	our	third	annual 	
Connection	Week	event,	which	this	year	provided 	
a	launch	pad	for	our	Five	Golden	Rules	of	Engaging 	
Service.	Connection	Week	brings	one	team 	
member	from	every	Managed	pub	together	for 	 	
a	day	of	interactive	learning	activities	that	they 	
then	go	back	and	share	with	their	colleagues. 	 	
This	year	the	focus	was	on	our	new	service 	
passports,	which	attendees	use	as	a	vehicle	to 	
disseminate	the	Five	Golden	Rules	to	the	rest 	
of	the	team	in	their	own	pub.
Finally,	we	are	also	refreshing	our	approach	to 	
recruitment	with	an	updated	online	portal	and	a 	
more	effective	means	of	ensuring	our	managers 	
only	interview	the	best	applicants.	We	intend	to 	
start	with 	the 	best 	recruits, 	develop 	team 	members 	
through	first	class	training	and	motivate	them 	
emotionally	and	financially.	The	result	is	a 	
structured	career	path	and	a	pipeline	of	great	future	
managers	to	support	the	Company’s	growth.
It’s	fine	for	a	company	to	claim	that	it	offers	a 	
distinctive	pub	and	hotel	experience,	but	only	our 	
customers	can	decide	if	we	are	succeeding.	Social 	
 % increase
2014 8.3%
2013 2.1%
2012 4.2%
Managed like for like sales
+8.3%
	
6	
Operating	profit	before	exceptional	items.
Christmas in May
The	Mill	at	Elstead	had	to	close	on	the	day	before 	
Christmas	Eve	last	year	due	to	flooding.	Having	to 	
call	all	those	customers	who	had	pre-booked	their 	
Christmas	lunch	was	not	an	easy	task	for	managers 	
Jeff	and	Georgia	Watts.
To	make	up	for	it,	The	Mill	celebrated	Christmas	in 	
May	 – 	and	all	disappointed	customers	came	along 	
for	a	full	Christmas	dinner	complete	with	fake 	
snow	and	Santa	Claus. 12	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Chief Executive’s Review continued
media	allows	companies	to	gauge	their 	
performance	in	a	very	public	way	but	the	sheer 	
volume	of	feedback	can	be	difficult	to	monitor. 	 	
We	have	invested	in	a	new	system	that	consolidates 	
online	reviews	and	allows	our	pubs	to	access 	
that	feedback	in	a	simple	format.	The	system 	 	
also	enables	our	pubs	to	easily	see	how	they	are 	
faring	and	quickly	address	any	issues	that	arise. 	
Tenanted Inns
2014 2013
LFL profits +2% +1%
LFL barrels sold –2% –5%
Av. EBITDA per pub +1% +9%
Revenue £31.3m £30.8m
Operating profit £12.3m £12.2m
EBITDA £13.9m £13.8m
It’s	been	a	good	year	for	our	Tenanted	division 	 	
too	–	with	revenue	increasing	by	2%	to	£31.3	million 	
(2013:	 £30.8	 million),	 profits
7
	 rising	 by	 1%	 to	 £12.3	million 	
(2013:	£12.2	million)	and	average	EBITDA	per	pub 	
growing	by	1%.	As	we	continue	to	focus	on	the 	
premium	end	of	the	estate	we	have	sold	four	pubs, 	
while	three	pubs	have	been	transferred	to	the 	
Managed	Pubs	division	and	four	have	moved	in	the 	
opposite	direction.	In	addition,	we	have	invested 	
more	on	renovations	with	24	internal	schemes, 	 	
21	external	schemes	and	30	signage	schemes 	 	
across	our	tenanted	pubs.
We	have	continued	to	focus	on	providing	an	even 	
better	service	to	our	Tenants.	We	hold	regular 	
meetings	with	them,	including	an	annual	forum, 	
and	are	always	seeking	to	act	on	their	feedback	to 	
help	develop	their	businesses.	One	example	is	the 	
provision	of	a	high	quality	extranet	to	improve	the 	
flow	of	information,	which	we	delivered	this	year. 	
The	response	has	been	very	positive	and	we	were 	
delighted	when	our	commitment	to	our	Tenants 	
was	recognised	in	the	2014	him!	survey,	in	which 	
Fuller’s	came	out	as	the	top	Tenanted	pub 	
company	as	voted	for	by	Tenants.
Further	success	came	at	The	Publican	Awards 	
where	Fuller’s	took	the	coveted	title	of	Tenanted 	
Pub	Company	of	the	Year.	However,	we	are 	
determined	to	improve	further	and	the	new 	
financial	year	has	already	seen	the	launch	of 	 	
a	new	training	service	with	a	range	of	online 	
courses	being	offered	to	Tenants	for	just 	 	
£5	each.
Finally,	we	are	delighted	that	80%	of	our	Tenanted 	
estate	is	now	signed	up	to	the	Fuller’s	Service 	
Agreement.	This	is	an	initiative	that	gives	Tenants	a 	
guaranteed	level	of	regular	property	maintenance 	
and	compliance	with	the	ever	increasing	burden 	
of	legislation,	at	group	purchasing	prices. 	
Targeted Acquisitions And Developments
This	year	has	seen	some	great	additions	to	the 	
Fuller’s	estate	for	both	the	Managed	and	Tenanted 	
divisions.	In	July	2013,	we	added	The	White	Hart, 	
Southwark	 to	 our	 Tenanted	 estate	 while	 November	
saw	the	addition	of	two	new	managed	pubs,	The 	
Distiller’s	in	Hammersmith	and	the	opening	of 	
Cams	Mill,	a	large	development	on	the	Fareham 	
estuary.	In	March,	we	were	delighted	to	acquire 	
The	Albannach	–	an	iconic	site	on	London’s 	
Trafalgar	Square	–	and	in	April	we	started	the 	
new	financial	year	with	the	announcement	of	two 	
new	riverside	sites	in	Fulham	and	Greenwich	and 	
the	purchase	in	May	of	The	Windmill	in	Portishead, 	
near	Bristol.	All	four	of	these	latter	additions	will 	
operate	within	our	Managed	Pubs	division.
The	coming	financial	year	will	see	us	reaping	the 	
rewards	of	much	of	this	investment.	London’s	Pride 	
–	our	pub	at	The	Queen’s	Terminal,	Heathrow 	
(Terminal	2),	opened	on	4	June	2014	and	we	are 	
looking	forward	to	building	on	our	transport	hub 	
expertise	from	The	Parcel	Yard	at	King’s	Cross. 	
London’s	Pride	includes	a	number	of	new	features 	
such	as	a	section	for	Grab	and	Go	food	to	be	eaten 	
on	the	plane	and	we	will	be	retailing	travel	and 	
food	books	within	the	pub.	With	an	investment 	
cost	of	£1.7	million,	the	pub	has	200	covers	and 	 	
will	be	serving	contemporary	pub	food,	which	has 	
been	designed	with	the	modern	traveller	in	mind. 	
The	design	takes	airport	pubs	to	a	whole	new	level 	
and	much	is	made	within	the	pub	of	Fuller’s 	
heritage	and	the	site’s	close	proximity	(8.3	miles) 	 	
to	the	Brewery.
Following	on	from	the	very	successful	conversion 	
of	The	Red	Lion	on	Whitehall	to	our	Ale	&	Pie 	
format,	we	will	be	carrying	out	a	similar	project	on 	
The	Albannach	in	Trafalgar	Square,	which	will	be 	
unveiled	as	The	Admiralty	in	October.	With	more 	
than	a	nod	to	its	location	and	the	presence	of 	
Admiral	Nelson,	the	pub	will	benefit	from	the	high 	
footfall	in	this	area,	offering	a	winning	combination 	
of	great	beer	and	delicious	pies	to	tourists	and 	
locals	alike.
Finally,	three	new	riverside	pubs	will	be	opening 	 	
on	the	Thames	in	the	new	financial	year.	One	over 	
the	Ait	by	Kew	Bridge	will	open	in	the	autumn 	 	
of	2014,	closely	followed	by	the	site	at	Fulham 	
Reach,	overlooking	the	Harrods	Depository	and 	
providing	great	views	of	life	on	the	river.	The	Sail 	
Loft	at	Greenwich	–	part	of	the	new	Capital	Quay 	
Development	–	will	open	in	spring	2015.	We	also 	
purchased	The	Windmill	at	Portishead	in	May	2014 	
–	a	popular	dining	pub	with	panoramic	views 	
across	the	Severn	Estuary	to	Wales.
We	have	invested	a	total	of	£38.1	million	on	capital 	
expenditure	during	the	year	–	which	represents	a 	
rise	of	29%	against	last	year.	We	have	taken	the 	
opportunity	to	bring	forward	investment	on 	
refurbishments	while	sales	have	been	strong	and 	
this	is	particularly	true	in	the	second	half	of	the 	
year,	which	has	seen	16	major	schemes,	making 	 	
a	total	of	28	for	the	year.
Several	of	the	projects	undertaken	during	the 	
year	have	included	upgrading	the	accommodation 	
and,	in	some	cases,	adding	additional	bedrooms. 	 	
In	the	coming	year	we	are	looking	to	undertake	a 	
large	 project	 at	 The	 Mad	 Hatter,	 close	 to	 Blackfriars	
Bridge,	which	will	add	an	additional	15	bedrooms. 	
We	pride	ourselves	on	offering	a	better	experience 	
and	our	added	design	touches	ensure	we	stand	out 	
from	the	bland,	standardised	offerings	that 	
characterise	parts	of	the	British	hotel	scene.
All	of	our	refurbishments	aim	to	promote	the	key 	
drivers	in	our	estate	and	we	will	continue	to	focus 	
London Porter
It’s	 been	 a	 great	 year	 for	 London	 Porter	 –	 picking	 up	
awards	for	the	beer	in	keg	and	cask.	Keg	London 	
Porter	took	the	award	for	Overall	Keg	Champion 	
of	the	Competition	at	the	Society	of	Independent 	
Brewers	awards,	while	the	cask	version	was	the 	
overall	winner	of	the	London	&	South	East 	
CAMRA	Champion	Beer	of	Britain	award.
 % increase
2014 2%
2013 1%
2012 2%
Tenanted like for like profits
+2%
	  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 13
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
on	improved	kitchens	and	dining	areas,	exquisite 	
bedrooms	and	comfortable	areas	for	drinkers	to 	
relax	in.	We	will	also	continue	to	combine	this	with 	
innovative	and	interesting	features	such	as	the 	
mural	by	a	local	street	artist	in	the	cellar	bar	of 	
The	Boater	in	Bath.
The Fuller’s Beer Company
The Fuller’s 
Beer Company 2014 2013
Own beer and cider 
barrels sold –1% –1%
Foreign barrels sold +3% +3%
Total barrels sold +1% level
Revenue £115.8m £113.6m
Operating profit £8.5m £8.7m
EBITDA £11.5m £11.7m
It’s	been	a	year	of	change	for	the	Fuller’s	Beer	
Company,	with	foundation	blocks	being	laid	for	the	
future.	Total	beer	and	cider	volumes	were	1%	higher	
than	last	year	with	exports	showing	the	strongest	
growth.	Several	new	initiatives	have	come	into		
play	during	the	period	including	the	acquisition		
of	Cornish	Orchards,	the	launch	of	Frontier,	the	
purchase	of	the	UK	distribution	rights	to	Sierra	
Nevada	and	the	launch	of	Westside	Drinks	–	a	
separate	sales	force	with	a	remit	to	target	the	style	
end	of	the	licensed	retail	market.	In	addition,	we	
celebrated	a	cut	in	beer	duty	thanks	to	the	
Chancellor’s	Budget	in	March	2014.
Revenue	for	the	Beer	Company	increased	2%	to 	
£115.8	million	(2013:	£113.6	million)	while	operating 	
profit	before	exceptional	items	reduced	2%	to 	
£8.5	million	(2013:	£8.7	million)	following	additional 	
marketing	spend	and	significant	improvements 	 	
to	the	Brewery.
Premium Brand Portfolio
Our	brands	continued	to	pick	up	awards	during 	
the	year	with	London	Porter	winning	the	overall 	
prize	for	Best	Keg	Beer	at	the	SIBA	(Society	of 	
Independent	Brewers)	awards	and	the	cask	version 	
taking	the	overall	title	for	the	London	&	South	East 	
CAMRA	Champion	Beer	of	Britain	competition. 	
In	the	same	awards,	1845	took	the	gold	medal	in 	
the	Real	Ale	in	a	Bottle	category. 	
London	Pride	continues	to	be	our	best-selling		
brand	and	the	second	phase	of	the	Made	of	
London	campaign	ran	during	the	last	financial		
year.	Over	500	posters	appeared	on	sites	across		
the	Capital,	which	were	viewed	by	over	eight	
million	adults.	The	supporting	digital	campaign	
had	over	seven	million	impressions	and	reached		
1.7	million	unique	users.	
By	using	posters	and	press,	the	ads	have	a 	 	
longer	dwell	time	which	allows	us	to	get	over	a 	
relatively	complex	message	about	London	Pride’s 	
credentials	and	phase	three	has	just	started,	which 	
will	build	on	this	further.	The	new	phase	is	more 	
interactive,	with	social	media	acting	as	a	call	to 	
action	for	drinkers	to	share	their	stories	of	London 	
Pride.	The	London	Pride	Facebook	page	alone 	 	
now	has	over	38,000	fans.
On	4	June	2013,	we	purchased	Cornish	Orchards 	
for	£3.8	million.	Cornish	Orchards	produces	a 	
range	of	premium	award-winning	ciders	using 	
freshly	pressed	apples	as	well	as	a	range	of 	
interesting	and	delicious	soft	drinks.	We	have 	
already	invested	in	six	new	tanks	–	which	have 	
increased	capacity	by	60%	to	cope	with	the 	
growing	demand	for	its	products.	These	craft 	
ciders	and	soft	drinks	are	produced	by	a	team 	
that	is	passionate	about	quality.	They	perfectly 	
Exports
You	can	buy	Fuller’s	beers	in	around	70	countries 	
across	the	globe.	Our	biggest	market	is	now 	
Sweden,	where	they	love	the	wide	range	of	styles 	
and	flavours	Fuller’s	beers	provide. 	
Export map
Barrelage	 100%
Asia	pacific	 17.1%
Africa	 0. 3%
North	America	 24.2%
South	America		 5.9%
Europe	 49.5%	
Middle	East	 3.0%
7	
Operating	profit	before	exceptional	items. 14	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Chief Executive’s Review continued
complement	our	existing	portfolio	while	the 	
company	itself	is	a	great	cultural	fit	with	Fuller’s.
Frontier,	our	new	craft	lager	launched	in	May	2013, 	
continues	to	grow	and	the	brand	is	proving	popular 	
at	various	London	events	such	as	Street	Feast	and 	
Ribstock.	In	addition,	Frontier	is	now	available	in 	
over	230	locations	–	the	majority	of	which	are	not 	
our	own	pubs	–	and	in	bottle	in	over	600	Tesco 	
stores.	The	agreement	with	Sierra	Nevada,	which 	
sees	Fuller’s	take	responsibility	for	the	distribution 	
of	this	great	American	craft	beer	across	the	UK, 	
and	the	addition	of	Cornish	Orchards	have 	
opened	more	doors	for	Westside	Drinks	and	gives 	
the	team	a	fantastic	range	of	brands	to	sell	to	high 	
end	bars,	restaurants	and	festivals. 	
Our	export	business	continues	to	grow	with 	
Sweden	now	our	largest	export	market,	followed 	
by	the	USA,	Canada,	Russia	and	Finland.	In	total, 	
Fuller’s	is	now	present	in	68	countries	and	one	in 	
five	pints	brewed	heads	overseas.	London	Pride 	 	
still	accounts	for	the	lion’s	share,	with	44%	of	total 	
export	volume	–	but	our	wide	portfolio	has	proved 	
to	be	a	real	asset	in	foreign	markets	and	our	fastest 	
growing	export	brands	last	year	were	Organic 	
Honey	Dew	and	India	Pale	Ale.
As	an	integral	part	of	our	premium	brand	portfolio, 	
we	continue	to	source,	import	and	sell	a	wide 	
range	of	interesting	wines.	By	focusing	on	brands 	
that	are	not	so	readily	available	in	the	off	trade, 	
we	can	offer	a	point	of	difference	to	our	pubs 	
and	free	trade	customers.
Finally,	we	continue	to	expand	both	at	the 	 	
Griffin	Brewery	in	Chiswick	and	at	Cornish 	
Orchards	in	Duloe.	In	Cornwall,	we	are	further 	
increasing	production	capacity	in	preparation	for 	
this	autumn’s	apple	harvest	while	this	spring	we 	
added	10	new	tanks	to	accommodate	increased 	
keg	volumes	at	the	Brewery	in	Chiswick	due	to 	
sales	of	Frontier	and	the	growth	in	exports.
Final Salary Pension Scheme
We	closed	our	final	salary	pension	scheme	to	new 	
members	in	August	2005.	The	Company	has 	
recently	finished	a	period	of	consultation	with	the 	
Trustees	and	Members	of	that	scheme,	with	the 	
expectation	that	the	scheme	will	close	to	future 	
accrual	with	effect	from	1	January	2015.	As	there 	
are		still	matters	to	be	concluded	on	the	scheme 	
closure	between	the	Company	and	the	Trustees, 	
we	cannot	yet	quantify	the	financial	impact	of 	
this	action.
Current Trading And Prospects
We’ve	had	a	very	good	start	to	the	new	financial 	
year,	with	like	for	like	sales	in	our	Managed	Pubs 	
and	Hotels	rising	by	8.0%	in	the	nine	weeks	to 	
31	May	2014.	Like	for	like	profits	in	the	Tenanted 	
estate	have	risen	by	4%	and	total	volumes	in	the 	
Beer	Company	are	up	by	10%. 	
Two	new	pubs	have	opened	during	the	first	nine 	
weeks	of	the	year	–	The	Windmill,	a	freehold	site 	
in	Portishead,	and	London’s	Pride	at	Heathrow 	
Terminal	2.	In	addition,	we	have	three	freehold 	
riverside	sites	that	will	open	during	the	next	year 	
at	Kew,	Fulham	and	Greenwich. 	
The	Fuller’s	Beer	Company	strategy,	launched	last 	
year,	is	already	starting	to	deliver	with	both	Frontier 	
and	Cornish	Orchards	achieving	exciting	growth 	
and	extra	capacity	coming	on	stream	in	Chiswick 	
and	Cornwall	during	the	coming	months.
We	are	looking	forward	with	anticipation	and 	
excitement	to	the	forthcoming	year.	Investment 	
is	taking	place	in	all	areas	of	the	Company	and 	
we	continue	to	be	pleased	with	the	impact	that 	
it	is	having	on	the	business.	The	combination 	 	
of	a	high	quality	estate,	premium	brands	and 	 	
a	healthy	balance	sheet	puts	us	in	an	excellent 	
position	going	forward.
Simon Emeny
Chief	Executive
5	June	2014
“ The combination of a high quality estate, premium 
brands and a healthy balance sheet puts us in an 
excellent position going forward.”
 (’000) Brls
2014 334.1
2013 332.1
2012 331.7
Beer Company total beer and cider barrels
334,100 Brls
+1%
 £m
2014 38.1
2013 31.1
2012 76.3
Capital expenditure
£38.1m
+23%   /londonpride     @
london_pride   drinka w are.co .uk
B e ST S e lle r The last two centuries have given us some great books. Many based in London.  
About Londoners. Like the pipe smoking sleuth from Baker Street, the nanny  
that preferred her umbrella to the Routemaster, and the boy that never grew up.  
OK, so he wasn’t from London, but he did visit - probably flew over our brewery - 
and while those authors were busy writing their stories, we were writing ours.  
Brewing books, dating back to 1845. They’re not famous, but like any good classic  
they’re still being read today, by our brewers, who in turn continue our story with 
new recipes and tales of cask and keg. Not exactly populist, but to enjoy our story
you don’t have to read it, just take a sip.
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 15 16 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Only at Fuller’s
Food	is	more	important	than	it	has	ever	been	and 	
we	are	delighted	to	see	our	like	for	like	food	sales 	
rise	by	10.4%	during	the	year.
Our	team	of	nine	Executive	Chefs	focus	on	using 	
fresh,	seasonal	produce	and	creating	dishes	that 	
are	available	 Only	at	Fuller’s 	such	as	our	London 	
Porter	Smoked	Salmon,	Golden	Pride	Sourdough 	
Bread	and	Vintage	Ale	Sticky	Toffee	Pudding.	We 	
have	started	to	use	Cornish	Orchards	cider	too 	
–	with	the	arrival	of	a	Cornish	Orchards	cider 	 	
pork	 sausage.
We	have	just	expanded	our	chef	development 	
scheme	too	–	so	we	are	offering	great	training	to 	
our	kitchen	teams	at	all	levels.	We	like	to	provide 	
genuine	career	progression	and	hopefully	today’s 	
kitchen	porter	is	tomorrow’s	head	chef.
Food	is	key	to	our	business	and	our	growth	and 	 	
it	just	gets	better	and	better. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 17
13.00	The	Parcel	Yard
Fresh food – skilled chefs
Head	chef	Rachid	Messaoudi	and	his	team	at	The	Parcel 	
Yard	satisfy	up	to	400	diners	every	day.	No	mean	feat	– 	
especially	as	many	of	them	have	trains	to	catch,	so	the	food 	
has	to	be	cooked	to	perfection	in	a	timely	fashion. 18	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Financial Review
Our Operating Results
We	have	grown	revenue	by	6%	on	the	prior	year 	
with	the	majority	of	the	growth	driven	by	strong 	
like	for	like	trading	within	the	Managed	estate, 	
supplemented	by	the	effect	of	acquisitions	across 	
the	Group	and	price	rises.	Our	operating	profits 	
before	exceptional	items	grew	by	8%	to	£39.9 	
million	(2013:	£37.0	million),	with	the	largest 	
contribution	to	growth	coming	from	the	Managed 	
Pubs	and	Hotels	division.	EBITDA	increased	by	6% 	
to	£54.5	million	(2013:	£51.2	million). 	
Finance Costs
Net	finance	costs	before	exceptional	items 	
decreased	marginally	from	£5.9	million	to	£5.8 	
million.	Despite	our	debt	level	rising	moderately 	
at	the	year	end	our	average	net	debt	level	reduced 	
from	£135.4	million	to	£133.4	million.	We	continued 	
to	experience	low	interest	rates	on	our	variable 	
debt	and	this,	along	with	the	capitalisation	of 	
interest	costs	on	the	construction	of	Cams	Mill 	
and	London’s	Pride,	resulted	in	a	decline	in	our 	
interest	expense	in	the	year. 	
The	net	interest	expense	on	our	defined	benefit 	
pension	scheme	is	now	shown	as	an	exceptional 	
item	as	the	charge	is	driven	by	market	conditions 	
at	an	arbitrary	point	in	time	and	is	not	associated 	
with	our	underlying	trading.
Our	blended	cost	of	borrowings	remained 	
constant	at	4.0%	due	to	the	consistency	in	our 	
borrowing	levels	and	flat	interest	rates	on	the 	
variable	rate	portion	of	our	debt.	We	expect	this 	
blended	rate	of	interest	to	increase	marginally	to 	
4.3%	in	the	coming	year	as	interest	rates	begin	to 	
rise	and	we	continue	to	pay	down	our	cheaper 	
variable	rate	borrowing.
Exceptional Items
Net	exceptional	costs	before	tax	of	£0.6	million 	
comprised	£1.9	million	profit	on	property	disposals, 	
£0.9	million	onerous	lease	provision	releases	offset 	
by	£1.1m	of	acquisition	costs	expensed,	£1.2	million 	
reorganisation	costs,	property	impairment	charges 	
net	of	reversals	of	£0.5	million	and	a	net	interest 	
charge	on	our	pension	deficit	of	£0.6	million.	The 	
reorganisation	costs	comprise	redundancy 	 costs	
relating	to	employee	restructuring, 	 centred	 around	
the	brewery	sales	force	and	supply	chain	team, 	
together	with	legal	and	consulting	costs	for	the 	
closure	of	the	final	salary	pension	scheme	to	future 	
accrual.	This	restructuring	is	anticipated	to	save 	
£0.5	million	per	annum.
After	exceptional	items,	profit	before	tax	was 	
therefore	£33.5	million	(2013:	£33.7	million).	We 	
further	benefited	from	an	exceptional	deferred	tax 	
credit	of	£3.4	million,	primarily	relating	to	the 	
reduction	in	the	UK	corporation	tax	rate	from	23% 	
to	21%	from	1	April	2014	and	then	to	20%	from 	
1	April	2015.	The	total	impact	of	these	items	meant 	
that	basic	earnings	per	share	were	greater	than	the 	
adjusted	figure	at	52.14p	(2013:	50.43p). 	
Tax
A	full	analysis	of	the	tax	charge	for	the	year	is	set 	
out	in	note	7	to	the	accounts.	Tax	has	been 	
provided	for	at	an	effective	rate	of	23.2%	(2013: 	
24.4%)	on	adjusted	profits.	The	Group’s	overall 	
effective	tax	rate	of	13.1%	was	boosted	by	the 	
exceptional	deferred	tax	credit	(2013:	16.6%).
Pensions
The	deficit	on	the	defined	benefit	pension 	
scheme	increased	by	£4.2	million	to	£17.2	million 	
(2013:	£13.0	million).	This	was	driven	principally 	 	
by	an	increase	in	the	calculated	present	value 	 	
of	pension	obligations	from	£101.9	million	to 	 	
£110.8	million,	driven	by	the	assumed	discount	rate 	
applied	to	the	long	term	liability	decreasing	from 	
4.6%	to	4.45%,	an	increase	to	the	cash	commutation	
factor	and	more	prudent	mortality	assumptions 	
being	adopted.	This	was	partly	offset	by	a	greater 	
than	expected	return	on	the	plans	assets,	resulting 	
in	an	increase	in	the	fair	value	from	£88.9	million 	 	
to	£93.6	million.	Deficit	recovery	payments	of 	 	
£0.7	million	were	made	during	the	year.	These 	
payments	will	be	reviewed	as	part	of	the	finalisation	
of	the	triennial	valuation	based	on	July	2013.
The	scheme	was	closed	to	new	members	in 	
August	2005	and	it	is	expected	that	the	scheme 	
will	close	to	future	accrual	from	1	January	2015. 	
Shareholders’ Return
Adjusted	earnings	per	share	were	11%	higher	than 	
last	year	at	46.94p	(2013:	42.18p).	The	proposed 	
final	dividend	of	9.30p	per	40p	‘A’	ordinary	share, 	
together	with	the	interim	dividend	of	5.80p	per 	
share	already	paid	makes	a	total	of	15.10p	and 	
compares	with	a	total	dividend	of	13.70p	last	year. 	
The	total	dividend	per	share	has	grown	by	10% 	 	
and	will	be	covered	3.1	times	by	adjusted	earnings 	
per	share,	compared	with	3.1	times	in	the	previous 	
year.	Shareholders’	equity	at	the	year	end	was 	
£277.2	 million.	
During	the	period	445,819	‘A’	ordinary	40p	shares 	
were	repurchased	into	treasury	for	£4.2	million 	
(2013:	411,393	for	£2.9	million).	In	addition	69,000	‘A’ 	
ordinary	40p	shares,	414,854	‘B’	ordinary	4p	shares 	
and	5,000	‘C’	ordinary	40p	shares	were	purchased 	
for	£1.1	million	by	or	on	behalf	of	the	Trustees	of	the 	
Share	Incentive	Plan	and	the	LTIP	Trustees	to	cover 	
future	issuance	(2013:	86,500	‘A’	shares,	696,752	‘B’ 	
shares	and	4,935	‘C’	shares	for	£1.1	million).	The 	
average	price	paid	was	940p	per	‘A’	ordinary	40p 	
share.	The	middle-market	quotation	of	the 	
Company’s	ordinary	shares	at	the	end	of	the 	
financial	year	was	910p.	The	highest	price	during 	
the	year	was	1010p,	while	the	lowest	was	776p.	The 	
Company’s	market	capitalisation	at	29	March	2014 	
was	£507.9	million	(2013:	£457.4	million).  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 19
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
Cash Flow
Cash Flow
2014
£m
2013
£m
EBITDA 54.5 51.2
Interest (5.3) (5.4)
Tax (8.0) (8.1)
Working capital  
and other 4.9 (2.4)
Cash available for 
discretionary spend 46.1 35.3
Capex on estate (16.4) (12.7)
Acquisitions* (17.6) (11.4)
Pub development (4.1) (5.5)
Acquisition costs 
and other 
exceptionals paid (2.1) (1.5)
Property disposals 2.6 9.5
Dividends (11.8) (10.6)
Cash flow (3.3) 3.1
Non-cash movement (0.9) (0.5)
Net debt movement (4.2) 2.6
*		 Includes	acquired	debt	on	acquisition	of	Cornish 	 	
Orchards	Limited	and	conversion	of	leasehold	property 	 	
to	freehold.
Cash	available 	for 	discretionary 	spend 	was 	£46.1 	million 	
(2013:	£35.3	million).	The	increase	was	largely	due 	 	
to	increased	EBITDA	and	positive	movements 	 	
in	working	capital,	mainly	due	to	the	timing	of 	
payments	around	the	year	end.	Group	net	debt 	
increased	from	£135.6	million	at	the	start	of	the 	 	
year	to	£139.8m	as	a	result	of	acquisitions	and 	 	
the	continued	investment	in	our	existing	estate.
Our	capital	spending	increased	to	£38.1	million 	
(2013:	£29.6	million)	and	included	the	acquisition 	 	
of	Cornish	Orchards	(including	£0.5m	of	assumed 	
debts),	three	new	pubs	(exclusive	of	acquisition	fees 	
and	stamp	duty)	–	The	Distillers,	Hammersmith; 	
The	White	Hart,	Southwark;	and	The	Albannach, 	
Trafalgar	Square,	purchasing	the	freehold	of 	 	
The	Lamb	&	Flag,	Covent	Garden	and	developing 	
two	new	pubs.	We	continued	to	invest	in	the 	
redevelopment	of	our	existing	estate;	most	notably, 	
The	White	Buck,	Burley	and	The	Pilot,	Greenwich 	
where	our	investment	doubled	the	number	of 	
rooms	available	in	each	as	well	as	refurbishing 	 	
the	existing	rooms.	Approximately	£4.1	million 	 	
was	invested	in	the	two	new	pubs,	Cams	Mill, 	
Fareham	which	opened	in	the	second	half	of	the 	
year	and	London’s	Pride,	our	airside	pub	in	the 	 	
new	Heathrow	Terminal	2	building	which	opened 	 	
on	4	June	2014.
Asset	disposals	raised	a	total	of	£2.6	million	and	we 	
recorded	an	exceptional	gain	on	disposal	of	£1.9	million 	
which	was	largely	attributable	to	the	sale	of	four 	
licensed	properties.
EBITDA	increased	by	6%	to	£54.5	million	(2013: 	
£51.2	million).	This	offset	our	increased	capital 	
spend	so	that	the	pro-forma	net	debt	ratio	reduced 	
to	2.5	times	(2013:	2.6	times).	This	level	of	debt 	
allows	 us	continued	flexibility	to	invest	in	future 	
opportunities	as	they	arise. 	
Sources of Finance
Sources of Finance
2014
£m
2013
£m
Bank debt 116.2 112.5
Other debt 27.7 27.4
Cash (4.1) (4.3)
Total net debt 139.8 135.6
Available committed 
facilities 33.5 37.0
% total borrowings 
fixed or hedged 78% 80%
Net Debt/EBITDA 2.5x 2.6x
Our	total	committed	bank	facilities	remained	at 	
£150.0	million	at	the	year	end	of	which	£116.5	million 	
(2013	£113.0	million)	was	drawn	and	£33.5	million 	
was	available	(2013:	£37.0	million).	We	maintained 	
our	level	of	hedged	bank	borrowings	at	£85.0	million 	
of	which	£65.0	million	is	swapped	at	a	blended 	
interest	rate	of	1.8%	(excluding	bank	margins)	and 	
£20.0	million	is	subject	to	a	cap	of	4.0%.
In	July	2013	we	entered	into	a	further	interest	rate 	
swap	agreement	for	£20.0	million	at	2.55%	from 	
2015	until	2020.	The	interest	rate	swap	agreements	
in	place	will	allow	us	to	continue	to	borrow	a 	
portion	of	our	bank	debt	at	a	fixed	interest	rate 	
until	2022.
The	Group’s	financing	is	a	mix	of	bank	debt, 	
debentures,	cumulative	preference	shares, 	
overdraft,	cash	and	short	term	deposits	as	disclosed	
in	notes	21,	23	and	25.	Other	financial	assets	and 	
liabilities	such	as	trade	receivables	and	payables 	
arise	through	the	Group’s	operating	activities.	The 	
Group	does	not	trade	in	financial	instruments. 	
The	Group	is	able	to	operate	with	negative	working	
capital	–	trade	and	other	payables	were	£17.2	million	
greater	than	the	aggregate	of	inventories	and 	 	
trade	and	other	receivables	at	the	year	end 	 	
(2013:	£12.5	million	greater).
Financial Risks and Treasury Policies
The	Group	Treasury	Team	consists	of	the	Finance 	
Director	and	the	Group	Financial	Controller.	The 	
objectives	of	the	Treasury	Team	are	to	manage 	 	
the	Group’s	financial	risk;	to	secure	cost	effective 	
funding	for	the	Group’s	operations;	and	to 	
minimise	the	adverse	effects	of	fluctuations	in 	 	
the	financial	markets	on	the	value	of	the	Group’s 	
financial	assets	and	liabilities,	on	reported 	
profitability	and	on	the	cash	flows	of	the	Group.
The	Group	Treasury	Team	monitors	the	overall 	
level	of	financial	gearing	weekly,	with	our	short	and 	
medium	term	forecasts	showing	underlying	levels 	
of	gearing	which	remain	within	our	targets.
Going Concern Statement
The	financial	position	of	the	Group	including	the 	
various	sources	of	finance	available	and	its	cash 	
flows	have	been	described	herein.	In	addition,	note 	
25	of	the	financial	statements	includes	detailed 	
disclosure	on	the	Group’s	objectives,	policies	and 	
processes	for	managing	its	capital;	its	financial	risk 	
management	objectives;	details	of	its	financial 	
instruments	and	hedging	activities;	and	its 	
exposures	to	credit	and	liquidity	risk. 	
The	Group	is	vertically	integrated,	is	diversified 	
across	a	wide	range	of	sales	channels	and	is 	
strongly	cash	generative.	We	have	performed 	 	
well	throughout	the	recent	economic	cycles. 	 	
Our	financial	position	is	strong	as	we	have	always 	
borrowed	prudently.	We	have	over	£30	million	of 	
undrawn	bank	facilities	in	place	at	the	year	end 	
which	is	considered	more	than	sufficient	to	meet 	
cash	flow	requirements	over	the	coming	12 	
months.	Our	current	£150	million	bank	facilities 	
expire	within	the	next	12	months,	in	May	2015,	in 	
which	time	the	Group	will	have	undergone	a 	
process	to	secure	new	lines	of	finance	for	the 	
coming	years.	Our	current	expectations	are	that 	
the	Group	will	have	no	difficulty	in	continuing	to 	
borrow	at	this	consistent	level	at	similar	margins.
On	the	basis	of	current	financial	projections	and 	
having	considered	the	facilities	available	and	our 	
expectation	around	refinancing	the	Directors	are 	
confident	that	the	Group	and	Company	have 	
adequate	resources	to	continue	in	operational 	
existence	for	the	foreseeable	future	and, 	
accordingly,	consider	that	it	is	appropriate	to 	
continue	to	adopt	the	going	concern	basis	of 	
accounting	in	preparing	the	financial	statements.
James Douglas
Finance	Director
5	June	2014
“ Our operating profits before 
exceptional items grew by 8%. 
EBITDA increased by 6%, so 
that the pro-forma net debt 
ratio reduced to 2.5 times.” 20 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Meanwhile, 8.3 miles away…
London’s	Pride,	our	new	pub	at	The	Queen’s 	
Terminal,	or	London	Heathrow	Terminal	2	as	it	is 	
better	known,	is	Fuller’s	first	airside	pub.	It’s	been 	
two	years	in	the	making,	but	we	are	delighted	with 	
the	result	and	even	more	pleased	with	the	reaction 	
from	all	those	who	see	it.
The	pub	is	divided	into	a	number	of	different	areas 	
over	its	5,000	square	feet	and	can	hold	200 	
people.	As	well	as	enjoying	a	wide	ranging	menu, 	
customers	can	relax	with	a	drink,	recharge	their 	
laptops,	download	their	e-mails	and	even	buy	a 	
book	while	they	wait	for	their	flight	to	depart.
The	open	kitchen	will	give	customers	an 	
opportunity	to	watch	the	chefs	prepare	delicious, 	
fresh	food.	There	is	a	section	for	“Grab	and	Fly”	that 	
sells	food	to	take	away.
We	truly	are	the	local	brewer	to	Heathrow	–	a	fact 	
we	made	the	most	of	on	April	Fool’s	Day	when 	
many	people,	including	well-known	industry 	
figures,	fell	for	our	tale	that	the	beer	would	be 	
delivered	by	a	new	pipeline	built	under	the	M4. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 21
14.30	London’s	Pride
Come Fly with Us
Looking	for	a	last	taste	of	London	before	boarding	a	plane 	
for	foreign	climes?	Stop	off	at	our	new	airside	pub	in 	
Terminal	2	for	a	great	pint	and	some	delicious	food. 22	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
In	the	course	of	its	normal	business,	the	Group 	
continually	assesses	and	takes	action	to	mitigate 	
the	various	risks	encountered	that	could	impact 	
the	achievement 	of 	its 	objectives. 	As 	detailed 	in 	the 	
Corporate	Governance	Report,	there	are	systems 	
and	processes	in	place	to	enable	the	Board	to 	
monitor	and	control	the	Group’s	management 	 	
of	risk.	The	Audit	Committee	regularly	reviews 	 	
the	effectiveness	of	this	process	and	seeks	to 	
ensure	that	management’s	response	is	adapted 	
appropriately	to	the	changing	environment.
The	following	sets	out	what	the	Board	considers 	 	
to	be	the	principal	risks	affecting	the	Group 	 	
at	present.	In	addition,	the	key	financial	risks 	 	
to	the	Group	are	detailed	in	note	25c	to	the 	
financial	statements.
Regulatory Risks
Risk Mitigation and Monitoring
Regulation of the Sale of Alcohol
Within	our	industry	there	is	always	the	risk	that	the	Government	may	change 	
legislation	in	a	manner	that	would	adversely	affect	us.	For	example	significant 	
rises	in	duty,	proposals	for	minimum	pricing	and	greater	restriction	on	
minimum	age	are	potential	measures	aimed	at	reducing	consumption	by 	
increasing	the	cost	and	reducing	the	availability	of	alcoholic	drinks. 	
This	creates	the	risk	of	reduced	demand	fuelling	reduced	profitability	of	our 	 	
beers	and	pubs.
We	carefully	monitor	legislative	developments	and	review	sales	trends	and 	
consumer	habits	to	gauge	the	impact	on	our	business.
We	participate	in	industry	initiatives	aimed	at	the	responsible	promotion	and 	
retailing	of	alcohol. 	
We	have	diversified	our	offering	to	include	soft	drinks,	coffee,	food	and 	
accommodation	to	reduce	our	reliance	on	alcohol-based	revenue. 	
Beer Tie
Following	a	consultation	in	2013,	the	Government	has,	in	the	past	few	days, 	
announced	plans	that	will	give	publicans	new	rights	under	a	statutory	code 	 	
of	practice	for	the	industry.	In	addition	an	independent	adjudicator	will	be 	
appointed	to	enforce	this	new	code	including	the	powers	to	arbitrate	disputes, 	
investigate	non-compliance	and	issue	fines	or	sanctions	accordingly.
The	slightly	more	onerous	requirements	within	the	new	code	will	only	apply 	
to	companies	with	over	500	leased	and	tenanted	pubs;	however,	there 	
remains	the	risk	that	this	threshold	may	be	reduced	in	the	future	or	the 	
proposals	are	changed	before	the	legislation	is	implemented.
Enforced	changes	to	our	tied	arrangements	by	the	Government	would 	
necessitate	changes	to	our	business	model,	with	higher	property	rents 	 	
and	lower	prices	for	the	supply	of	drinks	being	charged.
Fuller’s	operates	an	internal	code	of	practice	that	already	incorporates	the	key 	
provisions	of	the	proposed	mandatory	code.	We	aim	to	ensure	transparency 	 	
and	openness	in	our	Tied	agreements.	We	also	provide	marketing,	training	and 	
promotional	support	to	help	tenants	run	profitable	and	long	term	businesses.
We	continue	to	monitor	ongoing	dialogue	between	the	Government 	
and	industry	bodies.	Our	Directors	are	members	of	key	industry	bodies 	
and	committees.
Health and Safety
The	health	and	safety	of	the	Group’s	employees	and	customers	is	a	key 	
concern	to	us.	We	are	required	to	comply	with	health	and	safety	legislation, 	
including	fire	safety	and	food	hygiene.	Operating	a	large	number	of	pubs, 	
hotels	and	sites	increases	the	complexity	of	ensuring	the	highest	health	and 	
safety	standards	are	adhered	to	at	all	times.
A	Health	and	Safety	Committee	oversees	the	operation	of	the	Group’s	health 	
and	safety	policies	and	procedures,	and	regularly	updates	its	policies	and 	
training	programme	to	ensure	all	risks	are	identified	and	properly	assessed	and 	
that	relevant	regulation	is	adhered	to.	We	report	and	investigate	all	accidents 	
and	near	misses. 	
In	our	Managed	Pubs	and	Hotels	we	have	automatic	fire	suppression	systems 	
in	most	of	our	kitchens	to	reduce	fire	risk. 	
All	staff	receive	food	hygiene	training	as	standard	and	regular	kitchen	audits/
checks	ensure	they	comply	with	the	standards	expected	from	them.	Quality 	
assurance	checks	on	our	core	suppliers	ensure	hygiene	standards	have	been 	
adhered	to	before	produce	even	reaches	our	kitchens.
Pensions
The	Group	operates	several	pension	schemes.	Although	the	defined	benefit 	
scheme	is	now	closed	to	new	entrants,	there	remains	a	significant	pension 	
liability	of	£17.2	million	on	the	Balance	Sheet. 	
A	change	in	market	conditions	could	materially	change	the	size	of	the	deficit 	
that	would	then	impact	on	the	levels	of	funding	required. 	
Legislative	changes	could	impact	cash	flow	by	setting	a	minimum	funding 	
level	that	is	above	the	Group’s	current	contributions.
We	hold	regular	dialogue	with	the	Trustees	and	Members	of	the	Scheme 	
regarding	the	deficit	recovery	plan.
As	part	of	this	the	Group	made	an	additional	contribution	of	£0.7	million 	 	
in	the	year	ended	29	March	2014. 	
The	Company	is	currently	in	discussion	with	the	Trustees	and	Members 	 	
with	the	expectation	the	Scheme	will	close	to	future	accrual	with	effect	from 	
1	January	2015.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 23
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
Economic and Market Conditions
Risk Mitigation and Monitoring
Strength of the Economy
We	are	exposed	to	the	overall	strength	of	the	UK	economy	and	its	influence 	
on	consumer	spending.	A	weak	economic	recovery,	high	inflation, 	
unemployment	or	pay	reductions	would	be	likely	to	reduce	total	UK 	
consumer	spending	in	the	short	term	and	lead	to	lower	growth	rates.
The	Group	constantly	invests	in	its	key	brands	and	ensures	it	takes	advantage 	
of	the	opportunities	presented	to	encourage	customers	into	its	pubs. 	
The	Group	maintains	a	high	quality	of	both	operations	and	products	in	order 	
to	maintain	its	competitive	position.	We	constantly	review	the	position	of	our 	
pubs	and	brands	in	the	market	to	ensure	that	the	Group	is	in	the	best	possible 	
position	for	the	current	marketplace.
Supply Chain Failure
The	quality	and	availability	of	supplies	are	integral	to	our	ability	to	operate. 	 	
Our	brewery	and	our	pubs	rely	on	a	number	of	third	parties	to	ensure	both 	
the	continuity	and	a	consistent	quality	of	these	supplies. 	
We	maintain	close	relationships	with	all	our	suppliers	and	where	appropriate 	
put	in	place	long	term	supply	contracts.	Dual	supply	is	maintained	for	the 	
majority	of	essential	products.	Suppliers	are	carefully	selected	with	significant 	
consideration	given	to	the	source	and	quality	of	the	produce. 	
We	monitor	the	credit	worthiness	of	all	our	suppliers	as	well	as	continually 	
review	contingency	plans	in	the	event	of	a	failure	in	supply. 	
Cost Increases
Utilities	and	agricultural	produce	such	as	hops,	malt	and	barley,	as	well	as	food 	
produce	are	significant	inputs	for	the	Group	and	have	been	subject	to 	
considerable	price	increases	in	recent	years.	Further	input	cost	increases	could 	
impact	the	Group’s	profitability.
Management	has	in	place	arrangements	with	some	of	its	key	suppliers	to 	
secure	supply	and	prices	for	the	medium	term	(thereby	also	enabling	the 	
business	to	plan	effectively).
An	Energy	Policy	Committee	is	in	place	to	manage	utility	purchasing.
Consumer Trends
Social	trends	and	spending	patterns	are	more	dynamic	than	in	the	past.	In	the 	
current	economic	climate	it	is	more	likely	that	some	consumer	demand	will 	
shift	as	customers	become	more	selective	about	their	outgoings. 	
A	shift	in	consumer	demand	that	resulted	in	Fuller’s	Inns	having	an 	
uncompetitive	retail	offering	would,	almost	inevitably,	have	a	negative	impact 	
on	trade	and	the	profitability	of	the	Company.
We	proactively	seek	customer	feedback	through	our	Net	Promoter	Score 	
programme	as	well	as	benchmarking	our	pricing	against	our	competitors. 	
Management	frequently	carries	out	research	amongst	its	customer	groups 	
to	ensure	it	reacts	to	changing	consumer	preferences.	Accommodation	and 	
food	sales	are	an	area	of	focus	and	are	an	increasing	proportion	of	total	sales, 	
providing	diversification	protection	against	shifting	consumer	behaviour. 	
Operational Risks
Risk Mitigation and Monitoring
Griffin Brewery Site
The	Group’s	headquarters	and	sole	brewing	facility	are	based	at	the	Griffin 	
Brewery	site	in	Chiswick.	A	disaster	at	this	site	would	seriously	disrupt 	
operations	which	would	impact	on	the	profitability	of	the	Company.
We	take	various	measures	to	mitigate	the	impact	of	such	an	event.	We	continually 	
monitor	fire	safety	and	invest	in	capital	projects	to	reduce	the	risk	of	failure.
We	store	recipes	and	yeast	off-site	and	have	informal	arrangements	in	place 	 	
to	use	alternative	facilities.
Brands and Reputation
Fuller’s	has	a	wide	portfolio	of	brands	and	has	established	an	excellent 	
reputation	in	the	market.	Principally,	there	is	a	risk	that	the	Group’s	beer	could 	
become	contaminated	at	source	or	outlet,	which	could	damage	the 	
reputation	of	the	brand	and	deter	customers.
The	Group	reduces	product	contamination	risks	to	an	acceptable	level	by 	
ensuring	that	the	business	is	operated	to	the	highest	standards	by	maintaining 	
long	term	relationships	with	suppliers	and	by	significant	investment	in	security, 	
quality	control	and	cleansing.	The	Group	has	in	place	product	recall	procedures 	
together	with	insurance	coverage	in	the	event	of	contamination.	In	addition,	the 	
Group	runs	an	active	and	continuous	training	programme	covering	all	aspects 	
of	the	pub	operations	and	provides	its	pubs	with	onsite	technical	support.
Information Technology
The	Group	is	increasingly	reliant	on	its	information	systems	to	operate	on 	 	
a	daily	basis	and	trading	would	be	affected	by	any	significant	or	prolonged 	
failure	of	these	systems.
To	minimise	this	risk	the	IT	function	has	a	range	of	facilities	and	controls	in 	
place	to	ensure	that	in	the	event	of	an	issue	normal	operation	would	be 	
restored	quickly.	These	include	a	formal	Disaster	Recovery	Plan,	online 	
replication	of	systems	and	data	to	a	third	party	recovery	facility	and	external 	
support	for	hardware	and	software. 24 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Cornwall Calling
On	4	June	2013,	we	completed	the	acquisition 	 	
of	a	craft	cider	company	–	Cornish	Orchards. 	 	
It’s	a	perfect	fit	with	Fuller’s	both	in	terms	of	the 	
premium	nature	of	Cornish	Orchards’	products 	
and	the	culture	of	the	company.	Managing 	
Director	Andy	Atkinson	has	stayed	on	to	run 	 	
the	business	and	Fuller’s	has	provided	capital 	 	
to	help	fund	its	expansion	and	contacts	to	widen 	
the	distribution.
As	well	as	ciders,	Cornish	Orchards	produces	a 	
fantastic	range	of	soft	drinks	which	are	already 	
proving	popular	in	many	of	our	own	pubs.
It’s	a	great	addition	to	the	Fuller’s	family	and	we 	
know	there	will	be	great	things	to	come	in	the 	
future.	We	have	already	increased	capacity	by	60% 	
with	the	addition	of	six	new	tanks	and	there	will	be 	
further	investment	in	the	coming	months	ready	for 	
this	autumn’s	apple	harvest. 	
The	Cornish	Orchards	site	is	in	Duloe,	just	outside 	
Looe,	in	the	heart	of	the	Cornish	countryside. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 25
16.15	Cornish	Orchards
Apple Blossom
Andy	Atkinson	is	a	man	who	knows	his	apple	trees	and 	
quality	is	at	the	heart	of	this	fantastic	craft	cider	business. 26	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Corporate Social Responsibility
Shooting for the Stars
This	year,	Fuller’s	made	a	donation	of	£33,620 	 	
to	Shooting	Star	CHASE	–	a	children’s	hospice 	
charity	caring	for	over	600	families.
Heritage
As	the	oldest	brewer	in	London,	Fuller’s	takes	its 	
heritage	very	seriously	–	it	has	even	taken	centre 	
stage	in	our	latest	London	Pride	advertising	campaign. 	
Brewing	has	taken	place	on	our	site	in	Chiswick 	
since	the	days	of	Oliver	Cromwell	and	the	Griffin 	
Brewery	still	provides	the	beating	heart	of	the 	
Company.	Fuller’s	even	plays	host	to	Britain’s	oldest 	
wisteria	–	still	growing	today	on	the	side	of	the	Brewery 	
with	its	amazing	April	flowers. 	
We	have	the	same	duty	of	care	to	our	pubs	–	some 	
of	which	have	been	in	Fuller’s	hands	for	over	150 	
years.	Recent	refurbishments	have	taken	both	the 	
history	and	location	into	consideration	as	can	be 	
seen,	for	example,	at	The	Red	Lion	on	Whitehall. 	
The	pub	overlooks	the	Cenotaph	and	has	been 	
restored	to	former	glories	with	a	1920s	style 	
restaurant	and	an	opulent	cellar	bar	in	the	style 	 	
of	a	Mayfair	gentleman’s	club.	We	will	be	looking	to 	
bring	elements	of	our	heritage	to	our	latest	riverside	
pubs	too,	in	Greenwich,	Fulham	and	Kew,	despite 	
all	three	being	contemporary,	new	build	properties. 	
We	believe	in	creating	stunning	venues	for	the	public 	
to	socialise	in	a	comfortable	and	safe	environment.
Our	brewers	still	refer	to	the	brewing	books	of 	
years	gone	by	to	find	inspiration	for	new	and 	
exciting	brews	that	have	more	than	a	nod	to	the 	
past,	including	the	acclaimed	Past	Masters	series. 	
We	also	borrow	from	the	heritage	of	others 	 	
and	later	in	the	year	we	will	be	brewing	our	fifth 	
Brewer’s	Reserve	–	a	fantastic	beer	aged	in	barrels 	
from	the	Scottish	whisky	distiller,	Glenmorangie.
Community
The	local	pub	is	the	heart	of	the	community	and 	 	
at	Fuller’s	we	strive	to	maintain	this	important	role. 	
Our	pubs	raise	thousands	of	pounds	for	charities 	
across	all	trading	areas.	We	support	local	activities 	
such	 as	 carnivals,	 school	 fetes	 and	 other	 fundraisers	
and	we	continue	to	encourage	our	tenants	and 	
managers	to	build	further	links	within	their 	
neighbourhoods.	During	the	recent	flooding,	The 	
Swan	Hotel	at	Staines	provided	complimentary 	 	
hot	drinks	to	displaced	local	residents	and	even 	
played	host	to	the	local	doctor	while	the	surgery 	
was	submerged. 	
In	total,	across	the	Company	and	our	pubs	and 	
hotels,	we	have	raised	around	£200,000	in	the 	
year	for	charities	as	diverse	as	medical	charities, 	
historic	buildings	and	alcohol	charities.	We	have 	
continued	our	support	for	the	Seafarers	Charity 	
–	which	benefits	from	a	£5	per	barrel	donation 	
from	each	barrel	of	Seafarers	Ale	that	is	sold. 	 	
This	is	just	one	of	the	charitable	links	that	we 	 	
still	maintain	from	our	purchase	of	the	Gales 	
Brewery	some	eight	years	ago.	For	the	same 	
reason,	we	make	a	regular	donation	of	beer	to 	 	
the	Hospital	of	St	Cross,	an	almshouse	just	outside 	
Winchester	that	is	believed	to	be	England’s	oldest 	
charitable	 institution.
As	well	as	financial	support	for	charities,	Fuller’s	also 	
continues	to	provide	support	to	a	number	of	long 	
running	sports	events	and	initiatives	including	the 	
Surrey	County	Cricket	League	and	the	Head	of 	
the	River	Fours.	Both	of	these	sponsorships	have 	
run	for	around	25	years.	Fuller’s	also	continues	to 	
get	involved	with	local	running	events	such	as	the 	
Thames	Towpath	Ten	and	the	London	Pride	Walk 	
for	Cancer	Research	UK,	which	has	raised	well 	
over	£1	million	in	its	18	year	history.	This	walk,	which 	
starts	and	finishes	at	the	Brewery,	is	one	of	the 	 	
most	popular	events	in	the	Chiswick	calendar 	 	
and	regular	walkers	include	Griffin,	one	of	Fuller’s 	
Shire	horses.
In	January	2014,	Fuller’s	made	a	donation	of 	
£33,620	to	Shooting	Star	CHASE	–	a	children’s 	
hospice	charity	that	cares	for	over	600	families 	
living	in	West	London,	Surrey	and	West	Sussex. 	 	
This	money	represented	30p	per	children’s	meal 	
sold	in	75	of	our	Managed	pubs	plus	£12,000 	 	
from	fundraising	events	and	competitions	in	the 	
participating	pubs.	The	menu,	which	was	specially 	
created	for	the	purpose,	is	being	continued	in	the 	
Fuller’s	Managed	estate	and	comes	with	word 	
games	and	colouring,	which	are	set	to	Key	Stage	2 	
educational	criteria. 	
Going Soft
As	well	as	cider,	Cornish	Orchards	produces 	 	
a	fantastic	range	of	premium	soft	drinks	including 	
three	types	of	apple	juice. 	  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 27
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
 
 
 
Board of Directors
Male 9
Female 1
 
 
 
All Employees
Male 2,062
Female 1,548
 
 
 
Senior Managers
Male 40
Female 18
Gender Diversity
as at 29 March 2014
Responsible Retailing
Fuller’s	has	always	believed	that	a	well-run	pub, 	
offering	a	relaxed	and	safe	environment,	is	crucial 	
to	fulfilling	the	pub’s	role	in	the	community	and 	 	
in	the	wider	social	fabric	of	the	country.	We	avoid 	
heavily	discounted	drinks	promotions,	preferring	to 	
focus	on	offering	a	wide	range	of	drinks,	fantastic, 	
home-cooked	fresh	food	and	exceptional	service. 	
The	purchase	of	Cornish	Orchards	has	also	added 	
a	great	range	of	soft	drinks,	including	fresh-pressed 	
apple	juice,	to	the	Fuller’s	portfolio.
Our	brewers	take	great	pride	in	the	beers	that	they 	
brew	–	and	this	is	reflected	in	the	way	they	are	sold. 	
With	bespoke	glassware	wherever	possible,	stylish 	
advertising	 that	 takes	 time	 to	 read	 and	 promotional	
activity	with	an	emphasis	on	modest	consumption, 	
our	strategy	remains	firmly	focused	on	quality	and 	
not	quantity.
We	take	our	role	as	a	retailer	of	alcohol	seriously 	
and	we	are	active	members	of	the	British	Beer	and 	
Pub	Association	(BBPA)	and	the	British	Institute 	 	
of	Innkeeping	(BII).	Fuller’s	is	also	a	supporter	of 	
Drinkaware,	the	government	sponsored	trust	that 	
aims	to	promote	responsible	drinking	and	help 	
reduce	alcohol	misuse	and	alcohol	related	harm. 	
Across	the	Company,	we	have	invested	heavily	in 	
training	and	our	bar	staff	training	includes	details 	 	
of	initiatives	such	as	the	Challenge	21	scheme 	 	
to	prevent	underage	drinking	and,	of	course,	how 	
to	politely	refuse	those	who	have	had	too	much 	 	
to	drink.	These	measures	are	audited	through 	
unannounced	test	purchases.
As	we	improve	the	quality	and	range	of	our	food, 	
therefore	growing	sales,	the	purchase	of	alcohol 	 	
is	increasingly	becoming	an	accompaniment	to 	 	
a	meal	rather	than	the	primary	reason	for	the 	
customer	to	visit. 	
People
The	Fuller’s	family	ethos	remains	strong	and	is	still 	
very	evident	throughout	the	business.	Many 	
employees	stay	with	Fuller’s	for	much	of	their 	
working	life,	as	demonstrated	every	year	by	the 	
numerous	recipients	of	our	long	service	awards. 	
To	meet	our	strategic	aims,	we	require	a	highly 	
motivated	and	talented	workforce,	who	are	fully 	
engaged	and	share	our	passion	for	quality	and 	
customer	service.	The	training	and	development 	 	
of	our	people	is	paramount.	We	launched	our 	
Graduate	Programmes	in	2011	and	these	have 	
gone	from	strength	to	strength.	Increasingly,	Fuller’s 	
is	being	viewed	as	a	place	for	talented	graduates	to 	
develop	into	the	leaders	of	the	future	and	our	2014 	
programmes	attracted	over	1,000	applications.	In 	
addition,	our	mentor	programme	has	increased	in 	
size	and	scope,	utilising	the	skills	and	experience	of 	
our	Senior	Managers	to	support	the	development 	
of	future	leaders. 	
Pubs with Personality
We	like	to	give	our	managers	the	freedom	to 	
stamp	their	own	personality	on	their	pubs	 – 	and 	
using	witty	blackboards	is	just	one	of	the	ways 	 	
they	show	this. 28	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Corporate Social Responsibility continued
Fuller’s	other	development	programmes	support 	 	
a	career	journey	from	apprenticeship	to	general 	
management.	In	2013	we	launched	our	Five	Star 	
impact	programme,	which	aims	to	turn	our 	
supervisors	into	assistant	managers,	while	our 	
general	manager	development	programme 	
continues	to	allow	the	best	assistant	managers	to 	
become	new	leaders	for	our	pub	estate.	We	have 	
replicated	this	approach	with	our	chef	teams,	by 	
introducing	three	chef	scholarships	which	will 	
develop	talented	chefs	from	commis	chef	to	head 	
chef	positions,	the	result	being	a	complete 	
approach	to	home-grown	talent	and	structured 	
career	paths.	The	number	who	have	completed	or 	
are	in	a	development	programme	is	now	in	the 	
hundreds	and	we	intend	to	grow	this	further.
This	year	also	saw	the	launch	of	our	service		
training	programme,	the	Service	Passport,	which 	
is	based	on	our	Five	Golden	Rules	of	Engaging 	
Service.	We	now	have	an	impressive	85%	of	our	pub 	
teams	completing	this	training	within	their	first	12 	
weeks	of	employment.	The	programme	has	been 	
underpinned	by	the	development	of	the	Service 	
Coach	network,	which	is	currently	a	group	of	50 	 	
of	our	front	line	team	members	with	responsibility 	
for	championing	service	at	house	level.
The	last	12	months	really	has	seen	our	training 	
schedule	step	up	a	gear.	We	now	have	160	people 	
trained	to	the	Wine	and	Spirit	Education	Trust 	 	
level	one,	ensuring	that	each	pub	has	a	team 	
member	who	can	confidently	and	knowledgeably 	
recommend	wine	to	our	customer.	For	the	Beer 	
Company	and	our	central	team,	Fuller’s	has	also 	
raised	the	training	bar	with	significant	investment 	
in	a	programme	for	the	sales	team	and	a	new 	
extended	training	calendar	now	in	place	for 	
managers	throughout	the	head	office	and 	
brewery	function.
We	value	loyalty	very	highly	and	offer	a	range	of 	
benefits	to	encourage	employees	to	take	a	stake 	 	
in	the	Company’s	long	term	success,	such	as	the 	
Save	As	You	Earn	Scheme	and	Share	Incentive 	
Plan.	We	also	endeavour	to	recognise	great	efforts 	
with	the	launch	of	the	100	Club,	a	select	group	of 	
team	members	in	our	pubs	and	hotels	who	have 	
exceeded	our	customer	service	expectations,	and 	
the	implementation	of	Caught	in	the	Act	scratch 	
cards	to	provide	an	instant	award	to	team 	
members	who	are	exhibiting	one	of	our	Five 	 	
Golden	Rules	of	Engaging	Service.
Finally,	no	mention	of	our	people	would	be	complete 	
without	reference	to	Dolly.	Dolly	has	worked	as	a 	
barmaid	in	The	Red	Lion,	Wendover,	for	76	years. 	
This	year	we	celebrated	her	100th	birthday	in	style. 	
Dolly	still	manages	three	shifts	per	week	proving 	
that	Fuller’s	really	is	an	age	positive	employer.
Environment
Despite	the	terrible	flooding	which	affected	so 	
many	parts	of	the	country,	the	last	financial	year 	
proved	 to	 be	 significantly	 warmer	 than	 the	 previous	
year.	This	had	a	positive	impact	on	our	gas 	
consumption	due	to	lower	heating	but	a	slightly 	
negative	impact	on	electricity	consumption	due	to 	
an	increased	demand	for	air	conditioning.	Energy 	
consumption	is	a	key	area	for	Fuller’s	and,	working 	
with	a	specialist	carbon	management	company, 	 	
in	the	year	we	ran	a	trial	programme	to	reduce 	
energy	consumption	across	15	pubs.	By	providing 	
weekly	consumption	reports,	guidance	on	energy 	
saving,	reward	incentives,	a	competitive	element 	
and	operational	visibility	we	reduced	electricity 	
consumption	by	8%	compared	to	the	rest	of	the 	
estate	in	a	three	month	period.
Following	extensive	trials,	we	have	commenced 	 	
a	roll-out	of	LED	lighting	for	front-of-house	areas. 	 	
As	well	as	demonstrating	significant	energy	and 	
carbon	savings,	managers	will	spend	less	time 	
changing	lamps	and	we	will	be	able	to	ensure 	
more	consistent	lighting.	In	addition,	Fuller’s	has 	
tested	an	intelligent	kitchen	extract	control	system 	
and	achieved	a	significant	electricity	saving.	This 	
system	is	now	being	installed	as	standard	for	both 	
new	builds	and	kitchen	refurbishments	and	we 	
may	look	to	proactively	install	it	more	widely.	In	the 	
same	vein,	we	trialled	intelligent	boiler	controls	in 	
two	of	our	hotels.	This	system	monitors	the 	
temperature	of	water	returning	to	the	boiler	and 	
only	allows	the	system	to	fire	if	the	decline	in 	
temperature	warrants	it.	These	initial	trials	have 	
demonstrated	a	14%	saving	of	gas	and	the	trial	will 	
be	rolled	out	further	from	May	2014.
By	monitoring	the	electricity	consumption	of	our 	
refrigeration	and	HVAC	(heating,	ventilation	and 	 	
air	conditioning)	systems	in	seven	trial	houses,	we 	
have	been	able	to	immediately	identify	incorrectly 	
set	or	failing	devices.	As	well	as	suggesting 	
electricity	savings	of	around	20%,	we	are	also	able 	
to	 monitor	 fridge/freezer	 temperatures	 in	 real-time	
to	ensure	food	safety.	Due	to	its	success,	we	aim	to 	
extend	this	trial	in	May.	In	addition	to	the	above,	we 	
continue	to	convert	houses	to	waterless	urinals 	
whenever	toilet	areas	are	refurbished	and	food 	
waste	recycling	has	been	implemented	in	every 	
house	where	there	is	space	for	additional	bins.
Finally,	we	have	also	tackled	the	issue	of	outdoor 	
heaters	 by	 implementing	a	new	policy	to	eliminate 	
uncontrolled,	gas	umbrella	units.	Instead,	all	new 	
outdoor	heaters	must	be	controlled	by	either 	
passive	infrared	(PIR)	sensors	in	dining	areas	or 	
customer	controlled	timers	in	our	smoking	areas.
Within	the	Brewery,	we	have	reduced	the	amount 	
of	effluent	produced.	Two	of	our	graduates	have 	
been	working	on	a	project	looking	at	the	way	we 	
clean	vessels	in	the	Brewery.	 As	a	result	of	their 	
work,	the	amount	of	water	used	and,	therefore, 	
Carbon reporting
Fuel type
52 weeks
ended
29 March 2014
CO 2 tonnes
Electricity and gas 27,493 
Petrol and diesel 1,126 
Total 28,619
CO
2
 emissions per  
£100,000 of turnover 9.9 
The	greenhouse	gas	intensity	ratio	for	each	year	is 	
calculated	by	dividing	our	total	CO 2	emissions	(in 	
metric	tonnes)	by	our	annual	turnover	(in	£100,000s). 	
Our	total	CO 2	emissions	are	derived	from	the 	
electricity	and	gas	consumption	of	both	our 	
Managed	pub	estate	and	the	Griffin	Brewery	plus 	
emissions	from	all	company	vehicles,	including 	
company	cars.	The	emissions	related	to	electricity 	
and	gas	are	those	submitted	via	our	Carbon 	
Reduction	Commitment	(CRC)	obligations	and	the 	
Brewery’s	Climate	Change	Agreement	(CCA). 	
Vehicle	emissions	are	calculated	from	the	data 	
gathered	by	our	fuelcard	supplier.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 29
Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
effluent	produced	has	been	reduced	by	over 	
5,000	hectolitres	per	annum,	providing	an 	
environmental	and	financial	benefit.	The	new 	
process	is	also	shorter,	which	means	less	downtime 	
for	the	vessel,	hence	improving	productivity.
Fuller’s	is	also	beginning	to	see	the	results	of	the 	
greener	car	policy	implemented	in	2009.	Since 	
that	time,	the	amount	of	fuel	used	has	reduced	 by	
13%	across	company	cars	and	fleet	delivery	vehicles. 	 	
As	well	as	the	positive	impact	on	the	environment, 	
this	is	also	good	news	for	our	cost	base.
Suppliers
It	is	no	longer	enough	to	examine	the	social	impact 	
of	our	own	business	–	we	have	to	consider	that	of 	
our	suppliers	too	and	we	execute	our	responsibility 	
by	ensuring	the	products	we	source	are	sustainable 	
and,	where	possible,	local.
We	look	to	build	long	term	relationships.	It	is	our	
belief	that	this	stability	allows	our	suppliers	to	
sensibly	invest	in	and	protect	their	businesses.	For	
example,	we	have	forward	contracts	with	our	hop	
and	barley	farmers	both	to	secure	our	own	supply	
and	to	give	the	farmers	the	confidence	to	invest	in	
the	future.	In	addition,	we	consider	the	human	
rights,	health	and	safety	and	other	ethical	policies		
of	our	suppliers	when	making	our	buying	decisions.	
All	suppliers	are	required	to	provide	us	with	a	copy	
of	their	Corporate	Social	Responsibility	policy	and	
we	look	for	those	with	similar	values	to	our	own.	
Wherever	possible,	our	menus	will	reflect	the 	
seasonality	of	local	produce	and	we	try	to	buy 	
British.	All	our	chips	are	from	British	farmers	and 	
our	fresh	meat	is	sourced	from	within	the	UK 	
through	trusted	butchers	with	a	fully	traceable 	
supply	chain.	Our	eggs	meet	Lion	Quality 	
standards	and	again	all	come	from	British	farms 	
and	we	only	buy	fish	from	fishmongers	who	are 	
accredited	with	the	Marine	Stewardship	Council.
We	continue	to	source	only	Fair	Trade	coffee	and 	
we	support	UK	food	initiatives	such	as	the	New 	
Forest	Marque	and	Hampshire	Fare.
On	a	more	global	note,	we	signed	a	distribution 	
agreement	with	Sierra	Nevada	in	Chico,	California 	
this	year.	To	ensure	that	we	reduce	our	impact	on 	
the	environment	and	maximise	our	supply	chain, 	
we	are	importing	Sierra	Nevada	beer	in	the	same 	
kegs	that	are	used	to	deliver	Fuller’s	beer	to	our	US 	
customers,	hence	ensuring	we	avoid	transporting 	
empty	kegs.
Helping Hand
During	the	flooding	earlier	this	year,	The	Swan 	 	
at	Staines	even	played	host	to	a	GP’s	surgery 	
while	their	own	premises	was	drying	out. 	 	
We	strive	to	ensure	our	pubs	remain	at 	 	
the	heart	of	the	community.
Marathon Miles
We	are	now	in	the	seventh	year	of	our	sponsorship 	
deal	as	the	Official	Beer	of	the	Virgin	Money 	
London	Marathon	and	were	delighted	to	see 	
Ed	Balls	mention	that	he	only	wanted	to	beat 	
the	London	Pride	bottle. 30 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Bath Time
We	have	completed	the	refurbishments	of	our 	
three	Bath	pubs	this	year	–	and	despite	all	being	a 	
short	walk	from	each	other,	they	clearly	target 	
different	premium	audiences.
The	Crystal	Palace	is	warm	and	welcoming,	with 	 	
a	fantastic	outside	space,	great	food	and	a	real	cosy 	
pub	feel,	while	The	Huntsman	has	the	beautiful 	
Elder	Room	dining	area	upstairs,	overlooking 	 	
the	river.
At	The	Boater,	you’ll	find	probably	the	best	beer 	
garden	in	Bath,	as	well	as	four	floors	with	very 	
different	feels	and	the	quirkiest	gents’	toilets	in	the 	
South	West.	From	the	top	floor	dining	room	to	a 	
cellar	bar	that’s	made	for	those	late	night	secret 	
trysts,	it	really	does	offer	something	for	everyone. 	
And	its	location	right	next	door	to	Bath	Rugby 	
Club	will	ensure	it	proves	popular	with	props 	 	
and	hookers	–	of	the	rugby	kind!
The	move	into	Bath	is	a	logical	progression	along 	
the	M4	–	especially	as	we	have	long	had	a	foothold 	
in	Bristol.	It’s	definitely	our	kind	of	place	–	a	thriving 	
cathedral	city	with	a	great	demographic. Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 31
20.00	The	Huntsman
Settled in for the night
While	food	and	accommodation	have	grown	in	importance, 	
we	never	forget	our	drinkers	and	there’s	no	better	place	to 	
sample	Fuller’s	great	range	of	drinks	than	in	a	Fuller’s	pub. 32	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Board of Directors
From left to right
James	Douglas,	Lynn	Fordham,	Alastair	Kerr, 	
Richard	Fuller,	Jonathon	Swaine,	Simon	Emeny, 	 	
Ian	Bray,	John	Dunsmore,	Marie	Gracie, 	 	
Michael	Turner,	Sir	James	Fuller	Bt.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 33
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
Michael Turner 
Non-Executive Chairman
Committees
Chairman	of	the	Nominations	Committee.
Aged	62.	Joined	in	1978.	A	Chartered	Accountant 	
with	international	experience.	Initially	ran	the	Wine 	
Division	as	Wine	Director.	Appointed	Marketing 	
Director	in	1988,	Managing	Director	in	1992, 	 	
Chief	Executive	in	2002	and	Chairman	in	2007. 	
Chairman	of	the	British	Beer	and	Pub	Association 	
2008-2010.	Master	of	the	Worshipful	Company	of 	
Vintners	 2011-2012.
Executive Directors
Simon Emeny  
Chief Executive
Aged	48.	Joined	in	1996	from	Bass	plc	where	he 	
held	a	variety	of	senior	operational	and	strategic 	
planning	roles.	Appointed	a	Director	in	May	1998. 	
Non-Executive	Director	of	Dunelm	Group	plc. 	
An	Economics	graduate	and	alumni	of	Harvard 	
Business	 School.
James Douglas  
Finance Director
Aged	48.	Appointed	in	2007	from	LSE-listed 	
telecoms	operator	Fibernet	Group	plc,	where	he 	
was	Finance	Director.	Spent	eight	years	with 	
Deutsche	Bank	as	an	investment	banker.	Qualified 	
as	a	prize-winning	Chartered	Accountant	with 	
PricewaterhouseCoopers.	Holds	a	first	degree	in 	
Physics	and	a	Masters	degree	in	Economics.
Richard Fuller 
Sales and Personnel Director
Aged	54.	Joined	the	Company	in	1984.	Appointed 	
a	Divisional	Director	with	responsibility	for	Sales 	 	
in	1992,	and	additionally	for	Personnel	in	2005. 	
Appointed	to	the	Board	in	December	2009.	Also 	
responsible	for	Public	Relations.	A	GMP	Graduate 	
of	Harvard	Business	School..
Ian Bray  
Managing Director of  
The Fuller’s Beer Company
Aged	50.	Appointed	in	2011.	Previously	European 	
Marketing	Director	of	Bunge	S.A.,	a	Switzerland-
based	global	foods	and	agricultural	business.	Has 	
held	FMCG	marketing	and	senior	management 	
roles	at	both	international	and	domestic	level, 	
working	with	companies	such	as	Wrigley, 	 	
Müller	and	SmithKline	Beecham.	A	Business 	
Studies	graduate.
Jonathon Swaine  
Managing Director of Fuller’s Inns
Aged	43.	Appointed	to	the	Board	in	2012.	Joined 	
the	Company	in	2005	and	appointed	as 	
Operations	Director	for	Fuller’s	Inns	in	2007. 	 	
Has	previously	held	positions	at	Carlton 	
Communications	and	Molson	Coors.	An	Arts 	
graduate	with	a	Masters	degree	in	Marketing	and 	
an	alumni	of	Columbia	Business	School.
Company Secretary
Marie Gracie 
Aged	48.	Appointed	in	1998	after	an	offshore 	
appointment.	Formerly	Company	Secretary 	
of	Argos	PLC.	A	Chartered	Secretary	and	Arts 	
graduate.	Secretary	of	The	Chiswick	House	and 	
Gardens	Trust.
Independent Non-Executive Directors
John Dunsmore 
Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director 
Committees
Member	of	the	Remuneration	Committee. 	
Member	of	the	Audit	Committee. 	
Member	of	the	Nominations	Committee.
Aged	55.	Appointed	in	2009.	Senior	Non-
Executive	Director.	Deputy	Chairman	of	Genius 	
Foods	Ltd.,	Founder	and	CEO	of	The	Hothouse 	
Investment	Club	and	Chairman	Designate	of 	
Chapel	Down	Group	plc.	Former	Chief	Executive 	
of	C&C	Group	plc	and	former	Chief	Executive	of 	
Scottish	&	Newcastle	plc	prior	to	its	takeover	by 	
Heineken	and	Carlsberg	in	2008.
Lynn Fordham
Committees
Chairman	of	the	Audit	Committee. 	
Member	of	the	Remuneration	Committee. 	
Member	of	the	Nominations	Committee.
Aged	51.	Appointed	in	2011.	Chief	Executive 	 	
of	SVG	Capital	and	Aberdeen	SVG	Ltd.	Previous 	
appointments	include	CFO	SVG	Capital,	Deputy 	
CFO	at	BAA	plc,	Director	of	Audit	and	Risk	at 	
Boots	Group	plc	and	Finance	Director	of	ED	&	F 	
Man	Sugar.	In	addition,	she	spent	10	years	at	Mobil 	
Oil	in	a	number	of	financial	and	operational	roles, 	
predominantly	internationally.	An	accountancy 	
graduate	and	Chartered	Accountant.
Alastair Kerr
Committees
Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee. 	
Member	of	the	Audit	Committee.
Aged	64.	Appointed	in	2011.	Non-Executive 	
Director	of	high	street	clothing	retailer	White	Stuff 	
Ltd,	Non-Executive	Director	and	Chairman	of	the 	
Remuneration	Committee	at	Havelock	Europa 	
PLC,	Senior	Independent	Director	and	Chairman 	
of	the	Remuneration	Committee	at	Alliance	Trust 	
PLC	,	Chairman	of	private	holding	company 	
Drilton	Ltd	and	Arran	Aromatics	Ltd.	He	is	also	a 	
Public	Member	of	Network	Rail.	He	has	previously 	
held	senior	roles	at	Mothercare	and	Kwik-Fit,	and 	
was	Managing	Director	of	Europe,	Middle	East	and 	
Africa	for	The	Body	Shop	and	Managing	Director 	
Europe	for	Virgin.
Non-Executive Director
Sir James Fuller Bt.
Aged	43.	Appointed	in	2010.	Served	in	The	Life 	
Guards	1991-	1998.	Employed	by	the	Company 	
from	1998-2003,	working	in	the	Tied	and	Managed 	
Pub	estate	and	has	since	been	running	his 	 	
own	 business. 34	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Directors’ Report
The	Directors	present	their	Annual	Report 	
together	with	the	audited	financial	statements 	 	
for	the	52	weeks	ended	29	March	2014.	The 	
narrative	pages	throughout	the	report	constitute 	
the	Company’s	management	report	as	required 	
under	the	FCA’s	rules.
A) Business activities and development
The	Chairman’s	Statement	and	Strategic	Report 	
on	pages	3	to	29	include	information	about	the 	
Group’s	strategy	and	business	model	as	well	as 	
providing	an	update	on	the	business	and	financial 	
performance	during	the	year	and	indications	of 	
likely	future	developments,	KPIs,	principal	risks 	 	
and	uncertainties	and	the	Group’s	financial 	
management	and	treasury	policies. 	
Dividends
The	Company	paid	an	interim	dividend	of	5.80 	
pence	on	the	40p	‘A’	and	‘C’	ordinary	shares	and 	
0.580	pence	p	on	the	4p	‘B’	ordinary	shares	on 	
2	January	2014.	The	Directors	now	recommend	a 	
final	dividend	of	9.30	pence	on	the	40p	‘A’	and	‘C’ 	
ordinary	shares	and	0.930p	on	the	4p	‘B’	ordinary 	
shares.	This	makes	a	total	of	15.10	pence	on	the 	
40p	‘A’	and	‘C’	ordinary	shares	and	1.510	pence 	 	
on	the	4p	‘B’	ordinary	shares	for	the	year.
The	total	proposed	final	dividend	on	ordinary 	
shares	will	be	£5,183,000	which	together	with	the 	
2014	interim	dividend	paid	of	£3,251,000	and	the 	
£120,000	of	cumulative	preference	dividends	paid 	
will	make	total	dividends	of	£8,554,000.
B) Directors
A	list	of	current	serving	Directors	and	their 	
biographies	is	given	on	pages	32	and	33. 	 	
Michael	Turner,	James	Douglas	and	Ian	Bray	retire 	
by	rotation	at	the	Annual	General	Meeting	and 	
offer	themselves	for	re-election.	James	Douglas 	
and	Ian	Bray	are	Executive	Directors	and	have	a 	
rolling	service	contract	of	12	months’	duration. 	
Michael	Turner	is	Non-Executive	Chairman	and 	
does	not	have	a	service	contract	but	has	been 	
invited	to	stay	on	the	Board	until	June	2016. 	
Directors’ Interests
Details	of	Directors’	interests	in	the	share	capital	of 	
the	Company,	along	with	details	of	Directors’	share 	
options	and	allocations	under	the	Long	Term 	
Incentive	Plan	(“LTIP”)	are	given	in	the	Directors’ 	
Remuneration	Report	on	pages	55	to	59.
This	year	the	Remuneration	Committee	revised 	
the	share	retention	guidelines	in	place	for 	
Executive	Directors.	Full	details	of	the	new 	
guidelines	and	how	far	Executives	are	meeting 	
these	guidelines	can	be	found	in	the	Directors’ 	
Remuneration	Report	on	page	55. 	
Related Party Transactions
Details	of	related	party	transactions	involving 	
Directors	are	given	in	note	29	to	the 	 	
financial	statements.
Indemnity Provisions
The	Company’s	Articles	of	Association	provide	the 	
Directors	with	indemnities	in	relation	to	their 	
duties	as	Directors,	including	qualifying	third	party 	
indemnity	provisions	(within	the	meaning	of	the 	
Companies	Acts).	All	of	the	Executive	Directors’ 	
contracts	contain	a	clause	which	states:	“the 	
Executive	shall	be	indemnified	out	of	the	assets	of 	
the	Company	against	any	liability	incurred	by	him 	
as	a	Director	or	other	officer	of	the	Company	in 	
defending	any	proceedings	(whether	civil	or 	
criminal)	in	which	judgement	is	given	in	his	favour 	
or	in	which	he	is	acquitted	or	in	connection	with 	
any	application	under	the	Companies	Acts	in 	
which	relief	from	liability	is	granted	to	him	by	the 	
court	from	liability	for	negligence,	default,	breach 	
of	duty	or	breach	of	trust	he	may	be	guilty	of	in 	
relation	to	the	affairs	of	the	Company.”	The 	
Company	purchases	insurance	cover	for	Trustees 	
of	the	Company’s	defined	benefit	pension	scheme. 	
James	Douglas	is	a	Trustee	of	the	Scheme.
C) Corporate responsibility
The	Group’s	activities	during	the	year	in	the	areas 	
of	Heritage,	Community,	Responsible	Retailing, 	
People	(including	gender	diversification),	the 	
Environment,	Carbon	Reporting	(including	the 	
new	disclosure	requirements	on	greenhouse	gas 	
emissions)	and	Suppliers	are	discussed	in	detail 	 	
in	the	separate	Corporate	Social	Responsibility 	
Statement	on	pages	26	to	29.
Employees
The	Group	continues	to	attach	a	high	priority 	 	
to	further	improving	its	communications	with	all 	
employees	and	pensioners	thus	encouraging	a 	
common	awareness	of	the	financial	and	economic 	
factors	affecting	the	Group.	Increasingly,	the 	
Company’s	intranet	and	e-mail	systems	facilitate 	
this,	and	we	will	continue	to	search	for	ways	to 	
exploit	these	media	to	best	effect.	Twice	a	year	all 	
Brewery-based	employees	are	invited	to	a	results 	
presentation	led	by	the	Chief	Executive.	Once	a 	
year	the	Company	also	runs	‘Connection	Week’ 	
where	one	person	from	each	pub	is	invited	to 	 	
a	conference	at	which	a	number	of	messages 	 	
are	communicated.	That	employee	returns	to 	 	
their	 pub	and	shares	the	information	with	their 	 	
colleagues	over	the	remainder	of	the	week.	Regular 	
newsletters	are	also	generated	for	both	The	Fuller’s 	
Beer	Company	and	Fuller’s	Inns	employees	and 	 	
ad	hoc	news	is	regularly	communicated	via	both 	
traditional	notice	boards	and	e-mail	distributions. 	
The	communications	policy,	which	is	in	operation 	
throughout	the	business,	is	designed	to	ensure	the 	
successful	cascading	of	information.	A	structure	of 	
Consultation	Committees	at	both	Divisional	and 	
Corporate	level	is	in	place	to	facilitate	a	dialogue 	
between	the	Group	and	representatives	of	all 	
employees	including	union	members.	Taken 	
together,	these	communications	have	allowed 	 	
the	Group	to	engage	successfully	with	all	our 	
employees,	wherever	they	are	employed.
The	Group’s	recruitment	policy	is	designed	to	ensure 	
that	all	applications	for	employment,	including	those 	
made	by	disabled	persons,	are	given	full	and	fair 	
consideration,	in	light	of	the	applicants’	particular 	
aptitudes	and	abilities.	The	Group	also	has	an	equal 	
opportunities	policy	which	is	designed	to	ensure	that 	
all	employees	are	treated	equally	in	terms	of	training, 	
career	development	and	promotion.	Where 	
employees	develop	a	disability	during	their 	
employment	by	the	Group,	every	effort	will	be 	 	
made	to	continue	their	employment	and	arrange 	 	
for	appropriate	training,	career	development	and 	
promotion	as	far	as	is	reasonably	practicable. 	
Development	and	training	of	our	employees	at	all 	
levels	has	always	been	a	priority	at	Fuller’s.
The	Company	continues	to	offer	qualifying	staff 	 	
a	Savings	Related	Share	Option	Scheme,	a	Share 	
Incentive	Plan	and	a	variety	of	performance	related 	
bonus	arrangements,	which	serve	to	encourage 	
staff	interest	in	the	Group’s	performance.	Staff 	
throughout	the	Group	are	given	an	‘Indulgence’ 	 	
card	allowing	them	to	benefit	from	a	staff	discount 	
scheme	in	the	Group’s	pubs.
Political Donations
The	Group	does	not	make	political	donations. 	
D) Share interests 
The	following	disclosable	interests	of	shareholders 	
(other	than	Directors)	have	been	notified	to 	 	
the	Company:  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 35
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
E) Shareholder matters
Special Business at this Year’s Annual 
General Meeting
Details	of	the	items	requiring	explanation	at	this 	
year’s	Annual	General	Meeting	are	included	in	the 	
circular	to	shareholders	dated	26	June	2014,	at	the 	
back	of	which	is	the	Notice	of	Meeting.
Purchase of Own Shares 
At	the	Annual	General	Meeting	of	the	Company 	
held	on	25	July	2013,	the	Company	was	given 	
authority	to	purchase	up	to	4,832,713	‘A’	ordinary 	
shares.	This	authority	will	expire	at	the	Annual 	
General	Meeting	and	shareholders	will	be	asked	to 	
give	a 	similar 	authority 	to 	purchase 	shares 	up 	to 	15% 	of 	
the	‘A’	ordinary	capital	at	that	date.	The	Company’s 	
maximum	issued	ordinary	share	capital	during 	 	
the	year	was	£22,793,726,	which	included 	
£13,395,104	40p	‘A’	ordinary	share	capital.
During	the	year	the	Company	purchased	a	total 	 	
of	445,819	40p	‘A’	ordinary	shares	at	a	total	cost	of 	
£4,213,658	(exclusive	of	stamp	duty).	Of	these, 	
166,751	shares,	with	a	value	of	£1,137,212	were 	
transferred	to	the	Company’s	Long	Term	Incentive 	
Plan	(“LTIP”)	Trustee.	These	share	purchases 	
represented	0.78%	of	the	maximum	issued 	
ordinary	share	capital	and	1.33%	of	the	Company’s 	
issued	‘A’	ordinary	share	capital. 	
In	addition	the	Company	employee	share 	
ownership	trusts	purchased	a	total	of	69,000	40p 	
‘A’	ordinary	shares	at	a	total	cost	of	£632,882	for	the 	
SIP	and	414,854	4p	‘B’	ordinary	shares	at	a	total	cost 	
of	£365,121	and	5,000	‘C’	ordinary	shares	at 	 	
a	total	cost	of	£40,000	for	the	LTIP.
During	the	year	314,325	of	the	40p	‘A’	shares	held	by	
the	Company	as	treasury	shares	were	reissued	in	
connection	with	the	Savings	Related	Share	Option	
Scheme,	the	Executive	Share	Option	Scheme		
and	the	Senior	Executive	Share	Option	Scheme,	
generating	net	cash	proceeds	of	£1,406,859.	A	total	 	
of	1,167,205	40p	‘A’	ordinary	shares	at	28	May	2014	
are	currently	held	as	treasury	shares.
Proposed Off Market Purchase
At	the	Annual	General	Meeting	to	be	held	on 	 	
24	July	2014,	the	Company	will	seek	shareholder 	
authority	for	the	Company	to	purchase	3,558,009 	
4p	‘B’	Shares	from	James	Kendrick	Morgan	and 	
Fiona	MacDonald	Hewitt,	the	executors	of	the 	
estate	of	Mrs	Sylvia	Bridget	Stuart,	by	way	of	an 	 	
off	market	purchase.
F) Share capital and articles 
Information	on	the	Company’s	capital	structure 	
and	related	restrictions	is	given	in	note	26	to	the 	
financial	statements.	Details	of	significant 	
shareholdings	are	given	in	Section	D	above.
Computershare	Trustees	Limited	holds	1.28%	of	the 	
issued	share	capital	of	40p	‘A’	ordinary	shares	on 	 	
behalf	of	employees	of	the	Company	who	are 	
participants	in	its	Share	Incentive	Plan.	In	respect	of 	
the	shares	that	have	been	allocated,	Computershare 	
Trustees	Limited	exercises	voting	rights	in	relation 	
to	those	shares,	having	consulted	with	the 	
participants	about	their	voting	intentions.
The	current	Articles	of	Association	(the	“Articles”) 	
state	that	the	Board	may	appoint	Directors	and 	
that	at	the	subsequent	Annual	General	Meeting, 	
shareholders	may	elect	any	such	Director. 	
Alternatively	the	Company	may	directly	appoint 	 	
a	Director.	The	Articles	also	contain	the	power	for 	
the	Company	to	remove	any	Director	by	special 	
resolution	and	appoint	someone	in	his	place	by 	
ordinary	resolution.	There	are	various	other 	
circumstances	under	the	Articles	which	would 	
mean	that	the	office	of	a	Director	would	be 	
vacated,	including	if	he	resigns,	becomes	of 	
unsound	mind	or	bankrupt.
At	every	Annual	General	Meeting	one-third	of	the 	
Directors	who	are	subject	to	retirement	by	rotation 	
or,	if	their	number	is	not	three	or	any	multiple 	 	
of	three,	then	the	number	nearest	to	but	not 	
exceeding	one-third	shall	retire	from	office	but, 	 	
if	there	is	only	one	Director	who	is	subject	to 	
retirement	by	rotation,	he	shall	retire.	In	addition,	if 	
any	Director	has	at	the	start	of	the	Annual	General 	
Meeting	been	in	office	for	more	than	three	years 	
since	his	last	appointment	or	re-appointment	he 	
shall	retire	at	that	Annual	General	Meeting.
% ‘B’ ordinary shares of 4p each % ‘C’ ordinary shares of 40p each
As at 29 March 2014
and 28 May 2014
As at 29 March 2014
and 28 May 2014
Sir J H F, Messrs A F and E F Fuller 16.26 Sir J H F, Messrs A F and E F Fuller 30.74
J F Russell-Smith Charitable Trust 7.66 Mr T J M Turner 6.14
Mr A G F Fuller 5.72 Mr H D Williams 5.99
A B Earle Charitable Trust 4.62 Miss S M Turner 5.15
The estate of Mrs S B Stuart 4.00 Mrs J Fuller 4.26
Dunarden Limited 3.60 Fuller Family Members Trust 3.98
Mr R D Inverarity 3.52
Mr G F Inverarity 3.48
Mr H D Williams 3.22
Miss S M Turner 3.22
Mr T J M Turner 3.00
% ‘A’ ordinary shares of 40p each
Name
As at
 29 March
2014
As at
28 May
 2014
BlackRock, Inc 10.04 10.16
Aberdeen Asset 
Management PLC  
and its subsidiaries
6.84 8.51
Ameriprise Financial, 
Inc
5.78 5.78
Kames Capital and 
associated entities
3.78 3.82
Dunarden Limited 3.03 3.03 36	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Directors’ Report continued
The	Articles	do	not	contain	any	specific	provisions 	
about	amendments	to	the	Articles	which	are 	
therefore	governed	by	the	relevant	Companies	Act 	
requirements	which	state	that	the	Articles	may 	
only	be	amended	by	Special	Resolution.
Subject	to	the	Company’s	Memorandum	and 	
Articles	of	Association	and	UK	legislation,	the 	
business	of	the	Company	is	managed	by	the	Board 	
which	may	exercise	all	the	powers	of	the	Company.	
The	Articles	of	the	Company	have	a	section 	
entitled	“Powers	and	Duties	of	the	Board”	which 	
sets	out	powers	such	as	the	rights	to	establish	local 	
boards,	to	appoint	agents,	to	delegate	and	to 	
appoint	persons	with	the	designation	“director” 	
without	implying	that	the	person	is	a	Director	of 	
the	Company.	There	are	further	sections	of	the 	
Articles	entitled	“Allotment	of	Shares”	setting	out 	
the	Board’s	power	to	issue	shares	and	purchase	the 	
Company’s	own	shares,	and	entitled	“Borrowing 	
Powers”	setting	out	the	provisions	concerning	the 	
Company’s	power	to	borrow	and	give	security.	The 	
Directors	have	been	authorised	to	allot	and	issue 	
ordinary	shares.	These	powers	are	exercised	under 	
authority	of	resolutions	of	the	Company	passed	at 	
its	Annual	General	Meeting.
The	Group	has	entered	into	a	number	of	agreements 	
with	the	major	brewers	operating	in	the	UK	under 	
which	it	both	buys	and	sells	beers	and	these 	
agreements	may	be	terminated	by	the	other	party 	
should	the	Group	undergo	a	change	of	control.
In	the	event	of	a	change	of	control	the	Company 	 	
is	obliged	to	notify	its	main	bank	Lenders	of	such. 	
The	Lenders	shall	not	be	obliged	to	fund	any	new 	
borrowing	requests	and	the	facilities	will	lapse	after 	
30	days	from	the	change	of	control	if	terms	on 	
which	they	can	continue	have	not	been	agreed. 	 	
All	borrowings	including	accrued	interest	will 	
become	repayable	within	ten	days	of	such	a	lapse.
By	order	of	the	Board
Marie Gracie, FCIS
Company	Secretary
5	June	2014
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. 
Griffin	Brewery 	
Chiswick	Lane	South 	
Chiswick,	London	W4	2QB
Registered	number:	241882  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 37
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
Directors’ Statement
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 
in Respect of the Financial Statements
The	Directors	are	responsible	for	preparing	the 	
Annual	Report	including	the	Strategic	Report,	the 	
Directors’	Remuneration	Report	and	the	Group 	
and	Company	financial	statements,	in	accordance 	
with	applicable	United	Kingdom	law	and	those 	
International	Financial	Reporting	Standards 	
(“IFRSs”)	as	adopted	by	the	European	Union.
Under	Company	Law	the	Directors	must	not 	
approve	the	financial	statements	unless	they	are 	
satisfied	that	they	fairly	present	the	financial 	
position,	financial	performance	and	cash	flows	of 	
the	Company	and	of	the	Group	for	the	financial 	
year.	In	preparing	the	Group	and	Company 	
financial	statements,	the	Directors	are	required	to:
•	 select	suitable	accounting	policies	in	accordance 	
with	IAS	8	Accounting	Policies,	Changes	in 	
Accounting	Estimates	and	Errors	and	then	apply 	
them	 consistently
•	 present	information,	including	accounting 	
policies,	in	a	manner	that	provides	relevant, 	
reliable,	comparable	and	understandable 	
information
•	 provide	additional	disclosures	when	compliance 	
with	the	specific	requirements	in	IFRSs	is 	
insufficient	to	enable	users	to	understand	the 	
impact	of	particular	transactions,	other	events 	
and	conditions	on	the	Group	and	Company’s 	
financial	position	and	financial	performance
•	 state	that	the	Group	and	Company	have 	
complied	with	IFRSs,	subject	to	any	material 	
departures	disclosed	and	explained	in	the 	
financial	statements
•	 make	judgements	and	estimates	that	are 	
reasonable	and	prudent,	and
•	 prepare	the	financial	statements	on	the	going 	
concern	basis	unless	it	is	inappropriate	to 	
presume	that	the	Company	will	continue 	
in	 business.
The	Directors	are	responsible	for	keeping 	
adequate	accounting	records	that	are	sufficient	to 	
show	and	explain	the	Group’s	transactions	and 	
disclose	with	reasonable	accuracy	at	any	time	the 	
financial	position	of	the	Group	and	Company	and 	
enable	them	to	ensure	that	the	financial 	
statements	and	Directors’	Remuneration	Report 	
comply	with	the	Companies	Act	2006	and 	
applicable	regulations,	including	the	requirements 	
of	the	Listing	Rules	and	the	Disclosure	and 	
Transparency	Rules	and	in	the	case	of	the	Group 	
financial	statements,	with	Article	4	of	the	IAS 	
Regulation.	They	are	also	responsible	for 	
safeguarding	the	assets	of	the	Group	and	hence 	
for	taking	reasonable	steps	for	the	prevention	and 	
detection	of	fraud	and	other	irregularities.
The	Directors	are	responsible	for	preparing	the 	
Annual	Report	in	accordance	with	applicable	laws 	
and	regulations.	The	Directors	consider	the	Annual 	
Report	and	the	financial	statements,	taken	as	a 	
whole,	provides	the	information	necessary	to 	
assess	the	Group	and	Company’s	performance, 	
business	model	and	strategy	and	is	fair,	balanced 	
and	understandable.
Statement as to Preparation of Financial 
Statements
The	 Directors	 confirm,	 to	 the	 best	 of	 their	 knowledge:
•	 that	these	financial	statements,	prepared	in 	
accordance	with	IFRS	as	adopted	by	the 	
European	Union,	give	a	true	and	fair	view	of	the 	
assets,	liabilities,	financial	position	and	profit	of 	
the	Group	and	Company	taken	as	a	whole;	and
•	 that	the	Annual	Report,	including	the	Strategic 	
Report,	includes	a	fair	review	of	the	development 	
and	performance	of	the	business	and	the 	
position	of	the	Group	and	Company	taken 	 	
as	a	whole,	together	with	a	description	of	the 	
principal	risks	and	uncertainties	that	they	face.
The	Directors	of	Fuller,	Smith	&	Turner	P.L.C.	are 	
listed	on	pages	32	and	33.
Directors’ Statement as to Disclosure  
of Information to Auditors
The	Directors	who	were	members	of	the	Board	at 	
the	time	of	approving	the	Directors’	Report	are 	
listed	on	pages	32	and	33.	Having	made	enquiries 	
of	fellow	Directors	and	of	the	Company’s	auditors, 	
each	of	these	Directors	confirms	that:
•	 to	the	best	of	each	Director’s	knowledge	and 	
belief,	there	is	no	information	relevant	to	the 	
preparation	of	this	report	of	which	the 	
Company’s	auditors	are	unaware;	and
•	 each	Director	has	taken	all	the	steps	a	Director 	
might	reasonably	be	expected	to	have	taken	to 	
be	aware	of	any	relevant	audit	information	and	to 	
establish	that	the	Company’s	auditors	are	aware 	
of	that	information.
On	behalf	of	the	Board
 
Michael Turner James Douglas
Chairman	 Finance	Director
5	June	2014	 5	June	2014 38	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Corporate Governance Report
“I	am	pleased	to	confirm	that	I	see	it	as	the 	
Chairman’s	responsibility	to	lead	the	Board	and 	
make	sure	it	is	working	effectively.	This	year	we 	 	
are	able	to	report	full	compliance	with	the	UK 	
Corporate	Governance	Code	(the	“Code”).	There 	
are	several	key	issues	that	I	wanted	to	comment	on. 	
One	of	these	is	the	issue	of	succession	planning. 	
This	is	a	complex	topic	for	a	business	that	has	very 	
low	turnover	amongst	its	senior	management	and 	
is	still	very	much	a	family	controlled	concern	whilst 	
also	being	a	listed	public	company.	However, 	
succession	plans	continue	to	be	discussed	both	at 	
Executive	 Committee	 and	 Board	 level.	 Throughout	
the	rest	of	the	business,	succession	plans	are	in 	
place	at	departmental	level	and	are	reviewed 	
regularly	by	the	relevant	Directors	in	conjunction 	
with	their	Executive	colleagues	and	their	personnel 	
advisors.	Furthermore,	all	department	plans	are 	
compiled	into	a	Company	succession	plan	which 	
provides	effective	review	of	cross-departmental 	
promotion	and	opportunities. 	
In	terms	of	Board	balance,	I	chair	the	Nominations 	
Committee	and	am	personally	involved	in	all 	
Board	level	recruitment	so	I	am	able	to	ensure	that 	
we	continue	to	have	a	good	balance	of	skills, 	
experience,	independence	and	knowledge	on	our 	
Board	and	our	Board	Committees.	I	am	satisfied 	
that	our	Board	is	comprised	of	the	right	individuals 	
who	have	the	skills	required	to	run	this	type	of 	
business	and	to	respond	to	the	challenges	presented 	
by	the	continually	changing	environment	in	which 	
we	operate.	The	Board	recognises	the	importance 	
of	all	types	of	diversity	for	Board	effectiveness	and 	
has	recently	reviewed	the	Company’s	equal 	
opportunities	policy.	We	continue	to	believe	that 	
appointments	should	be	made	on	the	basis	of 	
merit	against	the	selection	criteria	for	any 	
particular	role. 	
We	believe	that	you	can	only	have	an	effective 	
Board	when	all	members	understand	what	is 	
required	of	them	and	when	they	all	have	time 	 	
to	conduct	their	duties.	All	of	our	Directors	have 	
detailed	appointment	letters	or	contracts	which 	 	
set	out	their	duties	.	We	confirm	that	appointment 	
letters	for	Non-Executive	Directors	set	out	the 	
expected	time	commitment	required.	We	also 	
have	a	policy	that	the	Directors	can	only	take	on 	
additional	roles	with	Board	approval.	In	line	with 	
the	Code,	the	terms	of	appointment	for	all	our 	
Non-Executives	specifically	state	that	the	role 	 	
of	the	Non-Executive	Directors	is	to	challenge 	 	
and	help	develop	strategy.
Finally	I	would	like	shareholders	to	understand	that 	
I	am	in	charge	of	our	annual	Board	evaluation 	
process.	I	am	aware	that	larger	PLCs	are	required 	
to	seek	external	assistance	with	this	process	but 	 	
do	not	believe	that	such	a	process	would	be	likely 	
to	add	extra	value	as	long	as	our	own	process	is 	
robust.	I	believe	that	we	have	that	robustness	and 	
that	the	process	encourages	a	healthy	debate	on 	
things	that	could	be	improved.”
A) Introduction and compliance
The	Board	of	Directors	is	committed	to	the	highest 	
standards	of	corporate	governance	and	believes 	
that	such	standards	are	critical	to	overall	business 	
integrity	and	performance.	This	report	explains 	
how	the	Company	applies	the	principles	of	the 	
Code	which	shareholders	can	find	on	the	Financial 	
Reporting	Council’s	website	at	www.frc.org.uk.
The	Company	has	complied	with	the	requirements	
of	the	Code,	as	applicable	to	a	smaller	quoted 	
company,	throughout	the	financial	year.
The	information	that	is	required	by	Code	provision 	
C.1.2	on	the	business	model	and	the	strategy	for 	
delivering	the	Company’s	objectives	can	be	found 	
in	the	Strategic	Report	on	page	6	to	29.	The 	
information	relating	to	the	share	capital	of	the 	
Company	that	is	required	by	DTR	7.2.6R	can	be 	
found	within	the	Directors’	Report,	sections	E	and	F 	
on	pages	35	and	36.
B) The Board
The Board’s Role
The	Board	of	Directors	is	collectively	responsible 	 	
to	the	shareholders	for	the	performance	and	long 	
term	success	of	the	Group.	Its	role	includes	the 	
establishment,	review	and	monitoring	of	strategic 	
objectives,	approval	of	major	acquisitions,	disposals 	
and	capital	expenditure,	ownership	of	the 	
corporate	values,	overseeing	the	Group’s	systems 	
of	internal	control,	governance	and	risk 	
management	and	ensuring	that	the	appropriate 	
resources	are	in	place	to	deliver	these	and	fulfil 	 	
the	Company’s	obligations	to	its	stakeholders.
How the Board Works
The	Board	governs	through	its	executive 	
management,	and	formally	via	its	other	clearly 	
mandated	Committees.	Each	standing	Board 	
Committee	has	specific	written	terms	of	reference 	
which	are	reviewed	by	the	Board	annually	and 	
there	is	a	formal	list	of	Matters	Reserved	for	the 	
Board	(which	is	also	reviewed	annually).	This 	
distinguishes	between	matters	reserved	for	the 	
Board	and	Executive	Committee	decisions. 	 	
The	terms	of	reference	of	the	Audit,	Remuneration 	
and	Nominations	Committees	are	available	on	the 	
Company’s	website.	All	Committee	Chairmen 	
report	orally	on	the	proceedings	of	their 	
Committees	at	the	next	meeting	of	the	Board,	and 	
the	minutes	of	the	meetings	of	all	Board	Committees 	
(with	some	exceptions	on	remuneration	matters) 	
are	provided	to	Board	members.	The	Chairman 	
ensures	that	the	Executive	Directors	provide 	
accurate	and	timely	information	for	Board 	
meetings	which	is	then	open	to	debate	and 	
challenge	by	all.	Meetings	enjoy	open	dialogue 	 	
and	constructive	challenge	on	all	issues	is 	
encouraged.	With	a	good	information	flow 	
Michael Turner
Chairman  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 39
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
between	and	prior	to	Board	meetings,	decisions 	
are	made	in	a	timely	manner	after	appropriate 	
questions	are	dealt	with.	The	Board	has	adopted 	 	
a	procedure,	in	accordance	with	the	Company’s 	
Articles,	to	consider	and,	if	it	sees	fit,	to	authorise 	
situations	where	a	Director	has	an	interest	that 	
conflicts,	or	may	possibly	conflict,	with	the	interests 	
of	the	Company.
Board Meetings
The	Board	meets	formally	at	least	six	times	a	year 	
with	papers	circulated	a	week	in	advance	and	the 	
agenda	and	papers	for	these	meetings	are	subject 	
to	the	scrutiny	of	the	Chairman	and	the	Company 	
Secretary.	However	the	Board	regularly	considers 	
matters	on	an	ad	hoc	basis	between	scheduled 	
meetings.	The	Executive	Committee	meets 	
formally	at	least	eleven	times	a	year	and	also 	 	
meets	informally	most	weeks.	There	is	thus 	 	
a	regular	flow	of	information	at	Board	and 	
Executive	 Committee	 level.
At	Board	meetings	the	agendas	cover	projects, 	
analysis	of	the	market	in	which	the	Group	operates 	
and	performance.	Each	of	the	Executive	Directors 	
and	the	Company	Secretary	also	update	the	Board 	
at	each	meeting	on	matters	for	which	they	are 	
responsible.	The	Board	is	responsible	for	approving 	
the	annual	budget	and	the	annual	and	half	year 	
results.	The	Board	also	meets	away	from	the 	
Griffin	Brewery	every	year	for	an	in-depth	review 	 	
of	corporate	strategy,	and	other	agenda	items 	
might	include	an	update	on	the	economy	and	a 	
review	of	the	Group’s	competitors.	The	Non-
Executive	Directors	from	time	to	time	meet	with 	
members	of	the	senior	management	team	at	the 	
Brewery	and	also	spend	days	out	in	the	trade	with 	
individual	members	of	that	team.	This	helps	to 	
keep	the	Non-Executive	Directors	up	to	date	with 	
the	operations	of	the	Group	and	also	provides	the 	
Executive	Directors	with	valuable	feedback	about 	
the	Company’s	people	and	its	operations.
The	Executive	Committee	is	chaired	by	Simon 	
Emeny	and	its	meetings	focus	on	the	detail	of	the 	
Group’s	performance.	The	Finance	Director	leads 	
a	review	of	the	Group’s	management	accounts	and 	
presents	updates	on	treasury	and	credit	control. 	
Each	Executive	Director	and	the	Company 	
Secretary	update	their	colleagues	on	the	key	issues 	
facing	their	part	of	the	business.	There	is	a	good 	
level	of	consultation	and	debate	at	these	meetings. 	
The	list	of	Matters	Reserved	for	the	Board	sets	out 	
which	matters	need	Board	approval	and	which 	
decisions	can	be	made	at	Executive	Committee 	
level.	Most	significant	business	decisions	are	made 	
by	the	Board,	but	matters	such	as	health	and	safety 	
policy	and	approving	major	contracts	are	taken	at 	
Executive	Committee	level.	At	the	beginning	of 	
most	Executive	Committee	meetings	a	Senior 	
Manager	is	invited	to	join	the	meeting	and	talk 	 	
to	the	Committee	about	the	issues	in	their 	
department.	Three	times	a	year,	all	of	the	divisional 	
directors	and	financial	controllers	join	together 	
with	the	Executive	Committee	to	conduct 	 	
a	detailed	review	of	the	half	year	and	full	year 	
accounts,	and	to	construct	the	annual	budget, 	
before	these	are	debated	at	Board	level. 	
As	well	as	the	dialogue	within	the	boardroom, 	 	
the	Non-Executive	Directors	meet	privately, 	 	
under	the	leadership	of	the	Senior	Independent 	
Director,	without	the	Executive	Directors	present. 	
They	also	meet	with	the	Chairman	and	the	Chief 	
Executive	on	a	regular	basis.	These	meetings	allow 	
for	the	review	of	issues	faced	by	the	business, 	 	
the	continuation	of	dialogue	on	strategic	issues, 	 	
the	discussion	of	Board	appointments	when 	
appropriate,	succession	planning,	and	the 	 	
provision	of	support	to	the	Chairman	and 	 	
the	Chief	Executive	in	their	roles.
Board and Committee  
Meeting Attendance 2013/2014
Main
Board Meetings
Executive Board
 Meetings
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Total number of formal meetings 5 11 4 4
Committee Memberships
Main Board
Meetings
Executive Committee
 Meetings
Audit
Committee
Remuneration
 Committee
Michael Turner, Chairman Nominations 5 3* ** **
Executive Directors 
Simon Emeny 5 11 ** **
James Douglas 5 11 ** –
Richard Fuller 5 11 – –
Ian Bray 4 11 – –
Jonathon Swaine 5 11 – –
Non-Executive Directors
John Dunsmore
Audit, Remuneration,
Nominations 5 – 3 3
Sir James Fuller 5 – – –
Lynn Fordham
Audit, Remuneration,
Nominations 4 – 4 4
Alastair Kerr Audit, Remuneration 5 – 4 4
*	 Michael	Turner	attended	the	three	meetings	that	were	held	before	he	became	Non-Executive	Chairman.	After	July	2013	he	no	longer	attended	Executive	Committee	meetings.
**These	Directors	are	not	members	of	the	Committees	but	are	invited	to	be	in	attendance	at	meetings. 40	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Corporate Governance Report continued
Attendance at Board and  
Committee Meetings
The	table	above	gives	details	of	attendance	at 	
Board	and	Committee	meetings	during	the	year.
The	Board	believes	that	all	of	its	members	have 	
sufficient	time	to	discharge	their	duties	effectively. 	
All	Directors	are	required	to	seek	permission 	
before	accepting	any	external	appointments, 	
therefore	Board	members	are	kept	fully	aware 	 	
of	their	colleagues’	other	commitments.
Composition and Balance of the Board
On	1	July	2013,	Simon	Emeny	became	Chief 	
Executive	and	Michael	Turner	continued	as 	
Chairman	but	in	a	Non-Executive	capacity.	Apart 	
from	this,	there	were	no	changes	to	the	Board. 	
Michael	Turner	is	responsible	for	leading	the	Board 	
and	ensuring	its	effectiveness	and	openness,	and 	
that	 communications	 with	 shareholders	 are	 valuable.	
The	Chairman	does	not	have	any	commitments 	
which	constrain	his	ability	to	fulfil	his	role.	Simon 	
Emeny	is	responsible	for	all	operational	aspects 	 	
of	the	Group.
Currently	the	Company	has	four	Non-Executive 	
Directors,	one	of	whom	(Sir	James	Fuller)	is	a	family 	
member.	This	representation	is	very	important 	 	
in	a	Company	with	a	high	proportion	of	family 	
shareholders.	The	other	three	Non-Executive 	
Directors,	all	of	whom	are	deemed	independent 	
under	the	Code,	are	experienced	business	leaders 	
and	all	of	the	Non-Executives	bring	a	wide	range	of 	
skills	and	experiences	to	the	Board.	The	Directors 	
consider	that	the	Board	is	well-balanced	as	it	has 	
the	right	number	of	members	for	the	size	of	the 	
Group	and	the	Directors	agree	that	no	one 	
individual	dominates	discussions	and	that	each 	
makes	a	full	and	positive	contribution.	The 	
Directors’	biographies	are	on	pages	32	and	33.	John 	
Dunsmore	is	the	Senior	Independent	Director	and 	
an	industry	expert	who	brings	knowledge,	support 	
and	advice	to	the	Chairman	and	all	the	other 	
Board	members;	he	is	in	regular	dialogue	with	all 	
Board	members	outside	of	Board	meetings	and 	
co-ordinates	the	views	of	the	Non-Executive 	
Directors	as	and	when	required.	All	of	the 	
Independent	Non-Executive	Directors	are 	
determined	by	the	Board	to	be	independent 	 	
in	character	and	judgement	and	there	are	no 	
relationships	or	circumstances	which	could	affect 	
or	appear	to	affect	their	judgement;	all	are 	
appointed	for	specified	terms.	The	details	of	the 	
Non-Executive	Directors’	respective	arrangements 	
are	as	set	out	in	the	Directors’	Remuneration 	
Report	on	pages	44	to	61	and	are	available	for 	
inspection	at	the	Company’s	registered	office.
Advice for the Board
There	is	in	place	a	procedure	under	which 	
Directors	can	obtain	independent	professional 	
advice.	The	Directors	also	have	access	to	the 	
advice	and	services	of	the	Company	Secretary 	
who	is	responsible	to	the	Board	for	ensuring	that 	
Board	procedures	are	complied	with.	The 	
Directors	are	satisfied	that	any	concerns	they	raise 	
at	Board	meetings	are	recorded	in	the	minutes. 	
The	Company	maintains	appropriate	insurance 	
cover	in	respect	of	legal	action	against	its	Directors 	
and	Officers.
Professional Development
All	Directors	attend	training	courses,	industry 	
forums	and	specialist	briefings	relevant	to	their	role 	
throughout	the	year.	Occasionally,	specialists	such 	
as	the	Company’s	actuary	or	corporate	lawyer	join 	
a	Board	meeting	to	brief	the	Board	on	a	particular 	
topic.	Both	the	Board	and	the	Executive	Committee 	
visit	Group	pubs	and	hotels	as	part	of	the	Board 	
meeting	programme.	On	these	and	on	other 	
occasions,	Board	meetings	may	be	held	in	the 	
Group’s	pubs,	with	the	aim	of	keeping	the	Directors	
familiar	with	the	Group’s	estate.	Executive 	
Directors	are	permitted	to	hold	one	other	paid 	
directorship,	with	the	Board’s	consent,	as	the	Board 	
believes	that	experience	of	how	other	boards	work 	
enhances	the	Directors’	contribution	to	Fuller’s. 	
Simon	Emeny	currently	holds	such	a	Directorship 	
at	Dunelm	Group	plc.
Board Evaluation
The	Chairman	conducts	an	annual	evaluation	of 	
the	Board,	where	all	Board	members	are	asked	to 	
rate	the	Board’s	work	across	a	number	of	different 	
topics,	with	constructive	criticism	encouraged,	via 	
the	medium	of	a	questionnaire.	The	questionnaire 	
includes	questions	on	the	balance	of	skills,	experience, 	
independence	and	knowledge,	diversity	(including 	
gender	diversity),	how	the	Board	works	as	a	unit 	
and	other	factors	relevant	to	its	effectiveness. 	
Where	necessary	the	Chairman	seeks	clarification 	
on	the	responses	given;	he	then	consolidates	the 	
responses	and	reports	back	to	the	Board,	highlighting 	
significant	improvements	and	deteriorations	in	any 	
particular	area	by	comparing	results	with	previous 	
years’	outputs	and	agreeing	actions	to	tackle	any 	
areas	requiring	improvement.	Unattributed 	
comments	of	significance	are	shared	with	all. 	 	
This	year	the	results	were	fractionally	lower	than 	
last	year’s	very	high	scores,	although	most	scores 	
for	individual	questions	were	above	the	scorings	for 	
last	year.	The	results	did	provide	some	insight	into 	
areas	that	could	still	be	improved	further	and	these 	
were	debated	at	a	Board	meeting	and	were	the 	
Chairman’s	focus	in	terms	of	follow	up.	The	Audit 	
and	Remuneration	Committees	conduct	similar 	
assessments	and	their	work	is	also	commented 	
upon	in	the	evaluation	conducted	by	the	Chairman.	
This	year	both	the	Audit	and	Remuneration 	
Committees	updated	their	questionnaires	to	make 	
them	more	comprehensive	and	more	consistent 	
with	each	other.	The	Senior	Non-Executive 	
Director	annually	appraises	the	Chairman’s 	
performance,	having	first	consulted	with	the	other 	
Non-Executive	Directors	and	also	the	Executive 	
team.	The	appraisal	of	the	other	Executive 	
Directors	and	the	Company	Secretary	is 	
conducted	annually	by	the	Chairman	or	Chief 	
Executive	and,	as	part	of	the	appraisal	process, 	
individual	training	and	development	needs	are 	
discussed.	The	annual	appraisal	of	the	Non-
Executive	Directors	is	conducted	by	the	Chairman, 	
following	consultation	with	the	Executive	team.
Board Re-election
The	Articles	of	Association	of	the	Company 	 	
ensure	that	all	Directors	are	subject	to	election	by 	
shareholders	at	the	first	Annual	General	Meeting 	
(“AGM”)	after	their	appointment	and	to	re-election 	
at	three	yearly	intervals.
C) Board Committees
The Nominations Committee
The	Nominations	Committee	Chairman	is	Michael 	
Turner	and	the	other	members	are	John	Dunsmore 	
and	Lynn	Fordham.	It	is	responsible	for	nominating 	
candidates	for	appointment	as	Directors,	for	approval 	
by	 the	 Board	 although	 the	 full	 Board	 will	 also	 typically	
informally	discuss	Board	appointments.	The 	
Committee	did	not	meet	during	the	year	as	no 	
appointments	were	made.	The	Board	has	recently 	
reviewed	the	Company’s	equal	opportunities	policy 	
which	requires	that	all	who	work	for	the	Company 	
have	appropriate	regard	for	diversity	in	their	decision 	
making.	The	Board	also	discussed	Lord	Davies’ 	
recommendations,	but	does	not	believe	that	setting 	
percentage	targets	for	the	number	of	women	on	the 	
Board	is	appropriate,	given	the	key	principle	of 	
appointing	on	merit.	As	and	when	board	vacancies 	
arise	and	should	the	support	of	an	executive	search 	
firm	be	required,	the	Board	and	the	Nominations 	
Committee	will	ensure	that	it	only	uses	firms	that 	
have	signed	up	to	their	industry’s	Voluntary	Code 	 	
of	Conduct	(prepared	in	response	to	Lord	Davies’ 	
report).	Further	information	on	gender	diversity 	
across	the	business	can	be	found	in	the	Corporate 	
and	Social	Responsibility	Report	on	page	27.
The Remuneration Committee
Information	about	the	Remuneration	Committee 	
and	Remuneration	Policy	is	given	in	the	Directors’ 	
Remuneration	Report.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 41
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
The Audit Committee
Significant Issue How the issue was addressed
Impairment testing The	Committee	considered	the	proposed	impairment	of	property	assets	for	both	the	Half	Year	Report	and 	
the	Annual	Report.	The	Committee	was	satisfied	with	the	approach	presented	by	management	and	the 	
judgements	made	for	those	properties	at	risk	of	impairment.
Pension accounting The	Committee	considered	the	accounting	for	the	Group’s	defined	benefit	plan	including	the	impact	on	the 	
Group’s	accounting	policies	following	the	implementation	of	IAS	19	(revised)	Employee	Benefits	in	the	year.
The	Committee	was	satisfied	with	the	proposed	accounting	treatment	and	revised	disclosures	in	the 	 	
financial	statements.
Exceptional items The	Committee	considered	the	nature	of	items	classified	as	‘Exceptional’	in	the	financial	statements. 	 	
The	Committee	was	satisfied	that	the	items	management	proposed	to	show	as	exceptional	are	not 	 	
linked	to	the	underlying	trading	of	the	Group. 	
Exceptional	items	continue	to	include:
•	 Profit	or	loss	on	property	disposals
•	 Business	acquisition	costs	expensed
•	 Changes	to	onerous	leases	provisions
•	 Net	charge	on	property	impairment
•	 Net	movement	on	revaluation	of	financial	instruments	that	do	not	meet	the	requirements 	 	
for	hedge	accounting.
It	was	also	decided	to	show	the	one-off	reorganisational	costs	incurred	in	the	year	and	the	net	interest 	
expense	on	the	Group’s	defined	benefit	pension	plan	as	exceptional	as	neither	is	associated	with	the	Group’s 	
underlying	trading.
Lynn Fordham
Chairman	of	the	Audit	Committee
The	Audit	Committee	of	the	Board,	chaired	by 	
Lynn	Fordham,	comprises	the	three	Independent 	
Non-Executive	Directors	and	meets	at	least	four 	
times	a	year.	The	members	of	the	Audit 	
Committee	consider	that	they	have	the	requisite 	
skills	and	experience	to	fulfil	the	responsibilities	of 	
the	Committee.	In	addition,	the	Chairman,	the 	
Chief	Executive,	the	Finance	Director	and 	
members	of	the	finance	team	join	the	meetings	on 	
a	regular	basis	as	do	the	external	Audit	Partner	and 	
Audit	Manager.
The	Chairman	of	the	Audit	Committee 	
encourages	comprehensive	debate	and	scrutiny 	 	
of	management’s	and	auditors’	reports	by	the 	
Committee	members.	She	also	meets	with	the 	
manager	responsible	for	internal	audits,	the 	
external	Audit	Partner	and	the	Finance	Director 	
outside	of	Audit	Committee	meetings	to	give 	
them	the	opportunity	to	raise	any	concerns	they 	
may	have	about	their	work	or	their	roles	and	to 	
provide	advice	and	support	as	required. 	
The	Audit	Committee’s	responsibilities	are 	
outlined	in	the	Committee’s	terms	of	reference 	
and	cover	all	those	matters	required	by	the	Code. 	
The	Committee	has	a	meeting	planner	which	sets 	
out	the	key	items	to	be	covered	at	its	regular 	
meetings	which	include	reviewing	the	financial 	
statements	and	announcements,	monitoring 	
changes	in	accounting	practices	and	policies	and 	
reviewing	decisions	with	a	significant	element	of 	
judgement.	In	addition,	the	Audit	Committee	is 	
responsible	for	ensuring	that	the	Company’s	risk 	
monitoring	programme,	internal	audit	processes 	
and	regulatory	compliance	are	appropriate.	At	all 	
meetings	an	update	on	risk	management	is 	
presented.	The	Chairman	of	the	Committee 	
encourages	debate	and	discussion	of	topical	issues 	
outside	of	the	routine	agenda	items	and	ensures 	
that	such	discussions	are	held	at	least	twice	a	year. 	
The	Audit	Committee	has	responsibility	for 	 	
the	oversight	of	the	external	audit	function. 	 	
At	the	request	of	the	Board,	the	Audit	Committee 	
provides	confirmation	to	the	Board	as	to	how	it	has 	
discharged	its	responsibilities	so	that	the	Board 	 	
can	be	satisfied	that	information	presented	in	the 	
Annual	Report	is	fair,	balanced	and	understandable.	
During	its	review	of	the	Group’s	financial 	
statements	for	the	year	to	29	March	2014,	the 	
Audit	Committee	considered	the	following 	
significant	issues,	including	those	communicated 	
by	the	Auditors	during	their	reporting: 42	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Corporate Governance Report continued
Significant Issue How the issue was addressed
Acquisition of Cornish Orchards  
and Sierra Nevada
The	Committee	considered	separately	the	proposed	accounting	for	the	acquisitions	of	Cornish	Orchards 	
Limited	and	the	business	of	importing	and	distributing	Sierra	Nevada	products	in	the	United	Kingdom.
In	both	cases,	the	Committee	received	papers	detailing	the	proposed	accounting	and	judgements	made. 	 	
The	Committee	was	satisfied	with	the	approaches	taken.
Leases – in particular impairment  
and onerous leases
The	Committee	considered	the	proposed	accounting	for	onerous	lease	commitments	based	on	the 	
individual	circumstances	of	a	number	of	properties.	In	all	cases,	the	Committee	was	satisfied	with	the 	
proposed	accounting	treatment.
Going concern The	Committee	is	satisfied	that	the	Directors	have	considered	a	number	of	possible	cash	flow	scenarios	and 	
have	determined	that	the	Group	has	adequate	resources,	an	appropriate	financial	structure	and	suitable 	
management	arrangements	in	place	to	continue	in	operational	existence	for	the	foreseeable	future.
The	Committee	acknowledges	that	the	Group’s	banking	facilities	expire	in	a	period	less	than	12	months 	 	
from	the	date	of	the	financial	statements.	Having	made	sufficient	enquiries	of	management	and	the	Finance 	
Director,	the	Committee	is	satisfied	that	the	Group	will	have	no	difficulty	in	continuing	to	borrow	at	levels 	 	
that	will	allow	the	Group	to	continue	in	operational	existence	for	the	foreseeable	future.
The	Board	was	made	fully	aware	of	any	significant 	
financial	reporting	issues	and	judgements	made 	 	
in	connection	with	the	preparation	of	the 	 	
financial	statements. 	
Other	items	discussed	in	the	year	included	the 	
accounting	for	gains	on	property	disposals,	taxation,	
discussion	of	the	Company’s	risk	management 	
process,	consideration	of	selected	individual	risks 	
from	the	risk	register,	discussion	of	the	internal 	
audit	work	completed	during	the	year	and	progress 	
on	actions	arising	from	both	risk	management	and 	
internal	audits.
The	Audit	Committee	has	a	primary	responsibility 	
for	making	recommendations	to	the	Board	on	the 	
re-appointment	and	removal	of	external	auditors. 	
During	the	year,	the	Company	put	the	role	of	the 	
auditors	to	tender	and	following	an	additional 	
meeting	of	the	Committee	in	July,	at	which	tenders 	
from	three	firms	for	audit	services	were	received, 	
the	decision	to	appoint	Grant	Thornton	UK	LLP 	
was	made.	The	Company’s	year	ended	29	March 	
2014	is	therefore	the	first	of	a	five	year	maximum 	
term	that	the	current	Audit	Partner	has	been	in	the 	
role	for	the	Company.
There	is	in	place	a	whistle	blowing	policy,	which 	 	
is	overseen	by	the	Audit	Committee,	and	which 	
allows	staff	to	raise	any	concerns	in	confidence, 	
directly	with	the	Chairman	of	the	Audit 	
Committee.	Posters	reminding	staff	about	the 	
existence	of	the	policy	and	how	it	may	be	used 	 	
are	reissued	annually	in	order	to	maintain	a	good 	
awareness	of	the	whistle	blowing	arrangements 	
throughout	the	Company. 	
The	Committee	also	reviewed	its	own 	
effectiveness	during	the	year.
The	Directors’	statement	on	the	Company’s 	
system	of	internal	controls	is	set	out	on	page	37.
D) Accountability
Auditors
The	Committee	is	happy	for	the	Board	to 	
recommend	to	shareholders	the	re-election	of 	
Grant	Thornton	UK	LLP	who	were	appointed	in 	
September	2013	following	a	formal	tender	process 	
outlined	above.	Their	effectiveness	will	be	formally 	
reviewed	by	the	Committee	at	the	September 	
2014	meeting,	although	there	are	no	issues	of 	
concern	with	their	performance	to	date.
The	Group’s	auditors	may	from	time	to	time 	
provide	non-audit	services	to	the	Company. 	 	
The	fees	paid	to	Grant	Thornton	UK	LLP	for	audit 	
services	were	£88,000,	for	audit	related	services 	
were	£16,000	and	for	non-audit	related	services 	
were	£4,000.	The	Committee	imposes	an	upper 	
limit	of	£50,000	per	annum	on	the	amount	that 	
the	finance	team	can	spend	with	the	auditors	for 	
non-audit	items	without	specific	approval	from	the 	
Committee.	It	is	Group	policy	to	seek	quotations 	
from	multiple	providers	for	significant	non-audit 	
services	and	only	to	appoint	the	provider	(which 	 	
could	then	be	the	auditors)	that	offers	the	best 	
combination	of	price	and	expertise.	The	non-audit 	
services	were	provided	in	the	year	by	a	team 	
independent	of	those	providing	audit	services.
Internal Control and Risk Management
The	Board	has	overall	responsibility	for	the	Group’s 	
system	of	internal	control	and	management	of	risks 	
and	reviewing	its	effectiveness.	The	system	is 	
designed	to	provide	reasonable	but	not	absolute 	
assurance	of:
•	 The	mitigation	of	risks	which	might	cause	the 	
failure	of	business	objectives
•	 No	material	misstatements	or	losses
•	 The	safeguarding	of	assets	against	unauthorised 	
use	or	disposition
•	 The	maintenance	of	proper	accounting	records 	
and	the	reliability	of	financial	information	used 	
within	the	business	or	for	publication
•	 Compliance	with	applicable	laws	and	regulations.
The	business	maintains	business	continuity	plans, 	
and	exercises	these	plans	on	an	annual	basis.
Management	within	the	Finance	Department	are 	
responsible	for	the	appropriate	maintenance	of 	
financial	records	and	processes	that	ensure	that 	 	
all	financial	information	is	relevant,	reliable, 	 	
in	accordance	with	the	applicable	laws	and 	 	
regulations,	and	distributed	both	internally	and 	
externally	in	a	timely	manner.	A	review	of	the 	
financial	statements	is	completed	by	management 	
to	ensure	that	the	financial	position	and	results	of 	
the	Group	are	appropriately	reflected.	All	financial 	
information	published	by	the	Group	is	subject	to 	
the	review	of	the	Audit	Committee.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 43
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
The	Board	has	reviewed	the	effectiveness	of	the 	
Group’s	system	of	internal	control	which	has	also 	
been	discussed	in	detail	by	the	Audit	Committee, 	
including	taking	account	of	material	developments 	
since	the	year	end.	The	review	covers	all	material 	
controls	including	financial	and	operational 	
controls,	compliance	and	risk	management 	
systems.	Where	weaknesses	are	identified,	actions 	
to	address	them	are	agreed. 	
The	Board	has	procedures	in	place	necessary	to 	
follow	the	Turnbull	Guidance	(“Internal	Control: 	
Guidance	for	Directors	on	the	Combined	Code”) 	
for	the	full	financial	year.	The	Financial	and	Risk 	
Analyst	co-ordinates	this	process	by	leading	regular 	
risk	assessment	workshops	in	which	new	risks	are 	
identified	and	added	to	the	risk	register,	and 	
existing	risks	re-evaluated	by	the	risk	owners. 	
Regular	meetings,	chaired	by	the	Executive 	
Directors,	are	held	in	addition	to	the	workshops 	 	
in	order	to	assess	the	effectiveness	of	the	controls 	
that	are	in	place,	identify	new	risks	and	review 	
existing	risk	mitigation	plans. 	
Key	elements	of	the	system	of	internal	control 	
designed	to	address	significant	risks	and 	
uncertainties,	as	documented	on	pages	22 	 	
and	23,	include:
•	 Clearly	defined	levels	of	responsibility	and 	
delegation	throughout	the	Group,	together	with 	
well-structured	reporting	lines	up	to	the	Board
•	 The	preparation	of	comprehensive	annual 	
budgets	for	each	division,	including	commentary 	
on	key	business	opportunities	and	risks,	approved 	
by	the	Executive	Directors	and	further	reviewed 	
by	the	Board	on	a	consolidated	basis
•	 An	Executive	Committee	review	of	actual 	
monthly	results	against	budget,	together	with 	
commentary	on	significant	variances	and 	
updates	of	both	profit	and	cash	flow	expectations 	
for	the	year
•	 A	detailed	investment	approval	process	requiring 	
Board	authorisation	for	all	major	projects
•	 Detailed	post-implementation	appraisals	of 	
major	capital	expenditure	projects
•	 Regular	reporting	of	legal	and	accounting 	
developments	to	the	Board
•	 Regular	review	of	the	Group’s	risk	register	and 	
discussion	of	significant	risks	by	the	Board	and 	
Audit	Committee,	which	among	other	things 	
takes	account	of	the	significance	of 	
environmental,	social	and	governance	matters 	 	
to	the	business
•	 Monitoring	of	accident	statistics	and	the	results 	 	
of	health	and	safety	audits
•	 Maintenance	of	an	ISO	900	certified	quality 	
control	system.
The	Group	does	not	have	a	formal	internal	audit 	
function	and,	after	a	review	by	the	Audit	Committee 	
and	the	Board,	the	Board	has	confirmed	that	it 	
believes	that	the	existing	arrangements	for	internal 	
audit	are	appropriate.	Management	may	from	time 	
to	time	augment	the	internal	resource	for	these 	
audits	with	specialist	external	resources.	The 	
Group	carries	out	internal	audits	on	financial	areas 	
according	to	a	programme	agreed	between	the 	
Audit	Committee	and	the	Finance	Director	and 	
with	input	from	the	other	Executive	Directors	and 	
the	external	auditors	as	appropriate.	The	audits 	 	
are	co-ordinated	by	an	experienced	senior 	
member	of	the	finance	team	and	are	undertaken 	
by	other	members	of	the	finance	team;	in	each 	
case	the	person	undertaking	the	audit	is 	
independent	of	the	area	which	is	the	subject	of	the 	
audit.	The	internal	audit	reports,	the	management 	
responses	and	the	recommended	actions	are 	
presented	in	summary	form	to	the	Audit 	
Committee	on	a	regular	basis.	There	are	also	in 	
place	procedures	to	ensure	recommended	actions 	
are	implemented.	During	the	year,	audits	were 	
performed	on	payroll	systems	and	controls,	the 	
Fuller’s	Inns	cash	controls	and	hotel	commissions 	
accounting	as	well	as	a	number	of	reviews	on	other 	
internal	processes. 	
In	addition,	the	Group	employs	a	team	of	retail 	
business	auditors	who	monitor	the	controls	in 	
place	in	the	Managed	Pub	estate,	in	particular 	
those	over	stock	and	cash.	This	team	reports 	
directly	to	the	Fuller’s	Inns	Financial	Controller	but 	
their	Manager	attends	Audit	Committee	meetings 	
twice	a	year	to	discuss	the	progress	his	team	is 	
making	and	the	issues	they	are	dealing	with.
E) Relations with shareholders
The	Company	has	an	ongoing	programme	of 	
individual	meetings	with	institutional	shareholders, 	
allowing	the	Company	to	update	shareholders	on 	
the	performance	of	the	business	and	the	strategy 	
for	the	future,	and	to	give	shareholders	an 	
opportunity	to	discuss	corporate	governance 	
matters.	The	Company’s	brokers	contact	key 	
shareholders	to	establish	if	they	would	like	to	see 	 	
the	Chief	Executive	and	Finance	Director	in	the 	
days	following	their	presentation	to	the	City	on	the 	
preliminary	and	half	year	results.	The	Chairman, 	
Richard	Fuller	and	Sir	James	Fuller	are	the	key 	
contacts	with	the	Company’s	family	shareholders 	
and	Sir	James	Fuller	has	a	specific	role	to	keep	in 	
touch	with	those	shareholders.	The	Senior 	
Independent	Director	and	the	other	Non-
Executive	Directors	are	all	willing	to	attend 	
meetings	with	shareholders	or	to	be	contacted	by 	
shareholders	should	they	have	any	concerns	which 	
have	not	been	resolved	through	the	normal 	
channels.	The	Non-Executive	Directors	have	had 	
no	such	requests	during	the	last	financial	year.	All 	
Board	members	receive	copies	of	feedback	reports 	
from	the	City	presentations	and	meetings	with 	
shareholders,	thus	keeping	them	in	touch	with 	
shareholder	opinion.
The	Board	supports	the	use	of	the	Annual	General 	
Meeting	 to	 communicate,	 in	 particular,	 with	 private	
investors,	and	the	Chairman	and	Chief	Executive 	
make	a	detailed	presentation	to	shareholders 	
updating	them	on	the	Company’s	performance 	
and	progress.	The	Public	Relations	team	also 	
attends	the	Annual	General	Meeting	and	provides 	
further	information	to	shareholders	about	the 	
Company	through	photo	boards	featuring	pub 	 	
and	product	information.	The	Board	is	also	keen 	 	
to	encourage	institutional	investors	to	attend	the 	
meeting.	In	line	with	the	duties	set	out	in	the 	
Stewardship	Code	for	institutional	shareholders 	
published	in	July	2010.	Should	they	have	concerns 	
over	any	issues	being	voted	upon	at	the	Annual 	
General	Meeting,	they	can	then	meet	all	the 	
Directors	and	discuss	them	in	person,	particularly, 	
if	they	have	declined	an	invitation	for	an	individual 	
meeting.	 The	 Chairman	 arranges	for	the	Chairman 	
of	each	of	the	Company’s	 Board	 Committees	 to	
answer	relevant	questions	at	the	meeting	and 	
encourages	all	Directors	to	be	present.
By	order	of	the	Board
Marie Gracie, FCIS
Company	Secretary
5	June	2014
Griffin Brewery 
Chiswick	Lane	South 	
Chiswick,	London	W4	2QB 44	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Statement of the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman
Dear	Shareholder 	
On	behalf	of	the	Board,	I	am	pleased	to	present	the	
Remuneration	Report	for	the	52	weeks	ended	29	
March	2014,	in	a	new	format	which	reflects	the	new	
regulations	governing	Directors’	remuneration.	
The	report	is	in	two	separate	sections	–	the	first 	
part	covers	the	Company’s	Remuneration	Policy 	
for	all	of	its	Main	Board	Directors	(set	out	on	pages 	
32	 and	 33)	and	is	designed	to	explain	to	shareholders 	
how	that	policy	supports	the	Company’s	strategy. 	
This	will	be	put	to	shareholders	for	approval	in 	 	
a	binding	vote	at	the	Annual	General	Meeting	on 	
24	July	2014.	Subject	to	your	approval,	the	policy 	
will	be	effective	immediately	after	the	meeting 	 	
on	24	July	2014.	Companies	are	being	asked	to	set 	
their	policy	for	several	years	and	we	shall	ask	you 	 	
to	approve	it	for	a	period	of	three	years,	on	the 	
understanding	that,	should	there	be	any	market	or 	
regulatory	changes	that	suggest	the	policy	should 	
be	updated,	we	will	ask	shareholders	to	approve 	
suitable	revisions	to	the	policy	within	that	period. 	 	
If	it	transpires	that	commitments	have	been	made 	
which	are	consistent	with	the	Remuneration	Policy 	
that	was	in	force	before	the	passing	of	any	new 	
Remuneration	Policy,	they	may	still	be	honoured 	
and	the	Committee	will	retain	the	right	to 	
authorise	emergency	payments	which	may	fall 	
outside	of	the	approved	Remuneration	Policy	in 	
exceptional	circumstances.	The	Committee 	
envisages	that	it	would	be	very	rare	for	such 	
circumstances	to	arise	but	that	it	could	be 	
disproportionate	to	have	to	seek	shareholder 	
approval	for	a	revised	policy	in	such	circumstances, 	
although	any	such	payments	would	of	course	be 	
disclosed	to	shareholders	in	the	following 	
Remuneration	Report. 	
You	will	see	that	our	policy	continues	to	be 	
consistent	with	the	policy	we	operated	during	the 	
previous	 financial	 year	 and	 the	 only	 major	 decisions	
on	Directors’	remuneration	made	were	the	pay 	
awards	granted	in	June	2013.	However,	there	is	a 	
change	to	Directors’	remuneration	that	was	not 	
made	during	the	last	financial	year	but	will	affect 	
future	remuneration,	which	is	that	we	have 	
introduced	malus	and	clawback	provisions	to	both 	
the	bonus	scheme	and	future	grants	made	under 	
the	Long	Term	Incentive	Plan	(“LTIP”).	Shareholders 	
may	recall	that	in	last	year’s	remuneration	report 	
we	did	advise	that	this	was	under	consideration. 	
These	changes	have	been	made	in	the	context	of 	
current	best	practice.
The	second	part	of	the	report	shows	you	the	detail 	
of	how	the	policy	has	been	applied	in	the	last 	
financial	year.	That	part	of	the	report	will	be	subject 	
to	your	approval	in	the	same	way	as	it	was	last	year.
There	have	not	been	any	significant	changes	to 	
remuneration	during	the	financial	year	and 	
therefore	we	have	not	engaged	with	shareholders, 	
but	if	you	would	like	to	make	any	comments	on 	
this	new	report,	I	will	be	happy	to	hear	them.	I 	
hope	that	you	find	the	new	style	report	clear	and 	
comprehensive	and	that	it	helps	demonstrate	how 	
what	the	Executive	Directors	earn	is	very	much 	
linked	to	the	Company’s	performance,	and	that 	
you	are	able	to	support	the	resolutions	on 	
remuneration	in	the	Notice	of	Meeting. 	
Alastair Kerr
Chairman	of	the	Remuneration	Committee
5	June	2014  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 45
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
The	Committee	believes	that	the	Remuneration 	
Policy	is	consistent	with	its	risk	management	policy 	
in	that	existing	remuneration	structures	do	not 	
encourage	management	to	take	inappropriate 	
risks	to	achieve	targets.	It	is	felt	that	there	is	a	very 	
low	risk	of	short	term	decisions	driving	annual 	
bonus	payouts	and	the	focus	is	very	much	based 	
on	a	long	term	remuneration	model,	delivering 	
value	through	the	Company’s	various	share	plans.
Here	are	the	various	elements	of	the	Directors’ 	
remuneration	and	the	different	performance 	
conditions	that	apply	to	them. 	
Report on Directors’ Remuneration Policy
This	policy	has	been	prepared	in	compliance	with 	
Part	4	of	Schedule	8	to	the	Large	and	Medium-
sized	Companies	and	Groups	(Accounts	and 	
Reports)	(Amendment)	Regulations	2013.	If	this 	
Remuneration	Policy	is	approved	by	the 	
Company’s	shareholders	at	the	AGM	on	24	July 	
2014,	the	Company	intends	to	make	all	future 	
payments	to	its	Directors	consistent	with	this 	
policy	for	three	years	from	the	end	of	the	AGM 	
unless	amended	by	the	shareholders	at	an 	
intervening	general	meeting.
The	Company’s	Remuneration	Policy	is	designed 	
to	support	its	business	strategy	of	creating 	
shareholder	value	and	increasing	earnings	per 	
share	(“EPS”)	in	the	longer	term	for	its	shareholders. 	
In	order	to	do	so	it	must	attract,	retain	and 	
motivate	a	high	calibre	Executive	Director	team 	 	
to	deliver	this.	The	policy	is	therefore	to	provide 	
competitive	packages	for	the	Executives,	through 	
reflecting	the	Group’s	performance	against 	
financial	objectives	and	rewarding	above	average 	
performance.	Accordingly,	the	key	elements	are:
•	 A	significant	proportion	of	performance	related 	
pay	that	rewards	Executives	in	line	with	Company	
performance	and	strongly	aligns	their	interests 	
with	those	of	shareholders
•	 Personal	bonus	targets	for	operational	Directors 	
that	focus	on	delivery	of	the	strategic	drivers	for 	
growth	in	the	Company’s	business	strategy
•	 Base	pay	that	rewards	above	average 	
performance	and	remains	competitive
•	 A	competitive	range	of	benefits 	
•	 Participation	in	a	range	of	share	schemes 	
including	an	LTIP.
When	setting	the	Remuneration	Policy	the 	
Committee	considered	the	Group’s	performance 	
on	environmental,	social	and	governance	matters. 	
The	Committee	does	not	believe	that	the	existing 	
incentive	structure	raises	any	environmental, 	
governance	or	social	risks	by	inadvertently 	
motivating	irresponsible	behaviour. 46	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Executive Directors (“Executives”)
Element Purpose – how the element supports the short and  
long term strategic objectives of the Company
Operation Opportunity Performance measures  
and reason for selection
Change in year and provisions  
for malus and clawback (if any)
Base
Salary 
To recruit, retain and reward high calibre Executives to deliver  
the Company’s strategy. The salary will reflect each role, the 
importance of that role to the business and the experience  
the individual brings to it.
The Committee sets the base salary and this is reviewed taking into 
account inflation, individual and corporate performance.
From time to time, advisors are commissioned to obtain benchmarking 
data for companies in the sector and/or of a similar size, to check  
market positioning.
Annual salary reviews take effect from 1 June in any year. 
The Committee expects to target salaries around the 
median to upper quartile of similar-sized businesses.
Not applicable. Executive salaries were increased  
by between 0% and 2.26% in June 
2013. Simon Emeny’s salary was 
increased to £375,000 in July 
2013 to reflect his promotion to 
Chief Executive. Michael Turner’s 
salary was £400,000 until he 
became Non-Executive Chairman 
in July 2013 when his fees were set 
at £250,000 per annum.
Benefits To recruit and retain Executives by providing competitive  
benefits which also protect Executives and provide 
preventative care for them. 
The Company offers Executives a range of benefits which include:
• Car allowance
• Paid holidays
• Life insurance
• Private healthcare
• Product allowance 
• A private account which allows the purchase of goods at cost price 
plus VAT 
• Subscriptions to professional bodies or other relevant organisations
• Regular medical check-ups
• Permanent health insurance.
The benefits offered are those typically offered at this level. 
Car allowances are reviewed every January. Product 
allowances are reviewed from time to time but not typically 
increased every year. The cost of providing the insurance 
products varies from year to year. 
Not applicable. Car allowances were adjusted in 
line with inflation in January 2014. 
The cost of insurance products 
varies due to external insurance 
cost variations.
Annual Bonus To incentivise Executives to deliver performance in line with  
the Group strategy and to align their interests with those  
of shareholders.
Bonus targets are set annually in relation to the profit achieved by  
The Fuller’s Beer Company, Fuller’s Inns and the Group. The performance 
measures are weighted dependent on the responsibilities of each 
Executive and are designed to be stretching.
The target for the bonus includes the cost of the bonus itself. 
The maximum payout under the bonus scheme is 75%  
of salary. No payout would be made if the minimum 
threshold on the bonus target schedules is not achieved.  
If profits have declined to a specified degree in the year 
bonuses are due to be paid, the Committee will assess the 
performance of the Group relative to a selected peer 
group. Payments will only be authorised if the Group has 
performed better than the average of the peer group and 
where the Group’s performance represents outperformance.
The actual performance measures for 2014 are linked 
to the EPS and profit targets contained in the Group 
budget for Fuller’s Inns and The Fuller’s Beer Company. 
Current and previous targets are considered commercially 
confidential and will not be published. These targets have 
been selected as the Committee believes they reward 
Executives in line with Company performance and  
strongly align their interests with those of shareholders.
New bonus targets were agreed  
in April 2014 for the financial year 
2014/2015. New bonus rules  
were then introduced which 
incorporate malus and  
clawback provisions.
Share Options
Executive Share 
Option Scheme
To align the interests of Executives with those of shareholders. An HMRC-approved Executive Share Option Scheme (the “Approved 
Scheme”) under which options may be granted periodically up to the 
HMRC limit. Once options have vested they must be exercised before  
the tenth anniversary of grant.
Directors may be issued share options up to the HMRC 
maximum value of £30,000 at any one time.
Approved Scheme options vest when growth in EPS 
adjusted principally to exclude exceptional items (“Adjusted 
EPS”) exceeds growth in RPI by at least 9% over the three 
year performance period. The Remuneration Committee is 
authorised to make appropriate amendments to Adjusted EPS.
No change.
Senior Executive 
Share Scheme
A Senior Executive Share Option Scheme (the “Senior Scheme”) under 
which options are no longer granted.
The maximum benefit granted under the Senior Scheme 
was 20% of salary per annum.
Senior Scheme options vest at 40% (minimum) when growth 
in Adjusted EPS exceeds growth in RPI by at least 9% over 
the three year performance period. Maximum vesting 
(100% of grant) occurs when growth in Adjusted EPS 
exceeds inflation by 21% over the three year period.
The performance targets and restrictions are considered  
to be a realistic test of management performance and were 
chosen because they are consistent with corporate profit 
growth objectives and ensure that options only become 
exercisable against the background of a sustained real 
increase in the financial performance of the Group.
The Senior Scheme expired in  
2013 and has not been renewed 
although a final grant was made  
in July 2013. The plan is no longer 
used as the Committee wished  
to simplify the Executives’ 
remuneration package.
SAYE Scheme The Save as You Earn Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”) is available to all 
employees of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. with at least one year’s service. 
Under the SAYE Scheme, options are granted over the Company’s 40p 
‘A’ ordinary shares at a discount of 20% on the prevailing market price  
at the time of the grant.
Under the SAYE Scheme rules eligible employees may 
agree to save up to £250 per month over a period of three 
or five years and then purchase shares within six months of 
the end of the term.
None. There is no requirement for performance targets  
in SAYE schemes.
No change.
SIP All employees of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. who have completed five 
months of service in November (in any year) are eligible to receive free 
40p ‘A’ ordinary shares in December of that year through an HMRC- 
approved Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”). Shares are held by the Trustees  
of the Scheme for a minimum of three years and a maximum of five years 
before being available to be passed to participants.
Shares are awarded based on length of service and base 
salary. The maximum value of the shares allowable under 
the Scheme is £3,000 in any one year.
None. There is no requirement for performance targets  
in SIPs.
No change.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 47
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
Executive Directors (“Executives”)
Element Purpose – how the element supports the short and  
long term strategic objectives of the Company
Operation Opportunity Performance measures  
and reason for selection
Change in year and provisions  
for malus and clawback (if any)
Base
Salary 
To recruit, retain and reward high calibre Executives to deliver  
the Company’s strategy. The salary will reflect each role, the 
importance of that role to the business and the experience  
the individual brings to it.
The Committee sets the base salary and this is reviewed taking into 
account inflation, individual and corporate performance.
From time to time, advisors are commissioned to obtain benchmarking 
data for companies in the sector and/or of a similar size, to check  
market positioning.
Annual salary reviews take effect from 1 June in any year. 
The Committee expects to target salaries around the 
median to upper quartile of similar-sized businesses.
Not applicable. Executive salaries were increased  
by between 0% and 2.26% in June 
2013. Simon Emeny’s salary was 
increased to £375,000 in July 
2013 to reflect his promotion to 
Chief Executive. Michael Turner’s 
salary was £400,000 until he 
became Non-Executive Chairman 
in July 2013 when his fees were set 
at £250,000 per annum.
Benefits To recruit and retain Executives by providing competitive  
benefits which also protect Executives and provide 
preventative care for them. 
The Company offers Executives a range of benefits which include:
• Car allowance
• Paid holidays
• Life insurance
• Private healthcare
• Product allowance 
• A private account which allows the purchase of goods at cost price 
plus VAT 
• Subscriptions to professional bodies or other relevant organisations
• Regular medical check-ups
• Permanent health insurance.
The benefits offered are those typically offered at this level. 
Car allowances are reviewed every January. Product 
allowances are reviewed from time to time but not typically 
increased every year. The cost of providing the insurance 
products varies from year to year. 
Not applicable. Car allowances were adjusted in 
line with inflation in January 2014. 
The cost of insurance products 
varies due to external insurance 
cost variations.
Annual Bonus To incentivise Executives to deliver performance in line with  
the Group strategy and to align their interests with those  
of shareholders.
Bonus targets are set annually in relation to the profit achieved by  
The Fuller’s Beer Company, Fuller’s Inns and the Group. The performance 
measures are weighted dependent on the responsibilities of each 
Executive and are designed to be stretching.
The target for the bonus includes the cost of the bonus itself. 
The maximum payout under the bonus scheme is 75%  
of salary. No payout would be made if the minimum 
threshold on the bonus target schedules is not achieved.  
If profits have declined to a specified degree in the year 
bonuses are due to be paid, the Committee will assess the 
performance of the Group relative to a selected peer 
group. Payments will only be authorised if the Group has 
performed better than the average of the peer group and 
where the Group’s performance represents outperformance.
The actual performance measures for 2014 are linked 
to the EPS and profit targets contained in the Group 
budget for Fuller’s Inns and The Fuller’s Beer Company. 
Current and previous targets are considered commercially 
confidential and will not be published. These targets have 
been selected as the Committee believes they reward 
Executives in line with Company performance and  
strongly align their interests with those of shareholders.
New bonus targets were agreed  
in April 2014 for the financial year 
2014/2015. New bonus rules  
were then introduced which 
incorporate malus and  
clawback provisions.
Share Options
Executive Share 
Option Scheme
To align the interests of Executives with those of shareholders. An HMRC-approved Executive Share Option Scheme (the “Approved 
Scheme”) under which options may be granted periodically up to the 
HMRC limit. Once options have vested they must be exercised before  
the tenth anniversary of grant.
Directors may be issued share options up to the HMRC 
maximum value of £30,000 at any one time.
Approved Scheme options vest when growth in EPS 
adjusted principally to exclude exceptional items (“Adjusted 
EPS”) exceeds growth in RPI by at least 9% over the three 
year performance period. The Remuneration Committee is 
authorised to make appropriate amendments to Adjusted EPS.
No change.
Senior Executive 
Share Scheme
A Senior Executive Share Option Scheme (the “Senior Scheme”) under 
which options are no longer granted.
The maximum benefit granted under the Senior Scheme 
was 20% of salary per annum.
Senior Scheme options vest at 40% (minimum) when growth 
in Adjusted EPS exceeds growth in RPI by at least 9% over 
the three year performance period. Maximum vesting 
(100% of grant) occurs when growth in Adjusted EPS 
exceeds inflation by 21% over the three year period.
The performance targets and restrictions are considered  
to be a realistic test of management performance and were 
chosen because they are consistent with corporate profit 
growth objectives and ensure that options only become 
exercisable against the background of a sustained real 
increase in the financial performance of the Group.
The Senior Scheme expired in  
2013 and has not been renewed 
although a final grant was made  
in July 2013. The plan is no longer 
used as the Committee wished  
to simplify the Executives’ 
remuneration package.
SAYE Scheme The Save as You Earn Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”) is available to all 
employees of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. with at least one year’s service. 
Under the SAYE Scheme, options are granted over the Company’s 40p 
‘A’ ordinary shares at a discount of 20% on the prevailing market price  
at the time of the grant.
Under the SAYE Scheme rules eligible employees may 
agree to save up to £250 per month over a period of three 
or five years and then purchase shares within six months of 
the end of the term.
None. There is no requirement for performance targets  
in SAYE schemes.
No change.
SIP All employees of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. who have completed five 
months of service in November (in any year) are eligible to receive free 
40p ‘A’ ordinary shares in December of that year through an HMRC- 
approved Share Incentive Plan (“SIP”). Shares are held by the Trustees  
of the Scheme for a minimum of three years and a maximum of five years 
before being available to be passed to participants.
Shares are awarded based on length of service and base 
salary. The maximum value of the shares allowable under 
the Scheme is £3,000 in any one year.
None. There is no requirement for performance targets  
in SIPs.
No change. 48	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Element Purpose – how the element supports the short and long term 
strategic objectives of the Company
Operation Opportunity Performance measures  
and reason for selection
Change in year and provisions  
for malus and clawback (if any)
LTIP To reward the efforts of Executives in line with the Company’s 
objective of creating shareholder value and increasing EPS in the 
longer term.
The rules of the LTIP allow for discretionary annual awards of ‘A’ 
(listed), and ‘B’ and ‘C’ (unlisted) ordinary shares. Grants are 
calculated by reference to the middle market quotation at close  
the day before. In all cases shares will vest, subject to performance 
criteria being attained, within 72 days of the publication of results 
for the last financial year in the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether the Adjusted EPS 
performance condition has been met using the EPS information 
which is published in the Group’s Annual Reports and Accounts. 
BDO LLP confirms the level of vesting of awards based on EPS 
calculations provided by the Group.
The maximum value of shares for which an award may be 
made to an Executive in any financial year is 1 10% of 
salary and will vary depending on seniority. Actual vestings 
will depend on how well the Company performs against 
the LTIP’s performance conditions.
To assess the awards, the average growth in Adjusted EPS 
is compared with the growth in inflation over the 
performance period. The performance period covers three 
financial years starting from the start of the financial year in 
which the grant is made. No vesting occurs if the Adjusted 
EPS growth fails to exceed the RPI by at least 9%. 40%  
of the award vests if the target is hit and there is a sliding 
scale above that point. For 100% of an award of shares  
to vest, growth in Adjusted EPS needs to exceed the growth 
in RPI by 24% or more over the period. The Committee feels 
that since underlying long term freehold property growth  
is not being included in the calculation, 9% over inflation  
is a testing target, and one that merits a 40% vesting. The 
Committee further believes that the 40% vesting threshold  
at 9% in excess of inflation is triggering vestings at a value 
that is still below that being employed by many other 
companies and that it is the value of the vest that should be 
considered and not the percentage. Please see the graph 
on page 52 for further details.
Shareholders approved a change 
to the maximum annual award in 
the LTIP last year to reflect the fact 
that in future there will be no further 
grants under the Senior Executive 
Share Option Scheme. This year’s 
LTIP awards grants to Executives 
will be made subject to malus and  
clawback provisions.
Pension To provide Directors with long term pension provisions  
on a competitive basis.
The Company operates a variety of pension benefits. Executives 
are either members of the defined benefit Company pension plan, 
or a defined contribution Company pension plan, or receive a 
pension supplement or a mixture of these. Further details are 
available on page 54 of this report.
Defined benefit Company pension plan Main section:
Accrues at 1.7% of basic salary less lower earnings limit  
(up to a pensions cap) per year of service. Additional 
salary supplement of 17 .5% paid over the earnings cap. 
This applies only to Simon Emeny.
Defined benefit Company pension plan Directors’ section: 
Accrued at 1.79% of basic salary plus £12,000 for  
Richard Fuller only. Note that Richard Fuller withdrew from 
this scheme on 31 March 2014 and thereafter he will 
receive a salary supplement of 17 .5% of his salary for use 
in his retirement planning.
Pension contributions: 
For the other Executives the Company will contribute a total 
of 17 .5% of the Executive’s salary to the defined contribution 
Company pension plan and/or their nominated pension 
scheme or pay a salary supplement for them to use as part 
of their retirement planning subject to the Executive making 
a net contribution of 8% themselves. 
Not applicable. The Company has recently 
finished a period of consultation 
with the Trustees and Members 
of the Company’s defined benefit 
pension plan with the effect that 
it is expected that the plan will 
close to future accrual from 
January 2015. Simon Emeny is 
the only Executive still in this 
scheme and will be offered a 
pension contribution of 17 .5% of 
salary in line with other Executives  
not in that scheme.
Malus and 
Clawback
The malus and clawback provisions act as a disincentive to 
overstate the metrics that determine the rewards the Executive 
Directors receive.
These have been introduced into the bonus scheme and will apply 
to the LTIP awards made this year. They will enable the Committee 
not to pay bonuses or allow LTIP awards to vest where misconduct 
occurs during the relevant financial year or before a bonus is paid 
or an LTIP award vests. They will also enable the Committee  
to recover bonuses or awards where it is discovered that the 
Company materially misstated its results for the last whole financial 
year or a material error was made in assessing the relevant 
performance conditions.
The malus and clawback principles apply to the bonuses 
that may be paid from 2015 onwards and option grants 
made from 2014 onwards.
Not applicable. These are new arrangements.
Non-Executive Directors
Basic and  
Additional Fees
To attract and retain high calibre Non-Executive Directors by 
offering market competitive fee levels that recognise the time  
that the Non-Executive Directors commit to their various roles.
The fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the  
Remuneration Committee.
The fees paid to the other Non-Executive Directors are determined 
by the Chairman and the Executive Committee. 
Fees may be paid for specific duties such as the fee paid to  
Sir James Fuller for his work in liaising with family shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in bonus schemes, share 
options or long term incentive plans. None of the Non-Executive 
Directors are members of any Group pension scheme, with the 
exception of Michael Turner, who is a pensioner of the Directors 
section of the defined benefit company pension plan. 
All Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee. The Senior 
Independent Director receives a fee for that role and there 
are additional fees for chairing and being a member  
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and other  
specific roles.
There are no specific measures set but appraisals  
are carried out as explained in the Corporate  
Governance report on pages 38 to 43.
None. Non-Executive Directors’ 
fees are not usually reviewed every 
year but at periods of two to three 
years when market data on the 
level of fees is consulted.
Benefits To encourage Non-Executive Directors to keep up to date with  
the Company’s product range and to reimburse expenses.
Non-Executive Directors receive a modest product allowance and 
are entitled to buy additional products at cost plus VAT. They are 
reimbursed for travel and other business related expenses. 
The Chairman Michael Turner also benefits from life insurance cover 
and private medical insurance.
Product allowances are reviewed from time to time but not 
typically increased every year.
Not applicable. None.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 49
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
Element Purpose – how the element supports the short and long term 
strategic objectives of the Company
Operation Opportunity Performance measures  
and reason for selection
Change in year and provisions  
for malus and clawback (if any)
LTIP To reward the efforts of Executives in line with the Company’s 
objective of creating shareholder value and increasing EPS in the 
longer term.
The rules of the LTIP allow for discretionary annual awards of ‘A’ 
(listed), and ‘B’ and ‘C’ (unlisted) ordinary shares. Grants are 
calculated by reference to the middle market quotation at close  
the day before. In all cases shares will vest, subject to performance 
criteria being attained, within 72 days of the publication of results 
for the last financial year in the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether the Adjusted EPS 
performance condition has been met using the EPS information 
which is published in the Group’s Annual Reports and Accounts. 
BDO LLP confirms the level of vesting of awards based on EPS 
calculations provided by the Group.
The maximum value of shares for which an award may be 
made to an Executive in any financial year is 1 10% of 
salary and will vary depending on seniority. Actual vestings 
will depend on how well the Company performs against 
the LTIP’s performance conditions.
To assess the awards, the average growth in Adjusted EPS 
is compared with the growth in inflation over the 
performance period. The performance period covers three 
financial years starting from the start of the financial year in 
which the grant is made. No vesting occurs if the Adjusted 
EPS growth fails to exceed the RPI by at least 9%. 40%  
of the award vests if the target is hit and there is a sliding 
scale above that point. For 100% of an award of shares  
to vest, growth in Adjusted EPS needs to exceed the growth 
in RPI by 24% or more over the period. The Committee feels 
that since underlying long term freehold property growth  
is not being included in the calculation, 9% over inflation  
is a testing target, and one that merits a 40% vesting. The 
Committee further believes that the 40% vesting threshold  
at 9% in excess of inflation is triggering vestings at a value 
that is still below that being employed by many other 
companies and that it is the value of the vest that should be 
considered and not the percentage. Please see the graph 
on page 52 for further details.
Shareholders approved a change 
to the maximum annual award in 
the LTIP last year to reflect the fact 
that in future there will be no further 
grants under the Senior Executive 
Share Option Scheme. This year’s 
LTIP awards grants to Executives 
will be made subject to malus and  
clawback provisions.
Pension To provide Directors with long term pension provisions  
on a competitive basis.
The Company operates a variety of pension benefits. Executives 
are either members of the defined benefit Company pension plan, 
or a defined contribution Company pension plan, or receive a 
pension supplement or a mixture of these. Further details are 
available on page 54 of this report.
Defined benefit Company pension plan Main section:
Accrues at 1.7% of basic salary less lower earnings limit  
(up to a pensions cap) per year of service. Additional 
salary supplement of 17 .5% paid over the earnings cap. 
This applies only to Simon Emeny.
Defined benefit Company pension plan Directors’ section: 
Accrued at 1.79% of basic salary plus £12,000 for  
Richard Fuller only. Note that Richard Fuller withdrew from 
this scheme on 31 March 2014 and thereafter he will 
receive a salary supplement of 17 .5% of his salary for use 
in his retirement planning.
Pension contributions: 
For the other Executives the Company will contribute a total 
of 17 .5% of the Executive’s salary to the defined contribution 
Company pension plan and/or their nominated pension 
scheme or pay a salary supplement for them to use as part 
of their retirement planning subject to the Executive making 
a net contribution of 8% themselves. 
Not applicable. The Company has recently 
finished a period of consultation 
with the Trustees and Members 
of the Company’s defined benefit 
pension plan with the effect that 
it is expected that the plan will 
close to future accrual from 
January 2015. Simon Emeny is 
the only Executive still in this 
scheme and will be offered a 
pension contribution of 17 .5% of 
salary in line with other Executives  
not in that scheme.
Malus and 
Clawback
The malus and clawback provisions act as a disincentive to 
overstate the metrics that determine the rewards the Executive 
Directors receive.
These have been introduced into the bonus scheme and will apply 
to the LTIP awards made this year. They will enable the Committee 
not to pay bonuses or allow LTIP awards to vest where misconduct 
occurs during the relevant financial year or before a bonus is paid 
or an LTIP award vests. They will also enable the Committee  
to recover bonuses or awards where it is discovered that the 
Company materially misstated its results for the last whole financial 
year or a material error was made in assessing the relevant 
performance conditions.
The malus and clawback principles apply to the bonuses 
that may be paid from 2015 onwards and option grants 
made from 2014 onwards.
Not applicable. These are new arrangements.
Non-Executive Directors
Basic and  
Additional Fees
To attract and retain high calibre Non-Executive Directors by 
offering market competitive fee levels that recognise the time  
that the Non-Executive Directors commit to their various roles.
The fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the  
Remuneration Committee.
The fees paid to the other Non-Executive Directors are determined 
by the Chairman and the Executive Committee. 
Fees may be paid for specific duties such as the fee paid to  
Sir James Fuller for his work in liaising with family shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in bonus schemes, share 
options or long term incentive plans. None of the Non-Executive 
Directors are members of any Group pension scheme, with the 
exception of Michael Turner, who is a pensioner of the Directors 
section of the defined benefit company pension plan. 
All Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee. The Senior 
Independent Director receives a fee for that role and there 
are additional fees for chairing and being a member  
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and other  
specific roles.
There are no specific measures set but appraisals  
are carried out as explained in the Corporate  
Governance report on pages 38 to 43.
None. Non-Executive Directors’ 
fees are not usually reviewed every 
year but at periods of two to three 
years when market data on the 
level of fees is consulted.
Benefits To encourage Non-Executive Directors to keep up to date with  
the Company’s product range and to reimburse expenses.
Non-Executive Directors receive a modest product allowance and 
are entitled to buy additional products at cost plus VAT. They are 
reimbursed for travel and other business related expenses. 
The Chairman Michael Turner also benefits from life insurance cover 
and private medical insurance.
Product allowances are reviewed from time to time but not 
typically increased every year.
Not applicable. None. 50	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum In line with
expectation
Minimum
476
100% 46%
17%
37%
40%
22%
38%
1,029
1,235
£000
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum In line with
expectation
Minimum
348
100% 45%
16%
39%
37%
22%
41%
775
931
£000
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum In line with 
expectation
Minimum
225
100% 50%
17%
33%
42%
24%
34%
449
536
£000
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in the Company
The	Committee	is	advised	of	the	proposed	annual	pay	review	for	staff	in	advance	of	them	considering	the	proposed	pay	reviews	for	Directors,	so	that	this	can 	 	
be	taken	into	account	when	determining	Directors’	remuneration	for	the	relevant	financial	year.	Salary	increases	will	ordinarily	be	(in	percentage	terms)	in	line	with 	
those	of	the	wider	workforce,	and	significant	variances	would	only	be	expected	where	there	had	been	a	significant	change	in	an	individual’s	responsibilities	or	a 	
market	review	had	been	conducted	which	suggested	that	an	individual’s	salary	was	no	longer	competitive,	or	where	the	Committee	wanted	to	take	account	of	an 	
individual’s	performance	or	experience.	The	Committee	would	also	be	advised	if	there	were	any	other	key	changes	to	the	terms	and	conditions	on	which	staff 	 	
are	employed. 	
Consideration of Employee Views
The	Committee	does	not	formally	consult	directly	with	employees	on	executive	pay	or	in	drawing	up	the	Remuneration	Policy	but	does	receive	periodic	updates 	
from	the	Personnel	Director.	Share	ownership	amongst	the	Company’s	employees	is	encouraged	through	the	SAYE	Scheme	and	SIPs.	These	schemes	allow 	
employees	to	participate	as	shareholders	and	align	their	interests	with	those	of	the	shareholders.
Consideration of Shareholder Views
Shareholder	views	are	sought	when	there	is	any	significant	change	to	Directors’	remuneration.	For	example,	shareholders	were	consulted	last	year	about	the 	
proposed	remuneration	for	the	Chairman	and	the	Chief	Executive	when	their	roles	changed.	Should	shareholders	have	any	concerns	about	remuneration	policy 	 	
the	Committee	Chairman	would	endeavour	to	meet	with	them,	as	appropriate,	to	understand	and	respond	to	any	issues	they	may	have.
Discretion Employed by the Committee 
The	Committee	will	operate	the	annual	bonus,	the	LTIP ,	the	Senior	Scheme	and	the	Approved	Scheme,	in	accordance	with	their	applicable	rules	and	in	accordance	
with	the	Listing	Rules	where	relevant.	The	Committee	retains	discretion,	consistent	with	market	practice,	in	a	number	of	regards	to	the	operation	and	administration	
of	these	schemes.	These	include,	but	are	not	limited	to,	routine	matters	such	as	who	participates	in	them,	the	timing	of	awards	and	vests,	the	size	of	awards/
payouts,	the	determination	of	vesting,	and	the	setting	and	application	of	targets.	Other	non-routine	matters	where	the	Committee	may	need	to	use	its	discretion 	
include	but	are	not	limited	to	making	adjustments	to	targets	and/or	payouts	when	there	has	been	a	change	in	accounting	policy,	making	adjustments	required 	
when	dealing	with	a	change	of	control	or	restructuring	of	the	Group,	determination	of	the	treatment	of	leavers	and	adjustments	required	in	certain	circumstances 	
such	as	rights	issues	and	corporate	restructuring	events.	Any	use	of	the	above	discretions	would,	where	relevant,	be	explained	in	the	annual	Remuneration	Report 	
and	may,	as	appropriate,	be	the	subject	of	consultation	with	the	Company’s	major	shareholders.
Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy
A	significant	proportion	of	remuneration	is	linked	to	performance,	particularly	at	maximum	performance	levels.	The	following	charts	demonstrate	the	key	elements	
of	the	remuneration	package	for	the	Executives	under	the	Remuneration	Policy	for	the	year	ended	March	2015:
Chief Executive
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum In line with 
expectation
Minimum
250
100% 51% 43%
24%
33%
17%
32%
486
577
£000
Managing Director – Fuller’s Inns
Finance Director Sales and Personnel Director
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
Maximum In line with 
expectation
Minimum
267
100% 49%
18%
33%
41%
24%
35%
540
643
£000
Managing Director – The Fuller’s Beer Company
Fixed
1
Bonus
2
LTIP/Options
3
1	
‘Fixed’	includes	salary,	benefits	and	pension.
2	
‘Bonus’	includes	Executive	Bonus	scheme.
3		
‘LTIP/Options’	includes	LTIP,	the	Approved	Scheme 	 	
and	the	Senior	Scheme.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 51
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
In	illustrating	the	potential	reward	the	following	assumptions	have	been	made:
Minimum performance –	fixed	remuneration	only	with	no	payout	under	the	bonus	scheme	or	LTIP/share	options.
In line with expectation –	this	is	based	on	what	Executives	could	receive	if	bonuses	pay	out	at	60%	of	the	maximum	bonus	allowance	(i.e.	45%	of	salary)	for 	
achieving	target	performance,	LTIP	payout	at	80%	of	maximum	vesting,	payout	under	the	Approved	Scheme	at	100%	and	payout	under	the	Senior	Scheme	at	90%.	
Maximum –	100%	of	the	bonus	(i.e.	75%	of	salary)	and	100%	of	LTIP	awards	and	Approved	and	Senior	options	are	realised.
Recruitment and Promotion
The	Company	wishes	to	attract	talented	individuals	to	Executive	positions	either	from	the	industry/market	or	from	internal	succession.	It	would	not	expect	any 	
new	Director	to	receive	salary	or	any	other	part	of	their	remuneration	package	that	is	more	than	50%	higher	than	current	maximum	payments	which	could	be 	
received	by	the	previous	role	holder.	The	various	components	of	the	package	for	a	new	Executive	are	those	already	on	offer	to	existing	Executives	as	set	out	in	the 	
table	above	and	they	are	salary,	benefits,	bonuses,	share	options,	LTIP	and	pension.	The	approach	to	each	component	is	as	set	out	in	the	tables	on	pages	46	to	49, 	
subject	to	existing	rule	constraints.	Contracts	would	be	offered	on	the	basis	that	on	early	termination	a	payment	equal	to	the	salary	due	for	the	unexpired	period	of 	
their	notice	would	be	made,	payable	in	monthly	instalments.	For	the	period	of	their	notice	the	Executive	would	be	expected	to	seek	alternative	income,	and	if	they 	
are	successful,	that	income	would	be	notifiable	to	the	Company	and	would	be	set	off	against	the	remaining	instalments.	The	Company	is	only	likely	to	offer	a	cash 	
amount	on	recruitment,	payment	of	which	may	be	staggered,	to	reflect	the	value	of	benefits	a	new	recruit	may	have	received	from	a	former	employer.	Relocation 	
expenses	and	accommodation	might	be	provided	if	necessary.
In	respect	of	Non-Executives	the	Company	would	not	expect	any	new	Director	to	receive	fees	that	are	more	than	50%	higher	than	the	fees	which	could	be 	
received	by	the	previous	role	holder.
On	the	appointment	of	a	new	Chairman	or	Non-Executive	Director,	the	fees	will	be	set	taking	into	account	the	experience	and	calibre	of	the	individual	and	the 	
fees	paid	to	existing	Non-Executive	Directors.
Service Contracts/Payments on Loss of Office 
Executive	Directors	have	rolling	service	contracts	terminable	on	no	more	than	one	year’s	notice	served	by	the	Company	or	Director. 	
Ian	Bray	and	Jonathon	Swaine	are	entitled	on	early	termination	of	their	contracts	to	a	payment	equal	to	the	salary	due	for	the	unexpired	period	of	their	notice. 	 	
This	is	payable	in	monthly	instalments	and	for	the	period	of	their	notice	these	Executives	are	expected	to	seek	alternative	income,	and	if	they	are	successful,	that 	
income	must	be	notified	to	the	Company	and	will	be	set	off	against	the	remaining	instalments. 	
The	contracts	of	the	other	Executives	(which	were	all	in	place	before	27	June	2012	and	are	different	from	those	that	would	be	offered	to	any	new	Executives	and 	
are	therefore	not	in	line	with	the	approach	to	recruitment	remuneration	as	set	out	above)	state	that	they	are	entitled	to	a	payment	equal	to	salary	and	the	value 	 	
of	all	benefits	for	the	unexpired	period	of	their	notice,	without	any	reduction	for	mitigation.	Benefits	in	kind	would	be	valued	with	reference	to	their	P11D	value 	 	
or	cost	to	the	Company.	Pension	benefits	would	be	valued	on	a	transfer	value	basis	to	be	calculated	and	confirmed	by	the	Company’s	pension	advisors. 	
The	Committee	has	considered	whether	they	should	attempt	to	negotiate	a	change	to	the	contracts	of	these	Executives	but	do	not	believe	that	this	is 	 	
currently	appropriate.
The	rules	of	the	bonus	scheme	and	LTIP	and	other	share	option	schemes	set	out	what	happens	to	awards	if	a	participant	ceases	to	be	employed	before	the 	 	
end	of	a	bonus	year	or	performance	period.	Generally,	any	outstanding	share	awards	will	lapse	on	such	cessation,	except	in	certain	circumstances	when	a	Director 	
might	be	deemed	a	“good	leaver”	which	could	include	on	redundancy	or	retirement	(these	are	examples	and	are	not	intended	to	be	a	definitive	list).	In	determining 	
whether	an	Executive	Director	should	be	treated	as	a	good	leaver	and	the	extent	to	which	bonuses,	awards	and	share	options	vest	or	become	exercisable,	and/or 	 	
a	pro-rated	bonus	is	due,	the	Committee	will	take	into	account	the	circumstances	of	an	individual’s	departure	and	his	performance.
Service Contracts and Fee Letters
The	obligations	contained	in	the	Executives’	service	contracts	are	described	in	the	section	entitled	“Service	Contracts/Payments	on	Loss	of	Office”.
Executive Directors Date of contract Notice period
Simon Emeny 13 January 1999 12 months
James Douglas 31 July 2007 12 months
Richard Fuller 8 December 2009 12 months
Ian Bray 12 December 2011 12 months
Jonathon Swaine 20 March 2012 12 months
Non-Executive Directors
Date of letter of appointment
 or re-appointment Term expires
Michael Turner 1 July 2013 June 2016
John Dunsmore 15 November 2011 January 2015
Sir James Fuller 1 June 2010 May 2016
Lynn Fordham 15 November 2011 January 2015
Alastair Kerr 19 July 2011 August 2015 52	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
24.0%
23.0%
22.0%
21.0%
20.0%
19.0%
18.0%
17.0%
16.0%
15.0%
14.0%
13.0%
12.0%
11.0%
10.0%
9.0%
<9.0%
Extent to which the percentage growth in Adjusted EPS
exceeds the increase in RPI over the performance period
Percentage 
of shares 
comprised in an 
award to be 
released
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Annual Remuneration Implementation Report
The	information	on	pages	53	to	59	has	been	audited.
The Remuneration Committee 
The	Remuneration	Committee	consists	entirely	of	Independent	Non-Executive	Directors	and	the	members	are	currently	Alastair	Kerr	(Chairman),	John	Dunsmore	
and	Lynn	Fordham.	The	Chairman	of	the	Company,	Michael	Turner,	and	the	Chief	Executive,	Simon	Emeny,	are	invited	to	attend	the	Committee	meetings	and 	
advise,	where	appropriate,	on	the	remuneration	and	performance	of	the	Executive	Directors	and	related	matters.	The	Committee	is	advised	internally	by	the 	
Company	Secretary,	Marie	Gracie,	who	also	acts	as	Secretary	to	the	Committee.
The	Committee’s	terms	of	reference	state	that	the	Committee	is	responsible	for	determining	the	total	remuneration	package	(including	pensions,	service 	
agreements	and	termination	payments)	of	the	Executive	Directors.	The	Committee	also	reviews	the	remuneration	of	the	Company’s	divisional	directors	in 	
consultation	with	the	Chief	Executive.	Members	of	the	Committee	have	no	personal	financial	interest	in	the	Company,	other	than	as	shareholders	and	Directors. 	
The Committee’s Advisors
Xafinity	Consulting	Limited	provides	the	Committee	and	the	Company	with	advice	on	matters	relating	to	pensions.	BDO	LLP	provides	the	Committee	and	the 	
Company	with	advice	in	connection	with	the	Company’s	LTIP	and	share	option	schemes	and	other	remuneration	matters.	Both	of	these	consultants	have	been 	
providing	advice	to	the	Company	for	some	years	and	were	not	specifically	appointed	by	the	Committee.	In	2013,	the	Committee	selected	New	Bridge	Street	as 	
additional	advisors	on	remuneration	matters.	None	of	these	advisors	have	any	other	connection	with	the	Company.	Xafinity	Consulting	Limited	is	authorised	and 	
regulated	by	the	Financial	Conduct	Authority	and	its	actuaries	are	also	separately	required	to	abide	by	Actuarial	Profession	Standards	which	include	the 	
requirement	for	it	to	provide	objective	and	independent	advice.	Both	BDO	and	New	Bridge	Street	abide	by	the	Remuneration	Consultants	Code	of	Conduct, 	
which	requires	them	to	provide	objective	and	independent	advice.	New	Bridge	Street	charged	fees	of	£5,000	during	the	year	and	the	fees	were	charged	on	the 	
basis	on	time	spent	preparing	reports	and	giving	advice	to	the	Committee.	Other	advisors	did	not	charge	fees	for	services	provided	in	respect	of	Directors’ 	
remuneration	during	the	year.
Statement of Implementation of Remuneration Policy in the Current Financial Year
The	Executive	Directors’	salaries	were	increased	on	1	June	2014	to:
Simon	Emeny	–	£385,000
James	Douglas	–	£280,000
Richard	Fuller	–	£174,000
Ian	Bray	–	£211,000
Jonathon	Swaine	–	£200,000
The	Non-Executive	Directors’	fees	are	due	to	be	reviewed	during	the	financial	year	2014/15	and	any	changes	will	be	effective	from	1	January	2015.
The	annual	bonus	for	the	financial	year	2014/2015	will	operate	on	the	same	basis	as	the	previous	financial	year	save	that	it	now	includes	malus	and	clawback 	
provisions,	and	will	be	consistent	with	the	policy	detailed	in	the	Directors’	Remuneration	Policy	above.	As	explained	on	page	47	the	Company	does	not	publish 	
bonus	targets	since	these	are	considered	commercially	sensitive.	However,	details	of	other	performance	measures	which	will	operate	are	given	on	page	47	and 	
details	of	the	relative	weightings	of	each	are	given	on	page	54. 	
The	awards	under	the	LTIP	are	expected	to	be	made	at	110%	of	salary	for	the	Chief	Executive	and	Finance	Director	and	82.5%	for	the	other	Executives. 	 	
The	LTIP	awards	for	the	financial	year	2014/2015	are	subject	to	the	following	performance	condition:
LTIP Awards  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 53
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
Single Total Figure of Remuneration Table
The	following	table	shows	a	breakdown	of	the	remuneration	of	individual	Directors	who	served	in	all	or	part	of	the	year:
Salary/Fees Taxable benefits
1
Annual bonus
2
LTIP/Options
3
Pensions
4
Total
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
2014
£000
2013
£000
Michael Turner
5
288 399 24 25 61 128 363 359 – – 736 911
Simon Emeny
6
365 332 22 22 213 107 288 264 89 94 977 819
James Douglas 270 264 22 22 159 86 233 238 47 46 731 656
Richard Fuller 170 167 21 22 74 35 122 144 50 61 437 429
Ian Bray 206 204 21 20 89 41 – – 35 35 351 300
Jonathon Swaine 177 175 21 22 103 55 47 49 31 33 379 334
John Dunsmore 57 53 – – – – – – – – 57 53
Sir James Fuller 44 41 1 1 – – – – – – 45 42
Lynn Fordham 58 54 1 1 – – – – – – 59 55
Alastair Kerr 55 51 1 1 – – – – – – 56 52
Nigel Atkinson
7
– 20 – 3 – – – – – – – 23
1	
Taxable	benefits	includes	car	allowances,	product	allowances	and	health	cover.
2	
Bonus	refers	to	the	annual	bonus	scheme	based	on	performance	in	the	period	under	review	and	the	value	of	free	shares	awarded	under	the	SIP	(£3,000).
3			
LTIP/Options	includes	the	value	transferred	to	Directors	from	the	LTIP,	the	Approved	Scheme,	the	Senior	Scheme	and	the	SAYE	Scheme.	Benefit	is	calculated	as	the	share	price	at	the	year	end	(less	the 	
exercise	 price)	 multiplied	 by	 the	 number	 of	 vested	 options.	 Options	 are	 considered	 to	 have	 vested	 if	 substantially	 all	 of	 the	 performance	 criteria	 have	 been	 met	 in	 the	 financial	 year,	 in	 which	 case	 the	 number	
of	vested	options	is	estimated	based	on	performance	against	performance	measures.	The	table	below	sets	out	how	the	award	is	linked	to	performance	of	the	Group.
4			
Pensions	includes	benefit	transferred	on	defined	contribution	and	defined	benefit	schemes.	Refer	to	“Total	Pension	Entitlement”	section	below	for	detail	on	individual	Directors’	pension	entitlements. 	
Benefit	transferred	on	defined	pension	entitlement	is	equivalent	to	the	increase	in	accrued	pension	as	at	29	March	2014	(excluding	an	increase	for	inflation)	multiplied	by	20.
5	
Michael	Turner	became	Non-Executive	Chairman	on	1	July	2013.	Michael	Turner	reached	retirement	age	on	12	June	2011	and	thereafter	was	drawing	his	pension	and	so	accrues	no	further	benefit.
6	
Simon	Emeny	became	Chief	Executive	on	1	July	2013.
7	
Nigel	Atkinson	ceased	to	be	a	Non-Executive	Director	of	the	Company	on	18	July	2012.
The	following	table	shows	how	variable	pay	elements	are	linked	to	the	performance	of	the	Group	in	2014:
Performance measure
Target set
Actual
 performance
Value
of award Minimum Maximum Value of award
LTIP EPS vs RPI
EPS exceeds 
RPI by + 9%
EPS exceeds
 RPI by +24%
% vest of original grant
1
:
Minimum – 40%
Maximum – 100% 15%
64% of
 maximum
 award
Senior Executive Share Options EPS vs RPI
EPS exceeds
 RPI by + 9%
EPS exceeds
 RPI by +21%
% vest of original grant
2
:
Minimum – 40%
Maximum – 100% 15%
70% of
 maximum
 award
1	
Maximum	grant	equates	to	100%	of	salary	with	the	exception	of	Jonathon	Swaine	who	received	55%	of	salary	as	he	was	not	an	Executive	Director	at	grant	date.
2	
Maximum	grant	equates	to	20%	of	salary.
Percentage Change in Remuneration of Chief Executive 
The	table	below	shows	the	percentage	change	in	the	remuneration	of	the	Chief	Executive	compared	to	that	of	the	average	of	all	of	the	Group’s	employees	taken 	
as	a	whole	between	the	financial	years	ended	30	March	2013	and	29	March	2014:
Chief Executive Employees
Change in annual salary
1
0.0% 2.5%
Change in taxable benefits 0.0% 0.0%
Change in annual bonus
2
84.0% 53.3% 
1	
In	July	2014,	Simon	Emeny’s	basic	salary	increased	to	£375,000	which	related	in	entirety	to	his	promotion	to	Chief	Executive.
2			
The	‘Change	in	annual	bonus’	reflects	the	increase	or	decrease	in	the	percentage	of	annual	salary	paid	out	as	bonus	and	excludes	the	value	of	free	shares	awarded	under	the	SIP.	The	employee	comparator 	
group	excludes	hourly	paid	pub	staff	who	receive	bonus	incentives	through	tips	via	a	tronc	system	as	opposed	to	other	bonus	incentive	schemes. 54	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Salary 
The	Committee	sets	the	base	salary	for	each	Executive	Director	by	reference	to	individual	and	corporate	performance,	competitive	market	practice	and	independent 	
salary	survey	information.	Last	year,	base	pay	was	increased	by	approximately	3%	for	all	Directors.	This	was	in	line	with	the	median	of	increases	paid	to	head 	 	
office	staff. 	
External Directorship Fees
The	Board	may	give	approval	for	Executives	to	have	one	Non-Executive	role	and	to	retain	any	related	fees	paid.	Simon	Emeny	is	a	Non-Executive	Director	of 	
Dunelm	Group	plc.	He	retains	fees	of	£40,000	per	annum	in	respect	of	this	position.
Bonus
Actual	performance	against	targets	is	shown	above.	Performance	measures	for	the	annual	bonus	were	weighted	for	each	Director	as	follows:
Group
 profit
Fuller’s Beer
 Company
 profit
Fuller’s Inns
 profit
Michael Turner* 100% – –
Simon Emeny 100% – –
James Douglas 100% – –
Richard Fuller 60% 40% –
Ian Bray 60% 40% –
Jonathon Swaine 60% – 40%
For	the	year	under	review,	Michael	Turner*,	Simon	Emeny	and	James	Douglas	each	earned	a	bonus	of	58%	of	salary,	Ian	Bray	and	Richard	Fuller	each	earned	a 	
bonus	of	42%	of	salary	and	Jonathon	Swaine	earned	a	bonus	of	56%	of	salary.
*For	the	period	up	to	30	June	2013.
Total Pension Entitlements
Michael	Turner	is	a	pensioner	of	the	defined	benefit	Company	pension	plan,	under	the	Directors’	section. 	
Richard	Fuller	was	a	member	of	the	defined	benefit	Company	pension	plan,	under	the	Directors’	section,	on	a	non-contributory	basis	until	31	March	2014	when	he 	
withdrew	from	the	plan.	He	is	now	a	deferred	member	of	the	plan	and	is	in	receipt	of	a	17.5%	salary	supplement	in	lieu	of	membership	of	the	plan.	Richard	Fuller 	
has	confirmed	that	he	will	use	his	supplement	as	part	of	his	retirement	planning. 	
Simon	Emeny	is	a	member	of	the	defined	benefit	Company	pension	plan,	under	the	Main	section	on	a	non-contributory	basis.	In	addition,	a	salary	supplement 	 	
of	17.5%	of	the	excess	of	his	base	salary	over	the	earnings	cap	is	paid	to	him	for	use	as	part	of	his	retirement	planning.	Simon	Emeny	will	be	affected	by	the	closure 	 	
of	the	defined	benefit	Company	pension	plan	to	future	accrual	from	January	2015	and	it	is	expected	that	he	will	be	offered	a	17.5%	salary	supplement	in	lieu	of 	
membership	of	the	plan	from	January	2015,	which	he	will	be	expected	to	use	as	part	of	his	retirement	planning. 	
The	details	of	pensions	accruing	under	the	defined	benefit	scheme	as	at	29	March	2014	were	: 	
Increase in accrued pension
(allowing for inflation)
1
 £
Total accrued pension
 at end of year
2
 £ Normal retirement date
Additional pension accrued
 upon early retirement
 £
Simon Emeny 2,497 26,767 62 –
Richard Fuller 2,524 96,081 62 –
1	
Increase	in	accrued	pension	(allowing	for	inflation)	–	this	is	the	accrued	pension	at	the	year	end	less	the	accrued	pension	at	the	start	of	the	year	adjusted	for	inflation	over	the	year. 	
2	
Total	accrued	pension	at	end	of	year	or	retirement	age	date	if	earlier	–	this	is	what	the	Director	is	entitled	to	receive	as	an	annual	pension	based	on	service	to	date. 	
James	Douglas	is	paid	a	contribution	of	17.5%	of	his	salary	by	the	Company	which	he	is	required	to	use	as	part	of	his	overall	retirement	planning.	He	is	also	required 	
to	contribute	8%	of	his	net	salary	to	his	pension	or	another	investment	vehicle.
The	Company	makes	a	contribution	of	17.5%	of	salary	to	Ian	Bray	and	Jonathon	Swaine’s	nominated	pension	schemes.	They	are	also	required	to	make	contributions 	
of	8%	themselves. 	  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 55
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
Scheme Interests Awarded During the Financial Year
In	respect	of	the	52	week	period	ended	29	March	2014	the	following	LTIPs,Share	Options	and	SIP	awards	were	granted:
Director Type of award
Number of shares Exercise/Grant price
Face value
 at grant
£
1
Date of grant
End of
 Performance
 period
% of award
 vesting at
 minimum
 threshold A shares B shares A shares B shares
S Emeny LTIP 32,967 82,417 £9.10 £0.91 374,999 01/07/2013 31/03/2016 40%
Senior Executive share 
options 4,945 – £9.10 45,000 01/07/2013 31/03/2016 40%
Executive share options
2
3,296 – £9.10 29,994 12/07/2013 31/03/2016 100%
SAYE 497 – £9.05 4,498 01/09/2013 01/09/2018 n/a
SIP 310 – £9.67 2,998 01/12/2013 n/a n/a
Total 42,015 82,417 457,489
J Douglas LTIP 23,824 59,560 £9.10 £0.91 270,998 01/07/2013 31/03/2016 40%
Senior Executive share 
options 2,659 – £9.10 24,197 01/07/2013 31/03/2016 40%
Executive share options
2
3,296 – £9.10 29,994 12/07/2013 31/03/2016 100%
SIP 310 – £9.67 2,998 01/12/2013 n/a n/a
Total 30,089 59,560 328,187
R H F Fuller LTIP 11,241 28,104 £9.10 £0.91 127,868 01/07/2013 31/03/2016 40%
Senior Executive share 
options 3,747 – £9.10 34,098 01/07/2013 31/03/2016 40%
SAYE 828 – £9.05 7,493 01/09/2013 01/09/2018 n/a
SIP 310 – £9.67 2,998 01/12/2013 n/a n/a
Total 16,126 28,104 172,457
I Bray LTIP 13,648 34,120 £9.10 £0.91 155,246 01/07/2013 31/03/2016 40%
Senior Executive share 
options 4,549 – £9.10 41,396 01/07/2013 31/03/2016 40%
SAYE 497 – £9.05 4,498 01/09/2013 01/09/2016 n/a
SIP 310 – £9.67 2,998 01/12/2013 n/a n/a
Total 19,004 34,120 204,138
J Swaine LTIP 11,703 29,258 £9.10 £0.91 133,122 01/07/2013 31/03/2016 40%
Senior Executive share 
options 3,901 – £9.10 35,499 01/07/2013 31/03/2016 40%
SIP 310 – £9.67 2,998 01/12/2013 n/a n/a
Total 15,914 29,258 171,619
1				
Face	values	have	been	calculated	using	the	actual	grant	prices	also	shown	in	the	table	except	for	SAYE.	For	the	SAYE	Scheme	this	is	based	on	an	average	price	for	the	three	days	before	grant	(shown	above) 	
although	options	are	granted	at	20%	discount.
2			
Executives	may	be	awarded	up	to	20%	of	their	salary	through	the	approved	Executive	and	unapproved	Senior	Executive	share	option	schemes.	Under	the	former	scheme	only	options	worth	£30,000	may 	
be	held	at	any	time.	When	Executives	hold	options	at	this	maximum	level	they	will	receive	the	full	allocation	under	the	Senior	Executive	share	option	scheme.
Share Scheme Interests Outstanding at the Year End
Shares
The	Company	has	Share	Ownership	Guidelines	for	Directors	which	state	that	Executives	should	hold	shares	worth	at	least	100%	of	their	salary.	Accordingly 	
Executives	are	required	to	retain:
a)	 All	shares	they	hold	in	the	SIP
b)	 All	shares	they	acquire	as	a	result	of	exercising	SAYE	options
c)	 All	shares	that	they	acquire	as	a	result	of	exercising	options	under	the	Approved	Scheme	net	of	the	cost	of	those	options
d)		 At	least	75%	of	any	shares	that	they	acquire	as	a	result	of	exercising	options	under	the	Senior	Scheme	net	of	the	cost	of	those	options	and	the	costs	of	settling 	
related	tax	and	NI	thereon 	
e)	 	 At	least	75%	of	any	post-tax	and	NI	vested	shares	under	the	LTIP	until	their	guideline	is	met. 	
All	of	the	Executive	Directors’	shareholdings	already	meet	the	guideline	with	the	exception	of	Ian	Bray	who	joined	the	Company	in	2011. 56	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ Shareholdings
Changes by 28 May 2014 At 29 March 2014
At 30 March 2013
 (or appointment date)
Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial
Michael Turner
‘A’ ordinary 40p – – 271,378 – 251,158 –
‘B’ ordinary 4p – – 2,988,394 – 2,775,750 –
‘C’ ordinary 40p – – 624,260 – 624,260 –
2nd preference £1 – – 71 – 71 –
Simon Emeny
‘A’ ordinary 40p – – 95,421 – 93,931 –
‘B’ ordinary 4p – – 677,208 – 623,951 –
James Douglas
‘A’ ordinary 40p – – 40,501 – 40,191 –
‘B’ ordinary 4p – – 132,005 – 84,090 –
Richard Fuller
‘A’ ordinary 40p – – 6,996 500,000 7,720 500,000
‘B’ ordinary 4p – – 3,351,606 10,935,015 3,322,540 10,935,015
‘C’ ordinary 40p – – 25,000 – 25,000 –
2nd preference £1 – – 303 – 303 –
Ian Bray
‘A’ ordinary 40p – – 1,957 – 1,647 –
‘B’ ordinary 4p – – – – – –
Jonathon Swaine
‘A’ ordinary 40p – – 14,934 – 12,753 –
‘B’ ordinary 4p – – 52,461 – 41,804 –
John Dunsmore
‘A’ ordinary 40p – – 23,305 – 2,328 –
‘B’ ordinary 4p – – – – – –
Sir James Fuller
‘A’ ordinary 40p – – 88,942 – 88,942 –
‘B’ ordinary 4p – – 9,143,952 – 9,143,952 –
‘C’ ordinary 40p – – 2,702,003 – 2,691,313 –
Lynn Fordham
‘A’ ordinary 40p – – 3,182 – 3,182 –
‘B’ ordinary 4p – – – – – –
Alastair Kerr
‘A’ ordinary 40p – – 3,941 – 2,941 –
‘B’ ordinary 4p – – – – – –  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 57
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
Director’s Share Options
As at
30 March
2013 Exercised Lapsed Issued
As at
29 March
2014
Exercise
price
£
Date of
grant
Date
from
 which
exercisable
Expiry
date Type
Cost of
options
 under
SAYE
Schemes
£
Price at
exercise
date
£
Michael Turner 11,660 (11,660) – – – 3.67 19/7/05 19/7/08 18/7/15 U – 8.70
10,040 (10,040) – – – 4.98 18/7/06 18/7/09 18/7/16 U – 8.70
5,589 (5,589) – – – 7.51 18/7/07 18/7/10 17/7/17 U – 8.70
13,011 (13,011) – – – 4.05 15/7/08 15/7/11 15/7/18 U – 8.70
1,966 (1,966) – – – 3.31 1/9/08 1/9/13 1/3/14 S 6,507 9.03
12,916 (12,916) – – – 4.80 16/7/09 16/7/12 16/7/19 U – 8.70
11,245 (6,747) (4,498) – – 5.78 12/7/10 12/7/13 12/7/20 U – 9.64
1,997 (1,325) (672) – – 4.64 1/9/10 1/9/15 1/3/16 S 6,148 9.57
1,746 (1,047) (699) – – 6.30 30/11/10 30/11/13 30/11/20 U – 9.64
11,029 (4,538) (6,491) – – 7.09 20/7/11 20/7/14 19/7/21 U – 9.64
11,347 (3,071) (8,276) – – 7.05 12/7/12 12/7/15 11/7/22 U – 9.64
92,546 (71,910) (20,636) – –
Simon Emeny 9,100 (9,100) – – – 3.67 19/7/05 19/7/08 18/7/15 U – 9.75
2,007 – – – 2,007 4.98 18/7/06 18/7/09 17/7/16 U – –
4,285 – – – 4,285 7.51 18/7/07 18/7/10 17/7/17 U – –
9,990 – – – 9,990 4.05 15/7/08 15/7/11 15/7/18 U – –
1,180 (1,180) – – – 3.31 1/9/08 1/9/13 1/3/14 S 3,906 9.44
9,916 – – – 9,916 4.80 16/7/09 16/7/12 16/7/19 U – –
8,650 – (3,460) – 5,190 5.78 12/7/10 12/7/13 12/7/20 U – –
2,530 – – – 2,530 4.64 1/9/10 1/9/15 1/3/16 S 11,739 –
859 – (344) – 515 6.30 30/11/10 30/11/13 30/11/20 U – –
9,139 – – – 9,139 7.09 20/7/11 20/7/14 19/7/21 U – –
9,446 – – – 9,446 7.05 12/7/12 12/7/15 11/7/22 U – –
– – – 3,296 3,296 9.10 1/7/13 1/7/16 30/6/23 A – –
– – – 4,945 4,945 9.10 1/7/13 1/7/16 30/6/23 U – –
– – – 497 497 7.24 1/9/13 1/9/18 1/3/19 S 3,598 –
67,102 (10,280) (3,804) 8,738 61,756
James Douglas 2,391 – – – 2,391 4.05 15/7/08 15/7/11 15/7/18 U – –
8,625 – – – 8,625 4.80 16/7/09 16/7/12 16/7/19 U – –
7,508 – (3,004) – 4,504 5.78 12/7/10 12/7/13 12/7/20 U – –
1,939 (1,939) – – – 4.64 1/9/10 1/9/13 1/3/14 S 8,997 9.31
1,047 – (419) – 628 6.30 30/11/10 30/11/13 30/11/20 U – –
7,277 – – – 7,277 7.09 20/7/11 20/7/14 19/7/21 U – –
7,517 – – – 7,517 7.05 12/7/12 12/7/15 11/7/22 U – –
– – – 3,296 3,296 9.10 1/7/13 1/7/16 30/6/23 A – –
– – – 2,659 2,659 9.10 1/7/13 1/7/16 30/6/23 U – –
36,304 (1,939) (3,423) 5,955 36,897
A:	Approved	Scheme	options
U:	Senior	Scheme	options
S:	SAYE	options
	
Vested	but	unexercised	options 58	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
As at
30 March
2013 Exercised Lapsed Issued
As at
29 March
2014
Exercise
price
£
Date of
grant
Date
from
 which
exercisable
Expiry
date Type
Cost of
options
 under
SAYE
Schemes
£
Price at
exercise
date
£
Richard Fuller 9,532 (9,532) – – – 2.62 5/7/04 5/7/07 5/7/14 A – 8.70
1,966 (1,966) – – – 3.31 1/9/08 1/9/13 1/3/14 S 6,507 9.44
801 – – – 801 3.88 1/9/09 1/9/14 1/3/15 S 3,108 –
4,321 – (1,729) – 2,592 5.78 12/7/10 12/7/13 12/7/20 U – –
869 – – – 869 5.78 12/7/10 12/7/13 12/7/20 A – –
665 – – – 665 4.64 1/9/10 1/9/15 1/3/16 S 3,086 –
4,612 – – – 4,612 7.09 20/7/11 20/7/14 19/7/21 U – –
563 – – – 563 5.47 1/9/11 1/9/14 1/3/15 S 3,080 –
4,765 – – – 4,765 7.05 12/7/12 12/7/15 11/7/22 U – –
– – – 3,747 3,747 9.10 1/7/13 1/7/16 30/6/23 U – –
– – – 828 828 7.24 1/9/13 1/9/18 1/3/19 S 5,995 –
28,094 (11,498) (1,729) 4,575 19,442
Ian Bray 1,503 – – – 1,503 7.05 12/7/12 12/7/15 11/7/22 U – –
4,255 – – – 4,255 7.05 12/7/12 12/7/15 11/7/22 A – –
– – – 4,549 4,549 9.10 1/7/13 1/7/16 30/6/23 U – –
– – – 497 497 7.24 1/9/13 1/9/18 1/3/19 S 3,598 –
5,758 – – 5,046 10,804
Jonathon Swaine 1,649 – – – 1,649 5.47 1/9/11 1/9/14 1/3/15 S 9,020 –
709 – – – 709 7.05 12/7/12 12/7/15 11/7/22 U – –
4,255 – – – 4,255 7.05 12/7/12 12/7/15 11/7/22 A – –
– – – 3,901 3,901 9.10 1/7/13 1/7/16 30/6/23 U – –
6,613 – – 3,901 10,514
Total 236,417 (95,627) (29,592) 28,215 139,413
A:	Approved	Scheme	options
U:	Senior	Scheme	options
S:	SAYE	options
	
Vested	but	unexercised	options  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 59
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
Directors’ Long Term Incentive Plan Allocations
 Total held at
30 March
 2013
 Granted
 during
 year
 Awards
 vested
 Lapsed
 during
 year
 Total held at
 29 March
 2014
Monetary
 value of vest
 £000*
Michael Turner
‘A’ ordinary 40p 141,474 – (57,606) (83,868) – 530 
‘B’ ordinary 4p 353,687 – (144,016) (209,671) – 132 
Simon Emeny
‘A’ ordinary 40p 112,386 32,967 (21,303) (16,738) 107,312 197 
‘B’ ordinary 4p 280,966 82,417 (53,257) (41,845) 268,281 49 
James Douglas
‘A’ ordinary 40p 93,405 23,824 (19,165) (15,059) 83,005 178 
‘B’ ordinary 4p 233,517 59,560 (47,915) (37,647) 207,515 45 
Richard Fuller
‘A’ ordinary 40p 48,894 11,241 (11,626) (9,135) 39,374 107 
‘B’ ordinary 4p 122,237 28,104 (29,066) (22,837) 98,438 27 
Ian Bray
‘A’ ordinary 40p 17,276 13,648 – – 30,924 – 
‘B’ ordinary 4p 43,191 34,120 – – 77,311 -–
Jonathon Swaine
‘A’ ordinary 40p 28,897 11,703 (4,263) (3,349) 32,988 39 
‘B’ ordinary 4p 72,245 29,258 (10,657) (8,374) 82,472 10 
*	 The	market	price	of	‘A’	shares	on	8	August	2013	for	the	LTIP	13	awards	vest,	and	all	of	Michael	Turner’s	special	exercises,	was	£9.20,	the	price	of	‘B’	shares	is	assumed	to	be	£0.92.	The	market	price	of	‘A’	shares 	
on	26	November	2013	for	the	LITP	13A	awards	vest	was	£9.80,	the	price	of	‘B’	shares	is	assumed	to	be	£0.98.
The	performance	conditions	for	the	LTIP	are	set	out	in	the	tables	on	pages	52	and	53	of	this	report.
Payments to Past Directors
Anthony	Fuller,	former	Chairman	and	now	President,	receives	an	annual	royalty	of	£15,000	which	is	paid	in	recognition	of	the	fact	that	Mr	Fuller	has	given	the 	
Company	ongoing	exclusive	permission	to	use	his	name	and	signature	on	any	Company	product. 	
Nigel	Atkinson,	former	Non-Executive	Director,	receives	annual	fees	of	£7,500	which	are	paid	because	Mr	Atkinson	continues	to	act	for	the	Company	as	our 	
ambassador	in	the	Hampshire	area,	attending	various	events	as	the	Company’s	representative. 	
Payments for Loss of Office
There	were	no	payments	to	Directors	or	former	Directors	for	loss	of	office. 60	 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014 	
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Performance Graph and Table
The	graph	below	shows	a	comparison	of	the	Total	Shareholder	Return	(“TSR”)	for	the	Company’s	listed	‘A’	ordinary	shares	for	the	last	10	financial	years	against	the 	
TSR	for	the	companies	in	the	FTSE	Travel	&	Leisure	Index.	The	Company	is	a	constituent	of	this	Index	and	therefore	it	is	an	appropriate	choice	for	this	report.
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
Mar-04 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure (rebased)
Source: Thomson Datastream
The	table	below	shows	the	total	remuneration	figure	for	the	Chief	Executive	over	the	last	five	financial	years	and	the	annual	bonus	and	LTIP	payout	for	each	year 	 	
as	a	percentage	of	the	maximum	available.
2010 2011
2
2012 2013 2014
3
Single figure total remuneration 564 1,518 944 1,088 977
Annual bonus
1
100% 70% 56% 41% 77%
LTIP 70% 85% 92% 56% 64%
1	
Annual	bonus	as	a	percentage	of	the	maximum	available.
2			
The	single	total	remuneration	figure	includes	an	increase	in	the	accrued	benefit	under	the	defined	benefit	Company	pension	plan	to	the	value	of	£44,000,	equating	to	a	benefit	of	£880,000.	Michael 	
Turner	did	not	receive	such	an	increase	in	the	other	years	disclosed.	Excluding	this	pension	benefit	reduces	the	single	total	figure	to	£638,000	for	the	year.
3			
Simon	Emeny	was	appointed	as	Group	Chief	Executive	in	July	2013.	The	single	total	figure	comprises	of	the	remuneration	received	by	Simon	Emeny	in	the	financial	year,	hence	includes	remuneration 	 	
for	the	three	months	prior	to	this	promotion.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C.	Annual	Report	2014	 61
Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Overview
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay 
The	table	below	shows	the	total	remuneration	for	the	Group’s	employees	compared	to	other	key	financial	indicators:
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Share
buybacks
Dividends
3
Capital
expenditure &
business
combinations
2
Remuneration Taxes
payable
to HMRC
1
£m
2013
2014
1		
Taxes	payable	to	HMRC	is	based	upon	tax	incurred	in	the	year	and	includes	corporation	tax,	VAT,	PAYE,	NI,	duty,	stamp	duty,	non-domestic	rates,	property	licences,	environmental	levies	and	machine	game 	
duty.	It	has	increased	due	to	increased	VAT	and	duty	payments	resulting	from	the	continued	growth	of	the	Group.	This	measure	has	been	selected	as	it	reflects	a	significant	outflow	for	the	Group.
2		
Capital	expenditure	(including	business	combinations)	represents	cash	paid,	is	consistent	with	the	numbers	disclosed	in	the	financial	statements	and	has	increased	due	to	the	conversion	of	The 	 	
Lamb	&	Flag	from	leasehold	to	freehold	in	the	year.	This	measure	has	been	selected	as	it	reflects	a	significant	outflow	for	the	Group.
3	
Dividends	represents	the	interim	dividend	for	2014	paid	in	the	year	and	the	final	dividend	for	2014	that	has	been	proposed	but	not	paid	in	the	year.
Statement of Voting at the Last Annual General Meeting
At	the	Annual	General	Meeting	held	on	25	July	2013,	votes	cast	by	proxy	in	respect	of	the	approval	of	the	Directors’	Remuneration	Report	were	as	follows: 	
Resolution text 
Number of votes 
cast for
Percentage of votes 
cast for
Number of votes 
cast against
Percentage of votes 
cast against Total votes cast
Number of 
votes withheld 
Approval of 
Remuneration Report 105,565,356 98.31% 1,814,051 1.69% 107 ,379,407 1,150,823
On	behalf	of	the	Board
Alastair	Kerr 	
Chairman,	Remuneration	Committee
5	June	2014 62  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   We have audited the financial statements of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014, which comprise the Group Income Statement,   the Group and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Statements of Changes in   Equity, the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 30. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation   of the Group and Company financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.   This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been   undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To   the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our   audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 37, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements   and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with   applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical   Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.uk/apb/scope/private.cfm.
Auditor commentary
An overview of the scope of our audit
The Group is currently organised into three principal operating divisions: Managed Pubs and Hotels, Tenanted Inns and The Fuller’s Beer Company. Although the   Group financial statements are a consolidation of ten subsidiaries, over 99% of the Group’s revenue and profit before taxation arise in the Parent Company. We also   perform a full scope audit of one subsidiary, Grand Canal Trading Limited, with the other subsidiaries subject to analytical procedures. Our audit approach was   based on a thorough understanding of the Group’s business and was risk-based.   As this is an initial audit engagement, our audit process commenced with a series of meetings and site visits to build our knowledge of the business, together     with a review of the predecessor auditor’s working papers, to obtain evidence over opening balances. We subsequently performed an interim visit at the Group’s   head office in Chiswick in November 2013, including a review the Group’s internal control environment and the key IT systems. This review culminated in the   issuance of our half-yearly report on 22 November 2013. Using the knowledge of the business we have obtained, we performed a risk assessment in December   2013, taking into account some additional risk areas as this is the first year we have undertaken the audit. Based on this risk assessment, we planned a primarily   substantive audit approach, although we have continued to build our knowledge of the control environment throughout the audit, with a view to placing greater   reliance on the operating effectiveness of the internal control environment in the future. We undertook substantive testing on significant transactions, balances and   disclosures, the extent of which was based on various factors such as our overall assessment of the control environment, the design effectiveness of controls over   individual systems and the management of specific risks.   Our application of materiality
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing our audit, in evaluating the effect of any identified misstatements and in forming our opinion.     For the purpose of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement we define materiality as the magnitude of a misstatement   or an omission from the financial statements or related disclosures that would make it probable that the judgement of a reasonable person relying on the   information would have been changed or influenced by the misstatement or omission. We also determine a level of performance materiality which we use to   determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements   exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
For the Group audit, we established materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be £1.6 million, which is 5% of a forecast of the year’s profit     before taxation. As the profit before taxation for the year is not substantially different from the forecast, we have not revised our assessment of materiality.     For the financial information of the individual subsidiary undertaking, we set our materiality based on a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the     relative scale of the business.
We have determined the threshold at which we communicate misstatements to the Audit Committee to be £80,000. In addition, we communicate   misstatements below that threshold that, in our view, warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the members of Fuller, Smith & Turner P .L.C.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  63
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Our assessment of risk
Without modifying our opinion, we highlight the following matters that are, in our judgement, likely to be most important to users’ understanding of our audit.     Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion     on individual transactions, account balances or disclosures.
Assessment of impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill
As more fully explained in note 11, the Directors are required to make an impairment assessment for property, plant and equipment when there is an indication     that an asset may be impaired and for goodwill annually. The process for measuring and recognising impairment under IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, is complex   and highly judgemental, particularly as each individual trading outlet is treated as a separate cash-generating unit for impairment purposes. We therefore identified   the valuation of property, plant and equipment and goodwill as a significant risk requiring special audit consideration.   Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, an evaluation of the methodology and assumptions used by the Directors to perform the impairment   assessment, in particular those relating to the forecasted growth and discount rates for each cash-generating unit, and the allocation of goodwill to groups of   cash-generating units. We compared the methodologies applied and the assumptions used to our expectations and emerging market activity. We used our   valuations specialists, to challenge the key assumptions used by management.   The Group’s accounting policy on impairment is included in note 1, with further disclosure given in respect of property, plant and equipment in note 11 and goodwill   in note 10.
Measurement of the defined benefit pension liability
The Group has a significant defined benefit pension scheme, which has a deficit of £17 million at the year end. The pension scheme is accounted for in accordance   with IAS 19, Employee Benefits. The process for the measurement of the pension liability is complex and highly judgemental, which is subject to complex actuarial   assumptions. Therefore we identified the measurement of the liability as a significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, reviewing the appropriateness of the IAS 19 valuation methodology; agreeing underlying data sent to actuaries   and agreeing asset values to underlying investment manager statements. We also involved our actuarial specialists to independently challenge management’s   assumptions.
The Group’s pension assumptions are set out in detail, together with related IAS 19 disclosures, in note 22.
Going concern
Under ISA 570 (UK & Ireland), we are required to assess whether the Group’s intended use of the going concern assumption extends for the foreseeable future,   being at least twelve months from the reporting date. As disclosed in the Group’s going concern statement on page 19 we note that the Group’s current £150   million bank facilities expire in May 2015. As the refinancing needs to take place within the period used by management in their going concern assessment, we   have assessed going concern as a risk requiring particular audit consideration.   Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, a review of the Group’s short term cash flow forecasts for the period up to the date of refinancing, and longer   term forecasts that assume a successful refinancing process in May 2015, to determine whether the Group has sufficient cash to meet its liabilities as they fall due   for the foreseeable future. We have reviewed relevant correspondence and challenged management’s assertions to evaluate the status of their refinancing process.   We have reviewed the Board’s disclosures to ensure that they provide appropriate disclosure of the expected refinancing process.
The Group’s going concern disclosures are given in note 1.
Exceptional items
The classification of exceptional items is determined by the Group’s accounting policy, which states that because of the nature and/or expected infrequency of the   events giving rise to them, exceptional items merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the   year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial performance. The process for recognising exceptional items under IAS   1,  Presentation  of  financial  statements,  is  judgemental.  The  classification  of  exceptional  items  has  been  assessed  as  a  risk  that  requires  particular  audit  consideration.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, a review of whether significant unusual or significant non-recurring transactions throughout the Group have   been measured, presented and disclosed in accordance with the Group’s accounting policy and IAS 1. We challenged management on both the classification of   significant exceptional items and the adequacy of the related disclosures.
The Group’s exceptional item disclosures are provided in note 5. 64  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   The risk of fraud in revenue recognition
Under ISAs (UK and Ireland), there is a presumed risk of fraud in revenue recognition. As the Group records a substantial proportion of sales in cash and through   point of sale transactions, we identified fraud in revenue recognition as a significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, an evaluation of the revenue recognition policies for each of the Group’s three operating segments in   accordance with the Group’s stated accounting policies and IAS 18, Revenue. For each segment, we tested a sample of revenue transactions to assess whether the   Group’s revenue recognition policy was being applied consistently in each case. This was supported by further substantive tests of detail in respect of trade   receivables, through a combination of third party confirmations, testing of subsequent receipts or proof of delivery.   The group’s accounting policy on revenue recognition is included in note 1, with disclosure of revenues in note 3.
Management override of financial control
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), for all of our audits we are required to consider the risk of management override of financial controls. Due both to the unpredictable   nature of this risk, and this being an initial audit engagement, we have assessed it as a significant risk requiring special audit consideration.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to, specific procedures relating to this risk that are required by ISA 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating   to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements. This included tests of journal entries using computer assisted analytical techniques, and in particular an assessment     of both unusual transactions and an analysis of the initiators of journal entries. Our work also included the evaluation of judgements and assumptions in   management’s estimates, assessing the extent of estimation uncertainty using sensitivity analysis, and tests of significant transactions outside the normal     course of business.   In particular, we assessed each of the critical judgements and estimates as set out in the Group’s accounting policies in note 1, with a particular focus on the   assessment of impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill, as set out above.   Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s affairs as at 29 March 2014 and for the Group’s profit for   the period then ended;
•  the Group and Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; and
•  the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements,   Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Other reporting responsibilities
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and
•  the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with     the financial statements.
Independent Auditor’s Report continued
to the Members of Fuller, Smith & Turner P .L.C.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  65
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the ISAs (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
•  materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or
•  is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors’   statement that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters that   were communicated to the Audit Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited     by us; or
•  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records   and returns; or
•  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules are required to review:
•  the Directors’ statement, set out on page 19, in relation to going concern; and
•  the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Corporate Governance Code     specified for our review.
Charles Hutton-Potts
Charles Hutton-Potts (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory  Auditor
London
5 June 2014 66  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 Restated* 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013
Note
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Before
exceptional
items
£m
Exceptional
items
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 3  288.0  –  288.0  271.5  –  271.5 
Operating costs 4,5 (248.1) (1.9) (250.0) (234.5) (1.5) (236.0) 
Operating profit 39.9 (1.9)  38.0  37.0 (1.5)  35.5 
Profit on disposal of properties 5  –  1.9  1.9  –  5.0  5.0 
Finance costs* 5,6 (5.8) (0.6) (6.4) (5.9) (0.9) (6.8) 
Profit before tax* 34.1 (0.6)  33.5  31.1  2.6  33.7 
Taxation* 5,7 (7.9) 3.5 (4.4) (7.6)  2.0 (5.6) 
Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the 
Parent Company* 26.2 2.9 29.1 23.5  4.6  28.1 
Earnings per share per 40p ‘A’ and ‘C’ ordinary share* Pence Pence Pence Pence
Basic 8 52.14 50.43 
Diluted 8 51.39 49.95 
Adjusted 8  46.94  42.18 
Diluted adjusted 8 46.27  41.78
Earnings per share per 4p ‘B’ ordinary share*
Basic 8 5.21 5.04 
Diluted 8 5.14 5.00 
Adjusted 8  4.69 4.22 
Diluted adjusted 8  4.63  4.18 
The results and earnings per share measures above are all in respect of continuing operations of the Group.
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19, see note 1.
Group Income Statement
for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  67
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Group Note
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
52 weeks
ended
30 March
2013
£m
Profit for the year* 29.1 28.1 
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Net gains/(losses) on valuation of financial assets and liabilities 25 2.4 (0.9) 
Tax related to items that may be reclassified to profit or loss (0.6) 0.2 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Net actuarial (losses)/gains on pension schemes* 22 (4.1)  6.5 
Tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss*  0.4 (1.7) 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax* (1.9) 4.1 
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company 27.2 32.2 
Company Notes £m £m
Profit for the year* 26.4 25.2 
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss
Net gains/(losses) on valuation of financial assets and liabilities 25 2.4 (0.9) 
Tax related to items that may be reclassified to profit or loss (0.6) 0.2 
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Net actuarial (losses)/gains on pension schemes* 22 (4.1) 6.5 
Tax related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss* 0.4 (1.7) 
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year, net of tax* (1.9)  4.1 
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company 24.5 29.3 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19, see note 1.
Group and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income
for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 68  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Group and Company Balance Sheets
29 March 2014
Note
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 34.4 30.1 7.9 6.2 
Property, plant and equipment 11 434.8 414.8 433.1 414.8 
Investment properties 12 4.7 4.2 4.7 4.2 
Derivative financial assets 13 0.8 – 0.8 –
Other non-current assets 14 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 
Investments in subsidiaries 15 – – 94.8 91.8 
Deferred tax assets 24 6.2 6.1 6.1 6.0 
Total non-current assets 481.3 455.6 547.8 523.4 
Current assets
Inventories 17 10.6 10.1 10.6 10.1 
Trade and other receivables 18 18.3 18.3 18.3 18.3 
Cash and short term deposits 21 4.1 4.3 4.1 4.3 
Total current assets 33.0 32.7 33.0 32.7 
Assets classified as held for sale 19 1.2 0.6 1.2 0.6 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 20 46.1 40.9 140.4 133.2 
Current tax payable 3.9 3.8 3.9 3.8 
Provisions 24 1.2 1.0 1.2 1.0 
Total current liabilities 51.2 45.7 145.5 138.0 
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 143.9 139.9 143.7 139.9 
Derivative financial liabilities 13 0.8 2.4 0.8 2.4 
Retirement benefit obligations 22 17.2 13.0 17.2 13.0 
Deferred tax liabilities 24 22.6 26.7 22.6 26.7 
Provisions 24 2.2 1.8 2.2 1.8 
Other non-current payables 20 0.4 – – –
Total non-current liabilities 187.1 183.8 186.5 183.8 
Net assets 277.2 259.4 250.0 234.9 
Capital and reserves
Share capital 26 22.8 22.8 22.8 22.8 
Share premium account 26 4.8 4.8 4.8 4.8 
Capital redemption reserve 26 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1 
Own shares 26 (9.7) (8.7) (9.7) (8.7)
Hedging reserve 26 – (1.8) – (1.8)
Retained earnings 256.2 239.2 229.0 214.7 
Total shareholders’ equity 277.2 259.4 250.0 234.9 
Approved by the Board and signed on 5 June 2014.
M J Turner, FCA
Chairman  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  69
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity
for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
Group
Share
capital
(note 26)
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Own
shares
(note 26)
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
 Restated*
Retained
earnings
£m
 Restated*
Total
£m
At 31 March 2012 22.8 4.8 3.1 (8.3) (1.1) 214.0 235.3 
Profit for the year* –  –  –  –  – 28.1 28.1 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year* –  –  –  – (0.7) 4.8 4.1 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year –  –  –  – (0.7)  32.9  32.2 
Shares purchased to be held in ESOT or as treasury –  –  – (4.0)  –  – (4.0)
Shares released from ESOT and treasury –  –  –  3.6  – (3.1) 0.5 
Dividends (note 9) –  –  –  –  – (7.2) (7.2)
Share-based payment charges –  –  –  –  – 1.9 1.9 
Tax credited directly to equity (note 7) –  –  –  –  – 0.7 0.7 
Total transactions with owners – – – (0.4) – (7.7) (8.1)
At 30 March 2013 22.8 4.8 3.1 (8.7) (1.8) 239.2 259.4 
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  – 29.1 29.1
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year –  –  –  – 1.8 (3.7) (1.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year –  –  –  – 1.8 25.4 27.2
Shares purchased to be held in ESOT or as treasury –  –  – (5.3)  –  – (5.3)
Shares released from ESOT and treasury –  –  –  4.3  – (2.9) 1.4 
Dividends (note 9) –  –  –  –  – (7.9) (7.9)
Share-based payment charges –  –  –  –  – 1.8 1.8 
Tax credited directly to equity (note 7) –  –  –  –  – 0.6 0.6 
Total transactions with owners – – – (1.0) – (8.4) (9.4)
At 29 March 2014 22.8 4.8 3.1 (9.7) – 256.2 277.2
Company £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2012 22.8 4.8 3.1 (8.3) (1.1) 192.4 213.7 
Profit for the year* –  –  –  –  – 25.2 25.2 
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year* –  –  –  – (0.7) 4.8 4.1 
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year –  –  –  – (0.7) 30.0 29.3 
Shares purchased to be held in ESOT or as treasury –  –  – (4.0)  –  – (4.0)
Shares released from ESOT and treasury –  –  –  3.6  – (3.1) 0.5 
Dividends (note 9) –  –  –  –  – (7.2) (7.2)
Share-based payment charges –  –  –  –  – 1.9 1.9 
Tax credited directly to equity  –  –  –  –  – 0.7 0.7 
Total transactions with owners – – – (0.4) – (7.7) (8.1)
At 30 March 2013 22.8 4.8 3.1 (8.7) (1.8) 214.7 234.9 
Profit for the year –  –  –  –  – 26.4 26.4
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year –  –  –  – 1.8 (3.7) (1.9)
Total comprehensive income for the year –  –  –  – 1.8 22.7 24.5
Shares purchased to be held in ESOT or as treasury –  –  – (5.3)  – – (5.3)
Shares released from ESOT and treasury –  –  –  4.3  – (2.9) 1.4 
Dividends (note 9) –  –  –  –  – (7.9) (7.9)
Share-based payment charges –  –  –  –  – 1.8 1.8 
Tax credited directly to equity  –  –  –  –  – 0.6 0.6 
Total transactions with owners – – – (1.0) – (8.4) (9.4)
At 29 March 2014 22.8 4.8 3.1 (9.7) – 229.0 250.0
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19, see note 1. 70  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Group and Company Cash Flow Statements
for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
Note
Group
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
Restated*
Group
52 weeks
ended
30 March
2013
£m
Company
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
Restated*
Company
52 weeks
ended
30 March
2013
£m
Profit before tax* 33.5 33.7 30.0 31.1 
Net finance costs before exceptional items* 5.8 5.9 9.0 9.0 
Exceptional items* 5 0.6 (2.6) 0.6 (3.1)
Depreciation and amortisation 4 14.7 14.2 14.5 14.2 
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.1) – (0.1) –
54.5 51.2 54.0 51.2 
Difference between pension charge and cash paid (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) (0.5)
Share-based payment charges 1.8 1.9 1.8 1.9 
Change in trade and other receivables 1.0 (0.2) 1.0 (0.2)
Change in inventories (0.1) 0.4 (0.1) 0.4 
Change in trade and other payables 2.8 (4.0) 2.8 (4.0)
Cash impact of operating exceptional items 5 (2.1) (1.5) (2.1) (1.5)
Cash generated from operations 57.4 47.3 56.9 47.3 
Tax paid (8.0) (8.1) (8.0) (8.1)
Cash generated from operating activities 49.4 39.2 48.9 39.2 
Cash flow from investing activities
Business combinations 16 (9.6) (11.4) (9.6) (11.4)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (28.5) (18.2) (28.1) (18.2)
Overdraft acquired on acquisition (0.1) – – –
Sale of property, plant and equipment 2.6 9.5 2.6 9.5 
Net cash outflow from investing activities (35.6) (20.1)  (35.1) (20.1) 
Cash flow from financing activities
Purchase of own shares 26 (5.3) (4.0) (5.3) (4.0)
Receipts on release of own shares to option schemes 1.4 0.6 1.4 0.6 
Interest paid (5.2) (5.3) (5.2) (5.3)
Preference dividends paid 9 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Equity dividends paid 9 (7.9) (7.2) (7.9) (7.2)
Drawdown of bank loans 3.4 – 3.4 –
Repayment of bank loans – (2.5) – (2.5)
Repayment of other loans (0.3) – (0.3) –
Cost of refinancing – (0.2) – (0.2) 
Net cash outflow from financing activities (14.0) (18.7) (14.0) (18.7) 
Net movement in cash and cash equivalents (0.2) 0.4 (0.2) 0.4 
Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 21  4.3  3.9 4.3 3.9 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 21 4.1 4.3 4.1 4.3 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19, see note 1.
There were no significant non-cash transactions during either year.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  71
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies
Authorisation of Financial Statements and Statement of Compliance with IFRSs
The financial statements of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 were authorised for issue by the   Board of Directors on 5 June 2014 and the Balance Sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by M J Turner. Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. is a public limited company   incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The Company’s ordinary ‘A’ shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group’s and Company’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted for use   in the European Union and applied to the financial statements of the Group and the Company for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014, in accordance with the   provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and by the Company are set out in the accounting policies below.   Profit Attributable to Members of the Parent Company
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a separate Income Statement for the Parent Company has not been prepared. The profit attributable   to ordinary shareholders and included in the financial statements of the Parent Company was £26.4 million (2013: £25.2 million). There was no dividend from   subsidiary companies during the current year (2013: £nil).
Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Preparation
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014.
The Group and Company financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are shown in millions of pounds (£m) rounded to the nearest hundred   thousand, except when otherwise indicated.
The Directors have considered a number of cash flow scenarios and have determined that the Group has adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure   and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group’s banking facilities expire in a period less than 12 months from the date of the financial statements. Having made sufficient enquiries the Directors are   satisfied that the Group will have no difficulty in refinancing and continuing to borrow at levels that will allow the Group to continue in operational existence for     the  foreseeable  future. Accordingly, the Directors consider that it is appropriate to continued to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the   financial statements.
Adoption of New Standards and Interpretations:
The following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations are effective for the Group’s period commencing 31 March 2013:
•  IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation – Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income  1 July 2012
•  IAS 19 Employment Benefits (Amended)  1 January 2013
•  IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (as revised in 2011)   1 January 2013
•  IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures (as revised in 2011)   1 January 2013
•  IFRS 1 Government Loans – Amendments to IFRS 1   1 January 2013
•  IFRS 7 Disclosures – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments to IFRS 7  1 January 2013
•  IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement   1 January 2013
•  Improvements to IFRS 2009-2011 cycle   1 January 2013
IAS 19: Employee benefits (amended)
The recognition of finance costs/revenue relating to the defined benefit pension scheme has changed due to the adoption of IAS 19 Employee Benefits   (Amended) for the financial year ended 29 March 2014. The standard requires the Group to replace interest costs on defined benefit obligations and expected   return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.   The standard requires the new method to be applied retrospectively to previous periods and so the Income Statement for the 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013 has   been restated to reflect this change. For the 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013 this has resulted in a net reduction in profit before tax of £1.5 million, from finance   income of £0.6 million to a charge of £0.9 million. The corresponding adjustments have been made to taxation resulting in total tax reducing from £5.9 million to   £5.6 million for the 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013. In the period there has been a corresponding increase to actuarial gains recognised on the defined benefit   pension scheme and tax thereon, recognised through the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.  There is no net impact to either the retirement benefit   obligations recognised in the Balance Sheet or to Shareholders’ Equity.
As a consequence of the above change in accounting policy the Directors have reviewed the treatment of finance costs on net pension liabilities and have elected   to present finance costs on net pension liabilities as an exceptional item as it does not relate to the underlying trading of the Group and therefore should not be   considered in adjusted profit.   IAS 1: Presentation of financial statements – presentation of items of other comprehensive income
A change to the accounting standard requires the Statement of Comprehensive Income to be split between “items that may be reclassified to the profit or loss”   and “items that will not be reclassified to the profit or loss”. This presentational change has been applied to the current and prior periods.
The remaining new standards have not had a significant impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group. 72  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies continued
Basis of Consolidation
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C. and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) drawn up for the     52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 (2013: 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013).
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date   that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is   achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The   financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Parent Company, using consistent accounting policies. All intercompany   balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated.
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially   at cost. An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other   legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. Payments made to acquire operating leases from third parties are classified as intangible assets and   amortised over the expected life of the lease and recognised in the Income Statement.   Goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 using the purchase method. Any excess of the cost of the business combination over the Group’s interest in   the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the Balance Sheet as goodwill and is not amortised. To the extent that   the net fair value of the acquired entity’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised   immediately in the Income Statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for impairment, at least annually   and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Any impairment of goodwill made cannot be reversed if   circumstances subsequently change.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related cash-generating units (or group of cash-generating units) monitored by management. Where   the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an   operation within it.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value. Depreciation is calculated on a   straight-line basis down to the estimated residual value over the expected useful life of the asset as follows:
Freehold buildings – Hotel accommodation and offices  Up to 50 years
Freehold buildings – Licensed retail property, unlicensed property and brewery  50 to 100 years
Leasehold improvements   The term of the lease
Roofs   From 10 to 50 years
Plant, machinery and vehicles, containers, fixtures and fittings   From three years up to 25 years
As required under IAS 16 Property Plant and Equipment, expected useful lives and residual values are reviewed every year. Land is not depreciated.
Government Grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attached to them and that the grants   will be received.
Government grants are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Group recognises as expenses the related costs for which   the grants are intended to compensate. Specifically, government grants whose primary condition is that the Group should purchase, construct or otherwise   acquire  non-current assets are recognised as deferred revenue in the Balance Sheet and transferred to the Income Statement on a systematic  basis  over  the  useful  economic life of the related assets.   Investment Property
The Group owns properties that are not used for the production of goods or services but are held for capital appreciation or rental purposes. These properties are   classified as investment properties and their carrying values are based on cost. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis down to the estimated residual   value over the expected useful life of the asset, which for investment properties is 50 to 100 years.
Impairment
Carrying values are reviewed for impairment if events indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. If such an indicator exists and where     the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable amounts. An asset’s   recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell, and the value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to   present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects the current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the asset. For an asset that   does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.   Impairment losses, and any reversal of such losses, are recognised in the Income Statement.
Leases
Group as a lessee
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases and rentals payable are charged     in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.    Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  73
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies continued
Group as a lessor
Assets leased under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Rental income, including the   effect of lease incentives, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Incentives received or receivable to enter into an operating lease are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Assets Held for Sale
Assets are classified as held for sale when the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing use. To be classified   as such management need to have initiated a sales plan as at the Balance Sheet date and must expect the sale to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within   one year. Assets held for sale are valued at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. No depreciation is charged whilst assets are classified as   held for sale.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated using the First In First Out method. The cost of own beer consists of materials   with the addition of relevant overhead expenses. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less estimated costs of   completion and the costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Financial Instruments
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables and loans to customers do not carry any interest and are recognised at their original invoiced amounts, less an allowance for any amounts that   are not considered to be collectible. Increases to the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement within operating costs. At the point a trade   receivable is written off the ledger as uncollectible, the cost is charged against the allowance account and any subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written   off are credited to the Income Statement.
Cash and short term deposits
Cash and short term deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Derecognition
A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised where the rights to receive cash flows   from the asset have expired.
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables do not bear interest and are carried at original cost.
Bank loans, overdrafts and debentures
Interest bearing bank loans, overdrafts and debentures are initially recorded at the fair value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs, and thereafter at   amortised cost. Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are accounted for on an effective interest rate   basis in the Income Statement. Finance charges are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which   they arise.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. Where an existing financial liability is replaced by   another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is   treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with   any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange transaction risks, the Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts. In order to hedge its   exposure to interest rate risks, the Group enters into interest rate derivative contracts. The Group uses these contracts in order to hedge known borrowings. The   Group does not use any derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at   fair value. Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. The fair value of forward currency contracts   is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap and cap contracts are   determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. This represents a Level 2 fair value under the hierarchy in IFRS 7.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception. This   documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured   throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective. For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow   hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly   probable forecast transaction.
Interest rate swaps are classified as cash flow hedges. If they are effective hedges, then any changes in fair value are deferred in equity until the hedged transaction   occurs, when any changes in fair value will be recycled through the Income Statement together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item. If the hedges   are not effective hedges, then any changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement immediately. 74  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies continued
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to profit or loss. If the hedging instrument expires     or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in   equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the Income Statement.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the Income Statement.
Classification of Shares as Debt or Equity
When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the Balance Sheet; measured initially   at fair value net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption. The corresponding dividends relating to the   liability component are charged as interest expense in the Income Statement. The initial fair value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for   an equivalent liability without a conversion feature.
The remainder of the proceeds on issue is allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders’ equity, net of transaction costs. The carrying amount     of the equity component is not remeasured in subsequent years.
The Group’s ordinary shares are classified as equity instruments. For the purposes of the disclosures given in note 25, the Group considers its capital to comprise   its ordinary share capital, share premium, capital redemption reserve, hedging reserve and accumulated retained earnings plus its preference shares which are   classified as a financial liability in the Balance Sheet. There have been no changes to what the Group considers to be capital since the prior year.
Preference Shares
The Group’s preference shares are reported under non-current liabilities. The corresponding dividends on preference shares are charged as interest in the Income   Statement. Preference shares carry interest at fixed rates.
Revenue
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and revenue can be reliably measured. It is measured at   the fair value of consideration received or receivable, net of discounts and VAT.
Sales of goods are recognised when the goods are delivered and title has passed. Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.   Revenue for bedroom accommodation is recognised at the point the services are rendered. Amusement machine revenue is recognised in the accounting period   to which the income relates.
Operating Profit
Operating profit is revenue less operating costs. Revenue is as detailed above and as shown in note 3. Operating costs are all costs excluding finance costs, costs   associated with the disposal of properties and the tax charge.
Finance Revenue
Finance revenue is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method.
Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs are generally recognised as an expense when incurred. Interest expenses directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that   takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use are capitalised as part of the cost of the assets being created. This is applied to development projects where   the development is expected to last in excess of six months at the commencement of the project.
Taxation
The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year using UK tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date and any adjustment to   tax payable in respect of previous years. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense   that are taxable or deductible in other years or are never taxable or deductible.
Tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity. Otherwise tax is recognised in the Statement of   Comprehensive Income or the Income Statement, as applicable.
Deferred tax is provided on all temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for   financial reporting purposes. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except where the liability arises from the initial recognition   of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor   taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the   temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is   probable that taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised except where the deferred tax asset arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or   an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or   loss. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods when the asset is realised or the   liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Foreign Currencies
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the year end exchange rates and the resulting exchange differences are taken to the Income Statement, except   where hedge accounting is applied.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  75
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies continued
Pensions and Other Post-Employment Benefits
Defined contribution schemes
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged to the Income Statement as they fall due.
Defined benefit schemes
The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan for eligible employees where contributions are made into a separate fund administered by Trustees.   The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit method calculated by qualified actuaries. This attributes   entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the current and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined   benefit obligation) and is based on actuarial advice. Past service costs are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period or   immediately if the benefits have vested.
When a settlement (eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued) or a curtailment (reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the   scheme membership or a reduction in future entitlement) occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and   the resultant gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
The Group determines the net interest charge on the net defined benefit liability for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit   obligation at the beginning of the period to the net pension liability at the beginning of the period. The net interest charge is recognised immediately as an   exceptional finance cost in the Income Statement. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period     in which they occur.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the Balance Sheet comprises the total of the present value of the defined benefit obligation (using a discount rate   based on high quality corporate bonds), less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be   settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price. The value of a net pension benefit   asset is restricted to the sum of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from     the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
Exceptional Items
The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the Income Statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature     or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial   performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to better assess trends in financial performance.
As a consequence of the change in the pension accounting policy following the adoption of IAS 19 (Amended) the Directors have reviewed the treatment     of finance costs on net pension liabilities and have elected to present finance costs on net pension liabilities as an exceptional item as it does not relate to the   underlying trading of the Group and therefore should not be considered in adjusted profit.   Share-Based Payments
The Group has an employee Share Incentive Plan, that awards shares to employees based on the reported profits of the Group for the year, and a Long Term   Incentive Plan which awards shares to Directors and senior executives subject to specific performance criteria. The Group also issues equity-settled share-based   payments to certain employees under approved and unapproved share option schemes and a Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an   expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award. Fair value is determined using an   appropriate pricing model. In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions. The Group has no equity-settled transactions that   are linked to the price of the shares of the Company (market conditions).
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest. At each Balance Sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the   extent to which the vesting period has expired and management’s best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of   equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The movement in cumulative expense since the previous Balance Sheet date is recognised in the Income Statement,   with a corresponding entry in equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original   award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period. In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the   incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as   measured on the date of the modification. No reduction is recognised if this difference is negative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled (including when a non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is not met), it is treated as if it had   vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the Income Statement for the award is expensed immediately. Any compensation paid up     to the fair value of the award at the cancellation or settlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the   Income Statement.
Own Shares
Shares to be awarded under employee incentive plans and those that have been awarded but have yet to vest unconditionally are held at cost by an employee   share ownership trust and shown as a deduction from equity in the Balance Sheet.
In addition to the purchase of shares by the various employee share ownership trusts for specific awards, the Group also from time to time acquires own shares to   be held as treasury shares. These shares are occasionally but not exclusively used to satisfy awards under various share option schemes. Treasury shares are held at   cost and shown as a deduction from total equity in the Balance Sheet. 76  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
1. Authorisation of Financial Statements and Accounting Policies continued
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being   taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of treasury shares.
Dividends
Dividends recommended by the Board but unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they are paid (in the case of the interim   dividend) or approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (in the case of the final dividend).
Financial Guarantee Contracts
Where the Company enters into contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, the Company considers these to be insurance   arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect the Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes   probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
The Company’s Investments in Subsidiaries
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost. Income is recognised from these investments only in relation to distributions received from   post-acquisition profits. Distributions received in excess of post-acquisition profits are deducted from the cost of the investment.
New Standards and Interpretations Issued But Not Yet Applied
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for periods starting on or after the date on which these financial   statements start. The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of any of these standards and interpretations, wherever relevant to the Group, will have a   significant impact on the Group’s results or assets and liabilities in the period of initial application and are not expected to require significant additional disclosure:
•  IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement   1 January 2015
•  IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements   1 January 2014
•  IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investments Entities – Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27  1 January 2014*
•  IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements   1 January 2014
•  IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities   1 January 2014
•  IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Amendments to IAS 32   1 January 2014
•  IAS 36 (amendments) Recoverable Amount Disclosure for Non-financial Assets  1 January 2014
•  IAS 39 (amendments) Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting   1 January 2014
•  IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies  1 January 2014
•  Improvements to IFRS 2010 – 2013 cycles  1 July 2014
*Latest date of adoption.
Significant Accounting Estimates and Judgements
The judgements, estimates and assumptions which are considered to be significant are as follows:
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which   the goodwill is allocated. This involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate. Full details are supplied in note 10, together with an   analysis of the key assumptions.
The Group reviews for impairment all property, plant and equipment at cash-generating unit level where there is any indication of impairment. This requires an   estimation of the value in use and involves estimation of future cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate. See note 11, which describes the assumptions used   together with an analysis of the key assumptions.
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the expected return   on assets and the selection of a suitable discount rate. These have been determined on advice from the Group’s qualified actuary. The estimates used and the key   assumptions are provided in note 22.
Judgement is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution   has been reached with the tax authorities. Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained. Tax provisions are made if it is   possible that a liability will arise. The Group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit to assess the appropriate accounting treatment. See notes 7 and 24.
The assessment of fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised in the financial statements on the acquisition of a business requires significant judgement.   Management assesses fair values, particularly for property, plant and equipment, with reference to current market prices. See note 16 for business combinations   made in the year.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  77
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
2. Segmental Analysis
Operating Segments
For management purposes, the Group’s operating segments are:
•  Managed Pubs and Hotels, which comprises managed pubs and managed hotels;
•  Tenanted Inns, which comprises pubs operated by third parties under tenancy or lease agreements; and
•  The Fuller’s Beer Company, which comprises the brewing and distribution of beer, cider, wines, spirits and soft drinks.
The Group’s business is vertically integrated. The most important measure used to evaluate the performance of the business is adjusted profit, which is the profit   before tax, adjusted for exceptional items. The operating segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and services   provided, with each segment representing a strategic operating unit. More details of these segments are given in the Strategic Review on pages 6 to 29 of this   report. Segment performance is evaluated based on operating profit before exceptional items and is measured consistently with the operating profit before   exceptional items in the consolidated financial statements.
Transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. Segment revenue, segment   expense and segment result include transfers between operating segments. Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation. Group financing, including finance   costs and revenue, and taxation are managed on a Group basis.
As segment assets and liabilities are not regularly provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker, the Group has elected, as provided under IFRS 8 Operating   Segments (amended) not to disclose a measure of segment assets and liabilities.
52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
Managed
Pubs and
 Hotels
£m
Tenanted
Inns
£m
The Fuller’s
Beer
Company
£m
Unallocated
1
£m
Total
£m
Revenue 
Segment revenue 186.0  31.3  115.8  –  333.1 
Inter-segment sales – – (45.1)  – (45.1) 
Revenue from third parties 186.0  31.3  70.7  –  288.0 
Segment result 22.5  12.3  8.5 (3.4)  39.9 
Operating exceptional items (1.9) 
Operating profit 38.0 
Profit on disposal of properties 1.9 
Net finance costs (6.4) 
Profit before tax 33.5 
Other segment information
Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 25.4 1.6 1.5 – 28.5
Business combinations 4.9 2.2 4.2 – 11.3
Depreciation and amortisation 10.0  1.7  3.0  –  14.7 
Impairment of property 0.9  0.9  –  –  1.8 
Reversal of impairment on property (0.3) (1.0) – – (1.3) 
1
Unallocated expenses represent primarily the salary and cost of central management. 78  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
2. Segmental Analysis continued
52 weeks ended 30 March 2013
Managed
Pubs and
 Hotels
£m
Tenanted
Inns
£m
The Fuller’s
Beer
Company
£m
 Unallocated
1
£m
Restated*
Total
£m
Revenue 
Segment revenue 170.1  30.8  113.6  –  314.5 
Inter-segment sales –  – (43.0) – (43.0) 
Revenue from third parties 170.1  30.8  70.6  –  271.5 
Segment result 19.4  12.2  8.7 (3.3)  37.0 
Operating exceptional items (1.5) 
Operating profit 35.5 
Profit on disposal of properties 5.0 
Net finance costs* (6.8) 
Profit before tax* 33.7 
Other segment information
Capital expenditure: Property, plant and equipment 14.1  2.2  1.9  –  18.2 
Business combinations 7.5  3.9  –  –  11.4 
Depreciation and amortisation 9.6 1.6  3.0  – 14.2
Impairment of property 0.7  1.1  –  –  1.8 
Reversal of impairment on property (0.8)  –  –  – (0.8) 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19, see note 1.   1  Unallocated expenses represent primarily the salary and costs of central management.
Geographical Information
The majority of the Group’s business is within the UK and the Group identifies two distinct geographic markets:
52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
UK
£m
Rest of the
World
£m
Total
£m
Revenue
Sales to external customers 280.2 7.8 288.0 
52 weeks ended 30 March 2013
UK
£m
Rest of the
World
£m
Total
£m
Revenue
Sales to external customers 265.0 6.5 271.5 
Sales to external customers disclosed in geographical information are based on the geographical location of the customer. All of the Group’s assets, liabilities and   capital expenditure relate to the UK only.
3. Revenue
52 weeks
ended
29 March
2014
£m
52 weeks
ended
30 March
2013
£m
Revenue disclosed in the Income Statement is analysed as follows:
Sale of goods and services 278.4 262.1 
Rental income 9.6 9.4 
288.0 271.5   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  79
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
4. Operating Costs
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
 52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Production costs and cost of goods used in retailing 97.5 95.7 
Change in stocks of finished goods and beer in progress 0.5 (0.4) 
Staff costs 72.9 67.3 
Repairs and maintenance 9.2 7.5 
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14.1  13.7 
Amortisation of intangibles 0.6  0.5 
Operating lease rentals – minimum lease payments
1
7.5 7.2 
 – contingent rents
2
1.8 1.5 
Exceptional items (note 5) 1.9  1.5 
Other 44.0 41.5 
 250.0  236.0 
1  Included within minimum lease payments are sublease payments of £0.6 million (2013: £0.7 million).   2  Contingent rents are dependent on turnover levels.
Details of income and direct expenses relating to rental income from investment properties are shown in note 12.
a) Auditors’ Remuneration
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
 52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Fees payable to Company’s auditors:
– Statutory audit fees of Group financial statements 0.1 0.1 
0.1 0.1 
Other audit related services of £16,000 comprising of a half year review were incurred in the year.
b) Staff Costs* £m £m
Wages and salaries** 66.2 60.6 
Social security costs 4.9 4.8 
Pension benefits 1.8 1.9 
72.9 67.3 
*Includes Directors.   **Includes share-based payment expense.
c) Average Number of Employees* Number Number
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group (including part-time staff) was as follows:
Fuller’s Inns 3,269  3,166 
The Fuller’s Beer Company 328  297 
Central Services 13  14 
3,610 3,477 
*Includes Directors.
d) Directors’ Emoluments
Full details are provided in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and tables on pages 44 to 61. 80  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
5. Exceptional Items
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
 Restated*
52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Amounts included in operating profit:
Acquisition costs (1.1) (0.5) 
Impairment of properties (1.8) (1.8) 
Reversal of impairment on property 1.3  0.8 
Onerous lease provision release (note 24) 0.9  – 
Reorganisation costs (1.2)  – 
Total exceptional items included in operating profit (1.9) (1.5) 
Profit on disposal of properties 1.9  5.0 
Exceptional finance costs:
Finance charge on net pension liabilities* (note 22) (0.6) (0.9) 
Total exceptional finance costs (0.6) (0.9) 
Total exceptional items before tax (0.6)  2.6 
Exceptional tax:
Change in corporation tax rate (note 7) 3.4 1.2 
Profit on disposal of properties (0.3) (0.1) 
Other items* 0.4 0.9 
Total exceptional tax* 3.5 2.0 
Total exceptional items* 2.9 4.6 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19. As per note 1 the finance income/charge on net pension liabilities is now treated as exceptional. This has also been restated from income of   £0.6 million to a charge of £0.9 million for the 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013. In line with the change in status to exceptional the associated tax adjustment has resulted in a change in exceptional tax   credit from £1.8 million to £2.0 million.
Acquisition costs of £1.1 million during the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 (2013: £0.5 million) related to transaction costs on pub and business acquisitions which   qualify as business combinations (see note 16).
The property impairment charge of £1.8 million during the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 (2013: £1.8 million) represents the write down of licensed properties to   their recoverable value. The reversal of impairment credit of £1.3 million during the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 (2013: £0.8 million) relates to the write back of   previously impaired licensed properties to their recoverable value.
The onerous lease provision release of £0.9 million during the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 was recognised due to the change in circumstances of two   previously onerous leasehold properties.
The reorganisation costs of £1.2 million for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 were principally incurred within The Fuller’s Beer Company and relate to staff and   the proposed closure of the defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual.
The cash impact of operating exceptional items before tax for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 was a £2.1 million cash outflow (2013: £1.5 million outflow).  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  81
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
6. Finance Costs
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
 Restated*
52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Interest expense arising on:
Financial liabilities at amortised cost – loans and debentures 5.4 5.5
Financial liabilities at amortised cost – preference shares 0.1 0.1
Total interest expense for financial liabilities 5.5  5.6 
Unwinding of discounts on provisions 0.3  0.3 
Total finance costs before exceptional items 5.8  5.9 
Finance charge on net pension liabilities* (note 5) 0.6  0.9 
6.4  6.8 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19. Finance income/charge on net pension liabilities has been restated from income of £0.6 million to a charge of £0.9 million for the 52 weeks ended   30 March 2013.
7. Taxation
a) Tax on Profit on Ordinary Activities
Group
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
 Restated*
52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Tax charged in the Income Statement
Current income tax:
Corporation tax 8.8 8.6 
Amounts over provided in previous years (0.3) (0.2) 
Total current income tax 8.5 8.4 
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences* (0.8) (1.6) 
Change in corporation tax rate (note 5) (3.4) (1.2) 
Amounts underprovided in previous years 0.1 –
Total deferred tax* (4.1) (2.8) 
Total tax charged in the Income Statement* 4.4 5.6 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19. The deferred tax relating to the pension scheme finance charge/income has been restated with the effect of reducing the total tax charged in the   Income Statement from £5.9 million to £5.6 million for the 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013.
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
 Restated*
52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Tax relating to items charged/(credited) to the Statement of Comprehensive Income
Deferred tax:
Change in corporation tax rate 0.6 0.3 
Net gains/(losses) on valuation of financial assets and liabilities 0.4 (0.2) 
Net actuarial (losses)/gains on pension scheme* (0.8) 1.4 
Tax charge included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income* 0.2 1.5 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19. The deferred tax relating to net actuarial gains on pension scheme has been restated from £1.1 million to £1.4 million for the 52 weeks ended   30 March 2013. 82  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
7. Taxation continued
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
 Restated*
52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Tax relating to items charged/credited directly to equity
Deferred tax:
Reduction in deferred tax liability due to indexation (0.3) (0.5) 
Share-based payments 0.1 0.1 
Current tax:
Share-based payments (0.4) (0.3) 
Tax credit included in the Statement of Changes in Equity (0.6) (0.7) 
Deferred tax in the Income Statement
Decelerated tax depreciation (2.9) (3.3) 
Rolled over capital gains (1.0) 0.4 
Retirement benefit obligations* 0.1 (0.1)
Tax losses carried forward – 0.1 
Employee share schemes (0.1) 0.2 
Others (0.2) (0.1) 
(4.1) (2.8) 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19. The deferred tax relating to retirement benefit obligations has been restated from a charge of £0.2 million to a credit of £0.1 million for the 52 weeks  ended 30 March 2013.
During the period the Finance Act 2013 has received Royal Assent. The main impact is that the rate of UK corporation tax has reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April   2014 and will reduce from 21% to 20% from 1 April 2015. To the extent that this rate change will affect the amount of future cash tax payments to be made by the   Group, this will reduce the size of both the Group’s Balance Sheet deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset. The impact in the 52 weeks to 29 March 2014 is an   exceptional credit to the Income Statement of £3.4 million, and a charge to the Statement of Comprehensive Income of £0.6 million. The impact of previous     rate changes in the 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013 was an exceptional credit to the Income Statement of £1.2 million, and a charge to the Statement of   Comprehensive Income of £0.3 million.
b) Reconciliation of the Total Tax Charge
The tax expense in the Income Statement for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in UK of 23% (2013: 24%). The differences are reconciled below:
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
 Restated*
52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Profit from continuing operations before taxation* 33.5 33.7 
Accounting profit multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 23% (2013: 24%)* 7.7 8.1 
Items not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 0.1 
Current and deferred tax overprovided in previous years (0.2) (0.2) 
Change in corporation tax rate (3.4) (1.2) 
Other* 0.2 (1.2) 
Total tax charged in the Income Statement* 4.4 5.6 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19.    Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  83
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
8. Earnings Per Share
52 weeks 
ended
29 March
2014
£m
 Restated*
52 weeks
ended
 30 March
2013
£m
Profit attributable to equity shareholders* 29.1 28.1 
Exceptional items net of tax* (2.9) (4.6) 
Adjusted earnings attributable to equity shareholders* 26.2  23.5 
Number Number
Weighted average share capital 55,815,000  55,717,000 
Dilutive outstanding options and share awards 812,000 534,000 
Diluted weighted average share capital 56,627,000 56,251,000 
40p ‘A’ and ‘C’ ordinary share* Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 52.14 50.43 
Diluted earnings per share 51.39 49.95 
Adjusted earnings per share 46.94 42.18 
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 46.27 41.78 
4p ‘B’ ordinary share* Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share 5.21 5.04 
Diluted earnings per share 5.14 5.00 
Adjusted earnings per share 4.69  4.22 
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 4.63 4.18 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19. The profit attributable to shareholders has been restated from £29.3 million to £28.1 million for the 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013. The exceptional   items net of tax have been restated from £5.3 million to £4.6 million for 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013. The adjusted earnings attributable to equity shareholders has been restated from £24.0 million to   £23.5 million for the 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013. This has changed the earnings per shares figures for all categories, previously stated figures have been set out in the table below.
40p ‘A’ and ‘C’ ordinary share*
Before
restatement
Pence
Basic earnings per share 52.59 
Diluted earnings per share 52.09 
Adjusted earnings per share 43.07 
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 42.67 
4p ‘B’ ordinary share* Pence
Basic earnings per share 5.26 
Diluted earnings per share 5.21 
Adjusted earnings per share 4.31 
Diluted adjusted earnings per share 4.27 
For the purposes of calculating the number of shares to be used above, ‘B’ shares have been treated as one tenth of an ‘A’ or ‘C’ share. The earnings per share   calculation is based on earnings from continuing operations and on the weighted average ordinary share capital which excludes shares held by trusts relating to   employee share options and shares held in treasury of 1,170,610 (2013: 1,267,808).
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated using the same earnings figure as for basic earnings per share, divided by the weighted average number of   ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive   potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
Adjusted earnings per share are calculated on profit before tax excluding exceptional items and on the same weighted average ordinary share capital as for the   basic and diluted earnings per share. An adjusted earnings per share measure has been included as the Directors consider that this measure better reflects the   underlying earnings of the Group. 84  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
9. Dividends
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Declared and paid during the year
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2013: 8.35p (2012: 7 .60p) 4.7  4.2 
Interim dividend for 2014: 5.80p (2013: 5.35p) 3.2  3.0 
Equity dividends paid 7.9  7.2 
Dividends on cumulative preference shares (note 6) 0.1  0.1 
Proposed for approval at the AGM:
Final dividend for 2014 9.30p (2013: 8.35p) 5.2 4.7 
The pence figures above are for the 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares and 40p ‘C’ ordinary shares. The 4p ‘B’ shares carry dividend rights of one tenth of those applicable to   the 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares. Own shares held in the employee share trusts do not qualify for dividends as the Trustees have waived their rights. Dividends are also   not paid on own shares held as treasury shares.
10. Intangible Assets
Group
Goodwill
£m
Group and
 Company
Lease
assignment
premiums
£m
Group and
 Company
Distribution
 rights
£m
Group
Total
£m
Company
Total
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2012 24.5  7.0  –  31.5  7.0 
At 30 March 2013 24.5  7.0  –  31.5  7.0 
Acquisitions (note 16) 2.6  1.1  1.2  4.9  2.3 
At 29 March 2014 27.1  8.1  1.2  36.4  9.3 
Amortisation and impairment
At 31 March 2012 0.6 0.3  –  0.9  0.3 
Provided during the year –  0.5  –  0.5  0.5 
At 30 March 2013 0.6 0.8  –  1.4  0.8 
Provided during the year –  0.6  –  0.6  0.6 
At 29 March 2014 0.6  1.4 – 2.0  1.4 
Net book value at 29 March 2014 26.5  6.7  1.2  34.4  7.9 
Net book value at 30 March 2013 23.9  6.2  –  30.1  6.2 
Net book value at 31 March 2012 23.9  6.7  –  30.6  6.7   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  85
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
10. Intangible Assets continued
Lease assignment premiums
Amounts paid to acquire leasehold property (“lease assignment premiums”) are amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful life of the lease.     The amortisation is charged in the Income Statement in the line item “Operating costs” (note 4).
There are four pubs on which we carry lease assignment premiums at 29 March 2014 (2013: three).
Distribution rights
Amounts paid to acquire the exclusive import and distributions rights to Sierra Nevada products within the UK. Details of the amounts paid are included in note 16.   The amortisation is charged in the Income Statement in the line item “Operating costs” (note 4).
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
Gales estate 22.7  22.7 
Jacomb Guinness estate 1.2  1.2 
Cornish Orchards 2.6  – 
26.5  23.9 
Of the £22.7 million of goodwill relating to the Gales estate, £9.1 million relates to Managed Pubs and Hotels division and £13.6 million relates to the Tenanted Inns   division. All of the Jacomb Guinness goodwill relates to the Managed Pubs and Hotel division. All of the Cornish Orchards goodwill relates to The Fuller’s Beer Company.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations:
Long term growth rate – Managed 2.0% 2.5%
Long term growth rate – Tenanted 1.5% 1.5%
Long term growth rate – Cornish Orchards 2.0% n/a
Pre-tax discount rate – Freehold 7.0% 7.2%
Pre-tax discount rate – Leasehold 9.6% 9.7%
Pre-tax discount rate – Cornish Orchards 10.3% n/a
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing on an estate and divisional cash-generating unit level. This represents   the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Recoverable amount is based on a calculation of value in use   based upon the budget for the forthcoming financial year approved by senior management. For the Gales and Jacomb Guinness estate cash flows beyond the   budget period are extrapolated in perpetuity on the assumption that the growth rate does not exceed the average long term growth rate for the relevant markets.   For Cornish Orchards the cash flows beyond the budget period are based on a 5 year plan that was approved by senior management and reflect the long term   growth of the business following the significant investment and expansion strategy currently in place for the business. The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash   flow projections is based on the Directors’ assessment of the Group’s weighted average cost of capital and current market conditions.
The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to the assumptions in respect of achievement of budgeted cash flows, growth rate and discount rate. The calculation  of value in use is also dependent upon the following assumptions: sales volume; gross margin in managed premises; barrelage and rent projections in tenanted   premises; wage cost in managed premises; and capital expansion in Cornish Orchards. Gross margins are based on historical performance levels. All of these   assumptions have their assigned values based on management knowledge and historical information.
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions
Management have considered reasonable changes in key assumptions used in their calculations of value in use. They have concluded that such changes will not   result in an impairment to the Jacomb Guinness, Gales or Cornish Orchards cash-generating units at 29 March 2014. 86  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
11. Property, Plant and Equipment
Group
Land &
buildings
£m
Plant,
machinery
& vehicles
£m
Containers,
fixtures &
fittings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2012 374.9  32.7  104.2  511.8 
Additions 4.9  1.0  11.7  17.6 
Acquisitions (note 16) 10.8  –  0.6  11.4 
Disposals (0.2) (0.2) (3.1) (3.5) 
Transfer to/from investment properties 0.4  –  –  0.4 
At 30 March 2013 390.8  33.5  113.4  537.7 
Additions 15.5  1.5  12.9  29.9 
Acquisitions (note 16) 5.9 1.1  –  7.0 
Disposals (1.7) (0.3) (5.6) (7.6) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (1.4)  – (0.2) (1.6) 
At 29 March 2014 409.1 35.8 120.5  565.4 
Depreciation and impairment
At 31 March 2012 21.5  19.1  70.7  111.3 
Provided during the year 2.2  2.0  9.5  13.7 
Impairment loss net of reversals 1.0  –  –  1.0 
Disposals – (0.2) (2.9) (3.1) 
At 30 March 2013 24.7  20.9  77.3  122.9 
Provided during the year 2.5  2.0  9.6  14.1 
Impairment loss net of reversals 0.5  –  –  0.5 
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.3)  – (0.1) (0.4) 
Disposals (1.0) (0.3) (5.2) (6.5) 
At 29 March 2014 26.4  22.6  81.6 130.6
Net book value at 29 March 2014 382.7  13.2  38.9  434.8 
Net book value at 30 March 2013 366.1  12.6  36.1  414.8 
Net book value at 31 March 2012 353.4  13.6  33.5  400.5   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  87
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
11. Property, Plant and Equipment continued
Company
Land &
buildings
£m
Plant,
machinery
& vehicles
£m
Containers,
fixtures &
fittings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2012 374.8  32.6  102.7  510.1 
Additions 4.9  1.0  11.7  17.6 
Acquisitions (note 16) 10.8  –  0.6  11.4 
Disposals (0.2) (0.2) (3.1) (3.5) 
Transfer to/from investment properties 0.4  –  –  0.4 
At 30 March 2013 390.7  33.4  111.9  536.0 
Additions 15.5  1.1  12.9  29.5 
Acquisitions (note 16) 5.5  –  –  5.5 
Disposals (1.7) (0.3) (5.6) (7.6) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (1.4)  – (0.2) (1.6) 
At 29 March 2014 408.6  34.2  119.0  561.8 
Depreciation and impairment
At 31 March 2012 21.4  19.1  69.1  109.6 
Provided during the year 2.2  2.0  9.5  13.7 
Impairment loss net of reversals 1.0  –  –  1.0 
Disposals – (0.2) (2.9) (3.1) 
At 30 March 2013 24.6  20.9  75.7  121.2 
Provided during the year 2.4  1.9  9.6  13.9 
Impairment loss net of reversals 0.5  –  –  0.5 
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.3)  – (0.1) (0.4) 
Disposals (1.0) (0.3) (5.2) (6.5) 
At 29 March 2014 26.2  22.5  80.0  128.7 
Net book value at 29 March 2014 382.4  11.7  39.0 433.1
Net book value at 30 March 2013 366.1  12.5  36.2  414.8 
Net book value at 31 March 2012 353.4  13.5  33.6  400.5
Group and Company
Interest capitalised
The amount of interest capitalised to date is £164,000 (2013: £100,000). The amount of interest capitalised in the year was £64,000 (2013: nil) at a rate of 2%.
Assets under construction
Included in the cost of property, plant and equipment at 29 March 2014 are amounts of £1.7 million (2013: £0.4 million) relating to three (2013: three) property   developments in the course of construction. 88  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
11. Property, Plant and Equipment continued
Impairment
The Group considers each trading outlet to be a cash-generating unit (“CGU”) and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment. In assessing   whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair   value less costs to sell and its value in use. In the absence of any information about the fair value of a CGU, the recoverable amount is deemed to be its value in use.
During the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014, the Group recognised an impairment loss of £1.8 million (2013: £1.8 million) in respect of the write down of licensed   properties purchased in recent years where their asset values exceeded either fair value less costs to sell or their value in use. The impairment losses were driven   principally by changes in the local competitive environment in which the pubs are situated. Following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in   the amounts of estimated future cash flows of certain previously impaired sites, reversals of £1.3 million were recognised during the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014   (2013:  £0.8  million).  The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations are those detailed in note 10.
Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions
The value in use calculations are sensitive to the assumptions used. The Directors consider a movement of 1% in the discount rate and 0.5% in the growth rate to be   reasonable with reference to current market yield curves and the current economic conditions. The impact is set out as follows:
Impact on impairment of asset at risk – increase/(decrease)
2014
£m
2013
£m
Increase discount rate by 1% 1.5  1.6 
Decrease discount rate by 1% (0.6) (0.8) 
Increase growth rate by 0.5% (0.6) (0.4) 
Decrease growth rate by 0.5% 0.4  0.5 
12. Investment Properties
Group and
 Company
Freehold
and leasehold
properties
£m
Cost
At 31 March 2012 6.0 
Additions 1.0 
Disposals (1.0) 
Transfer to/from property, plant and equipment (0.4) 
Transfer to assets held for sale (0.6) 
At 30 March 2013 5.0 
Acquisitions (note 16) 0.5 
At 29 March 2014 5.5 
Depreciation and impairment
At 31 March 2012 1.1 
Disposals (0.3) 
At 30 March 2013 0.8 
At 29 March 2014 0.8 
Net book value at 29 March 2014 4.7 
Net book value at 30 March 2013 4.2 
Net book value at 31 March 2012 4.9 
Fair value at 29 March 2014 10.7
Fair value at 30 March 2013 8.2 
Fair value at 31 March 2012 8.4  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  89
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
12. Investment Properties continued
The fair value of investment properties has been estimated by the Directors, based on the rental income earned on the properties during the year and average   yields earned on comparable properties from publicly available information. An independent valuation of the properties has not been performed.
Impairment
The Group considers each trading outlet to be a cash-generating unit (“CGU”) and each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment. In assessing   whether an asset has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair   value less costs to sell and its value in use.   During the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014, the Group did not impair any investment properties (2013: £nil).
Investment Property Income
The properties are let on both landlord and tenant repairing leases. Amounts recognised in the profit for the financial year relating to rental income from   investment properties are as follows:
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Rental income 0.5 0.4
Direct operating expenses (0.3) (0.1)
All direct operating expenses relate to properties that generate rental income.
13. Derivative Financial Instruments
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Interest rate swaps 0.8  – 
Total financial assets within non-current assets 0.8  – 
Interest rate swaps (0.8) (2.4) 
Total financial liabilities within non-current liabilities (0.8) (2.4) 
Details of the interest rate swaps and cap are provided in note 25c(i).
14. Other Non-Current Assets
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Loans to customers due after one year 0.4  0.3 
Non-current portion of leasehold property prepayments –  0.1 
0.4  0.4  90  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
15. Investments in Subsidiaries
Company
Cost
£m
 Provision
£m
Net Book
Value
£m
At 31 March 2012 and 30 March 2013 92.0 (0.2)  91.8 
Additions 3.0  –  3.0 
At 29 March 2014 95.0 (0.2)  94.8
Principal subsidiary undertakings Holding Proportion held Nature of Business
Griffin Catering Services Limited £1 Ordinary shares 100% (indirect) Managed houses service company
Cornish Orchards Limited £1 Ordinary shares 100% Production of cider and soft drinks
George Gale & Co. Limited £1 Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading subsidiary
25p ‘A’ Ordinary shares 100%
£10 Preference shares 100%
Jacomb Guinness Limited £1 Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading subsidiary
45 Woodfield Limited £1 Ordinary shares 100% (indirect) Non-trading subsidiary
Grand Canal Trading Limited £1 Ordinary shares 100% (indirect) Non-trading subsidiary
The above companies are registered and operate in England and Wales.
16. Business Combinations
During the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 the Company has individually acquired 3 new pubs for a combined consideration of £7.1 million, all of which have been   treated as business combinations as they were operating as a business at the point the Company acquired them.   On 3 June 2013 the Company acquired 100% of the share capital of Cornish Orchards Limited, a manufacturer of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, for   consideration of £3.0 million. On 5 February 2014 the Company acquired the business of importing and distributing Sierra Nevada products into the UK for   consideration of £1.2 million.   The acquisitions were made as part of the Group’s continuing strategy to expand the managed and tenanted portfolio via selective quality acquisitions and to   strengthen and diversify the Group’s premium drinks portfolio.
2014 2013
Cornish
 Orchards
Sierra
Nevada
 distribution
 rights Pubs Pubs
Number of pubs purchased 3 4
Provisional fair value £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 1.5  – 5.5 11.4 
Investment properties – – 0.5 –
Intangible assets –  1.2  1.1  – 
Stock 0.4  –  –  – 
Trade receivables 0.3  –  –  – 
Net debt (0.5)  –  –  – 
Deferred revenue, trade and other payables (1.3)  –  –  – 
Goodwill 2.6  –  –  – 
Consideration 3.0  1.2 7.1 11.4
Satisfied by:
Cash 2.1  0.4 7.1 11.4 
Contingent consideration 0.9  0.8  –  – 
Total 3.0  1.2 7.1 11.4
Goodwill recognised on acquisition of Cornish Orchards Limited reflects the future growth of the company.
Contingent consideration is payable to the former owners of Cornish Orchards Limited in June 2016 dependent upon the business achieving production targets.   The contingent consideration ranges from nil to £1.2 million.    Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  91
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
16. Business Combinations continued
Contingent consideration is payable to the company that formerly held the import and distribution rights to Sierra Nevada products, annually until February 2017   based on the business achieving annual profit targets. Total contingent consideration ranges from nil to £1.5 million.
Costs associated with the acquisitions of £1.1 million have been charged to operating exceptional items in the consolidated Income Statement for the 52 weeks   ended 29 March 2014 (2013: £0.5 million). These comprised primarily stamp duty, legal and other property fees (see note 5).
The acquisitions have contributed the following operating profit to the Group in the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 from the date of acquisition:
2014 2013
Cornish
 Orchards
Sierra
Nevada
 distribution
 rights Pubs Pubs
Operating profit 0.1 – 0.1 0.3
It is not practical to identify the related cash flows, revenue and profit on an annualised basis as the months for which the businesses have been owned are not   representative of the annualised figures. The pre-acquisition trading results are not indicative of the trading expected going forwards following the significant   redevelopment of the pubs and capital investment in Cornish Orchards by the Group, therefore pro-forma trading results have not been included.
17. Inventories
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Raw materials, beer and cider in progress 1.5  1.3 
Beer, cider, wines and spirits 6.4  6.3 
Stock at retail outlets 2.7  2.5 
10.6  10.1 
The difference between purchase price or production cost and their replacement cost is not material.
18. Trade and Other Receivables
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Trade receivables 12.6  13.7 
Other receivables 1.3  1.1 
Prepayments and accrued income 4.4  3.5 
18.3  18.3 
The trade receivables balance above is shown net of the provision for bad debts. As a general rule the Group provides fully against all trade receivables which are   over six months overdue. In addition to this there are individual specific provisions against balances which are considered by management to be at risk of default.   The movements on this bad debt provision during the year are summarised below:
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Trade receivables provision at 30 March 2013 1.4  1.3 
Increase in provision recognised in profit and loss 0.1  0.2 
Amounts written off during the year – (0.1) 
Trade receivables provision at 29 March 2014 1.5  1.4  92  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
18. Trade and Other Receivables continued
The provision for trade receivables is recorded in the accounts separately from the gross receivable. The contractual ageing of the trade receivables balance     is as follows:
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Current 13.2 14.5
Overdue up to 30 days 0.2 0.1
Overdue between 30 and 60 days 0.1 –
Overdue more than 60 days 0.6 0.5
Trade receivables before provision 14.1  15.1 
Less provision (1.5) (1.4) 
Trade receivables net of provision 12.6  13.7 
Included in the Group’s trade receivables balance are trade receivables with a carrying value of £0.3 million (2013: £0.2 million) which are overdue at the Balance   Sheet date for which the Group has not provided as the Group considers these amounts to be recoverable.
In addition, there are loans to customers included in other receivables of £0.3 million (2013: £0.3 million) due within one year and £0.6 million (2013: £0.5 million)   due in more than one year, against which there is a provision of £0.3 million (2013: £0.3 million).
19. Assets Classified as Held For Sale
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Investment property –  0.6  –  0.6 
Property, plant and equipment 1.2  –  1.2  – 
 1.2  0.6  1.2  0.6 
The movements in assets classified as held for sale during the year are summarised below:
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Assets held for sale at the start of the year 0.6  5.3  0.6  – 
Assets disposed during the year (0.6) (5.3) (0.6)  – 
Transfer from Investment property – 0.6 – 0.6 
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 1.2 – 1.2 –
Assets held for sale at the end of the year 1.2  0.6  1.2  0.6 
At 29 March 2014 one property was transferred to assets held for sale, as it was in the advanced stages of the sales process and has since completed.     The property shown above resulted in a profit on sale.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  93
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
20. Trade and Other Payables
Due within one year:
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Trade payables 18.0 15.7 18.0 15.7 
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings –  –  94.5  92.3 
Other tax and social security 8.4  8.3  8.4  8.3 
Other payables 8.2  6.7  8.2  6.7 
Accruals 11.5  10.2  11.3  10.2 
46.1 40.9  140.4  133.2 
Company amounts due to subsidiary undertakings of £94.5 million (2013: £92.3 million) have no fixed repayment date. Interest is payable on the balance at 3%   above the Bank of England base rate. All other significant trade and other receivables and trade and other payables balances are due within one year and are at nil   rate of interest.
Due in more than one year:
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Deferred revenue 0.4 – – –
Deferred revenue relates to government grants received for the purchase and construction of plant, property and equipment by Cornish Orchards Limited.     There are no unfulfilled conditions and contingencies attached to these amounts.
21. Cash, Borrowings and Net Debt
Cash and Short Term Deposits
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 4.1  4.3 
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, as above. Cash at bank earns interest at   floating rates.
Borrowings
Group and Company
Group
2014
£m
Group
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Bank loans 116.2  112.5  116.2  112.5 
Other loans 0.2 – – –
Debenture stock 25.9  25.8  25.9  25.8 
Preference shares 1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6 
Total borrowings 143.9  139.9  143.7  139.9 
Analysed as:
Borrowings within non-current liabilities 143.9  139.9  143.7  139.9 
All borrowings at both year ends are denominated in Sterling and where appropriate are stated net of issue costs. Further information on borrowings is given     in note 25. 94  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
21. Cash, Borrowings and Net Debt continued
Bank Loans
Group and Company
During the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 the Company reorganised its loan facilities to replace one lender with two new banks both taking 50% of the existing   position. These actions resulted in no change to the amount committed or the terms of the loan facilities.
At 29 March 2014, £33.5 million (2013: £37.0 million) of the total £150 million committed bank loan facilities was available and undrawn.
The bank loans at 29 March 2014 are unsecured, and are repayable as shown in the table below. Interest is payable at LIBOR plus a margin, which varies dependant   on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA. The variable rate interest payments under the loans have been partially swapped for fixed interest payments and a proportion   of the remaining variable interest payments have also been capped. Details of the swap and cap arrangements are given in note 25.
The bank loans are repayable as follows:
2014
£m
2013
£m
In the first to second years inclusive 116.5  – 
In the third to fifth year inclusive –  113.0 
Less: bank loan arrangement fees (0.3) (0.5) 
Non-current liabilities 116.2  112.5 
Debenture Stock
Group and Company
Debenture stock repayable after five years:
2014
£m
2013
£m
10.70% 1st Mortgage Debenture Stock 2023 6.0  6.0
6.875% Debenture Stock 2028 (1st floating charge) 20.0  20.0
Less: discount on issue (0.1) (0.1)
Less: 2028 debenture issue costs – (0.1)
Non-current liabilities 25.9  25.8 
Preference Shares
The Company’s preference shares are classified as debt. The shares are not redeemable and are included in borrowings within non-current liabilities. See note 23   for further details of the preference shares.   Analysis of Net Debt
Group
At 30 March
2013
£m
Cash flows
£m
Non-cash
1
£m
At 29 March
2014
£m
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short term deposits 4.3 (0.2) – 4.1 
4.3 (0.2) – 4.1 
Debt
Bank loans (112.5) (3.4) (0.3) (116.2)
Other loans – 0.3 (0.5) (0.2)
Debenture stock (25.8) – (0.1) (25.9)
Preference shares (1.6) – – (1.6)
(139.9) (3.1) (0.9) (143.9)
Net debt (135.6) (3.3) (0.9) (139.8)
1  Non-cash movements relate to the amortisation of arrangement fees, arrangement fees accrued and the acquisition of Cornish Orchards Limited during the year.
The Company net debt is as above excluding ‘Other loans’ which are held by a subsidiary company. Company net debt as at 29 March 2014 was £139.6 million.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  95
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
21. Cash, Borrowings and Net Debt continued
Group
At 31 March
2012
£m
Cash flows
£m
Non-cash
1
£m
At 30 March
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and short term deposits 3.9 0.4 – 4.3 
3.9 0.4 – 4.3 
Debt
Bank loans (114.7) 2.7 (0.5) (112.5)
Debenture stock (25.8) – – (25.8)
Preference shares (1.6) – – (1.6)
(142.1) 2.7 (0.5) (139.9)
Net debt (138.2) 3.1 (0.5) (135.6)
1  Non-cash movements relate to the amortisation of arrangement fees and arrangement fees accrued.
22. Pensions
a) Retirement Benefit Plans – Group and Company
The Group operates one funded defined benefit pension scheme, the Fuller Smith & Turner Pension Plan (“The Scheme”). The Scheme is defined benefit in   nature, with assets held in separate professionally managed, Trustee-administered funds. The Scheme is a HM Revenue & Customs registered pension plan and   subject to standard United Kingdom pension and tax law. The Scheme is closed to new entrants and the Company has recently finished a period of consultation   with Trustees and Members of the Scheme with the expectation that the Scheme will close to future accrual with effect from 1 January 2015. As there are still   matters to be concluded on the Scheme closure between the Company and the Trustees we cannot yet quantify the financial impact of this action.
The Group also operates three defined contribution stakeholder pension plans for its employees. The Fuller’s Stakeholder Pension Plan was set up for new   employees of the Parent Company after the closure of the Fuller, Smith & Turner Pension Plan to new entrants on 1 August 2005. The Griffin Stakeholder Pension   Plan operates for those employees of a Group subsidiary. The Gales 2001 scheme was set up following the closure of the Gales defined benefit scheme in 2001.
The Group offers workplace pensions to all employees who are not members of the three defined contribution stakeholder pension plans. The Group offers these   pensions through the National Employment Savings Trust (“NEST”).
The Group also pays benefits to a number of former employees which are unfunded. The Directors consider these benefits to be defined benefit in nature and the   full defined benefit liability is recognised on the Balance Sheet.
Group and Company
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
Restated*
52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Total amounts charged in respect of pensions in the period
Charged to Income Statement:
Defined benefit scheme – operating profit 1.5 1.6 
Defined benefit scheme – net finance charge* 0.6 0.9 
Defined contribution schemes – total operating charge 0.3  0.3 
2.4 2.8 
Charge/(credit) to equity:
Defined benefit schemes – net actuarial losses/(gains)* 4.1 (6.5) 
Total pension charge/(credit) 6.5 (3.7) 
* Restatement for changes to IAS 19. As per note 1 the finance income/charge on net pension liabilities is now treated as exceptional and has been restated from income of £0.6 million to a charge     of £0.9 million for the 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013. In addition the net actuarial gain at 30 March 2013 has been restated from £5.0 million to £6.5 million.
b) Defined Contribution Stakeholder Pension Plans – Group and Company
The total cost charged to income in respect of the defined contribution stakeholder schemes is shown above. 96  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
22. Pensions continued
c) Defined Benefit Plan – Group and Company
The Scheme provides pensions and lump sums to members on retirement and to their dependants upon death.
Trustees are appointed by both the Company and the Scheme’s membership and act in the interest of the Scheme and all relevant stakeholders, including the   members and the Company. The Trustees are also responsible for the investment of the Scheme’s assets.   Currently active members of the Scheme pay contributions at an average rate of 7% of pensionable salary and the Company pays the balance of the costs as   determined by regular actuarial valuations. The Trustees are required to use prudent assumptions to value the liabilities and costs of the Scheme whereas the   accounting assumptions must be best estimates.
Responsibility for making good any deficit on the Scheme lies with the Company and this introduces a number of risks for the Company. The major risks are:   •  Interest and investment risk – The value of the Scheme’s assets are subject to volatility in equity prices. The Scheme has diversified its investments to reduce the   impact of volatility and variable interest return rates.
•  Inflation risk – The defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation so higher rates would result in a higher defined benefit obligation.   •  Longevity risk – An increase over the assumptions applied will increase the defined benefit obligation.
The Company and Trustees are aware of these risks and manage them through appropriate investment and funding strategies. The Trustees manage governance   and operational risks through a number of internal controls policies.   The Scheme is subject to regular actuarial valuations, which are usually carried out every three years. The next actuarial valuation is due to be carried out on 30 July   2016. These actuarial valuations are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 2004 and so include deliberate margins for prudence.   A formal actuarial valuation was carried out as at 30 July 2013. The preliminary results of that valuation have been projected to 29 March 2014 by a qualified   independent actuary. The figures in the following disclosures were measured using the Projected Unit Method.
The Scheme has not invested in any of the Group’s own financial instruments nor in properties or other assets in use by the Group.
Key assumptions
The key assumptions used in the 2014 valuation of the Scheme are set out below:
Mortality assumptions
2014
Years
2013
Years
Current pensioners (at 65) – males 22.1 21.0
Current pensioners (at 65) – females 24.3 23.5
Future pensioners (at 65) – males 23.5 22.0
Future pensioners (at 65) – females 25.8 24.4
The assumptions for future pensioners are based on the average current age of the active population, which is 54 years for male members of the Scheme     (2013: 54) and 48 years for female members (2013: 48).
Key financial assumptions used in the valuation of the Scheme
At
29 March
2014
At
 30 March
 2013
Rate of increase in salaries 3.10% 3.80%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.30% 3.30%
Discount rate 4.45% 4.60%
Inflation assumption – RPI 3.30% 3.30%
Inflation assumption – CPI 2.60% 2.60%
The present value of the Scheme liabilities is sensitive to the assumptions used, as follows:
Impact on Scheme liabilities – increase/(decrease)
2014
£m
2013
£m
Increase rate of salaries by 0.5% 1.6  2.0 
Increase rate of pensions in payment by 0.5% 5.2  4.2 
Increase discount rate by 1.0% (16.5) (15.2) 
Increase inflation assumption by 0.5% 1.5  1.3 
Increase life expectancies by 1 year 3.9  3.7   Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  97
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
22. Pensions continued
Assets in the Scheme
 29 March
 2014
£m
30 March
2013
£m
Corporate Bonds 17.8 18.1
UK equities 34.3 30.3
Overseas equities 11.1 10.4
Absolute return fund 27.9 27.7
Property 0.7 0.6
Cash 0.6 0.6
Annuities 1.2 1.2
Total market value of assets 93.6 88.9
The amount included in the Balance Sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement plan
29 March
2014
£m
30 March
2013
£m
Fair value of Scheme assets 93.6 88.9
Present value of Scheme liabilities (110.8) (101.9)
Deficit in the Scheme (17.2) (13.0)
Included within the total present value of Group and Company Scheme liabilities of £110.8 million (2013: £101.9 million) are liabilities of £2.9 million     (2013: £3.1 million) which are entirely unfunded.
Defined benefit obligation Fair value of Scheme assets Net defined benefit (deficit)
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Balance at beginning of the year (101.9) (98.2) 88.9 79.1 (13.0) (19.1)
Included in profit and loss
Current service cost (1.5) (1.6) – – (1.5) (1.6)
Net interest cost* (4.7) (4.5) 4.1 3.6 (0.6) (0.9)
(6.2) (6.1) 4.1 3.6 (2.1) (2.5)
Included in Other Comprehensive Income
Actuarial gains/(losses)* relating to:
Actual return less expected return on Scheme assets – – 1.9 6.9 1.9 6.9
Experience gains arising on Scheme liabilities 0.5 0.6 – – 0.5 0.6
Losses arising on changes in demographic assumptions (6.5) (1.0) – – (6.5) (1.0)
(6.0) (0.4) 1.9 6.9 (4.1) 6.5
Other
Employer contributions – – 1.3 1.4 1.3 1.4
Employer special contributions – – 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7
Employee contributions (0.4) (0.4) 0.4 0.4 – –
Benefits paid 3.7 3.2 (3.7) (3.2) – –
3.3 2.8 (1.3) (0.7) 2.0 2.1
Balance at end of the year (110.8) (101.9) 93.6 88.9 (17.2) (13.0)
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19, see note 1.
The weighted average duration of the Scheme’s liabilities at the end of the period is 20 years (2013: 20 years).
The total contributions to the Scheme in the next financial year are expected to be £1.9 million for the Group and the Company assuming the Scheme closes to   future accrual from 1 January 2015. Of this £0.7m represents annual payments to be made as part of a deficit recovery plan in place until March 2021 as agreed   between the Trustees and the Group. 98  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
23. Preference Share Capital
Group and Company
First 6%
cumulative
preference
 share
of £1 each
Second 8%
cumulative
preference
 share
of £1 each Total
Authorised, issued and fully paid share capital
Number 
000’s
 Number 
000’s
 Number 
000’s
Number authorised and in issue:
At 31 March 2012, 30 March 2013 and 29 March 2014 400  1,200  1,600 
Monetary amount: £m £m £m
At 31 March 2012, 30 March 2013 and 29 March 2014 0.4  1.2  1.6
The first 6% cumulative preference shares of £1 each are entitled to first payment of a fixed cumulative dividend and on winding up to a return of paid capital plus   arrears of dividends. The second 8% cumulative preference shares of £1 each are entitled to second payment of a fixed cumulative dividend and on winding up a   return of capital paid up (plus a premium calculated by reference to an average quoted price on the Stock Exchange for the previous six months) plus arrears of   dividends.
Preference shareholders may only vote in limited circumstances: principally on winding up, alteration of class rights or on unpaid preference dividends. Preference   shares cannot be redeemed by the holders, other than on winding up.
24. Provisions
A) Onerous lease and contingent consideration
 Onerous Lease Contingent Consideration Total
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
At 30 March 2013 2.8  3.0  –  –  2.8  3.0 
Arising during the year –  0.4  1.7  –  1.7  0.4 
Released during the year (0.9) (0.4)  –  – (0.9) (0.4) 
Utilised (0.4) (0.5)  –  – (0.4) (0.5) 
Unwinding of discount 0.2 0.3 –  –  0.2 0.3
At 29 March 2014 1.7  2.8  1.7  –  3.4  2.8 
Analysed as: £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due within one year 0.9  1.0  0.3  –  1.2  1.0 
Due in more than one year 0.8  1.8  1.4  –  2.2  1.8 
 1.7  2.8  1.7  –  3.4  2.8 
The onerous lease provision is recognised in respect of leasehold properties where the lease contracts are deemed to be onerous. Provision is made for the   discounted value of the lower of the unavoidable lease costs and the losses expected to be incurred by the Group.
The contingent consideration is recognised in respect of the fair value of additional amounts which are only payable on completion of certain performance targets   for business combinations as described in note 16.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  99
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
24. Provisions continued
B) Deferred tax provision
The deferred tax included in the Balance Sheet is as follows:
Group
Asset
2014
£m
Liability
2014
£m
Net
2014
£m
Asset
2013
£m
Liability
2013
£m
Net
2013
£m
Deferred tax
Retirement benefit obligations 3.4 – 3.4 3.0 – 3.0
Tax losses carried forward 0.6 – 0.6 0.6 – 0.6
Employee share schemes 0.8 – 0.8 0.9 – 0.9
Financial assets/(liabilities) 0.1 (0.2) (0.1)  0.5 (0.1) 0.4
Accelerated tax depreciation – (13.2) (13.2) – (16.1) (16.1)
Rolled over capital gains – (9.2) (9.2) – (10.5) (10.5)
Others 1.3 – 1.3 1.1  –  1.1 
6.2 (22.6) (16.4)  6.1 (26.7) (20.6) 
The deferred tax included in the Company Balance Sheet is the same as the Group with the following exceptions:
Company
Asset
2014
£m
Liability
2014
£m
Net
2014
£m
Asset
2013
£m
Liability
2013
£m
Net
2013
£m
Deferred tax
Tax losses carried forward 0.5 – 0.5 0.5  –  0.5 
Total Deferred tax asset/(Liability) 6.1 (22.6) (16.5) 6.0 (26.7) (20.7)
25. Financial Instruments
Details of the Group’s Treasury function are included in the Financial Review’s discussion of financial risks and treasury policies on page 19.
The accounting treatment of the Group’s financial instruments is detailed in note 1.   A) Capital management – Group and Company
As described in note 1, the Group considers its capital to comprise the following:
Capital
Group
2014
£m
Group 
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Ordinary share capital 22.8 22.8 22.8 22.8
Share premium 4.8 4.8 4.8 4.8
Capital redemption reserve 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.1
Hedging reserve – (1.8) – (1.8)
Retained earnings 256.2 239.2 229.0 214.7
Preference shares 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6
288.5 269.7 261.3 245.2
In managing its capital the primary objective is to ensure that the Group is able to continue to operate as a going concern and to maximise return to shareholders   through a combination of capital growth, distributions and the payment of preference dividends to its preference shareholders. The Group seeks to maintain     a ratio of debt and equity that balances risks and returns at an acceptable level and maintains sufficient funds to meet working capital targets, investment   requirements and comply with lending covenants. The Group bought back £5.3 million of shares in the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 (2013: £4.0 million), of   which £1.1 million related to purchases made by or on behalf of employee share ownership trusts (2013: £1.1 million). As a minimum, the board reviews the Group’s   dividend policy twice yearly and reviews the treasury position every Board meeting. 100  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25. Financial Instruments continued
B) Categories of financial assets and liabilities
The Group’s financial assets and liabilities as recognised at the Balance Sheet date may also be categorised as follows:
Group
2014
£m
Group 
2013
£m
Company
2014
£m
Company
2013
£m
Non-current assets
Derivative financial assets hedge accounted 0.8 – 0.8 –
Loans and other receivables in scope of IAS 39 0.4  0.3  0.4  0.3 
Total non-current assets 1.2  0.3  1.2  0.3 
Current assets
Loans and other receivables:
Trade and other receivables in scope of IAS 39 12.8  13.9  12.8  13.9 
Cash and short term deposits 4.1  4.3  4.1  4.3 
Total current assets 16.9  18.2  16.9  18.2 
Total financial assets 18.1  18.5  18.1  18.5 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables in scope of IAS 39 30.7 26.9 125.0 119.2 
Total carried at amortised cost 30.7  26.9 125.0 119.2 
Total current liabilities 30.7  26.9 125.0 119.2 
Non-current liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities hedge accounted 0.8 2.4 0.8 2.4
Carried at amortised cost:
Other payables in scope of IAS 39 0.8  1.8  0.8  1.8 
Loans and debenture stock 142.3 138.3  142.1  138.3 
Preference shares 1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6 
Total carried at amortised cost 144.7  141.7  144.5  141.7 
Total non-current liabilities 145.5 144.1  145.3  144.1 
Total financial liabilities 176.2 171.0  270.3  263.3 
There is no set off of financial assets and liabilities as shown above.
C) Financial risks – Group and Company
The main risks associated with the Group’s financial assets and liabilities are set out below, as are the Group’s policies for their management. Derivative   instruments are used to change the economic characteristics of financial instruments in accordance with Group policy.
(i) Interest Rate Risk
The Group manages its cost of borrowings using a mixture of fixed rates, variable rates and interest rate caps. The current Group policy is that a minimum of 50%   of total outstanding borrowings should be at a fixed or capped rate of interest. This is achieved by both taking out interest rate swaps and caps with third parties   and by loan instruments that require us to pay a fixed rate. Fixed rates do not expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, but do not enjoy a reduction in   borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling. Interest rate caps limit the maximum rate payable but require payment of a lump sum premium. The fair value   risk inherent in fixed rate borrowings means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs if debt is paid off earlier than anticipated. Floating rate borrowings,   although not exposed to changes in fair value, expose the Group to cash flow risk following rises in interest rates and cost.
The debentures totalling £25.9 million (2013: £25.8 million) are at fixed rates. The bank loans totalling £116.2 million (2013: £112.5 million), net of arrangement fees, are   at floating rates. At the year end, after taking account of interest rate swaps and caps, 73% (2013: 76%) of the Group’s bank loans and 78% (2013: 80%) of gross   borrowings were at fixed or capped rates.
Interest rate swaps
The Group has entered into interest rate swap agreements, where the Group pays a fixed rate and receives 1 month or 3 month LIBOR, in order to hedge the     risk of variation in interest cash flows on its borrowings. At the Balance Sheet date £65.0 million of the Group and Company’s borrowings (2013: £65.0 million) were   hedged by interest rate swaps at a blended fixed rate of 1.75% (2013: 1.75%). Of the swaps active at 29 March 2014 £40.0 million expire in 2015 and £25.0 million   expire in 2017. Additionally, the Group has entered into interest rate swap arrangements with forward start dates. In December 2012 the Group entered into an   interest rate swap agreement to hedge the risk of interest rate variation on £20.0 million of the Group’s borrowings at a rate of 2.25%, commencing in 2015 and   expiring in 2022. In July 2013 the Group entered into an interest rate swap agreement to hedge the risk of interest rate variation on a further £20.0 million of the   Group’s borrowings at a rate of 2.55%, commencing in 2015 and expiring in 2020.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  101
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
25. Financial Instruments continued
Interest rate cap
The Group has entered into interest rate cap agreements in order to hedge the risk of variation in interest cash flows on its borrowings. At the Balance Sheet date   £20.0 million (2013: £20.0 million) of the Group and Company’s borrowings were hedged by an interest rate cap at a fixed rate of 4.00% (2013: 4.00%). The cap   expires in 2015.
The interest rate swaps and cap are expected to impact the Income Statement in line with the liquidity risk table shown in section (iv) below. The interest rate swap   cash flow hedges were assessed as being highly effective at 29 March 2014 and a net unrealised gain of £2.4 million (2013: £0.9 million loss) has been recorded in   Other Comprehensive Income. The interest rate cap cash flow hedge is not designated as a cash flow hedge for hedge accounting purposes and no net unrealised   gain/loss (2013: nil) was recorded in the Income Statement.
Sensitivity 
The Group borrows in Sterling at market rates. 3 month Sterling LIBOR rate during the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 ranged between 0.46% and 0.57%. The   Directors consider 1% to be a reasonable possible increase in rates and 0.5% to be a reasonable possible decrease in rates, with reference to market yield curves and   the current economic conditions.   The annualised effect of these changes to interest rates on the floating rate debt at the Balance Sheet date, all other variables being constant, are as follows:
Impact on post-tax profit and net equity – increase/(decrease)
Group
2014
£m
 Group 
2013
£m
 Company*
2014
£m
 Company*
2013
£m
Decrease interest rate by 0.5% 0.2  0.2 0.6 0.5 
Increase interest rate by 1.0% (0.4) (0.4) (1.1) (1.0) 
*The Company has substantial interest bearing payables due to subsidiary companies (note 20).
(ii) Foreign Currency Risk
The Group buys and sells goods and services denominated in non-sterling currencies principally US dollar, Euro and Australian dollar. As a result, movements in   exchange rates can affect the value of the Group’s revenues and purchases.
The Group policy on covering foreign currency exposure is included in the Financial Review’s discussion of financial risks and treasury policies on page 19. As a   minimum it buys or sells forward the net known value of all committed purchase or sales orders. In addition, the Group will usually buy or sell a proportion of the   estimated sale or buy orders for the remaining part of the year to minimise its transactional currency exposures in non-sterling currencies. Forward currency   contracts must be in the same currency as the hedged items. The Group does not trade in forward currency hedges.
At 29 March 2014 the Group and Company had open forward contracts to buy € 3.7 million (2013: buy € 2.6 million). These have a Sterling equivalent of £3.1 million   (2013: £2.1 million) and a net gain of nil (2013: nil) when comparing the contractual rates with the year end exchange rates.
At 29 March 2014 the only significant foreign currency assets or liabilities were the following:
Cash deposits Trade receivables Trade payables
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Euro assets/(liabilities) 0.2  0.1  –  – (0.4) (0.2) 
US dollar assets/(liabilities) 0.4  0.2  0.5  0.4 (0.1) (0.2) 
(iii) Credit Risk
The risk of financial loss due to a counter party’s failure to honour its obligations arises principally in relation to transactions where the Group provides goods and   services on deferred payment terms, deposits surplus cash and enters into derivative contracts.   Group policies are aimed at minimising losses and deferred terms are only granted to customers who demonstrate an appropriate payment history and satisfy   credit worthiness procedures. Individual customers are subject to credit limits to control debt exposure. Credit insurance is taken out where appropriate for   wholesale customers and goods may also be sold on a cash with order basis.   Cash deposits with financial institutions for short periods and derivative transactions are only permitted with financial institutions approved by the Board. There are   no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group. The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as   at the Balance Sheet date.
Trade and other receivables
The Group records impairment losses on its trade receivables separately from gross receivables. Further detail is included in note 18.
(iv) Liquidity Risk
The Group minimises liquidity risk by managing cash generation, applying debtor collection targets, monitoring daily cash receipts and payments and setting   rolling cash forecasts. Investments have cash payback periods applied as part of a tightly controlled investment appraisal process. The Group’s rating with credit   agencies is excellent.
The Group has a mixture of long and short term borrowings and overdraft facilities. 19% (2013: 20%) of the Group’s borrowings are repayable after more than five   years, 81% (2013: nil) within the second to third years and nil (2013: 80%) within the third to fifth years.   102  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
25. Financial Instruments continued
The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 29 March 2014 based on undiscounted contractual cash flows, including   interest payable. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the Balance Sheet date.
Group at 29 March 2014
On
demand
£m
Less than
3 months
£m
3 to 12
months
£m
1 to 5
years
£m
More
than 5
years
£m
Total
£m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
1
 –  1.3  3.7  128.4  42.7  176.1 
Preference shares
2
 –  –  0.1  0.5  3.4  4.0 
Trade and other payables 12.6 18.0  0.1  0.5  0.8 32.0
1  Bank loans are included after taking account of the following cash flows in relation to the interest rate swap and cap held in respect of these borrowings:
Interest rate swaps and cap –  0.2  0.6  3.3  1.8  5.9 
Group at 30 March 2013
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
1
–  1.3  4.0  128.0  43.0  176.3 
Preference shares
2
–  –  0.1  0.5  3.4  4.0 
Trade and other payables 7.9  18.2  0.4  1.3  2.4  30.2 
1  Bank loans are included after taking account of the following cash flows in relation to the interest rate swap and cap held in respect of these borrowings:
Interest rate swaps and cap –  0.3  0.9  1.9  –  3.1 
The Company figures are as for the Group, except as follows:
Company at 29 March 2014
On
demand
£m
Less than
3 months
£m
3 to 12
months
£m
1 to 5
years
£m
More
than 5
years
£m
Total
£m
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings
3
94.5  –  –  –  –  94.5 
Company at 30 March 2013
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings
3
92.3  –  –  –  –  92.3 
2  The preference shares have no contractual repayment date. For the purposes of the table above interest payments have been shown for 20 years from the Balance Sheet date but no further.
3  Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings have no fixed repayment date. Interest is payable on the balance at 3% above the Bank of England base rate.
Security – Group and Company
The 10.7% debentures 2023 are secured on property, plant and equipment with a net book value of £12.5 million (2013: £12.6 million). The 6.875% debentures 2028   are secured by a floating charge over the assets of the Company.
Covenants – Group and Company
The Group and Company are subject to a number of covenants in relation to their borrowing facilities which, if contravened, would result in its loans becoming   immediately repayable. These covenants inter alia specify maximum net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, and minimum   earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation to interest.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  103
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
25. Financial Instruments continued
D) Fair Value
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all the financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
Group
Book value 
2014
£m
Book value 
2013
£m
Fair value 
2014
£m
Fair value 
2013
£m
Fair
value
level
Financial assets
Cash 4.1 4.3  4.1 4.3 1
Trade and other receivables due within one year in scope of IAS 39 12.8 13.9 12.8 13.9 3
Loans and other receivables due in more than one year in scope of IAS 39 0.4  0.3  0.4  0.3 3
Interest rate swaps 0.8  –  0.8  – 2
Interest rate cap –  –  –  – 2
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables in scope of IAS 39 (31.5) (28.7) (31.5) (28.7) 3
Fixed rate borrowings (26.1) (25.8) (31.0) (29.3) 3
Floating rate borrowings (116.2) (112.5) (116.2) (112.5) 3
Preference shares (1.6) (1.6) (1.8) (1.8) 3
Interest rate swaps (0.8) (2.4) (0.8) (2.4) 2
The Company figures are as for the Group above, except as follows:
Company
Book value 
2014
£m
Book value 
2013
£m
Fair value 
2014
£m
Fair value 
2013
£m
Fair 
value
level
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables in scope of IAS 39 (125.8) (121.0) (125.8) (121.0) 3
Level 1 fair values are valuation techniques where inputs are quoted prices in active markets for indentical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at   measurement  date.
Level 2 fair values are valuation techniques where all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly, but   are not derived directly from quoted prices in active markets. Level 3 fair values are valuation techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the   recorded fair value are not observable. Derivative fair values are obtained from quoted market prices in active markets. The fair values of borrowings have been   calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates. The fair values of preference shares have been calculated using the market   interest rates. The fair values of cash, trade and other receivables, loans and other receivables and trade and other payables are equivalent to their carrying value. 104  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
26. Share Capital and Reserves
a) Share Capital
Authorised, issued and fully paid
A’ ordinary
shares of
40p each
‘C’ ordinary
shares of
40p each
‘B’ ordinary
shares of
4p each Total
Number in issue
Number
000s
Number
000s
 Number
000s
 Number
000s
At 31 March 2012 and 30 March 2013 33,424  14,657  89,052 137,133 
Share conversions 64 (64)  –  – 
At 29 March 2014 33,488  14,593  89,052 137,133 
Proportion of total equity shares at 29 March 2014 24.5% 10.6% 64.9% 100%
 
Monetary amount £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2012 and 30 March 2013 13.3 5.9 3.6  22.8 
Share conversions 0.1 (0.1)  –  – 
At 29 March 2014 13.4  5.8  3.6  22.8 
Share capital represents the nominal value proceeds received on the issue of the Company’s equity share capital, comprising 40p and 4p ordinary shares.     The Company’s preference shares are classified as non-current liabilities in accordance with IFRS (see note 23).
The ordinary shareholders are entitled to be paid a dividend out of any surplus profits and to participate in surplus assets on winding up in proportion to the   nominal value of each class of share (‘B’ shares have one tenth of the nominal value of ‘A’ and ‘C’ shares).
All equity shares in the Company carry one vote per share, save that shares held in treasury have their voting rights suspended. The ‘A’ and ‘C’ shares have a 40p   nominal value and the ‘B’ shares have a 4p nominal value so that a ‘B’ share dividend will be paid at 10% of the rate applying to ‘A’ and ‘C’ shares. The ‘A’ shares are   listed on the London Stock Exchange. The ‘C’ shares carry a right for the holder to convert them to ‘A’ shares by written notice in the 30 day period following the   half year and preliminary announcements. The ‘B’ shares are not listed and have no conversion rights. In most circumstances the value of a ‘B’ share is deemed to   be 10% of the value of the listed ‘A’ shares. The Trustee holding shares for participants of the LTIP currently waives dividends for shares held during the initial three   year period. Dividends are not paid on shares held in treasury.
The Articles include provisions relating to the Company’s ‘B’ and ‘C’ shares which provide that shareholders who wish to transfer their shares may only do so if the   transfer is to another ‘B’ or ‘C’ shareholder, or if the transfer is to certain of that shareholder’s family members or their executors or administrators or, where shares   are held by Trustees, to new Trustees, or to the Trustees of any employee share scheme, or if the Company is unable to identify another shareholder of that class   willing to purchase the shares within the specified period, to any person.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  105
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
26. Share Capital and Reserves continued
b) Own Shares
Own shares relate to shares held by independently managed employee share ownership trusts (“ESOTs”) together with the Company’s holding of treasury shares.   Shares are purchased by the ESOTs in order to satisfy potential awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”) and Share Incentive Scheme (“SIP”). Treasury   shares are used, inter alia, to satisfy options under the Company’s share options schemes. The LTIP ESOT has waived its rights to dividends on the shares it holds.   Treasury shares have voting and dividend rights suspended. All own shares held, as below, are excluded from earnings and net assets per share calculations.
Treasury shares LTIP ESOT SIP ESOT Total
Number
‘A’ ordinary
40p shares
000s
‘A’ ordinary
40p shares
000s
‘B’ ordinary
4p shares
000s
C’ ordinary
40p shares
000s
‘A’ ordinary
40p shares
000s
‘A’ ordinary
40p shares
000s
‘B’ ordinary
4p shares
000s
‘C’ ordinary
40p shares
000s
At 31 March 2012 1,199  – 571 – 2 1,201 571 –
Shares purchased 411 –  697  5 87 498  697  5 
Shares transferred (260) 260  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Shares released (144) (260) (575) – (87) (491) (575)  – 
At 30 March 2013 1,206  –  693  5  2  1,208  693  5 
Shares purchased 446  –  415  5  69  515  415  5 
Shares transferred (167)  167  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Shares released (314) (167) (417)  – (71) (552) (417)  – 
At 29 March 2014 1,171  –  691  10  –  1,171 691  10 
Monetary amount £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 March 2012 8.0  –  0.3  –  –  8.0  0.3  – 
Shares purchased 2.9  –  0.5  –  0.6  3.5  0.5  – 
Shares transferred (1.7)  1.7  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Shares released (1.0) (1.7) (0.3)  – (0.6) (3.3) (0.3)  – 
At 30 March 2013 8.2  –  0.5  –  –  8.2  0.5  – 
Shares purchased 4.2  –  0.4  0.1  0.6  4.8  0.4  0.1 
Shares transferred (1.1)  1.1  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Shares released (2.2) (1.1) (0.4)  – (0.6) (3.9) (0.4)  – 
At 29 March 2014 9.1  – 0.5 0.1  –  9.1  0.5  0.1 
Market value at 29 March 2014 10.7  –  0.6  0.1 – 10.7  0.6  0.1 
c) Other Capital Reserves
Share Premium Account
The balance in the share premium account represents the proceeds received above the nominal value on the issue of the Company’s equity share capital.
Capital Redemption Reserve
The capital redemption reserve balance arises from the buy-back of the Company’s own equity share capital.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve contains the effective portion of the cash flow hedge relationships incurred at the Balance Sheet date, net of tax. 106  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
27. Share Options and Share Schemes
The key points of each of the Group’s share schemes for grants up to 29 March 2014 are summarised below. All schemes are equity-settled. All disclosure relates     to both Group and Company. For the purposes of option and LTIP schemes, “Adjusted EPS” will normally be consistent with the post-tax earnings per share   excluding exceptional items as presented in the financial statements. However, the Remuneration Committee are authorised to make appropriate adjustments     to Adjusted EPS as applied to these schemes.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme (“SAYE”)
This scheme grants options over shares at a discount of 20% on the average market price over the three days immediately prior to the date of offer. Employees   must save a regular amount each month. Savings are made over three or five years, at the participant’s choice. The right to buy shares at the discounted price lasts   for six months after the end of the savings contract. There are no performance conditions, other than continued employment.
Senior Executive Share Option Scheme
This is an unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme. If growth in Adjusted EPS exceeds growth in the Retail Price Index (“RPI”) by 9% over the performance   period of the option, then 40% of the award will vest. Vesting levels are then on a sliding scale, with 100% vesting occurring if growth in Adjusted EPS exceeds   growth in RPI by more than 21%. The performance period for grants under this scheme is three years. Options must be exercised within seven years of the end     of the performance period.
Executive Share Option Scheme
This is an approved Executive Share Option Scheme. The options vest if growth in Normalised EPS exceeds the growth in RPI by 9% or more, over the three year   performance period of the option. The options must then be exercised within seven years after the end of the performance period.
LTIP
This plan awards free shares. Vesting is conditional on growth in Adjusted EPS exceeding growth in RPI by 9% or more over the 3 year initial performance period of   the award. Vesting levels are on a sliding scale from 40% up to 100% (grants before 2009: 25% to 100%), if growth in Adjusted EPS exceeds growth in RPI by 24%   (grants before 2009: 21%) or more. An independent firm of advisors verify the vesting level each year. The initial vesting period is three years. After this time the   shares may be passed to the plan participants, as long as vesting conditions are met.   SIP
This plan awards free shares. The number of shares awarded, up to a maximum value of £3,000 per person per year, is based on length of service and salary.     The life of each plan is five years, after which shares are released to participants. There are no performance conditions as in almost all circumstances participants   can retain the shares awarded (although there may be tax consequences if within five years of the award).   Share-based payment expense recognised in the year
The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 is £1.8 million     (2013: £1.9 million). The whole of that expense arises from equity settled share-based payment transactions.
Movements in the year
The following tables illustrate the number and weighted average exercise prices (“WAEP”) of, and movements in, each category of share instrument during the year.   Market value
The market value of the shares at 29 March 2014 was £9.10 (2013: £8.20).
A) SAYE
2014
Number
000s
2014
WAEP
2013
Number
000s
2013
WAEP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 498 £4.69 543 £4.45
Granted 102 £7.24 102 £5.63
Lapsed (46) £5.24 (35) £5.03
Exercised (163) £3.97 (112) £4.35
Outstanding at the end of the year 391 £5.63 498 £4.69
Exercisable at the end of the year – n/a – n/a
Weighted average share price for options exercised in the year £9.46 £7.18
Weighted average contractual life remaining for share options outstanding at the year end 2.54 years 2.14 years
Weighted average share price for options granted in the year £9.43 £7.23
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year £1.97 £1.74
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the year end
– from £3.88 £3.31
– to £7.24 £5.63  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  107
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
27. Share Options and Share Schemes continued
Outstanding share options granted to employees under the Saving Related Share Option Scheme are as follows:
Exercisable at
Exercise price
40p shares
£
Number of ‘A’
 ordinary
 shares
under
 option
2014
000’s
Number of ‘A’
 ordinary
 shares
under
 option
2013
000’s
September 2013 3.31 –  96 
September 2013 4.64 –  64 
September 2014 3.88 48  57 
September 2014 5.47 78  90 
September 2015 4.64 58  65 
September 2015 5.63 63  71 
September 2016 5.47 27  31 
September 2016 7.24 66  – 
September 2017 5.63 22  24 
September 2018 7.24 32  – 
394  498 
B) Share Option Schemes
Senior Executive Share Option Scheme
2014
Number
000s
2014
WAEP
2013
Number
000s
2013
WAEP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 202 £5.67 167 £5.38
Granted 20 £9.10 35 £7.05
Lapsed (29) £6.46 – –
Exercised (78) £4.92 – –
Outstanding at the end of the year 115 £6.56 202 £5.67
Exercisable at the end of the year 51 £5.12 100 £4.66
Weighted average share price for options exercised in the year £9.17 n/a
Weighted average contractual life remaining for share options outstanding at the year end 6.71 years 6.50 years
Weighted average share price for options granted in the year £8.98 £7.06
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year £1.07 £1.25
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the year end
– from £4.05 £3.67
– to £9.10 £7.51 108  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
27. Share Options and Share Schemes continued
Executive Share Option Scheme
2014
Number
000s
2014
WAEP
2013
Number
000s
2013
WAEP
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 185 £5.58 185 £5.56
Granted 44 £9.10 42 £7.05
Lapsed –  – (10) £7.37
Exercised (67) £4.98 (32) £3.04
Outstanding at the end of the year 162 £7.39 185 £5.58
Exercisable at the end of the year 37 £6.02 72 £5.47
Weighted average share price for options exercised in the year £9.18 £7.38
Weighted average contractual life remaining for share options outstanding at the year end 7.50 years 7.80 years
Weighted average share price for options granted in the year £8.98 £7.06
Weighted average fair value of options granted during the year £0.92 £1.12
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the year end
– from £4.05 £2.62
– to £9.10 £7.51
Outstanding options which are capable of being exercised between three and ten years from date of issue and their exercise prices are shown in the table below:
Senior Executive Scheme Executive Approved Scheme
Exercisable in/between
 Exercise price 
40p shares
£
 Number of
‘A’ ordinary
 shares
under
 option
2014
000s
 Number of
‘A’ ordinary
 shares
under
 option
2013
000s
 Exercise price
40p shares
£
 Number of
‘A’ ordinary
 shares
under
 option
2014
000s
 Number of
‘A’ ordinary
 shares
under
 option
2013
000s
2007 and 2014 –  –  –  2.62  –  10 
2008 and 2015 3.67  –  21  3.67  –  – 
2009 and 2016 4.98  2  12  4.98  3  6 
2010 and 2017  7.51  4  10  7.51  12  29 
201 1 and 2018 4.05  12  25  4.05  4  14 
2012 and 2019 4.80  19  31  4.80  3  14 
2013 and 2020 5.78  12  32  5.78  15  35 
2013 and 2020 6.30  1  4  –  –  – 
2014 and 2021 7.09  21  32  7.09  39  35 
2015 and 2022 7.05  24  35  7.05  42  42 
2016 and 2023 9.10  20  –  9.10  44  – 
115 202 162  185  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  109
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
27. Share Options and Share Schemes continued
C) LTIP
Shares
2014
‘A’ shares
Number
000s
2014
‘B’ shares
Number
000s
2013
‘A’ shares
Number
000s
2013
‘B’ shares
Number
000s
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 694  1,733  718  1,795 
Granted  155  388  249  622 
Lapsed (204) (509) (19) (48) 
Vested (167) (417) (260) (575) 
A shares issued in lieu of B shares –  –  6 (61) 
Outstanding at the end of the year 478  1,195  694  1,733 
Weighted average share price for shares vested in the year £9.23 £0.92 £7.06 £0.71
For shares outstanding at the year end, the weighted average contractual life remaining is 1.28 years 1.28 years 1.32 years 1.32 years
Weighted average share price for shares granted in the year £8.98 £0.94 £7.05 £0.71
Weighted average fair value of shares granted during the year £8.38 £0.84 £6.62 £0.66
All LTIPs have an vesting price of £nil. LTIP shares do not receive dividends until vested.
D) SIP
2014
Number
000’s
2013
Number
000’s
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 369  355 
Granted 71  88 
Lapsed (1) (1) 
Released (117) (73) 
Outstanding at the end of the year 322  369 
Weighted average share price for shares released in the year £9.31 £7.40
For shares outstanding at the year end, the weighted average contractual life remaining is 2.85 years 2.83 years
Weighted average share price for shares granted during the year £9.60 £7.54
Weighted average fair value of shares granted during the year £9.17 £7.54
Outstanding SIP shares represent shares allocated and held by the SIP Trustees on behalf of employees, which remain in the trust for between three and five years.   All SIPs have an vesting price of £nil. SIP shares receive dividends once allocated. 110  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
27. Share Options and Share Schemes continued
E) Fair value of grants
(i) Equity-Settled Options and LTIPs
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were   granted. The following table lists the inputs to the model used for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2014 and 52 weeks ended 30 March 2013, except exercise price   and for the weighted average share price for grants in the year, which are disclosed in sections A to D above.
LTIP scheme Save As You Earn scheme
Executive and Senior  
Executive option schemes
Fair value inputs 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Dividend yield (%) 1.6% 1.8% 1.6% 1.8% 1.6% 1.8%
Expected share price volatility (%) n/a n/a 17% 25% 17% 25%
Risk-free interest rate (%) 0.7% 0.3%
0.9 to
1.6%
0.2 to
0.6%
1.1 to
1.4%
0.5 to
0.7%
Expected life of option/award (years) 3 years 3 years
3 to 
5 years
3 to 
5 years
4 to 
5 years
4 to 
5 years
Model used
Black 
Scholes
Black 
Scholes
Black 
Scholes
Black 
Scholes
Black 
Scholes
Black 
Scholes
The expected life of the options/shares is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected volatility   reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome. No other features of   options grant were incorporated into the measurement of fair value.
(ii) SIPs Granted
The fair value of SIPs is the share price at the date of allocation. The value of SIPs awarded is a fixed rate based on the Group’s performance in the preceding   financial year. The number of shares awarded is therefore dependent on the share price at the date of the award.    Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  111
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
28. Guarantees and commitments
a) Operating Lease Commitments
Operating leases where the Group is the lessee
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are due as follows:
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Within one year 8.0 8.2 
Between one year and five years 26.2 25.3 
After five years 39.8 39.5 
74.0 73.0 
Commercial operating leases are typically for 20 to 25 years, although certain leases have lease periods extending up to 40 years.
Operating leases where the Group is the lessor
The Group earns rental income from two sources. Licenced property included within property, plant and equipment is rented under agreements where lessees   must also purchase goods from the Group. Additionally there are a smaller number of agreements in respect of investment properties where there is no   requirement for the lessee to purchase goods.
Investment properties are let to third parties on leases that have remaining terms of between 1 and 10 years.
At 29 March 2014 future minimum rentals receivable by the Group are as follows:
Investment properties
Other property,  
plant & equipment
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
2014
£m
2013
£m
Within one year 0.4 0.4 7.7 7.8
Between one year and five years 0.7 0.5 16.7 17.9
After five years 0.4 0.2 8.8 11.7
1.5 1.1 33.2 37.4 
The Group’s commercial leases on property are principally for licensed outlets. The terms of the leases are normally for either three, five or ten years with the   maximum being 30 years. The agreements allow for annual inflationary increases and full rental reviews occur on renewal of the lease, or every five years for a ten   year lease.
At 29 March 2014 future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable sub-leases included in the figures above were £5.2 million (2013: £5.6 million).
b) Other Commitments
Group and Company
2014
£m
2013
£m
Capital commitments – authorised, contracted but not provided for 3.9 2.0
The Company has accepted various duty deferment bonds in connection with HM Revenue & Customs. The total outstanding commitment at 29 March 2014   was £720,000 (2013: £720,000) for the Group and Company. 112  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Notes to the Financial Statements continued
29. Related Party Transactions
Group and Company
During the current and prior years the Company provided various administrative services to the Fuller, Smith & Turner Pension Plan free of charge. In addition, the   Company settled costs totalling £170,000 (2013: £145,000) relating to the provision of actuarial, consulting and administrative services by third parties to the Fuller,   Smith & Turner Pension Plan.
Compensation of key management personnel (including Directors)
52 weeks
 ended
29 March
2014
£m
52 weeks
 ended
30 March
2013
£m
Short term employee benefits 4.9 4.0 
Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4 
Share-based payments 1.5 1.2 
6.9 5.6 
Company Only
During the year the Company entered into the following related party transactions:
52 weeks ended 29 March 2014
Sales to
 related
parties
£m
Purchases
 from
related
 parties
£m
Interest paid
to related
parties
£m
Amounts
 owed to
related
 parties
£m
Subsidiaries – 42.9 3.2 (94.5) 
52 weeks ended 30 March 2013
Sales to
 related
parties
£m
Purchases
 from
related
 parties
£m
Interest paid
to related
 parties
£m
Amounts
 owed to
related
 parties
£m
Subsidiaries –  40.0  3.1 (92.3) 
Interest is payable on the majority of the amounts due to subsidiaries at 3% above the Bank of England base rate. All amounts outstanding are unsecured and   repayable on demand.
Subsidiaries of parent companies established within the European Economic Area are excempt from an audit if a guarantee is provided by the parent for the   subsidiary liabilities and the shareholders are in unanimous agreement. The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit in 2014 for the period   ending 29 March 2014 under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in these financial statements:
Griffin Catering Services Ltd  01577632  Jacomb Guinness Ltd  02934979  George Gale & Co. Ltd  00026330    45 Woodfield Ltd  04279254  Cornish Orchards Ltd  04871687
The Group will be exempting the following companies from the preparation and delivering of accounts to Companies House under section 394A of the   Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in these financial statements:
Griffin Inns Ltd  00495934  Ringwoods Ltd  00178536  F.S.T Trustee Ltd  03163480  Fuller, Smith & Turner Estate Ltd  01831674  30. Post balance sheet events
Since 29 March 2014 the Group has exchanged on the purchase of two new licensed property sites and completed on the purchase of one further site; the total   value of these transactions is expected to be £9.5 million.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  113
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Directors and Advisers
as at 5 June 2014
Directors
Michael Turner, FCA, Chairman*
Simon Emeny, Chief Executive
James Douglas, ACA
Richard Fuller
Ian Bray
Jonathon Swaine
John Dunsmore*
Sir James Fuller*
Lynn Fordham, CA*
Alastair Kerr*
*Non-Executive.
President
Anthony Fuller, CBE
Chairman from 1982-2007, Anthony Fuller retired from the Board in 2010 after a long career with Fuller’s and continues as President.
Secretary and Registered Office
Marie Gracie, FCIS
Griffin Brewery
Chiswick Lane South
Chiswick
London W4 2QB
Tel: 020 8996 2105
Registered Number 241882
Auditors
Grant Thornton UK LLP
Grant Thornton House
Melton Street
NW1 2EP
Stockbrokers
Numis Securities Limited
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
Tel: 0870 889 4096
Please note you can now advise
Computershare of changes to your address
or set up a dividend mandate online at
www.computershare.com/investor/uk 114  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Shareholder Information
2014 Diary
Friday, 27 June
Record Date
Tuesday, 1 July
Preference dividends paid
11 a.m. Thursday, 24 July
Annual General Meeting
Hock Cellar, Griffin Brewery
Monday, 28 July
Final dividend paid
Friday, 21 November
Half year results announcement
2015 Diary
January
Preference dividends paid
Interim dividend paid
June
Preliminary results announcement
Shareholder Privileges
Shareholders holding more than 250 ‘A’ or ‘C’ shares or 2,500 ‘B’ shares can buy beer, wine and spirits from the Brewery Store in Chiswick at preferential prices.   These shareholders are also entitled to certain discounts in Fuller’s Hotels. For details contact Company Secretariat on 020 8996 2105.
Redesignation of ‘C’ Shares
‘C’ ordinary shares can be redesignated as ‘A’ ordinary shares within 30 days of the preliminary and half year announcements by sending in your certificates and     a written instruction to redesignate prior or during the period to the Company’s Registrars:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS99 6ZZ
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic     to sell them. If you have a small number of shares and would like to donate them to charity, details of the scheme can be found on the ShareGift website     www.sharegift.org, or by contacting the Company Secretariat on 020 8996 2105.  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014  115
Overview Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
Glossary
•  Adjusted earnings per share – this is earnings per share, adjusted for exceptional items. The Directors believe that this measure provides useful information for   shareholders as to the internal measures of the performance of the Group.   •  Adjusted profits – this is profit before tax, adjusted for exceptional items.
•  Beer and cider volumes – this is the volume of beer and cider sold, in number of barrels; a brewing term representing 288 pints.
•  EBITDA – this is the earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, loss on disposal of plant and equipment and amortisation, adjusted for exceptional items.
•  Foreign Beer – this is sales made by the Company of beer produced by other brewers, the majority of which is lager.
•  Managed Pubs and Hotels invested like for like sales growth – this is the sales growth calculated to exclude those pubs which have not been trading   throughout the two years for the corresponding period in both years. The principal exclusions from this measure are: pubs purchased or sold in the last twelve   months; sites which are closed; and pubs which are transferred to tenancy.
•  Wet, food and accommodation like for like sales growth – this is measured on the same basis as “Managed Pubs and Hotels invested like for like sales growth”.
•  Like for like barrels sold – this is measured on the same basis as “Tenanted like for like profit growth”.
•  LTIP – Long Term Incentive Plan.
•  Market capitalisation – only the Company’s 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares are listed. The Company calculates its market capitalisation as the sum total of all classes     of ordinary shares; i.e. listed 40p ‘A’ ordinary shares, unlisted 4p ‘B’ ordinary shares and unlisted 40p ‘C’ ordinary shares plus all potentially awardable share options   and LTIP awards less any shares held in treasury. For the purposes of the calculation of market capitalisation a 4p ‘B’ ordinary share is treated as having 10% of the   market value of a quoted 40p ‘A’ ordinary share and a 40p ‘C’ ordinary share is treated as having an equivalent value to a 40p ‘A’ ordinary share.   •  Net debt – this comprises cash, bank loans, other loans, debenture stock and preference shares.
•  Own beer and cider – this is sales of own brand beer and cider brewed by the Company in Chiswick and Cornwall.
•  SIP – Share Incentive Plan.
•  Tenanted like for like profit growth – this is the profits growth of Tenanted Inns calculated to exclude from both years those pubs which have not been trading   throughout the two years. The principal exclusions from this measure are: pubs purchased or sold; pubs which have closed; and pubs transferred to or from our   Managed business. Bad debt expense is included but head office costs are excluded.
•  Total annual dividend – the total annual dividend for a financial year comprises interim dividends paid during the financial year and the final dividend proposed   for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting after the completion of the financial year. 116  Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014   Shareholder Notes Five Years’ Progress
Income Statement
2014
£m
Restated*
2013
£m
Restated*
2012
£m
Restated*
2011
£m
Restated*
2010
£m
Revenue 288.0 271.5 253.0 241.9 227.7 
Operating profit before exceptional items 39.9 37.0 34.9 34.1 32.0 
Net finance costs* (5.8) (5.9) (4.9) (4.7) (4.5)
Adjusted profit* 34.1 31.1 30.0 29.4 27.5 
Exceptional items* (0.6) 2.6 (1.9) 1.0 (0.4)
Profit before tax* 33.5 33.7 28.1 30.4 27.1 
Taxation* (4.4) (5.6) (4.9) (6.0) (7.7)
Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent Company* 29.1 28.1 23.2 24.4 19.4 
EBITDA 54.5 51.2 47.8 46.6 43.6 
Assets employed
Non-current assets 481.3 455.6 444.1 382.7 387.9 
Inventories 10.6 10.1 10.5 8.8 7.6 
Trade and other receivables 18.3 18.3 18.3 18.8 15.6 
Assets classified as held for sale 1.2 0.6 5.3 0.2 0.6 
Cash and short term deposits 4.1 4.3 3.9 3.7 1.1 
515.5 488.9 482.1 414.2 412.8 
Current borrowings –  –  –  – (81.4)
Other current liabilities (51.2) (45.7) (51.6) (43.6) (44.5)
464.3 443.2 430.5 370.6 286.9 
Non-current borrowings (143.9) (139.9) (142.1) (92.2) (27.4)
Other non-current liabilities (43.2) (43.9) (53.1) (42.2) (52.3)
Net assets 277.2 259.4 235.3 236.2 207.2
2014 2013 2012 2011 2010
Per 40p ‘A’ ordinary share
Adjusted earnings 46.94p 42.18p 39.47p 37.54p 35.27p
Basic earnings 52.14p 50.43p 41.24p 43.41p 34.73p
Dividends (interim and proposed final) 15.10p 13.70p 12.65p 11.80p 11.00p
Net assets £4.98 £4.65 £4.22 £4.19 £3.68 
Net debt (£ million) (139.8) (135.6) (138.2) (88.5) (107.7)
Net debt/EBITDA
1
2.5 2.6 2.7 1.9 2.5 
Gross capital expenditure (£ million) 38.1 31.1 76.3 12.0 44.1 
Average number of employees 3,610 3,477 3,392 3,363 3,263 
*Comparatives have been restated for changes to IAS 19, see note 1.
1
Net debt/EBITDA is adjusted as appropriate for the pubs acquired in the period.
Designed and produced by Luminous
www.luminous.co.uk
 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014 117 Fuller Smith & Turner P.L.C. Annual Report 2014
Fuller Smith & Turner P .L.C.
Griffin Brewery, Chiswick Lane South, Chiswick, 
London, W4 2QB
Telephone: +44 (0)20 8996 2000
Fax: +44 (0)20 8995 0230
E-mail: Fullers@fullers.co.uk
Registered number: 241882
