 Digital Future
Future plc
Annual Report 
and Accounts 201 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Future plc
Group ﬁ nancial highlights
Year ended 30 September 2011
£1 4 1 .7 m
Revenue 2010: £151.5m
£6.6m
EBITAE 2010: £10.1m
0.7p
Adjusted earnings per share 2010: 2.4p
0.5p
Dividends 2010: 1.1p
EBITAE represents operating proﬁ t before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, and exceptional items, 
as shown on page 10 along with other key ﬁ gures in the statutory results.
Adjusted earnings per share are based on statutory results, but exclude amortisation and impairment of intangibles, 
exceptional items and related tax effects.
Future creates multi-media products designed to appeal 
to the high-value, loyal audiences which our advertisers 
and commercial partners need to reach. We are famous 
for compelling content combined with outstanding design 
– in print and online – produced by leading specialists. 
Our digital skills in the tablet and smartphone space enable 
us to engage our audiences in a more integrated way than 
ever before: in print, online and – increasingly – on the move.
Our mission is to continue to deliver beautifully produced 
magazines in print and digital formats, and to make our 
websites and mobile products an indispensable part of 
our readers’ daily lives.
We have operations in the UK, US and Australia creating 
200 special-interest publications, apps, websites and events. 
We hold market-leading positions in Games, Movies, Music, 
Technology, Cycling, Automotive and Crafts.
Contents
OPERATING REVIEW
Chairman’s statement 1
Future at a glance 2
Chief Executive’s review 4
– Building a borderless business 6
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Financial review 10
Corporate responsibility 18
GOVERNANCE & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Board of Directors  20
Directors’ report 22
Corporate Governance report 26
Directors’ remuneration report 32
Independent auditors’ report 40
Financial statements 41
Notice of Annual General Meeting 74
Investor information 79
Directors and advisers 79
Financial calendar 80
Contacts 80
Who we are 
and what we do Future plc 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Future has delivered disappointing results in the past ﬁ nancial year, 
in line with previous announcements. As a result, the Board took 
decisive action to address the key problems, and to carry out a 
restructuring of the Group. It also appointed a new Chief Executive 
and Group Finance Director to eliminate signiﬁ cant cost and to take 
the business in a new direction.
The reorganisation saw the departure of Stevie Spring as Chief 
Executive and John Bowman as Group Finance Director, both of 
whom had made a valuable contribution to the refocusing and 
stabilisation of the business in recent years. They leave with 
our thanks.
The Board recognised the strong performance of Future’s 
UK operation and in particular the digital innovation there, 
which has built on both the strength of its market positions 
and quality of its content to deliver new products and generate 
impressive digital revenue growth. We therefore asked the 
UK CEO, Mark Wood, and his Finance Director, Graham Harding, 
to step up to lead the business. 
This change enabled us to eliminate an expensive layer of central 
corporate cost. The new management, supported by the Board, 
is subsequently taking out further costs in the US as it integrates 
a previously separate, sub-scale subsidiary into a business which 
will be focused on selling the full range of its content into the US 
and other major world markets.
Given their experience and success in the UK operation, we have 
great conﬁ dence in the new leadership and their ability to manage 
the transition to new business models at speed and within a tightly 
managed cost base. 
We expect to see the Group return to proﬁ t growth in the year ahead.
Financial performance
2011 results show Group revenue of £141.7m (2010: £151.5m) and 
EBITAE of £6.6m (2010: £10.1m). This disappointing performance 
was caused mainly by sharply reduced print copy and advertising 
sales in the US. Exceptional items in the year totalled £4.8m 
(2010: nil) and relate to restructuring costs, property provisions 
and other one-off costs, reﬂ ecting lower headcount. The ongoing 
restructuring will lead to further exceptional cash costs estimated 
at £1.9m in the current year.
The Group has taken a non-cash impairment charge of £17.1m 
(2010: nil) against the carrying value of the intangible assets 
relating to the Group’s US subsidiary to reﬂ ect more accurately 
the value of that business.
After this charge, amortisation of intangibles of £1.2m (2010: £2.7m) 
and net ﬁ nancing costs of £1.5m (2010: £1.8m), the Group recorded 
a pre-tax loss of £18.0m (2010: pre-tax proﬁ t of £5.6m).
Basic Earnings Per Share (EPS) were a loss of 5.9p (2010: earnings 
of 1.7p) and adjusted EPS were 0.7p (2010: 2.4p).
Financing & Dividend
We are pleased to have secured the continuing support of our 
banks with the extension of our loan facility until November 2013. 
Borrowings have increased from £7.4m to £11.8m this year and 
will increase further in the ﬁ rst half of 2012 as we ﬁ nalise the 
reorganisation. Thereafter we should be cash generative again.
In this context, the Board announced a dividend holiday until 
Group borrowings have reverted to less than two times Bank 
EBITDA, which we anticipate happening at the beginning of the 
2013 ﬁ nancial year. 
The interim dividend of 0.5p (2010: 0.5p), which was paid on 3 October 
2011, was therefore the only dividend payment relating to the year. 
Board
I am delighted to have been appointed Chairman of Future in August. 
During the past year, the Board has been signiﬁ cantly refreshed 
with the arrival of Mark Whiteling in November 2010, who chairs the 
Audit Committee, and Manjit Wolstenholme in February 2011, who is 
our Senior Independent Director. Seb Bishop, who has been a Board 
member since 2007, provides a valuable digital and entrepreneurial 
perspective to the business. Mark Wood and Graham Harding 
complete the current Board membership.
I would like to thank the previous Chairman, Roger Parry, for more 
than a decade of service to Future, during which he steered the 
company through some turbulent and difﬁ cult periods. I would also 
like to thank Patrick Taylor and Michael Penington, who retired from 
the Board in February, for their invaluable contributions as Directors 
of the company. 
Summary
The current Board is satisﬁ ed that it has taken appropriate steps 
to put Future in a better position to continue to achieve exciting 
growth in digital markets and that it has put a management team 
in place which is capable of reversing the company’s recent decline 
and transforming its growth prospects. We look forward to the 
year ahead with growing conﬁ dence and anticipation following 
a very difﬁ cult period.
Chairman’s statement
Future will be run as an integrated business,
no longer as separate UK and US operations. 
This change recognises that digital markets 
are global in nature.
Peter Allen, Chairman Future plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Future at a glance
Business highlights 
and facts
Global revenues A balanced portfolio Technology
Consumer electronics, 
computing, photography, 
digital creative
1
2
Revenue split by source
1. UK 73%
2. US 27%
1
3
2
Revenue split by media
1. Digital 11%
2. Print 80%
3. Customer Publishing 9%
1
2
3
4
Our magazines, digital properties 
and events are managed across 
four portfolio sectors:
1. Technology 27%
2. Games 27%
3. Music & Movies 23%
4. Active 23%
Portfolio
For each sector, we create 
multi-media products that 
inform, entertain and unite 
passionate communities. 
Our aim is to be the number 
one provider of content in 
our specialist sectors, and 
to be the partner of choice 
for those companies that 
wish to do business with the 
consumers who congregate 
around that content.
Digital
We publish copies of magazines 
through Zinio and via the 
Apple Newsstand, and we 
also publish richer, interactive 
digital editions, tailor-made 
for the iPad and other tablets.
Our portfolio of websites 
provides complementary 
content, built around our 
pillar ‘Radar’ web properties 
in our core sectors.
Future’s sector-leading 
technology portfolio is 
constantly innovating, 
reﬂ ecting the fast-moving 
markets in which it operates. 
We reach more technology 
enthusiasts than ever before 
through print, digital and 
events. Our portfolio includes:
In print and on digital tablet:
T3, MacLife, MacFormat, Tap!, 
Maximum PC, Linux Format, 
Digital Camera, Practical 
Photoshop, PhotoPlus, .net, 
Computer Arts, Windows: 
The Ofﬁ cial Magazine
In digital: techradar.com, T3.com, 
gizmodo.co.uk, maximumpc.com, 
maclife.com, T3 edition for iPad, 
Tap! edition for iPad, MacLife 
Tablet edition
Face-to-face: T3 Gadget Awards, 
Digital Camera Photographer of 
the Year Awards, .net Awards
Future employs 1,100 people 
in the UK, US and Australia, 
delivering English-language 
content 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week, from Video 
Games to Movies, from Cycling 
to Music-Making, from 
Photography to Fast Cars.
2.9m
Future sells 2.9 million 
magazines each month
100
Digital products 
launched on tablet 
this year
No.1
UK magazine licensor
No.1
Cycling publisher worldwide Future plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Games Music & Movies Active Licensing & Exports
Console and PC Gaming Film, music Sports, automotive, 
hobbies & crafts
Future holds a unique position 
in the global games media 
market, combining the strongest 
games industry partnerships 
with an innovative multi-channel 
approach. We are the only games 
media owner with audience reach 
across print, online, apps, cover 
discs, mobile, on-console and 
events. Our portfolio includes:
In print and on digital tablet: 
Xbox 360: The Ofﬁ cial Magazine, 
Ofﬁ cial PlayStation Magazine, 
Ofﬁ cial Nintendo Magazine, 
Nintendo Power, PC Gamer, 
Edge, GamesMaster 
In digital: gamesradar.com, 
computerandvideogames.com, 
pcgamer.com, Qore, Access TV
Face-to-face: GamesMaster 
Golden Joystick Awards
Future is the biggest guitar 
publisher in the world and the 
biggest music-making publisher 
in both the US and the UK. 
In ﬁ lm, Future is one of the 
UK’s leading publishers, with 
a strong multi-platform portfolio 
across print, online, video, 
mobile, apps and events. 
Our portfolio includes:
In print and on digital tablet: 
Classic Rock, Metal Hammer, 
Guitarist, Total Guitar, Rhythm, 
Computer Music, Total Film, SFX
In digital: musicradar.com, 
totalﬁ lm.com, sfx.co.uk
Face-to-face: Classic Rock Roll 
of Honour, Golden Gods Awards, 
Metal Hammer Live Tours, 
High Voltage Festival
Active comprises a broad range
of active and crafting properties.
Future’s depth and reach of
content makes us the world’s
number one cycling publisher. 
In automotive, we are leaders 
in performance tuning and
sports bikes with over 80,000
fans attending our events
annually. Our craft portfolio
continues to lead through
innovation and inspiration. 
Our portfolio includes:
In print and on digital tablet:
Procycling, Cycling Plus, Mountain
Biking UK, Triathlon Plus, Fast 
Bikes, Fast Car, Total Vauxhall, 
Mollie Makes, Simply Knitting, 
CrossStitcher, Your Family Tree, 
Your Knitting Life
In digital: bikeradar.com, 
cyclingnews.com, themakingspot.
com, weheartcraft.co.uk
Face-to-face: Stitch & Craft Show, 
TRAX, Total Vauxhall Live, Ford Fair
We produce mainly English-
language content and our 
international business has 
two routes to market: licensing/
syndication and export/digital 
copy sales. Our diverse, multi-
platform portfolio gives us 
great opportunities to exploit 
our original product all around 
the globe.
Future’s approach is based 
on the cornerstones of strong 
partnerships, innovation and 
passion. It is a formula that 
works: we are the UK’s number 
one magazine licensor and 
exporter, licensing or exporting 
our products to 89 countries 
throughout the world.
No.3
Special-interest publisher 
on UK newsstand
50m
Minutes of video watched on 
our websites every year
No.1
For games magazines 
worldwide
No.1
UK magazine exporter
34m
Unique monthly visitors 
to our websites
No.1
For guitar magazines 
worldwide Future plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review
Future has become a leader among publishers 
in driving digital transformation. It is now 
well positioned for rapid expansion of its 
online and mobile businesses, which will 
be the drivers of the company’ s profi t growth.
The UK operation, representing 73% of revenues, was resilient 
in challenging market conditions, delivering revenues of £103.4m 
– down just 2% from 2010, and EBITAE of £12.5m – down 3%. This 
is a good result in a period when most publishers saw print sales 
decline. Future also saw sales of its magazines in retail outlets fall, 
but this was largely offset by strong growth in UK digital revenues, 
which were 36% up year-on-year. 
In contrast, US revenues were down 13% at $62.4m (2010: $72.0m) 
and the operation delivered an EBITAE loss of $5.6m. Newsstand 
print sales fell 32% and print advertising fell 21%. These were 
partially offset by growth in digital revenues – up 25%, and our 
customer publishing operation, Future Plus, saw growth of 30%.
Reorganisation
We have carried out reorganisations and restructuring in both 
the UK and US. The departures of several senior executives have 
contributed to cost savings, as have other headcount reductions. 
The changes in the UK enabled us to reduce resources dedicated 
to print and create headroom to bring in digital expertise. Overall 
we are reducing operating costs across the Group by an estimated 
annualised £4.5m by the end of FY12. 
We have also introduced a new hub and spoke production model 
which means more agility and efﬁ ciency in the way we produce 
content. This model enables us to stretch resources across titles 
more efﬁ ciently and manage an integrated UK-US production 
process. This is key to more cost-efﬁ cient content management 
and ﬂ exible use of outsourced production. 
We are migrating the US business to a predominantly digital model 
and have taken steps to de-risk remaining print properties. We will 
improve the margins of residual print titles by merging production 
with the appropriate teams in the UK. 
A year of fast progress towards a digital world 
Future operates market-leading websites in the Games, 
Technology, Cycling and Music sectors, and trafﬁ c has grown 
signiﬁ cantly over the past year: we are now generating over 
34 million unique visits each month. Digital revenues grew 
by 31% in the period.
TechRadar.com – the UK’s leading consumer technology news 
and reviews website – has shown particularly impressive growth, 
nearly doubling revenues and generating a margin close to 50%. 
We have launched or upgraded more than 25 websites in the year, 
and recently launched new e-commerce platforms in the Crafts 
sector: www.themakingspot.com and www.weheartcraft.co.uk.
Overview
Future delivered disappointing results for the past year, in line with 
previous announcements. While the UK business showed resilience 
in challenging conditions, the US operations tipped back into loss, 
pulling down the Group’s overall ﬁ nal results. 
However, over the same period, Future has become a leader among 
publishers in driving digital transformation. It is now well positioned 
for rapid expansion of its online and mobile businesses, which will 
be the drivers of the company’s proﬁ t growth. 
We have taken swift action to reorganise the company, merging 
our UK and US operations, and creating a single global product line. 
These changes enable us to operate more efﬁ ciently and will get 
our US business back to proﬁ tability by FY13. 
These actions also mean that we can accelerate our transition to 
a digital business model. Instead of seeing our business constrained 
by geography and deﬁ ned by separately focused UK and US 
operations, we will now sell our entire range of high-quality 
content into the borderless digital markets opening up worldwide. 
Our aim is to see the US operation transformed from loss-maker, 
and the US market become one of the key drivers of proﬁ t growth 
from Future’s current product line.
The key to the change is that new digital channels, such as the 
Apple iPad, are rapidly opening up new routes to international 
markets in which our niche products can quickly build a loyal 
following. Future’s success on the Apple Newsstand − with more 
than six million downloads of our apps in the month of launch 
alone − has demonstrated our ability to develop and deliver digital 
products at high speed. It also underlines the global appeal of our 
content, ranging from Cycling, Games and Technology to Music, 
Movies and Digital Design. 
Meanwhile, digital advertising revenues from websites and 
mobile devices are showing strong and sustainable growth.
A new Future business is taking shape and we have the content, 
products and skills to make it a success.
Results
The results for 2011 show a decline in full year revenue of 6% 
and a reduction in Group EBITAE from £10.1m to £6.6m. Exceptional 
costs of £4.8m have been incurred, mainly as a result of the 
restructuring actions taken in the period, predominantly in the 
UK. Further exceptional costs will be incurred in respect of 
central costs and the US business in the current ﬁ nancial year.
Mark Wood, Chief Executive Future plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
The common theme among all our audiences is that they are highly 
attractive to advertisers. 
As well as selling advertising around our content, we are also 
increasingly able to develop valuable commercial partnerships with 
retailers, generating transaction royalties or producing interactive 
advertising for our partners. Meanwhile, the in-house skills which 
have powered our digital growth are now driving our customer 
publishing business, Future Plus. Its UK and US operations are 
increasingly based around providing pioneering multi-platform content, 
products and services. Customers range from Best Buy and Coats 
& Clark in the US to Tesco, O
2
, Canon and Page & Moy in the UK.
Current trading outlook
Given the recessionary trends in the broader economy and the 
pace of change in the publishing industry we remain cautious 
about overall prospects for print and digital content businesses. 
But we believe Future is well positioned to seize opportunities 
as they emerge, above all in the fast-changing digital markets.
The Board has supported steps taken by management to reduce 
headcount and overall cost levels in the UK, and subsequently 
in the US as well. The result will be an integrated, more efﬁ cient 
and more focused business. 
Trading in the ﬁ rst two months of F Y12 has been in line with our 
expectations.
Summary
The new management team has taken fast and decisive action 
to restructure the business, manage costs down and accelerate 
transition into digital growth areas.
::  UK + US – we are creating a uniﬁ ed business, delivering 
signiﬁ cant efﬁ ciencies and revenue opportunities.
::  Digital − we are creating a uniﬁ ed digital product line to leverage 
global audiences and exposure to online advertising.
::  Print – we are managing circulation declines where they occur 
proactively, efﬁ ciently and effectively.
::  Content – in our chosen markets we are leveraging our content 
to generate new and incremental revenue streams, including 
through our customer publishing operation, Future Plus.
Future has a dynamic culture which is enabling us to reinvent the 
company at speed. 
We have assembled a strong management team on both sides of the 
Atlantic. We are eager to exploit new technologies and apply Future’s 
creativity, design ﬂ air, intellectual property and commercial skills to 
growing entirely new digital opportunities. 
Importantly, we have a company which is full of talent and ambition to 
succeed. Despite a challenging year, our people have the energy, focus 
and commitment to help us build a bigger multi-platform business and 
make Future a global leader in the digital world. As the Chairman has 
said, we look forward to the year ahead with growing conﬁ dence.
I am conﬁ dent we have the skills, the content and the determination 
to make Future a global leader in the digital content world.
In the past year, Future has launched over 100 digital titles on the iPad 
and other tablets. T3, our mainstream gadget magazine, is one of 
the UK’s most successful iPad magazines, selling over 18,000 digital 
editions each month. And Future has developed its own app creation 
software, FutureFolio, which we are already licensing to other publishers.
We have developed our own in-house video production capability, 
making short-form video a core part of our Technology, Games, 
Cycling and Movie products. Video generates higher advertising rates 
and has become an essential component of interactive tablet editions. 
We have continued to demonstrate efﬁ cient management of our print 
portfolio, selling or closing a number of titles in the audio-visual 
and automotive areas, and launching three new magazines in the 
UK. One of them, Practical Photoshop, immediately became market 
leader in its sector. 
Another, Mollie Makes – a new craft and lifestyle magazine for 
women aged 18–35 – was one of Future’s most successful launches 
ever, with early editions sold out and trading on eBay at six times 
the cover price. Mollie Makes was designed and pre-launched 
via blogging on relevant specialist websites and has set a template 
for ways we can use blogs and social media – including Facebook 
– to plan and pre-publicise new digital and print products. 
Building our business around high-value audiences
The spread of broadband connections and proliferation of tablet 
devices are opening up entirely new digital markets for fast-moving 
content producers. For Future, this is a golden opportunity. Niche 
content businesses can ﬂ ourish in this environment. Suddenly we 
can deliver content to enthusiasts in places we could never reach 
when restricted by the need to print, ship and deliver physical 
magazines. Those audiences may be cyclists in the US, Linux 
programmers in Korea or rock music fans in Japan. 
Future’s previous silo structure meant we never realised the full 
potential of our high-value digital content outside the UK market. 
Yet we have clear evidence of how great that potential can be. Nearly 
a third of TechRadar’s monthly seven million unique visitors are 
already in the US. We now plan to roll out a US-customised version 
of TechRadar as a high priority so that we can monetise that interest.
Following that, we have immediate plans to expand our Games and 
Cycling digital businesses in the US and then look at Photography, 
Movies, Music and Digital Design. Our new business model enables 
us to utilise our high-quality US commercial and editorial teams 
to manage a succession of product roll-outs in the coming months. 
Apple Newsstand statistics reveal Total Film, Fast Car, T3 and many 
of our Games and Music titles all have large global audiences. Some 
of our specialist B2B products, such as those aimed at the animation 
and web design industries, have far bigger audiences in the US 
and Asia than in the UK. Overall, 75% of our sales through Apple 
Newsstand have come from outside the UK. These ﬁ gures point 
the way for our business growth.
We are an information and entertainment source in fast-growing 
markets. Future’s products typically reach afﬂ uent enthusiasts who 
become loyal members of the communities around our magazines or 
digital offerings. We also provide valuable news and trusted advice to 
people seeking information to guide decision-making, whether that 
is about which movie to go and see or what new smartphone to buy.
Future apps 
downloaded worldwide
in the ﬁ rst month of the Apple Newsstand
6m
sales from outside the UK
through the Apple Newsstand
75% Future plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Building 
 a borderless 
 business
Chief Executive’s review continued
Future reaches valuable audiences and keeps them engaged 
with high-quality expert content packaged with some of the 
best design skills in the media business. A world-class digital 
team enables Future to lead the way in delivering products 
quickly and efﬁ ciently to new platforms like the Apple 
Newsstand for iPads and iPhones. 
Future is a leading digital and print publisher in Cycling, 
Video Games, Technology, Music, Crafts, Cars and a wide 
range of specialist professional niches such as web design, 
animation, software development and digital music-making. 
Future is the number one UK magazine exporter and the 
number one UK magazine licensor – with brands licensed 
to 89 countries across the world. 
Future sells 2.9 million magazines 
each month. Our websites engage over 
34 million unique users every month, 
and our brands have over 1.3 million 
Facebook fans. Future plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
People who buy
What unites the loyal enthusiasts and the mainstream grazers 
is that both are more likely than average to make purchases or 
to inﬂ uence others who do. Visitors to TechRadar.com buy phones, 
cameras, laptops. Our cycling readers regularly upgrade their 
kit. And that goes for all our verticals, whether they cover games, 
guitars, auto tuning, genealogy, craft, stitching or knitting, a sector 
in which we have also launched two e-commerce platforms to 
sell patterns and also sell kit to enthusiasts. 
B2B professionals
We produce content for a number of highly specialist business 
sectors with brands like Linux Format and MacLife or design titles 
like .net and Computer Arts – the world’s best-selling magazine for 
digital artists and designers – and 3D World, the world’s most popular 
brand for professionals in the fast-growing animation industry.
The global opportunity
Whether consumer or business, our audiences are growing fast, 
thanks to the impact of new technologies like smartphones and 
tablet devices. Within a month of the launch of the Apple Newsstand 
magazine platform for iPad and iPhone in October 2011 more than 
six million Future magazine apps had been downloaded across 
60 brands and 75% of sales from this channel are coming from 
overseas. The US makes up almost 40% of sales while countries 
as diverse as France, Germany, China and Korea are buying our 
English-language product via tablets. As tablet availability rapidly 
expands, entirely new channels to global markets are opening up 
for our digital content – delivered in a truly borderless marketplace.
Our Audiences
Future produces high-quality content which engages, 
entertains and informs high-value audiences. And we 
do it on every platform – magazines, online, tablets 
and smartphones. 
Across our entire portfolio – Technology, Games, Music, 
Creative, Craft, Auto and Sport sectors – our readers 
are typically people who advertisers and retailers are 
keen to reach.
Loyal communities of enthusiasts
From Metal Hammer to Mollie Makes, our brands are beacons for 
consumers who have a hobby or passion and we reach them in print, 
online and on the move. Our products are hubs for the like-minded 
to share their passions; our editorial teams are themselves all experts 
in their ﬁ elds, sometimes gurus. They drive a loyalty which is the 
envy of many other content providers. That expertise may be in 
computer design, cycling, knitting or electronic music – in the entire 
portfolio we produce content for magazines, websites, tablets and 
smartphones which the target audience just cannot do without. 
And, thanks to the penetration of tablets and broadband, we are 
now reaching more of those audiences in different parts of the 
world. We are also developing more ways to offer them useful 
content and services and, simultaneously, expand the number 
of revenue streams we can develop.
Mainstream grazers
Alongside the loyalists, many of our brands deliver a vital service 
for more mainstream consumers, who are looking for a trusted 
source of information and advice. From the product reviews of 
the latest cameras, laptops and tablet devices on TechRadar.com, 
to movie reviews on the Total Film mobile site. Future plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Digital Acceleration
Technological development is redeﬁ ning how 
consumers want to engage with our brands. 
The multiplicity of content platforms allows us 
to provide our current audiences with a richer and 
deeper experience of our brands, as well as reaching 
new international audiences for our niche content.
::  Future is now recognised as a leader in the ﬁ eld of digital 
publishing and was named Consumer Publisher of the Year 
at the annual Association of Online Publishers Awards in 
the UK in 2011 – the ﬁ rst magazine publisher to win the award.
::  Our web and mobile sites deliver over 160 million page 
impressions every month to over 34 million unique users 
around the world. 
::  This year we have launched or upgraded more than 25 websites.
::  We deliver more than 100 digital editions on the rapidly growing 
iPad platform. T3, our lifestyle and gadget title, has been 
consistently the most popular lifestyle magazine on the iPad 
in the UK throughout 2011. We deliver simple magazine replicas 
and interactive digital editions for brands like T3 and Guitarist. 
We have also produced one-off premium iPad apps like 
Alice Cooper’s Welcome 2 My Nightmare CD/fan magazine 
and a repackaged video tutorial app for Photoshop users.
::  Future is harnessing the power of social media channels both 
as hubs for our communities and to market our products to 
new audiences. Across our portfolio, our Facebook pages now 
generate over 2.7 million monthly page impressions – with 
Metal Hammer alone clocking up over 285,000 friends globally. 
::  We utilise social networks, blogs and websites to develop both 
print and digital products. This is a revolutionary step in print 
launch management. For example, community editors on 
Mollie Makes, a lifestyle and craft title for women aged 18–35, 
developed the concept for the magazine via websites, blogs 
and Facebook. As a result Mollie Makes was one of our most 
successful launches ever. N-Photo, a magazine for Nikon camera 
users, evolved in the same way and had 40,000 Facebook 
followers before the ﬁ rst edition even hit the newsstands. 
::  Video is now integral to our products online and on tablets. 
We produce video channels for our Technology, Games, Cycling 
and Movie brands. Our video content is now generating almost 
4.2 million minutes of viewing every month.
::  E-commerce is an increasingly important revenue opportunity. 
Our afﬁ liate revenues increased by 70% in the past year and 
we launched two new e-commerce platforms in the craft sector: 
www.weheartcraft.co.uk and www.themakingspot.com. Future plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Partnership
Future works with a wide range of leading international 
partners. It has a unique position in the Video Games 
sector, is a leading customer publisher and licenses 
its content to 69 media businesses internationally.
::  Future has always had strong publishing partnerships, above 
all in the Games market, where we are ofﬁ cial partners to 
Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo in print, online and on console. 
We have also developed a major customer publishing business 
in the UK and US – Future Plus.
  This year Future extended our long and successful relationship 
with Sony with the introduction of Access TV – a new weekly 
HD video show available on console; and with a new website, 
ofﬁ cialplaystationmagazine.co.uk.
::  Our Future Plus customer publishing business produces 
magazines, websites and tablet apps for a number of major 
US and UK clients, including Best Buy, Coats & Clark, Page 
& Moy, Canon, ODEON, O
2
 and Tesco. Increasingly, Future 
is seen as a provider of multi-platform solutions, able to 
deliver content on paper, on tablet, online and on smartphones.
::  Future’s International Licensing and Syndication business 
is built on strong international partnerships. Future is the 
UK’s leading licensor, and we have agreements in place for 
reproduction of Future content with 69 media businesses, 
selling licensed editions in 89 markets. T3 alone has 21 
international print editions. Future this year began producing 
German-language news for Stern.de, a leading German website 
– and will expand its German production in the year ahead.
Operating review Future plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
2009 2010 201 1
10.1 10.1
6.6
2009 2010 201 1
6.6
6.7
4.7
EBITAE (£m) EBITAE margin (%)
Financial review
20 1 1 was a challenging year for the Group, 
but we are taking swift action to restructure 
the business to enable us to operate more 
effi ciently going forward.
Introduction
This ﬁ nancial review is based on a comparison of the Group’s 
results for the year ended 30 September 2011 with those for the year 
ended 30 September 2010. In running the business operationally 
management use a number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
which are set out in some detail opposite. One of the most important 
of those indicators is earnings before interest, tax, impairment, 
amortisation and exceptional items which is referred to as EBITAE.
An overview of the ﬁ nancial results for the year is set out below:
Year ended 30 September
2011
£m
2010
£m
Revenue 141.7 151.5
EBITAE 6.6 10.1
Exceptional items (4.8) –
Impairment of intangible assets (17.1) –
Amortisation of intangible assets (1.2) (2.7)
Operating (loss)/proﬁ t (16.5) 7.4
Net ﬁ nance costs (1.5) (1.8)
(Loss)/proﬁ t before taxation (18.0) 5.6
Taxation (1.3) (0.1)
(Loss)/proﬁ t after taxation (19.3) 5.5
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (p) (5.9) 1.7
Adjusted earnings per share (p) 0.7 2.4
Dividends relating to the year (p) 0.5 1.1
Key Performance Indicators
The table below shows the KPIs for 2011 and 2010. These have 
recently been reviewed by the Board following the changes in the 
management team and after considering the implications of the 
Companies Act 2006 and other regulations and guidance in this area.
Note
 For each of our websites we know the number of page impressions and the number 
of unique visitors to that website. We do not know how many unique visitors visit 
more than one of our websites. The number presented here is the simple total of 
each website’s number of unique visitors at the end of the ﬁ nancial year.
2011 2010
Corporate KPIs
EBITAE £6.6m £10.1m
Year-on-year movement in EBITAE -35% 0%
Digital KPIs
Number of Unique Users logging onto 
our websites
30m 
(see note)
23m 
(see note)
Year-on-year movement in digital revenues +31% +16%
Number of digital magazines sold per month 
(thousands)
35 2
Digital subscriber base (thousands) 50 4
Print KPIs
Number of magazines sold per month 2.9m 3.4m
Print subscriber base (thousands) 1,126 1,319
Copies sold as a percentage of copies printed 
(including subscriptions)
55% 59%
Year-on-year movement in print 
advertising revenues
-16% -9%
Graham Harding, Group Finance Director Future plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Revenues
Total revenues were down £9.8m or 6% (£8.9m or 6% in constant currency) to £141.7m in the year.
The charts below analyse Group revenues:
1
2
Revenue by country
1. UK 73%
2. US 27%
1
2
3
4
Revenue by type
1. Circulation 57%
2. Advertising 30%
3. Customer Publishing 9%
4. Licensing, events and other 4%
1
2
3
Revenue by media
1. Digital 11%
2. Print 80%
3. Customer Publishing 9%
1
2
3
4
Revenue by sector
1. Games 27%
2. Music and Movies 23%
3. Technology 27%
4. Active 23%
The tables below analyse Group revenues in sterling:
By country
% of
Group
2011
£m
2010
£m
Change
%
UK 73% 103.4 105.9 -2%
US 27% 38.8 46.2 -16%
Intra-group –(0.5) (0.6)
Group revenue 100% 141.7 151.5 -6%
By type
% of
Group
2011
£m
2010
£m
Change
%
Circulation 57% 80.7 88.7 -9%
Advertising 30% 43.4 45.4 -4%
Customer publishing 9% 12.1 11.6 +4%
Licensing, events & other 4% 5.5 5.8 -5%
Group revenue 100% 141.7 151.5 -6%
By media
% of
Group
2011
£m
2010
£m
Change
%
Digital 11% 16.2 12.4 +31%
Print 80% 113.4 127.5 -11%
Customer publishing 9% 12.1 11.6 +4%
Group revenue 100% 141.7 151.5 -6%
Proportion of Group 2011 UK US Group
Games 14% 13% 27%
Music & Movies 17% 6% 23%
Technology 21% 6% 27%
Active 21% 2% 23%
Total 73% 27% 100%
EBITAE
The reduction in revenues, which was largely driven by the US 
performance, gave rise to a corresponding reduction in EBITAE 
which was down £3.5m or 35% to £6.6m. A breakdown of EBITAE 
by territory is shown below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Change
%
UK 12.5 12.9 -3%
US (3.5) 0.2  Loss from proﬁ t
Central costs (2.4) (3.0) +20%
Total EBITAE 6.6 10.1 -35%
Further analysis of the key drivers behind the reduced level 
of EBITAE is provided in the table opposite which analyses the 
year-on-year variance across digital activities, print activities, 
customer publishing activities and overheads.
This table illustrates the impact of the transitional effect from 
print to digital and the success that the UK business has had 
to date in managing that transition. 
£m UK US Central Group
Digital +2.1 +0.8 – +2.9
Print -2.6 -4.7 – -7.3
Customer publishing – +0.1 – +0.1
Overheads +0.1+0.1+0.6+0.8
Change in EBITAE -0.4 -3.7 +0.6 -3.5
The restructuring actions taken in the UK towards the end of the 
ﬁ nancial year should ensure that the business continues to be able 
to manage that transition. For the US the transition has been much 
more pronounced and therefore more difﬁ cult to manage, resulting 
in some of the restructuring actions undertaken in the year and the 
further actions planned in the current year. Future plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review continued
Exceptional items
The exceptional items incurred in the year relate mainly to 
the restructuring actions in the UK and the US and amount to 
£4.8m in total, split between restructuring/redundancy costs 
and vacant property provisions, as set out in the table below:
Provision for 
unoccupied 
property
£m
Restructuring 
/redundancy 
costs
£m
Other
costs
£m
Total
£m
UK 1.5 1.9 0.1 3.5
US – 0.4 – 0.4
Central – 0.1 0.8 0.9
Total 1.5 2.4 0.9 4.8
In the UK, this has been focused on repositioning resources in the 
business to enable it to pursue digital opportunities more quickly 
and efﬁ ciently and this restructuring is substantially complete.
In the US, as noted above, the different print business model with 
its greater reliance on advertising has been more signiﬁ cantly 
impacted by the challenging economic and operating environment. 
Whilst some restructuring actions were taken in the year 
ended 30 September 2011, the new management team are working 
to restructure the operations further in the new ﬁ nancial year.
This ongoing restructuring plan combined with the departure 
of the former Chief Executive and Group Finance Director will 
give rise to further exceptional cash costs, which are estimated 
in the region of £1.9m, in the year ending 30 September 2012.
Other costs in the year ended 30 September 2011 relate to ongoing 
commercial dispute resolution.
Impairment of intangible assets
As a result of the performance in the year of the US business, 
the Group has taken an impairment charge of £17.1m in the year 
against the carrying value of the intangible assets relating to the 
US business. This is a non-cash charge which restates the carrying 
value to a level which is representative of the current estimated 
fair value of that business based on current trading levels.
100
digital products on 
Apple iPad Future plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Future’s UK business (comprising 73% of Group revenue) remained 
resilient. Following a decline in ﬁ rst-half revenues of 3%, revenues 
in the second half declined by only 2% so that revenue for the year 
was down 2% compared with 2010.
EBITAE for the year was £12.5m, representing a margin of 12.1% 
of revenue. This is a similar operating margin as in 2010 (12.2%).
This performance is encouraging in a media sector that continues 
to experience very signiﬁ cant advertising and newsstand challenges 
and reﬂ ects the underlying strength of our special-interest business, 
our continuing focus on operating performance in each sector and 
our ability to mitigate revenue disappointments swiftly.
Circulation revenue fell by 3% and within this, subscription revenue 
remained ﬂ at. Domestic newsstand revenue declined 6% and export 
revenue was ﬂ at.
Advertising revenue grew by 1% for the year, largely due to the growth 
in digital advertising exceeding the decline in print advertising.
Group performance for year ended 30 September
2011
Revenue
£m
2011
Contribution
£m
2011
Margin
%
2011
% of
revenue
2010
Revenue
£m
2010
Contribution
£m
2010
Margin
%
Games 39.2 7.7 20% 27% 43.0 9.0 21%
Music & Movies 32.4 5.7 18% 23% 34.9 7.9 23%
Technology 37.8 9.0 24% 27% 41.5 10.9 26%
Active 32.8 8.2 25% 23% 32.7 7.1 22%
142.2 30.6 22% 100% 152.1 34.9 23%
Less: intra-group (0.5) – (0.6) –
141.7 30.6 151.5 34.9
Overheads (24.0) (24.8)
EBITAE 6.6 4.7% 10.1 6.7%
Exceptional items (4.8) –
Impairment (17.1) –
Amortisation (1.2) (2.7)
Operating (loss)/proﬁ t (16.5) 7.4
UK performance for year ended 30 September
2011
£m
2010
£m
Change
%
Circulation revenue 64.6 66.5 -3%
Advertising revenue 28.1 27.9 +1%
Customer publishing 5.9 6.7 -12%
Licensing, events & other 4.8 4.8 0%
Total revenue 103.4 105.9 -2%
EBITAE 12.5 12.9 -3%
EBITAE margin 12.1% 12.2% Future plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review continued
The strongest year-on-year 
performance in the UK 
came from Active, driven by 
websites cyclingnews.com and 
bikeradar.com and growth in 
print titles led by Cycling Plus.
The following table shows the UK performance by sector:
2011
Revenue
£m
2011
Contribution
£m
2011
Margin
%
2011
% of
revenue
2010
Revenue
£m
2010
Contribution
£m
2010
Margin
%
Games 19.9 5.1 26% 19% 21.5 5.9 27%
Music & Movies 24.0 5.7 24% 23% 24.5 6.3 26%
Technology 29.8 8.9 30% 29% 31.0 9.0 29%
Active 29.7 8.3 28% 29% 28.9 7.3 25%
103.4 28.0 27% 100% 105.9 28.5 27%
Overheads (15.5) (15.6)
EBITAE 12.5 12.1% 12.9 12.2%
Exceptional items (3.5) –
Amortisation (0.4) (1.3)
Operating proﬁ t 8.6 11.6
US performance for year ended 30 September
2011
$m
2010
$m
Change
%
Circulation revenue 25.8 34.6 -25%
Advertising revenue 24.8 27.3 -9%
Customer publishing 9.9 7.6 +30%
Licensing, events & other 1.9 2.5 -24%
Total revenue 62.4 72.0 -13%
EBITAE (5.6) 0.3 Loss from proﬁ t
EBITAE margin (9.0)% 0.4%
US revenue fell 13% in dollar terms, reﬂ ecting the closure of our Pregnancy group, a 12% further decline in print advertising, and a 31% 
reduction in sales at newsstand.
Total advertising revenue fell by 9%, as the growth in digital advertising of 21% was less than the reduction in print advertising.
Customer publishing recorded strong revenue growth through contracts with Best Buy and Coats & Clark. Future plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
The following table shows the US performance by sector.
2011
Revenue
$m
2011
Contribution
$m
2011
Margin
%
2011
% of
revenue
2010
Revenue
$m
2010
Contribution
$m
2010
Margin
%
Games 31.1 4.1 13% 50% 33.5 4.9 15%
Music & Movies 13.4–– 21% 16.2 2.5 15%
Technology 12.9 0.1 1% 21% 16.3 3.0 18%
Active 5.0 (0.1) (2)% 8% 6.0 (0.3) (5)%
62.4 4.1 7% 100% 72.0 10.1 14%
Overheads (9.7) (9.8)
EBITAE (5.6) (9.0)% 0.3 0.4%
Exceptional items (0.6) –
Impairment (26.7) –
Amortisation (1.2) (2.1)
Operating loss (34.1) (1.8)
Taxation
The Group continues to focus on compliance with all tax authorities 
in the territories in which it operates.
The taxation charge for the year amounted to £1.3m (2010: £0.1m), 
comprising a current taxation charge of £1.6m (2010: £1.0m credit) 
and a deferred taxation credit of £0.3m (2010: £1.1m charge). 
The 2011 charge arises in the UK where the standard rate of 
corporation tax is 27%. In the US the impact of current year 
and brought forward tax losses means that there is no material 
taxation charge relating to the US. Overall the effective rate for 
the Group when applied to the loss before taxation was -7%.
Earnings per share
Basic EPS for the Group were a loss of 5.9p (2010: earnings of 1.7p) 
whilst adjusted EPS were 0.7p (2010: 2.4p). The adjusted calculations 
are based on the (loss)/proﬁ t after taxation which is then adjusted 
to exclude exceptional items, impairment and amortisation of 
intangibles, and related tax effects. The adjusted proﬁ t after tax 
amounted to £2.2m (2010: £7.9m) and the weighted average number 
of shares in issue was 327.5m (2010: 327.3m). Full details are set 
out in note 10 on page 56.
Dividend
In light of the results for the year and the ongoing restructuring 
actions referred to in this report, the Board does not recommend 
the payment of a ﬁ nal dividend for the year ended 30 September 
2011. This means that the dividend for the year is 0.5p, being the 
interim dividend which was paid on 3 October 2011.
Whilst the Board recognises that, based on the full-year adjusted 
EPS, the interim dividend at 0.5 pence per share paid on 3 October 
2011 does not comply with its policy on dividend cover, it retains that 
policy for future dividends, namely that any such dividend should be 
covered at least two times by adjusted EPS.
Cash ﬂ ow and net debt
Net debt at 30 September 2011 was £11.8m (2010: £7.4m) of which 
77% was denominated in US dollars.
Cash generated from operations during the year ended 30 
September 2011 amounted to £3.8m, a sharp fall from the £12.0m 
generated in the previous year driven by the weaker trading of the 
Group during the year. The other main cash inﬂ ow during the period 
related to taxation and amounted to £1.3m (2010: £1.2m). We expect 
to recommence tax payments during the current year.
Cash outﬂ ows exceeded the inﬂ ows in the year with the main 
outﬂ ows being in respect of:
::  Dividends paid in respect of FY10 of £3.6m (2010: £1.6m);
::  Capital expenditure of £3.6m (2010: £1.8m) of which £1.2m related 
to tangible ﬁ xed assets and £2.4m related to intangible ﬁ xed 
assets, the largest element of which was website development; and
::  Net interest payments of £1.2m (2010: £1.4m).
As noted in the Chairman’s report, the net debt position will increase 
further in the ﬁ rst half of the current year due to the payment of the 
interim dividend on 3 October 2011 and cash outﬂ ows relating to the 
restructuring costs. We have therefore put in place an extension to 
our banking facility to 30 November 2013 and renegotiated covenants 
and other terms for the next 12 months. Further details of the 
extension are set out in note 19 on page 63.
Net ﬁ nance costs
Net ﬁ nance costs amounted to £1.5m (2010: £1.8m). The reduction 
in costs reﬂ ected the greater balance of net debt denominated in 
US dollars during the year. Future plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Credit facility
During the year to 30 September 2011 bank debt was provided under 
the terms of the banking facility signed in May 2009 and due to 
mature in November 2012. Arrangement and other fees related to 
this facility totalled £1.0m and these are being amortised over the 
term of the facility. Interest payable is calculated as the cost of 
three-month LIBOR (currently approximately 0.7%) plus an interest 
margin of between 2.5% and 3.25%, dependent on covenant ratio.
Based on the calculation of 2011 EBITDA for bank purposes, 
the Group had headroom of £4.1m over and above the level of 
bank debt at 30 September 2011. 
As noted above, on 21 November 2011 we agreed an extension of 
the current banking facility for 12 months to 30 November 2013. 
This extension provides the Group with ﬂ exibility in the short term 
to carry out the restructuring plans as set out in the Chief Executive’s 
review. Fees relating to the extension amounted to £0.4m and these 
will be amortised over the remaining term of the facility.
Interest payable under the new banking facility is calculated as the 
cost of three-month LIBOR (as noted above) plus an interest margin 
of between 2.5% and 3.75%, dependent on covenant ratios, as set out 
in note 19 on page 63.
The Board is conﬁ dent that it has sufﬁ cient headroom and ﬂ exibility 
under these revised covenants to execute its plans as set out in 
this report.
Risk and uncertainties
Like all businesses, our business faces risks and uncertainties 
that could impact on the Group’s achievement of its objectives. 
Risk is accepted as being a part of doing business. We operate 
a continuous process of identifying, evaluating and managing risk. 
There are a number of general business risks to which Future 
is naturally exposed in the UK and US and the range of risks faced 
by Future has increased since last year, due to the weakness of 
the economy in general, the nature of the business model in the 
US and the increasingly digital media landscape and its evolving 
business models. 
Our internal controls seek to minimise the impact of risks, 
as explained in our Corporate Governance report on page 29 
and during the year we have continued to develop our responses 
and business to reﬂ ect those changes.
Financial review continued
Identifying 
the risks
Analysing risks and 
controls to manage 
those risks
Determining 
management 
actions required
Reporting and 
monitoring
Future’s assessment 
of strategic, operational 
and project risks
 1
 2
 4 3 Future plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Risks Description Mitigation
Economic 
environment
The macro-economic environment in 2009–11 has been the worst in 
Future’s history. In both the UK and the US, the outlook for economic 
growth is very limited and general trading conditions remain tough. 
The economic environment, as well as the general move to digital 
products, has resulted in printed magazine sales and print related 
advertising revenues falling. 
The Company has proved more resilient than many of its competitors due 
to the nature of its special-interest content, although more so in the UK 
where it has greater scale than in the US. It continues to innovate, making 
available its special-interest content to consumers in new digital media. 
Whilst revenues per download are less than that of a printed version, 
reach is greater and the cost of production is less. Advertisers know 
that consumers want relevant adverts and a niche focus assists this.
Innovation Future is producing products which are at the cutting edge of technology 
and it is having to invest in and develop new business models to allow it 
to do so.
Future has shifted its focus to the emerging digital world and is resourcing 
accordingly. Future is now well placed to exploit this new marketplace. 
Future faces retailer risks as it develops websites through which 
consumers can buy products directly.
Future seeks to minimise stock and product liability risk through 
partnerships, and trains its staff on relevant risks.
Intellectual 
property
In an increasingly digital world, protection of our intellectual property 
against piracy is key. 
Future leads industry initiatives in relation to piracy and is actively involved 
in efforts to combat piracy at a national and European level. Future is using 
a copyright infringement portal which automates ﬁ nding illegal copies – in 
September 2011, 80% of illegal copies found were successfully removed. 
Future uses, and grants licences to use, various types of third-party 
content including music, audiovisual material, images and text. 
As publisher, Future is responsible for any intellectual property or other 
infringement relating to the same and as licensor, Future is responsible 
to its licensees.
Future produces guidance and in-house training to educate its staff on 
the importance of obtaining appropriate rights or licences. Future’s legal 
team reviews all signiﬁ cant licences relating to third-party content and 
seeks warranties and indemnities relating to the same. Future licences 
content to third parties based on standard contracts which seek to limit 
Future’s liability.
The Group produces ‘ofﬁ cial’ magazines, which are published under 
licence from Microsoft, Sony, Nintendo and L ’Equipe, and a number 
of contract published titles. Loss of any of these contracts would result 
in a loss of revenue.
The majority of the Group’s revenues and proﬁ ts are derived from the 
Group’s own intellectual property. Future is not excessively reliant upon 
any one licensor of content.
Staff There is a risk that key staff will move elsewhere due to the Group’s 
limited ability to increase pay in the current environment and the 
Group’s strong reputation in digital media makes its staff potentially 
attractive to competitors.
Future employs people who are passionate about their subject and Future 
invests in the training of those people. In addition, steps are taken to 
ensure that the Group is not excessively reliant upon any one employee.
Business 
interruption
As a result of the economic climate and reduced print volumes generally 
the cost of printing and raw materials including paper, ink and CD/DVD 
discs will potentially continue to increase.
Future is reducing its exposure to price increases by constantly reviewing 
pagination and paper requirements. It continues to develop its business 
innovatively and the growth in digital circulation revenues are now 
compensating for some of the decline in print circulation revenues.
Financial, 
treasury and 
forecasting
Forecasting remains difﬁ cult in all consumer markets but this is 
particularly the case in relation to innovative products. The long lag 
time for reporting on sales of printed copies in the US continued to 
be a challenge in the year.
Future’s forecasting in respect of innovative products will become easier 
as those products develop a more consistent customer base and stable 
business models. 
Bad debt continues to be a risk due to the economic climate and the 
move to digital.
Future continues to manage its bad debt and is not excessively reliant 
on any one advertiser, licensee or other partner.
The Group is exposed to interest and foreign exchange risk. The Group manages interest and foreign exchange risk by hedging 
arrangements (see note 23 to the ﬁ nancial statements for more detail).
Compliance with bank covenants. We constantly monitor cashﬂ ows and proﬁ tability in the context of the bank 
covenants and recently extended our facility to provide greater ﬂ exibility 
(see note 19 on page 63).
IT systems and 
integration
In the event of a total network failure there would be a major impact 
on the production of magazines and operation of websites.
Future’s network has diverse routes for all key ofﬁ ces. In addition, 
all core switches are duplicated in different buildings so there are 
no single points of failure.
In the event of all servers failing or loss of server rooms, there would 
be a major impact on the production of magazines and maintenance 
of websites.
Servers are distributed across several controlled server rooms in 
different buildings. Future can switch services from one server to 
another within a few hours. In addition, all mission-critical services, 
have more than one server so there is no single point of failure.
In the event of a total data loss there would be a major impact 
on the production of magazines and maintenance of websites.
All business-critical data is stored and fully duplicated on two highly 
resilient storage devices held in different locations. Either location 
can be lost without losing any of the data.
Property Future’s need for property in both the UK and the US has reduced. Future is taking steps to sublet all vacant property and, where possible, 
make available more vacant space to sublet. The letting market in 
San Francisco is more buoyant, and London ofﬁ ce space has recently 
been successfully sublet.
Regulation Future’s business is subject to a signiﬁ cant amount of legislation, including 
that relating to publishing. In the next ﬁ nancial year, changes to laws 
including those relating to cookies, consumer rights, data protection 
and the online environment are being imposed or suggested and these 
changes will require investment to ensure Future’s compliance.
Future continues to monitor changes to relevant legislation. In respect 
of any new legislation brought into effect, Future drafts policies and 
procedures to ensure awareness and to encourage compliance.
Risk management Future plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate responsibility is integral to the 
way Future conducts its business. We focus 
our efforts around four key areas where 
we think we can make a difference.
Corporate responsibility
The environment
A responsible approach to the environment is essential to ensure 
the future sustainability of our business.
Our Head of Production and Procurement plays an active role on the 
PPA (Professional Publishers’ Association) Environment Committee.
Our environmental policy can be found on our website, www.futureplc.com.
Sourcing paper
Paper is the largest raw material we use as a Group. We work 
hard to make sure that whatever we consume, we do in a way that 
is ethically responsible and environmentally sustainable. In 2011, 
100% of our paper across the Group was sourced from either 
recycled ﬁ bre or sustainable forests where at least one tree is 
planted for every tree felled. Future UK holds the FSC (Forestry 
Stewardship Council) Chain of Custody certiﬁ cation. This recognises 
Future’s commitment to sourcing paper supplies from sustainable 
forests. In 2011, 75% of the paper we used in the UK was FSC 
certiﬁ ed. We actively encourage our suppliers to work towards 
FSC certiﬁ cation or one of the other internationally recognised 
and independently audited certiﬁ cation schemes for environmental 
care in forest management and conservation.
Recycling and waste
The Group is economically strongly incentivised to minimise unsold 
magazines and we employ sophisticated techniques to help achieve 
this. In the UK more than 90% of Future’s unsold magazines are 
recycled. We also support the PPA’s initiative encouraging readers 
to recycle their magazines after use and we incorporate the WRAP 
recycle logo in all our magazines. We comply with our obligations 
under the Producer Responsibility Obligations (Packaging Waste) 
Regulations. The disposal of waste materials is also included in 
our print supplier audit.
Plastic packaging
We have phased out plastic packaging of discs. In 2011, 70% 
of our retail bagging and all of our UK subscription bagging used 
oxi-biodegradable plastic ﬁ lm.
Go Green
Future runs an internal initiative aimed at improving awareness 
of recycling and energy saving in its UK ofﬁ ces. Driven by Future 
employees, the campaign encourages employees to use less 
and recycle more by providing information and recycling facilities. 
Every year, Go Green runs a Go Green Week to raise awareness of 
these initiatives and has a year-round campaign on the Company’s 
intranet site. In the UK all of our ofﬁ ce copier paper is FSC certiﬁ ed.
Supplier audits
We undertake environmental and ethical audits on our main 
suppliers. We also consider environmental aspects such as the 
processing and disposal of efﬂ uents, emissions and waste materials.
The environment
Our people
The community
Corporate practice
Graham Harding, Group Finance Director, is the Director 
accountable for Corporate Responsibility (CR) and, with the rest of 
the Board, regularly assesses the business to ensure responsible 
actions throughout, and to identify and assess any risks to the 
Company’s short-term and long-term value arising from CR matters.
Future in the UK 
holds FSC Chain of 
Custody certiﬁ cation. 
This recognises 
Future’s commitment 
to sourcing paper 
supplies from well 
managed forestry.
We are members of the 
Periodical Publishers’ 
Association (PPA) and support 
its initiative encouraging readers 
to recycle their magazines after 
use. We incorporate the recycle 
logo in all our UK magazines.
Future’s employee initiative, 
Go Green, encourages staff 
to engage in environmentally 
sustainable practices.
On Future’s behalf, Quartet funds local projects such as Iford Arts. 
The project enables disadvantaged children from local schools to 
participate in drama and arts activities.
We have continued 
our partnership with 
Bath-based charitable 
foundation, Quartet. Future plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
The community
We actively support the communities in which we operate through 
charitable donations and by encouraging our people to get involved 
in community initiatives.
Giving something back
A key tenet of our charitable donation policy is to empower our 
employees to support charities of their choice. For this reason, 
we run a matched contribution scheme. Employees raise money 
for their chosen charity and Future matches this amount, subject 
to a reasonable limit and to qualiﬁ cation under the rules of the 
scheme. During the year £13,000 was paid under the charitable 
match scheme (2010: £16,000).
As well as the charity matching scheme, Future makes local charitable 
donations in the cities where we have ofﬁ ces. The total amount of 
charitable donations made by the Group in the year was £37,000 
(2010: £39,000). In the UK, we continued our partnership with 
Bath-based charitable foundation, Quartet, who make donations 
to local charities on our behalf. In 2011, this amounted to £9,000. 
A donation of £2,017, proﬁ t from a competition organised by 
The Knitter, was made to MENCAP. At our US headquarters in 
South San Francisco, other charities supported include Slide Ranch, 
First Graduate, Belmont-Redwood Shores Public School Foundation, 
Joy Prom and AIDS Walk San Francisco. A donation of $10,000 was 
made to 2 Nite to Unite and $5,900 to Best Buy Classic.
Future in the wider community
Future people are actively involved with a number of national 
organisations including the Periodical Publishers’ Association, 
European Magazine Media Association, Association of Online 
Publishers, NABS, European & Leisure Software Publishers 
Association, the IPA, the Marketing Society and the International 
Federation of the Periodical Press. We are also represented on 
The Bath Initiative, a public:private collaboration.
Corporate practice
Supplier payments
The Group does not follow an external code on payment practice, 
but it is our policy to settle the terms of payment with suppliers when 
agreeing the terms of each transaction; to ensure that suppliers are 
made aware of the terms of payment; and to pay all suppliers when 
their invoices become contractually due for payment. The Company 
had no trade creditors at 30 September 2011 (2010: nil).
Ethics and human rights
Future supports the standards set out in the UN Global Compact 
on the Responsibilities of Business, and endorses the principle that 
no underage, forced, or prison labour should be employed; that no 
one is denied a job because of gender, age, sexual orientation, ethnic 
origin, religion, afﬁ liation or association and that factories comply 
with laws protecting the environment. Our supplier audits include 
an ethical questionnaire. We work co-operatively with licensees 
and we do not participate in or support exploitative labour or other 
arrangements in any country.
Political contributions
In line with our company policy, we do not make contributions to any 
political cause.
More information
Our website www.futureplc.com includes information on our CR 
policies and practices.
Our people
Future’s employees are our most important assets; they are the 
driving force behind our success as a business.
Data across the Group 2011 2010
Code of conduct circulated to all existing and 
new employees 
Yes Yes
Female employees as a percentage of workforce 34% 35%
Female managers as a percentage of management 29% 30%
Employment of young people under the age of 15 None None
Consultation and communication procedures 
in place for all areas of the business
Yes Yes
Earnings meet at least legal minimum or minimum 
set by the industry
Yes Yes
Cases of reported and proven discrimination 
or harassment
None None
Developing our people
In 2011 we ran skills training for our publishing teams, advertising 
and central support departments. In-house training sessions 
provide training for editors on commissioning, libel, defamation 
and copyright, as well as new software applications. We also provide 
ongoing online training, covering the key disciplines of online content 
development. 
Training needs are identiﬁ ed as part of each employee’s annual 
performance appraisal. However in 2011, due to the restructuring 
activities undertaken, the appraisal process was postponed for 
six months and will now fall in 2012.
Health and safety
The health and safety of all employees is a key priority for 
the Group. Future is largely an ofﬁ ce-based environment. 
All companies across the Group comply with relevant legislation 
and we communicate our health and safety policy to all employees. 
During the year to 30 September 2011, there were no fatalities; 
no serious injuries; nine minor injuries in the UK and none in the US.
Policy on disability
The Company aims to ensure that when considering recruitment, 
training, career development, promotion or any other aspect of 
employment, no employee or job applicant is discriminated against, 
either directly or indirectly, on the grounds of disability. If an 
employee became disabled while in employment and as a result was 
unable to perform their duties, we would make every effort to offer 
suitable alternative employment and assistance with retraining.
Internal communication
Future has policies on employee communication; acceptable use of 
IT; health and safety; whistle-blowing and a commitment to diversity 
and opportunity. Our employees have access to free, conﬁ dential, 
employee well-being helplines.
In addition, we hold meetings for all employees at least annually, 
and extended leadership team meetings where we discuss the 
ﬁ nancial performance of the Company and the Group. Future UK 
also has an Employee Involvement Group, which allows employees 
to contribute to strategic level decision-making. Future’s lively 
culture is echoed in our company intranets and via our printed 
monthly internal magazine which updates employees on industry 
and business news and celebrates team successes. Future plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Board of Directors Future plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Peter Allen   
Independent non-executive Chairman
Peter joined Future as independent 
non-executive Chairman in August 2011. 
He has experience as Chairman, CEO and 
CFO. Peter is currently chairman of Proximagen 
Neuroscience plc, Chroma Therapeutics 
Limited and ProStrakan plc and a non-executive 
Director of Oxford Nanopore Technologies 
Limited and TMO Renewables Limited. He held 
executive positions with a number of companies 
prior to their sale, including Celltech Group plc, 
Abacus Group plc and ProStrakan Group plc.
Mark Wood
Chief Executive
Mark was named Chief Executive of Future plc 
in October 2011. He joined Future in April 2009 
as an independent non-executive Director and 
was appointed as Chief Executive of Future UK 
in September 2010. Since then, Mark has been 
accelerating the growth of Future’s digital 
business and in June 2011 Future won 
Consumer Digital Publisher of the Year and 
Grand Prix prizes at the annual Association 
of Online Publishers Awards. Prior to joining 
Future, Mark was Chief Executive of ITN, the 
television news organisation. At ITN he created 
and developed a range of digital ventures, 
including a world-leading moving image 
business. Prior to ITN, Mark was Editor-in-Chief 
and Head of Media at Reuters, the global news 
organisation. He started out his career as a 
foreign correspondent for Reuters and was 
based in Berlin, Bonn, Moscow and Vienna.
Graham Harding
Group Finance Director
Graham has worked at Future for 11 years, 
initially as Group Financial Controller, before 
becoming the UK Finance Director in 2004. 
During his time at Future he has worked on 
numerous acquisitions and disposals in the 
UK, Australia, Europe and the US as well 
as debt and equity fund raisings. In addition, 
he has taken a leading role in rolling out 
new system developments in the UK and the 
US. After obtaining a Classics degree from 
Durham University he trained with Price 
Waterhouse in Bristol and Johannesburg, 
South Africa before leaving to join Bath Press 
Group plc as Group Financial Controller. 
He gained an MBA from Bath University in 1999.
Manjit Wolstenholme   
Senior independent non-executive 
Manjit joined Future as senior independent 
non-executive Director in February 2011. 
She is a non-executive Director of Provident 
Capital and Regional plc, Provident Financial 
plc and Albany Investment Trust plc. After 
qualifying with Price Waterhouse, Manjit spent 
13 years with Dresdner Kleinwort, latterly as 
co-head of investment banking specialising in 
the media sector. She was a partner at Gleacher 
Shacklock from 2004 to 2006. She is also a 
non-executive Governor of Manchester 
Academic Health Science Centre.
Seb Bishop  
Independent non-executive
Seb joined Future as an independent 
non-executive Director in June 2007 and has 
been a member of the Remuneration committee 
from November 2008. A digital investor and 
entrepreneur, he is currently CEO of Goop. 
From 2008 to 2011 he was CEO of (RED) 
International. He was a founder of Espotting, 
which he sold to MIVA in 2004, and served as 
President until 2007. Seb is Chairman of Steak 
digital agency and a Director of AdJug.
Mark Whiteling   
Independent non-executive
Mark joined Future as an independent 
non-executive Director in October 2010. 
Mark has a Master of Commerce degree and 
qualiﬁ cations as both a New Zealand ACA and 
an American CPA. He is Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer 
of Autobar, the privately-owned international 
vending group. His experience includes time as 
Chief Financial Ofﬁ cer of FTSE 250 companies 
Premier Farnell plc and Tibbett & Britten plc; 
the role of Group Finance Director of 
Communisis plc; as well as roles at SmithKline 
Beecham in both the USA and Europe. 
Mark Millar
Company Secretary and General Counsel
Mark has been Company Secretary and General 
Counsel since September 2002, covering all 
aspects of media law, including driving industry 
anti-piracy initiatives. He joined from Allen 
& Overy following more than a decade’s 
experience of City legal work, including a wide 
range of UK and international commercial and 
corporate ﬁ nance experience. He also acts 
as secretary to all the Board committees. 
He chairs the PPA’s Government and Regulatory 
Committee, EMMA’s copyright Taskforce, is 
chairman of the Publishers Licensing Society 
and serves as an industry representative on 
the board of the Copyright Licensing Agency.
Member of the Nomination 
committee
Member of the Remuneration 
committee
Member of the Audit 
committee
As at 15 December 2011 Future plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ report
For the year ended 30 September 2011
The information presented in this Directors’ report relates to Future 
plc and its subsidiaries. The Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s 
review, Financial review and Corporate Responsibility statement 
are each incorporated by reference into, and form part of, this 
Directors’ report.
Principal activity
The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries 
(the ‘Group’) as a whole is the publishing of special-interest 
consumer magazines, apps and websites, notably in the areas 
of Games, Music & Movies, Technology and Active sectors.
The Company has subsidiaries operating in the UK, the US 
and Australia.
Business review 
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to 
the shareholders of the Company.
Reviews of the Group’s activities during the year, the position at the 
year-end and developments since then are set out in the Chairman’s 
statement, Chief Executive’s review, the Corporate Governance 
report and the Financial review.
The Financial review explains ﬁ nancial performance, KPIs, the 
position at the year-end, any post balance sheet events, any likely 
future developments and a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group and how these are managed.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements 
with respect to the operations, performance and ﬁ nancial condition 
of the Group. By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty 
since future events and circumstances can cause results to differ 
from those anticipated. The forward-looking statements reﬂ ect 
knowledge and information available at the date of preparation 
of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation 
to update those forward-looking statements.
Result of 2011 Annual General Meeting
All resolutions put to the Annual General Meeting held on 9 February 
2011 were passed unanimously on a show of hands. Shareholders 
holding more than 83% of all issued shares submitted proxy votes 
and of these, more than 97% were cast in favour of all resolutions. 
Reported ﬁ nancial results
The audited ﬁ nancial statements for the year ended 30 September 
2011 are set out on pages 41 to 73. Details of the Group’s results 
are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 42 and 
in the notes to the ﬁ nancial statements on pages 52 to 73.
Dividends
The Board’s recommendation for suspending dividend payments 
is set out in the Chairman’s statement and on page 15 of the 
Financial review, its unchanged policy on dividend cover is set out 
on page 15 and the restriction on dividend payments under the 
Company’s bank facility agreement is set out in note 19 on page 
63. The Company’s Employee Beneﬁ t Trust (EBT) waives its 
entitlement to any dividends.
Share capital (all Ordinary shares)
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided 
into Ordinary shares of one penny each. The rights and obligations 
attaching to the Company’s Ordinary shares and provisions 
governing the appointment and replacement of, as well as the 
powers of, the Directors, are set out in the Company’s articles 
of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies 
House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary. Save for 
restrictions that may from time to time be set out in the Company’s 
articles of association or imposed by laws and regulations (including 
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority), there are 
no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Ordinary 
shares or on the transfer of the Ordinary shares. The articles 
of association may be amended only by a special resolution of 
the Company’s shareholders. 
Details of all movements in share capital are given in note 24 on 
page 69. As at 30 September 2011, the number of shares in issue 
was 328.8 million. This represents a small increase of 0.25% 
compared with the number of shares in issue as at 30 September 
2010. All of the new shares were issued in satisfaction of employee 
share option exercises or share awards vesting during the year. 
The Company was granted authority, at the Annual General Meeting 
held on 9 February 2011, to purchase up to 32,790,000 of its own 
shares, representing just under 10% of the Company’s issued share 
capital as at 9 December 2010, the date the notice was prepared. 
The Company has never purchased any of its shares and the 
authority will expire following the end of the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 8 February 2012, at which a resolution 
to renew such authority is proposed. The details of the restriction 
on share buybacks under the Company’s bank facility agreement 
is set out in note 19 on page 63.
Signiﬁ cant shareholdings
At 15 December 2011, the Company had been notiﬁ ed of the following 
signiﬁ cant interests in its Ordinary shares:
Shareholder
Number of 
shares
Percentage of 
issued share 
capital
Schroders Plc 60,862,283 18.51%
Aberforth Partners LLP 59,241,848 18.01%
Fidelity International Limited 39,677,762 12.07%
Investec Asset Management Ltd 28,710,000 8.73%
Franklin Templeton Investments Corp 16,663,407 5.07%
Gartmore Investments Limited 16,446,486 5.00%
BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 13,171,683 4.01%
Artemis Investment Management Ltd 10,627,757 3.23%
245,401,226 74.63%
Directors’ holdings 732,891 0.22%
Total of signiﬁ cant holdings 246,134,117 74.85%
Total number of shares in issue 328,844,120 100%
Directors
This year has seen signiﬁ cant changes to the Board which 
are described on page 26 of the Corporate Governance report.
Biographical details of the Directors holding ofﬁ ce as at 
15 December 2011 are set out on pages 20 and 21. 
Directors’ shareholdings in the Company’s share capital are set 
out opposite. No Director has any interest in any other share capital 
of the Company or any Group company, nor does any Director have 
a material interest in any contract of signiﬁ cance to the Group. Future plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Signiﬁ cant agreements
The provisions of the European Directive on Takeover Bids 
(as implemented in the UK in the Companies Act 2006) require the 
Company to disclose any signiﬁ cant agreements which take effect, 
alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company. 
In common with many other companies, the Group’s bank facility 
(details of which are set out in note 19 on page 63) is terminable 
upon change of control of the Company. In common with market 
practice, awards under certain of the Group’s long-term incentive 
plans (details of which are set out in the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 33 and 34 and note 25 on page 69) will vest or 
potentially be exchangeable into awards over a purchaser’s 
share capital upon change of control of the Company.
Financial instruments
Information in relation to the Group’s use of ﬁ nancial instruments 
is set out in note 23 on pages 65 to 68.
Corporate governance
The Board supports best practice in corporate governance. 
The Board’s report on this subject is set out on pages 26 to 31.
Conﬂ icts of interest
The Board has a set of procedures to ensure that: (i) conﬂ icts of 
interest are raised by Directors (and any potential Directors prior 
to appointment); (ii) appropriate guidelines are followed before any 
conﬂ ict is authorised (including ensuring that only Directors who 
have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take 
the relevant decision and in taking the decision the Directors act in 
a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the 
Company’s success); and (iii) records are kept of conﬂ icts of interest 
and authorisations. The Directors are satisﬁ ed that the Board’s 
powers of authorisation of conﬂ icts are operating effectively and 
that the procedures have been followed. The procedures and any 
authorisations will continue to be reviewed annually.
Directors’ responsibility for accounts
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the Directors’ remuneration report and the ﬁ nancial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare ﬁ nancial statements 
for each ﬁ nancial year. Under that law the Directors have prepared 
the Group and parent company ﬁ nancial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union. The Directors must not approve the ﬁ nancial 
statements unless they are satisﬁ ed that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the 
proﬁ t or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these ﬁ nancial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
::  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
::  make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufﬁ cient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the ﬁ nancial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the ﬁ nancial statements and the Directors’ 
remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 
as regards the Group ﬁ nancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and dissemination of ﬁ nancial statements may differ 
from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Directors’ shareholdings
Directors in ofﬁ ce at 30 September 2011 
4, 5, 6
Balance as at
30 September 2010
Purchases
during the year
Sales during
the year
Balance as at
30 September 2011
Executive
Stevie Spring
7
1,123,948 274,214
14
– 1,398,162
John Bowman
8
863,242 18,281
14
(80,000) 801,523
Non-executive
Peter Allen
11
––– –
Seb Bishop – 17,000 – 17,000
Mark Whiteling
9
200,000 200,000 – 400,000
Manjit Wolstenholme
10
– 34,000 – 34,000
T otal 2,187 ,190 543,495 (80,000) 2,650,685
Notes:
1.  All holdings are beneﬁ cial.
2.  Between 30 September 2011 and 15 December 2011 (being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document) there were no changes to the holdings of serving Directors. 
3.  Details of the share options and awards for executive Directors are set out on page 38. There are no such options or awards for non-executive Directors.
4.  Patrick Taylor ceased to be a Director on 9 February 2011 and at that time he held 200,000 shares. 
5.  Michael Penington ceased to be a Director on 9 February 2011 and at that time he held 391,000 shares.
6. Roger Parry ceased to be a Director on 28 September 2011 and at that time he held 596,590 shares.
7. Stevie Spring ceased to be a Director on 27 October 2011 and at that time she held 1,398,162 shares.
8. John Bowman ceased to be a Director on 27 October 2011 and at that time he held 801,523 shares.
9. Mark Whiteling became a Director on 8 October 2010 and at that time he held 200,000 shares.
10. Manjit Wolstenholme became a Director on 9 February 2011 and at that time she held no shares.
11.  Peter Allen became a Director on 5 August 2011 and at that time he held no shares.
12. Mark Wood became a Director on 27 October 2011 and at that time he held no shares. Between 27 October 2011 and 15 December 2011 there was no change to his holding.
13.  Graham Harding became a Director on 27 October 2011 and at that time he held 281,891 shares. Between 27 October 2011 and 15 December 2011 there was no change to his holding.
14.  On 17 December 2010, following vesting on 25 November 2010 of the second half of their respective deferred share bonuses, the Company’s Employee Beneﬁ t Trust was instructed 
to transfer 274,214 Ordinary shares to Stevie Spring and 18,281 Ordinary shares to John Bowman.  Future plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ report continued
Corporate responsibility
The Board considers that issues of corporate responsibility are 
important. The Board’s report on this subject (including information 
and policies on charitable donations, political donations, employee 
involvement, payment of creditors and disability) is set out on 
pages 18 to 19.
Annual General Meeting 2012
At the Company’s thirteenth Annual General Meeting, which will be 
held on Wednesday 8 February 2012 at 12 noon at 2 Balcombe Street, 
London NW1 6NW, a number of resolutions will be proposed. 
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 
on pages 74 to 78 and an explanation of all proposed resolutions 
is provided below.
Ordinary resolution 1 – Financial statements
Shareholders will be asked to approve the ﬁ nancial statements of the 
Company for the ﬁ nancial year ended 30 September 2011, together 
with the reports of the Directors and auditors. The audited ﬁ nancial 
statements appear on pages 41 to 73.
Ordinary resolution 2 – Directors’ remuneration report
Shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors’ remuneration 
report for the ﬁ nancial year ended 30 September 2011, which is set 
out on pages 32 to 39.
Ordinary resolutions 3 to 8 – Election of Peter Allen, 
Mark Wood, Graham Harding and Manjit Wolstenholme 
and annual re-election of other Directors
Following Manjit Wolstenholme’s appointment to the Board on 
9 February 2011, Peter Allen’s appointment to the Board on 5 August 
2011 and Mark Wood’s and Graham Harding’s appointments to the 
Board on 27 October 2011, they now stand for election to conﬁ rm 
their appointments. Consistent with our policy since 2004, all other 
Directors are proposed for re-election. Biographical details of all 
Directors are set out on pages 20 and 21. 
Following a rigorous evaluation and taking into account the need 
for progressive refreshing of the Board, the Board conﬁ rms that 
the performance of each executive and non-executive Director of the 
Company continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment 
to the role. The Nomination committee has carefully considered 
the time commitments required from and the contribution made 
by each Director and both the Nomination committee and the 
Board unanimously recommends that each Director standing 
for election be elected and for re-election be re-elected.
Ordinary resolutions 9 and 10 – Auditors
A resolution proposing the reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP as auditors of the Company and authorising the Directors 
to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual 
General Meeting. An explanation regarding the Board’s proposal to 
reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors can be found on 
page 30 of the Corporate Governance report.
Ordinary resolution 11 – To authorise the Directors 
to issue and allot new Ordinary shares
Under the provisions of section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 
(the 2006 Act), the Directors may allot and issue Ordinary shares 
only if authorised to do so by the Company’s Articles of Association 
or by shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting. Consistent with 
guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) this 
resolution will, if passed, authorise the Directors to allot shares 
up to a maximum nominal value of £2,192,000 as follows:
(a)  in relation to a pre-emptive rights issue only, equity securities 
(as deﬁ ned by section 560 of the 2006 Act) up to a maximum 
nominal amount of £2,192,000 which represents approximately 
two thirds of the Company’s issued Ordinary shares (excluding 
treasury shares) as at 15 December 2011. This maximum is 
reduced by the nominal amount of any Relevant Securities 
allotted under paragraph 11.2 of the notice of AGM; and
(b)  in any other case, Relevant Securities up to a maximum nominal 
amount of £1,096,000 which represents just under one third of 
the Company’s issued Ordinary shares as at 15 December 2011. 
This maximum is reduced by the nominal amount of any equity 
securities allotted under paragraph 11.1 of the notice of AGM 
in excess of £1,096,000.
If granted, this authority would replace all previous authorities 
granted in this connection. The authority granted by this resolution 
will expire on 31 March 2013 or, if earlier, following the conclusion 
of the next AGM of the Company. If the Directors exercise the 
authority granted under paragraph 11.1 of the Notice of AGM, 
they will all stand for re-election at the following AGM.
The Directors do not have any present intention of exercising this 
authority other than in connection with any exercises under share 
option and other share incentive schemes, but intend to seek this 
authority each year. In addition, there may be circumstances where 
it would be appropriate for the Company to issue new Ordinary 
shares, such as an acquisition where it might be appropriate for the 
consideration to be settled in whole, or in part, by the issue of new 
Ordinary shares. The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Ordinary resolution 12 – Approval of political donations
It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations 
or to incur political expenditure, as those expressions are normally 
understood. However, following broader deﬁ nitions introduced by 
the 2006 Act, the Directors propose a resolution designed to avoid 
inadvertent infringement of the new deﬁ nitions.
The 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholders’ authority 
for donations to registered political parties and other political 
organisations totalling more than £5,000 in any 12-month period, 
and for any political expenditure, subject to limited exceptions. 
The deﬁ nition of donation in this context is very wide and extends to 
bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform and 
the representation of the business community. It could also include 
special interest groups, such as those involved with the environment, 
which the Company and its subsidiaries might wish to support, even 
though these activities are not designed to support or to inﬂ uence 
support for any particular political party. 
Special resolution 13 – Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights
Resolution 13 will be proposed to renew the Directors’ existing 
authority to allot new Ordinary shares for cash other than pro rata 
to existing shareholdings. Section 561 of the 2006 Act requires that 
equity securities issued for cash must ﬁ rst be offered to the 
Company’s existing holders of securities in proportion to their 
existing rights.
Consistent with the previous practice of the Company, the authority 
now sought would permit the allotment of Ordinary shares up to the 
amount covered by resolution 11 in connection with a rights issue 
(or other pro rata Ordinary share issue) and otherwise up to an 
aggregate nominal amount not exceeding £164,000, equivalent to 
just under 5% of the Company’s issued Ordinary share capital as 
at 15 December 2011, such authority to expire on 31 March 2013 or, 
if earlier, following the conclusion of the Company’s next Annual 
General Meeting save that the Company would, before the expiry  Future plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
of the power conferred, be able to make an offer or agreement which 
would or might require equity securities to be allotted after its expiry 
and the Directors would be able to allot equity securities pursuant 
to such an offer or agreement as if the power, if conferred, had 
not expired. If granted, this authority would replace all previous 
authorities existing in this connection. The Board intends to renew 
this authority each year.
The Board does not currently intend to issue more than 7.5% of 
the Ordinary issued share capital of the Company in any rolling 
three-year period without prior consultation with the Investment 
Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National 
Association of Pension Funds.
Special resolution 14 – Purchase of own shares
Resolution 14 is proposed to renew the Company’s authority to 
make market purchases of its own Ordinary shares. The maximum 
number of Ordinary shares that may be purchased will be 32,880,000 
representing just under 10% of the issued Ordinary share capital 
of the Company as at 15 December 2011.
The minimum price payable for shares will be the nominal value 
of one penny per Ordinary share and the maximum price will not be 
more than the higher of 5% above the average of the middle-market 
quotation of the Company’s Ordinary shares as derived from the 
London Stock Exchange Daily Ofﬁ cial List for the ﬁ ve business days 
immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary shares are 
purchased and that stipulated by Article 5(1) of the Buy-back and 
Stabilisation Regulation 2003. This authority, if granted, would 
expire on 31 March 2013 or, if earlier, following the conclusion of 
the Company’s next Annual General Meeting save that the Company 
would, before expiry of the power conferred, be able to make a 
contract to purchase shares which may be executed wholly or 
partly after its expiry, as if the power, if conferred, had not expired. 
The Board intends to seek this authority each year. If approved, the 
power would be used only where it was demonstrably in shareholders’ 
interests, such as by improving adjusted EPS.
While the Board has no current intention to use the power proposed, 
and has given an undertaking to its banks that it will not do so whilst 
the net debt:EBITDA covenant is above two times, it considers that 
it is desirable to have this authority each year, as there could be 
circumstances in which the purchase by the Company of its own 
shares would be in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders generally. 
The 2006 Act permits certain listed companies to hold shares in 
treasury as an alternative to cancelling them following a purchase 
of own shares by the Company. Shares held in treasury may 
subsequently be cancelled or sold for cash, or used to satisfy 
employee share option or other awards under the Company’s share 
option or long-term incentive schemes. Once held in treasury, 
a company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right 
to attend and vote at company meetings in respect of the shares and 
no dividend or distribution of the Company’s assets may be made to 
the Company in respect of shares held in treasury. If the Directors 
exercise the authority conferred by resolution 14, they will consider 
holding any shares purchased in treasury rather than cancelling them.
The total number of options to subscribe for or awards granted in 
respect of Ordinary shares that were outstanding at 15 December 
2011 (being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this 
document) was 12,014,945. The proportion of issued share capital 
that they represented at that time was 3.65% and the proportion 
of issued share capital that they will represent if the full authority 
to purchase shares (existing and being sought) is used is 4.06%.
Special resolution 15 – General meetings on 14 days’ notice
Notice periods for AGMs must give at least 21 days’ clear notice. 
For other general meetings, the old minimum notice period of 
14 days was increased to 21 days by the Companies (Shareholders’ 
Rights) Regulations 2009, unless shareholders approve a shorter 
period of at least 14 clear days. In the interests of greater efﬁ ciency, 
Resolution 15 seeks to renew approval for notice periods of at least 
14 clear days.
Action to be taken
A form of proxy is included with this Annual Report for use in 
connection with the Annual General Meeting. Please complete and 
return the form in accordance with the instructions printed on it to 
Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater 
Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY as soon as possible and, in any event, no later 
than 12 noon on Monday 6 February 2012. The return of the form 
of proxy will not prevent you from attending the Annual General 
Meeting and voting in person if you wish to do so. Further information 
about the AGM, including about electronic appointment of proxies, 
is provided on pages 76 to 78. 
Recommendations
The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be proposed at the 
Annual General Meeting is in the best interests of the Company and 
its shareholders as a whole. Accordingly, the Directors unanimously 
recommend that you vote in favour of all of the resolutions proposed, 
as they intend to do in respect of their own beneﬁ cial holdings.
Annual General Meeting procedures and result
As in previous years, the Company will: (a) indicate the level of 
proxies lodged on each resolution together with the balance for and 
against each resolution and the number of abstentions; (b) announce 
the results of voting to the London Stock Exchange; and (c) post 
the results of voting on our corporate website, www.futureplc.com.
Disclosure of information to the auditors
The Directors conﬁ rm that they have complied with the relevant 
provisions of the 2006 Act in preparing the ﬁ nancial statements. 
In addition, each of the Directors conﬁ rms that, so far as they are 
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors 
are unaware. Each Director has taken all reasonable steps to 
ensure that they are aware of any relevant audit information 
and that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
Responsibility statement 
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the 
Board of Directors section on pages 20 and 21, conﬁ rm that to the 
best of their knowledge:
(a)  the Group ﬁ nancial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, ﬁ nancial position and loss 
of the Group; and
(b)  the Financial review includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Millar
Company Secretary and General Counsel
15 December 2011 Future plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Mark Millar, Company Secretary 
and General Counsel
Corporate Governance report
The non-executives play a critical 
role on the Board in overseeing and 
scrutinising the running of the business 
and in ensuring that corporate governance 
remains at the top of the agenda.
1. Board of Directors
Membership of the Board
The Board consists of two executive and four non-executive 
Directors. Biographies of Directors and details of their other 
time commitments are set out on pages 20 and 21. 
This year has seen a number of changes to the Board. On the 
non-executive side we have welcomed Manjit Wolstenholme to 
the Board following the planned resignation of two long-serving 
members, Patrick Taylor and Michael Penington, at this year’s AGM 
in February 2011 and have appointed Peter Allen as Chairman on 
5 August 2011 in succession to Roger Parry who announced his 
intention to stand down in May and who resigned as a Director on 
28 September 2011. Manjit Wolstenholme’s appointment brings a 
wealth of ﬁ nancial, accounting, investment banking, public company 
and corporate governance experience to the Board. In turn, Peter 
Allen brings public company experience, having chaired a number 
of public companies, together with ﬁ nancial, accounting and mergers 
and acquisitions experience to his role as Chairman. 
On the executive side, we appointed Mark Wood and Graham Harding 
on 27 October 2011 to replace Stevie Spring and John Bowman as 
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director respectively, when the 
Company eliminated a complete tier of corporate management. 
Mark Wood brings signiﬁ cant digital, media and public company 
experience having been a main board Director at Reuters plc from 
1989 to 1996 and Chief Executive of ITN from 2003 to 2009, as well 
as ensuring continuity as he was promoted from his role as Chief 
Executive of the Group’s UK business. Graham Harding, ACA, has 
signiﬁ cant media, public company and Group-speciﬁ c knowledge, 
having been with Future since 2000 as Group Financial Controller 
and then UK Finance Director since 2004. That continuity is 
important to the Group at this stage of development of the Group’s 
digital business. All Board members have a diverse and relevant 
range of digital and general business experience.
Role of the non-executive Directors
The non-executives play a critical role on the Board in overseeing 
and scrutinising the running of the business and in ensuring that 
corporate governance remains at the top of the agenda. They 
all serve three-year terms, terminable by either party on three 
months’ notice at any time and subject to their election and annual 
re-election or removal by shareholders. Although annual re-election 
is not a requirement for Future, we believe it is the best way to 
ensure non-executives are directly accountable to shareholders.
Quick fi nd contents
Page 26: Board of Directors
Page 30: Audit committee
Page 30: Nomination committee
Page 31: Remuneration committee
Our approach to corporate governance
Effective corporate governance requires not just compliance 
with legislative and regulatory requirements, but also applying 
the principle of good governance in the boardroom and throughout 
the business. At Future, we are committed to ensuring that good 
corporate governance is embedded at the heart of our business 
structure and processes. 
In this report, we provide detail on the role of the Board of Directors, 
followed by a more detailed focus on the work of each of the three 
key committees: the Audit committee, the Nomination committee 
and the Remuneration committee. Together, these give a clear 
insight into how we manage corporate governance principles 
and processes within Future.
Good corporate governance 
is essential for the long-term 
success of the Company.
Peter Allen
Chairman Future plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent 
by the Board. There is a genuine mix of views and insights, as well 
as experience. Each non-executive Director is expected to commit 
20 days a year to their role to allow for preparation for and attendance 
at Board and committee meetings and keeping in touch with the 
senior management team, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive
In contemplation of the appointment of a new chairman, the Board 
reviewed in July 2011 the written division of duties and responsibilities 
between the Chairman and Chief Executive to ensure an effective 
division of these roles. The Board considered and was satisﬁ ed that 
these roles operate effectively, with the Chairman leading the Board 
and the Chief Executive leading the business. 
Board meetings
The Board had seven scheduled meetings during the ﬁ nancial year 
(one of which was by video conference) and attendance is summarised 
below. The Board had a number of unscheduled telephone meetings 
to deal with matters that arose during the year. All Directors are 
aware of the need to be available and there is a clear contact 
process. Board meetings are sometimes preceded by an informal 
dinner where senior management can update the Board on business 
issues and challenges. 
There is a regular and comprehensive exchange of information 
between meetings to ensure Board members are well informed to 
participate effectively in meetings. Directors receive a Board pack 
a week before the meeting with minutes of the previous meeting, 
all papers for agenda items, a report from the Company Secretary 
summarising any key legal issues and providing any regulatory/
legislative updates, and a summary of share ownership and recent 
share dealing. Similar packs are provided for all committee 
meetings. Between meetings, the Board receives a monthly 
Board report written by the executive Directors which summarises 
ﬁ nancial and operational performance and provides updates on 
key programmes within the business.
Director
Attendance 
(7 scheduled 
meetings)
Roger Parry (resigned 28 September 2011) 6 of 7
Peter Allen (appointed 5 August 2011) 1 of 1
Stevie Spring 7
John Bowman 7
Michael Penington (resigned 9 February 2011) 3 of 3
Patrick Taylor (resigned 9 February 2011) 3 of 3
Seb Bishop 6 of 7
Mark Whiteling (appointed 8 October 2010) 6 of 6
Manjit Wolstenholme (appointed 9 February 2011) 4 of 4
Mark Wood and Graham Harding were appointed after the year-end.
Following his decision to step down as Chairman, Roger Parry did 
not attend the Board meeting which included as its main business 
the appointment of his successor.
There is a written schedule of matters reserved for the Board which 
sets out those matters that require Board approval including setting 
strategy, approving budgets and ﬁ nancial statements and setting up 
policies. This schedule was reviewed in July 2011 and it was noted 
that 36 matters had been considered by the Board. The schedule is 
available on the Company’s website at www.futureplc.com. The Board 
delegates to management the day-to-day operational matters.
Non-executive Directors
As a smaller company we are only required to have two independent 
non-executive Directors. We decided to comply with the full 
requirement and have at least half the Board as non-executive 
Directors to bring broader experience because of the diversity of our 
business and our real desire to ensure that our non-executives have 
the time to devote to corporate governance as well as monitoring and 
challenging the executive team on operational and strategic matters.
UK Corporate Governance Code
For the ﬁ nancial year ended 30 September 2011, we have complied 
in full with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(2010) which is available on the Financial Reporting Council website 
www.frc.org.uk/corporate/ukcgcode.cfm save that, as a result 
of the change in Chairman, the non-executive Directors did not 
conduct a formal review of the performance of the Chairman.
The disclosures on share ownership, appointing and replacing 
Directors and other similar disclosures required by rule 7.2.6 
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are set out in the 
Directors’ Report on pages 22 to 25.
As senior independent Director, I meet 
with the non-executives alone regularly 
and my contact details are available from 
the Company Secretary in the event that 
any shareholder wants to meet me.
Manjit Wolstenholme
Senior independent Director Future plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate Governance report continued
Board decisions are made unanimously whenever possible but 
can be made by majority. If Directors have concerns that cannot be 
resolved about the running of the Company or a proposed action, 
their concerns are recorded in the minutes. 
The Board regularly appoints a sub-committee consisting of at 
least two Directors in order to ﬁ nalise and approve those matters 
that have been approved in principle by the Board, subject to ﬁ nal 
amendments only. A permanent sub-committee consisting of 
at least two Directors exists to approve the issue and allotment 
of new shares in satisfaction of employee share schemes. 
The Board has a number of nominated advisers (as listed on 
page 79). During the last ﬁ nancial year meetings were regularly 
held with key advisers to keep them aware of issues, and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP attended audit committee 
meetings and brieﬁ ngs with members of the executive and 
senior ﬁ nance teams.
Effective Development
Training and induction
The Board’s training and development policy requires that all new 
Directors should receive appropriate induction on joining the Board, 
both in respect of the Group’s activities as a whole and of each 
operating company individually. Mark Whiteling, Manjit Wolstenholme 
and Peter Allen, having joined the Board in October 2010, February 
and August 2011 respectively, have spent time with the management 
teams at Future UK and Future US in Bath, London and, in the case 
of Peter Allen, in San Francisco. They have also had discussions with 
the Company’s senior statutory auditor at PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP, brokers and certain other advisers.
Ongoing training for Directors is available as appropriate. The 
training and development needs of each individual Director are 
assessed and discussed during individual performance evaluation 
meetings with the Chairman and Company Secretary as part of 
the annual Board performance evaluation. The Board encourages 
appropriate training and provides regular updates and refresher 
sessions by the Company Secretary, the Company’s legal advisers 
and auditors, to inform the Board or relevant committees of 
important changes in legislation, regulation and best practice. 
During the past 12 months, the Directors have in particular received 
training on the Bribery Act, Hargreaves Review of intellectual 
property, the new ‘cookie’ rules and digital piracy.
Performance evaluation
Despite the many Board changes during the year, serving Directors 
completed a detailed Board performance evaluation questionnaire 
as part of the annual performance evaluation process. In 2010, 
for the ﬁ rst time, we used an external adviser’s format for the 
questionnaire but found the results less insightful than using 
our previous bespoke questionnaire. Therefore, for 2011, we have 
reverted to our own bespoke format. Each questionnaire was 
analysed and the Chairman and Company Secretary led a discussion 
on the Board’s performance during the year and any speciﬁ c 
requirements for training and development. The results were 
presented to the Board for discussion. During the process the 
Board also compared its performance with the results and 
recommendations from the prior year’s performance evaluation. 
The Board considers this exercise to be of signiﬁ cant value in 
ensuring a functional and effective Board and committees.
The Chairman also met several times with non-executive Directors 
without the presence of executive Directors, in order to assess 
the performance of the executive Directors.
Summary of performance evaluation
Last year’s outcomes Steps taken this year
Succession planning for NEDs Appointed Manjit Wolstenholme 
as a further independent NED 
and Peter Allen as Chairman
No annual measurement of 
performance against set objectives
Objectives set at a strategy day
Ongoing training Induction refreshers every 
three years
Accountability and going concern
The Directors are required to make an assessment of the Group’s 
ability to continue to trade as a going concern.
The Directors have given this matter due consideration and have 
concluded that it is appropriate to continue to prepare the Group 
ﬁ nancial statements on a going concern basis. The two main 
considerations were as follows:
a) Strength of the Group’s cash ﬂ ow
While the Group has had a poor year in terms of proﬁ tability and 
has therefore seen a reduction in the cash ﬂ ow from operations, 
the Group does have a proven track record of being highly cash 
generative. As reported in the Chief Executive’s review the Board 
is conﬁ dent that, as a result of the restructuring actions already 
undertaken in the year ended 30 September 2011 and further actions 
planned for the year ending 30 September 2012, the Group will return 
to growing proﬁ ts and thereby improve the cash ﬂ ows arising from 
operations in the year ending 30 September 2012 and beyond. During 
the past four years the ratio of cash generated from reported EBITA 
has been close to 100%. Most of the Group’s operating expenditure 
is cash expenditure, and the majority of the Group’s revenue is 
collected from magazine distributors and from advertising agencies 
and clients.
b) Continued support of the Group’s banks
We maintain a regular and constructive dialogue with our banking 
syndicate to keep them informed of how the Group is performing. 
Two important issues to consider in relation to our banks are the 
renewal of facilities and covenant compliance.
Facilities – At 30 September 2011 the Group had headroom of £4.1m 
on its bank facility, which was renewed in May 2009 and was due to 
run until maturity on 30 November 2012. We have recently reached 
agreement with our banks to extend the term of the facility for a 
further 12 months to 30 November 2013. As part of this renegotiation 
of the facilities we have also restated the ﬁ nancial covenants to 
provide the necessary ﬂ exibility to complete the execution of the 
restructuring plans noted above. Future plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Financial covenant compliance – our amended bank facility to 
30 November 2013 now has the following key ﬁ nancial covenants:
(i)  net debt is not to exceed certain ratios of Bank EBITDA. 
These ratios range from 2.55 to 2.80 times over the periods 
ending 31 December 2011, 31 March 2012 and 30 June 2012 
before reverting to the previous level of two times from 
30 September 2012;
(ii)  net interest payable is to be covered at least four times by 
Bank EBITDA;
(iii)  cashﬂ ow is to cover the cost of debt service costs by different 
agreed ratios over the next two years based on an agreed 
forecast position with the banks;
(iv)  capital expenditure must not exceed 115% of agreed forecast 
positions for each ﬁ nancial year; 
(v)  exceptional cash costs (excluding vacant property provisions) 
above £1.9m in the year ending 30 September 2012 will be taken 
into account in determining the relevant net debt:Bank EBITDA 
ratios in respect of (i) above; and
(vi)  dividends cannot be declared until the ratio of net debt:Bank 
EBITDA falls below two times.
The covenants noted above in (i) and (ii) are tested quarterly on the 
basis of rolling ﬁ gures for the preceding 12 months. The covenant 
noted above in (iii) is also tested quarterly but for the year ending 
30 September 2012, the measurements are for the relevant period 
from 1 October 2011. The covenant noted above in (iv) is tested 
annually by reference to an agreed forecast position.
Based on the trading of the Group in the ﬁ rst two months of the 
year ending 30 September 2012 and our expectations in relation 
to revenues, proﬁ ts and cashﬂ ows for the rest of the year to 
30 September 2012, the Directors are conﬁ dent that, in the 
absence of unforeseen circumstances, all relevant covenants 
will be met at the next four testing points.
Risk management and internal controls
Details of the principal risks and the Group’s approach to managing 
them are set out on pages 16 and 17. The Board conducted an annual 
review of ﬁ nancial, operational, legal and compliance risks with the 
assistance of members of the Group legal and ﬁ nance teams and 
the then executive management team of the UK operating company 
(who are now the executive Directors) to ensure that there is a sound 
system of internal controls in place and that these are sufﬁ cient to 
manage (rather than eliminate) those risks effectively. No signiﬁ cant 
failings or weaknesses were identiﬁ ed as part of this review. 
The internal controls that are in place to ensure effective risk 
management are structured to ensure a timely ﬂ ow of information 
within the Group and a clear structure of delegated authority 
and responsibility. The main features of the Group’s internal 
control and risk management systems in relation to the process 
for preparing consolidated accounts is set out in the Financial 
review on pages 10 to 17.
The Board approves a set of control documents which specify: 
(i) various ﬁ nancial and treasury policies to be followed across the 
Group; and (ii) the powers of delegated authority across the Group.
Our Group ﬁ nance team manages our ﬁ nancial reporting processes 
ensuring that there is appropriate control and review of the ﬁ nancial 
information including the production of our consolidated annual 
accounts. Group ﬁ nance is supported by the operational ﬁ nance 
managers throughout the Group who have the responsibility and 
accountability to provide information in keeping with our policies 
and procedures. 
The UK and US operating companies each have a board (whose 
members include the two executive Directors) responsible, inter 
alia, for ensuring that the control documents are applied in practice. 
The Board of the UK operating company takes responsibility for 
the Australian business.
Business review meetings were held monthly by the executive team 
with senior UK and US management in order to provide a proper 
opportunity for ﬁ nancial results and other business and operational 
issues to be explored and addressed. These meetings took place 
in the cities in which the Group has a signiﬁ cant presence. Given 
the change in executive Directors these meetings will no longer 
be needed, resulting in time and costs savings. 
Internal audit
The Audit committee and the Board have again during 2011 
reconsidered whether there is a need for an internal audit function. 
It was concluded that while an independent internal audit 
department with the necessary technical skills is not currently 
justiﬁ ed, the committee should continue to review this subject 
each year, and the senior operational management received training 
on the new laws, guidance and policies.
Whistle-blowing policy
As part of its internal controls, the Group has a whistle-blowing 
policy which is updated regularly and published on the Company’s 
intranet to encourage employees to report, in good faith, any genuine 
suspicions of fraud, bribery or malpractice in order to identify any 
problems within the Group at an early stage. The policy is also 
designed to ensure that any employee who raises a genuine concern 
is protected. During the year the policy was revised to ﬁ t with the 
launch of the anti-bribery documentation adopted during the year.
Relations with shareholders/communication
We aim to have an open relationship with our shareholders and 
shareholders can ﬁ nd up-to-date information on Group activities 
on the Company’s website, www.futureplc.com. There is a speciﬁ c 
investor relations section on that site which includes copies of 
all of the Group’s public announcements made via the Regulatory 
News Service of the London Stock Exchange, as well as full 
copies of the Company’s annual and interim results and 
presentations provided to analysts. Future plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Corporate Governance report continued
All Directors are available to meet shareholders at the AGM or 
on request by contacting the Chairman or Company Secretary. 
The executive Directors and the Chairman are also available 
at the analyst presentations of the interim and annual results. 
Because more than 80% of the Company’s shares are held 
by major institutions, the executive Directors hold a series of 
meetings presenting the interim and annual results to these 
institutions and gauging their views.
In order that all Directors are aware of the views of shareholders, 
Board packs include a note of views as expressed by shareholders 
during meetings held with Directors or as reported to Directors 
through the Company’s brokers, together with copies of analysts’ 
notes, press articles and other relevant information.
2. Audit committee
Member
Attendance at 
meetings 
(3 meetings)
Patrick Taylor (Chairman until 9 February 2011) 1 of 1
Mark Whiteling (Chairman from 9 February 2011) 3 of 3
Manjit Wolstenholme (appointed 9 February 2011) 2 of 2
Seb Bishop (served 14 July 2011 to 6 October 2011) 1 of 1
Michael Penington (resigned 9 February 2011) 1 of 1
Mark Whiteling took over from Patrick Taylor as chairman of the 
committee from 9 February 2011. Manjit Wolstenholme was 
appointed to the committee on 9 February 2011 when Michael 
Penington stood down. Seb Bishop served on the committee from 
14 July 2011 until 6 October 2011. Peter Allen was appointed to the 
committee on 6 October 2011. The chairman of the committee has 
recent and relevant ﬁ nancial experience. 
The Audit committee meets before the interim and annual results 
announcements and reviews the relevant ﬁ nancial results with the 
executive management team and the external auditors. The Audit 
committee also meets separately for the purposes of planning the 
audit process, monitoring its effectiveness, reviewing the Group’s 
relationship with the auditor and undertaking a detailed review 
of the Group’s internal controls. The Audit committee carries 
out the functions required by rule 7.1.3 of the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules.
Audit fees
The Audit committee has reviewed the remuneration received by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for non-audit work conducted during 
the ﬁ nancial year. The fees for non-audit work did exceed the audit 
fee, and related mainly to advising in relation to taxation. For further 
details regarding fees paid, see note 4 to the ﬁ nancial statements 
on page 54.
Auditor independence
The Audit committee monitors the Company’s safeguards against 
compromising the objectivity and independence of the external 
auditors by performing an annual review of non-audit services 
provided to the Group and their cost, reviewing whether the 
auditors believe there are any relationships that may affect 
their independence and obtaining written conﬁ rmation from 
the auditors that they are independent.
For the ﬁ nancial year ended 30 September 2011, the Audit 
committee has conducted its review of the auditors’ independence 
and concluded that no conﬂ ict of interest exists between 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP audit and non-audit work and 
that their involvement in non-audit matters, which was mainly 
tax-related, was the most effective way of conducting the Group’s 
business during the year.
Auditor appointment policy
The Audit committee has reviewed its policy for appointing auditors 
and awarding non-audit work.
The Group has little non-audit work outside of tax work 
but has an open mind about instructing ﬁ rms other than 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP where appropriate.
On the recommendation of the Audit committee, the Board has 
decided that it is in the best interests of the Company to put a 
resolution to shareholders that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 
who have been the Company’s external auditor for a number of 
years, be reappointed as auditors for the forthcoming year. The 
resolution to appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will propose 
that they hold ofﬁ ce until the conclusion of the next Annual General 
Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, at a level 
of remuneration to be determined by the Directors.
3. Nomination committee
Member
Attendance at 
meetings 
(4 meetings)
Roger Parry (Chairman until 5 August 2011) 3 of 4
Peter Allen (Chairman from 5 August 2011) 0 of 0
Manjit Wolstenholme (appointed 9 February 2011) 2 of 2
Patrick Taylor (resigned 9 February 2011) 2 of 2
Michael Penington (resigned 9 February 2011) 2 of 2
Seb Bishop (appointed 9 February 2011) 2 of 2
Mark Whiteling (appointed 9 February 2011) 2 of 2
Following his decision to step down as Chairman, Roger Parry 
did not attend one committee meeting in July at which the 
process for appointment of his successor was being considered. 
Manjit Wolstenholme chaired the meeting in his absence.
Terms of reference for the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination committees
The terms of reference for all committees are available on the 
Company’s website, www.futureplc.com and will be available at 
the Company’s registered ofﬁ ce in Bath and at the London ofﬁ ce 
in the run up to the AGM in 2012. Future plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
The Nomination committee’s work this year has focused on replacing 
the chairman and senior independent non-executive Director and, 
since the year-end, the change of the executive Directors. For the 
appointments of each of Peter Allen, Manjit Wolstenholme and Mark 
Whiteling the committee appointed an external search consultancy 
to identify and shortlist appropriate candidates for the committee 
to interview. Following selection by the committee of preferred 
candidates, that individual was invited to attend the next Board 
meeting as an observer before any appointment was conﬁ rmed.
Following discussion of the skills and contribution of each Director, 
the Nomination committee supports the proposed re-election of all 
Directors standing for re-election at the 2012 AGM and the election 
of Manjit Wolstenholme, Peter Allen, Mark Wood and Graham 
Harding. In line with best practice, each committee member seeking 
re-election was excluded from approving the proposal for their 
re-election. 
4. Remuneration committee
Member
Attendance at 
meetings 
(2 meetings)
Manjit Wolstenholme (Chairman from 9 February 2011) 0 of 0
Patrick Taylor (resigned 9 February 2011) 2 of 2
Mark Whiteling (appointed 9 February 2011) 0 of 0
Michael Penington (Chairman until 9 February 2011) 2 of 2
Seb Bishop (appointed 22 November 2010) 1 of 1
The Remuneration committee determines the remuneration 
packages of executive Directors, including performance-related 
awards and share-based incentives, and sets individual bonus 
targets for executive Directors and performance criteria attached 
to share-based incentives. The committee also determines the 
remuneration of the Chairman, manages and recommends 
remuneration levels for senior management in line with both 
industry remuneration packages and the Company’s remuneration 
policy, and considers and approves any new share-based incentive 
scheme proposed to be implemented. The Directors’ remuneration 
report is set out on pages 32 to 39.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Mark Millar
Company Secretary and General Counsel
15 December 2011
Advice and support
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary who, as a 
qualiﬁ ed solicitor and share schemes adviser, can advise them 
on issues of governance, best practice and any other legislative or 
regulatory matters. The appointment and removal of the Company 
Secretary is a Board decision. The Directors may also take 
independent professional advice at the Company’s expense provided 
that they give notice to the Chairman. No such advice was sought 
during 2011. The Company maintains appropriate insurance for 
its Directors.
Re-election of Directors 
As a smaller company we are not required to offer all our Directors 
up for annual election. However, all our Directors take individual 
and collective responsibility for the decisions that the Board makes 
and are happy to let shareholders judge their performance by 
standing for annual re-election. We have followed this practice 
since the AGM in 2005. Future plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
In determining the level and make-up of executive Directors’ 
remuneration, the committee also carefully considers the 
following issues:
(a)  Remuneration packages offered to executive Directors should 
be competitive with those available for comparable roles in 
companies operating in similar markets and on a similar scale. 
They should be sufﬁ ciently desirable so as to attract, retain and 
motivate high calibre Directors to perform at the highest levels, 
whilst at the same time ensuring that recruitment and 
remuneration expenditure is not excessive and does not 
encourage excessive risk-taking. 
(b)  The interests of executive Directors should be aligned with 
those of shareholders by ensuring that a signiﬁ cant proportion 
of remuneration is linked to Group performance.
(c)  Remuneration packages and employment conditions of executive 
Directors are considered in conjunction with both those of key senior 
managers (keeping succession planning in mind) and all employees 
in the Group in order to achieve a consistent remuneration policy 
across the Group. Given the ongoing economic conditions and the 
decision to consolidate the business and focus on its digital offering, 
there was a pay freeze across the Group’s business at 1 October 
2011 and this was taken into account in the committee’s 
considerations. 
(d)  Cash and share-based incentives are payable dependent on 
Group performance, thereby aligning the interests of executive 
Directors with those of shareholders. 
(e)  Subjective criteria applied to an element of the annual cash bonus 
of the Chief Executive and certain other senior managers with 
effect from 1 October 2009 (with a ﬁ nancial underpin) in order 
to ensure that the committee retains discretion and to ensure 
no bonus is unjustly received. 
Although bonuses were payable under this criteria the committee 
determined that no bonuses should be paid given the ﬁ nancial 
and share price performance of the Group in the period.
Details of the key elements of executive Directors’ remuneration 
packages are set out on pages 32 to 34. Details of Directors’ 
interests in share schemes are set out on page 38 of this report 
and Directors’ shareholdings are set out on page 23 of the 
Directors’ report.
The split of potential maximum remuneration for 2012 between 
basic and performance-related pay is shown in the graphs opposite, 
which set out each of the elements making up the total ongoing 
potential maximum remuneration.
(a) Basic annual salary (reviewed on 1 October each year)
In assessing the level of basic annual salary for each executive 
Director, the committee takes into consideration in particular the 
remuneration of equivalent roles within such comparable companies 
as the committee and its remuneration advisers consider appropriate 
(including both media companies and companies with similar market 
capitalisations), as well as the level of remuneration of senior 
managers and pay and employment conditions across the Group. 
In addition, the responsibilities of each executive Director are taken 
into consideration when determining the level of basic annual salary 
which, with other elements of remuneration, is reviewed annually 
by the committee to ensure that executive Directors’ remuneration 
packages are appropriate and are in line with median remuneration 
packages for the relevant comparator group. Salaries are reviewed 
annually, with effect from 1 October, taking into account annual 
performance review data, the rate of inﬂ ation and salary increases 
across the Group. There was no increase in the basic annual salary 
of Stevie Spring or John Bowman from 1 October 2011 until they 
resigned on 27 October 2011. Mark Wood and Graham Harding 
received c.10% pay rises from 27 October 2011 to reﬂ ect the 
additional workload of their Group roles in addition to their UK roles.
Compliance with best practice
As with all aspects of Corporate Governance, the Board applies 
best practice to its remuneration policy, in line with the provisions 
of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, the Listing Rules and 
the UK Code on Corporate Governance. This report is submitted 
to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 8 February 2012.
Remuneration committee
Five independent non-executive Directors served on the 
Remuneration committee during the year: Michael Penington 
chaired the committee until he resigned from the Board on 
9 February 2011; Manjit Wolstenholme chairs the committee 
following Michael Penington’s resignation; Patrick Taylor served 
until his resignation when he was replaced by Mark Whiteling, 
and Seb Bishop was appointed on 22 November 2010. Mark Millar, 
Company Secretary, who holds the ICSA share schemes 
qualiﬁ cation, is secretary to the committee. 
The committee is responsible for determining the basic annual 
salaries, incentive arrangements and terms of employment of 
executive Directors, for making recommendations regarding 
the level and make-up of the remuneration packages of senior 
managers, including bonus schemes and share-based incentives, 
and ensuring that remuneration policies and practices do not 
encourage excessive risk-taking. The committee is also responsible 
for ﬁ xing the Chairman’s remuneration and approving the terms 
of any new share-based incentive scheme for any employees of 
the Group, subject, where appropriate, to shareholder approval. 
No Director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration. 
As explained on page 30, the terms of reference of the 
Remuneration Committee, reviewed annually, are available 
on the Company’s website.
During the year, the committee has considered the level and 
make-up of executive Directors’ remuneration packages, 
the grant of share-based incentive awards and the level and 
basis of performance-related bonuses.
Advisers to the Remuneration committee
Aon Hewitt Consultants have been independent advisers to the 
committee since the committee appointed its predecessor ﬁ rm, New 
Bridge Street Consultants in 2002. They provide no other services to 
the Company or its Directors. No advice was sought during the year.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board has complied fully with the provisions of Section D 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to Directors’ 
remuneration policy and practice, and has followed Schedule A to 
the Code in relation to performance-related remuneration policy. 
Further information regarding the Company’s compliance with 
the provisions of the Code is set out in the Corporate Governance 
report on pages 26 to 31.
Policy on remuneration of executive Directors
The committee’s objective has been to weight executive Directors’ 
remuneration packages more towards performance-related pay, 
with performance-related targets linked to ﬁ nancial performance 
of the Group against budget and the Group’s performance against 
business objectives and stated strategy. The committee has given 
further consideration since the year-end to the remuneration 
of the new executive team for the following ﬁ nancial year and 
for ﬁ nancial years subsequent to that. In taking out a layer of 
corporate management since the year-end, the Board, after 
carefully considering the rates for the new executive Directors, 
have rebased executive pay to reﬂ ect the current size and scale 
of the business.
Directors’ remuneration report
For the year ended 30 September 2011 Future plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
1
2
3
4 1
2 3
4
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
The annual basic salaries for current executive Directors are set 
out below:
From 
27 October 2011
From 
1 October 2010 Change (%)
Mark Wood £260,000 £235,000 10.6
Graham Harding £170,000 £154,000 10.4
(b)  Performance-related annual bonuses
All annual bonuses are at the discretion of the committee and 
are performance-linked. The overriding principle is that the 
performance targets should be stretching and should reﬂ ect 
good progress in the underlying business and an exceptional 
performance would be required to achieve maximum bonus. 
In 2006, the committee designed and implemented a new annual 
performance-related bonus scheme (Annual Bonus Scheme) to 
apply to the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and other 
senior managers which was varied in 2010 as noted below. 
The proﬁ t based element of such bonus is calculated by reference 
to the adjusted earnings before interest, tax and amortisation 
(EBITA) proﬁ ts of the Group in respect of each ﬁ nancial year. 
Adjusted EBITA is used to ensure alignment within the Group and 
to focus executive Directors on the operating proﬁ tability of the 
Group to the beneﬁ t of shareholders. For 2012, as there are planned 
exceptional items in connection with the Group restructuring, 
the measure used will be adjusted earnings before interest, tax, 
amortisation and exceptionals (EBITAE). There were no exceptional 
items in 2008, 2009, 2010 but there were for 2011.
In order to ensure that targets are stretching, the range for payment 
is as follows: 
::  If EBITAE is 10% below target EBITAE, no discretionary bonus 
will be payable. 
::  If EBITAE is between EBITAE target and 10% below EBITAE target, 
such amount as the committee determines in its discretion will 
be payable. The committee retained discretion to ensure that the 
level of bonus was merited by the individual.
::  If EBITAE target is achieved, 40% of basic annual salary will be 
payable to the CEO and 25% of basic annual salary will be payable 
to the Group Finance Director. 
::  If EBITAE target is exceeded by up to 15%, such amount as the 
Remuneration committee determines in its discretion in excess of 
40% and 25% of basic annual salary respectively will be payable.
::  If EBITAE target is exceeded by 15% or more, the maximum bonus 
of 80% of basic annual salary for the CEO and 50% of basic annual 
salary for the Group Finance Director will be payable.
The adjusted EBITAE target is set by the committee to be challenging 
and is set by reference to the budget for the relevant ﬁ nancial year. 
Target EBITAE for 2012 is not published here as that would be proﬁ t 
forecast guidance ahead of the relevant period. For 2011 target 
EBITA was £10.9m. EBITA performance was signiﬁ cantly below this 
level for 2011 and consequently no discretionary bonus was payable.
In 2010 the committee varied the Annual Bonus Scheme by making 
an element of the Chief Executive’s bonus up to 20% of the Chief 
Executive’s salary determined by subjective criteria. Following 
detailed discussion the committee determined that no part of the 
total of 20% of the Annual Bonus Scheme would be payable to the 
previous executive team given the poor ﬁ nancial and share price 
performances of the Group during the year. For 2012 the principle 
of subjective criteria is extended to the Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director, and individual targets are being set by the 
committee to align that part of the bonus to the Group’s new strategy.
Payment of any annual bonus under the Annual Bonus Scheme is 
made in December, following announcement of preliminary results 
and the conclusion of the audit in respect of the preceding ﬁ nancial 
year. Payment of Annual Bonus is subject to the executive being in 
the Company’s employment at the time of payment of such bonus 
and not having given or received notice of termination of employment 
and not being subject to disciplinary proceedings at that time.
The potential maximum annual bonus payable to the previous 
executive Directors under the Annual Bonus Scheme during 
2011 was 100% of basic annual salary for the Chief Executive 
and 50% for the Group Finance Director. 
Based on EBITA performance achieved for 2011, and, in the case 
of the Chief Executive, on individual performance measures, 
the committee awarded total Annual Bonus payments of nil 
to the Chief Executive and nil to the Group Finance Director.
(c)  Long-term incentive plans (general policy)
The Board and the committee consider that it is right to align the 
interests of executive Directors and senior managers with those of 
shareholders by encouraging Directors and senior managers to hold 
shares in the Company, and by the grant of appropriate long-term 
share incentives to both executive Directors and senior managers. 
Performance measures are considered by the committee to reﬂ ect 
Company speciﬁ cs and business objectives, taking into account 
Company strategy. 
2005 Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The 2005 PSP replaced both the 2003 LTIP and the discretionary 
share options for executive Directors and other senior management. 
Other than in exceptional circumstances, the maximum value of PSP 
awards that may be granted to any individual in any one-year period 
is 100% of basic annual salary.
Mark Wood Graham Harding
1: Basic salary (non-performance related) 32.00%
2: Annual bonus (max.) (performance related) 32.00%
3: Potential PSP grant (performance related) 32.00%
4: Pension supplement (non-performance related) 4.00%
1: Basic salary (non-performance related) 36.04%
2: Annual bonus (max.) (performance related) 23.42%
3: Potential PSP grant (performance related) 36.04%
4: Pension contribution (non-performance related) 4.50% Future plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
To alleviate short-term volatility, the return index will be averaged 
in the TSR calculations for each company over the three months 
prior to the start and end of the performance period. 
The Company considered it appropriate to measure performance in 
respect of both EPS and TSR and the speciﬁ c criteria are considered 
to be stretching. The performance criteria were set following 
consultation with both the Association of British Insurers (ABI) 
and major shareholders. Consideration will be given to alternative 
performance conditions potentially better linked to business 
objectives for future years. The Company will also consult with 
major shareholders if any substantial changes to such measures 
are proposed to be implemented. 
(d) Share option schemes (no options have been issued since 2004)
No executive share options were granted to executive Directors or 
other employees during the year and it is intended that no further 
options will be granted. All share option schemes introduced by 
the Company have a ten-year life. Details of existing, outstanding 
share options of executive Directors are set out on page 38, and 
information regarding executive share option schemes and all 
options grants (including the performance conditions) are set 
out in note 25 to the ﬁ nancial statements on pages 69 to 72.
Executive Directors may hold options under the all-employee 
sharesave plan which, in common with plans of this type, are not 
subject to performance conditions. 
(e)  Pensions (money-purchase beneﬁ ts only)
The only element of remuneration that is pensionable is basic annual 
salary, excluding bonuses and beneﬁ ts in kind. Employer’s pension 
contributions during the year for the former executive Directors 
were payable at 20% for the Chief Executive and 12.5% for the Group 
Finance Director. Those rates are now 12.5% for the new executive 
Directors. As a result of changes in tax legislation, Mark Wood 
receives his entitlement to employer’s pension contributions in cash 
as a salary supplement. This additional cash payment is not included 
in determining his entitlement to any bonus, share-based incentive 
or pension entitlement. 
Policy on share ownership
The Company has a policy on share ownership by executive Directors 
which requires that any such Director should accumulate a holding 
in shares over a ﬁ ve-year period where the acquisition cost of those 
shares represents at least one times salary.
Policy on remuneration of non-executive Directors
The remuneration of non-executive Directors is determined by the 
Board and reviewed every three years. Fees are paid at a standard 
annual rate to reﬂ ect the time, commitment and responsibilities 
of the roles, with additional fees paid to those who chair Board 
committees to reﬂ ect their additional responsibilities. The time 
commitment required increased signiﬁ cantly during the year, but 
no additional payments have been made. Separately, the committee 
sets the fee payable to the Chairman of the Board. The standard 
fees from 1 October 2011 are set out in the table below:
Basic annual fees
2011
£
Chairman 90,000
Other non-executive Directors 35,000
Additional fees¹
Chairman of committee 5,000
Senior independent Director 5,000
Member of committee Nil
Note:
1.  Additional fees apply only once, regardless of the number of committees 
of which a non-executive Director is a member or a chairman.
On 21 December 2010 awards were granted to, amongst others, 
Stevie Spring and John Bowman. These awards would have vested 
on 21 December 2013, subject to performance targets measured 
over the three-year period from 1 October 2010 to 30 September 
2013 having been met, and provided that the participants were still 
employed by the Company on the vesting date. Vesting of the awards 
was subject to both Total Shareholder Return (TSR) and Earnings 
Per Share performance as described below. These performance 
conditions were set following extensive consultation with major 
institutional shareholders. Details of the awards made to executive 
Directors under the PSP are set out on page 38. 
Following their resignations on 27 October 2011, all outstanding 
PSP awards held by Stevie Spring and John Bowman lapsed 
due to the failure by the Company to satisfy the relevant 
performance conditions for the pro rata period from the dates 
of grant to 27 October 2011.
Annual awards under the PSP will usually be granted within the 
42-day period following announcement of preliminary results. 
All awards granted in December 2008 will lapse in December 2011 
due to the performance criteria not having been met. 
Earnings Per Share Performance Criterion – 50% of PSP Award
Growth in EPS over the three years is to exceed annual Retail Price 
Index (RPI) + 3% for the award to vest, with full vesting at annual 
RPI + 8% and on a straight-line basis between these levels.
Total Shareholder Return Performance Criterion – 50% of PSP Award
If the Company’s TSR performance places it below median ranking, none 
of the part of the award dependent on TSR performance will vest. If the 
TSR performance places it above median ranking, 25% will vest through 
to 100% if the Company is ranked in the upper quintile, i.e. top 20%. 
Between median and upper quintile, the award will vest on a pro rata 
straight-line basis.
In respect of the TSR performance, the Company’s performance 
is measured against a basket of comparator companies comprising 
at all times a minimum of 15 companies. The list for all grants made 
up to 20 December 2010 comprises:
Bloomsbury Publishing Mecom Group
Centaur Media Pearson
Chime Communications Reed Elsevier
Euromoney Institutional Investor STV Group
Haynes Publishing Trinity Mirror
Informa Wilmington Group
ITE Group WPP Group
ITV Yell Group
Johnston Press
The list for all grants made from 21 December 2010 will comprise:
Bloomsbury Publishing Motivcom
Centaur Media Progressive Digital Media
Chime Communications Quarto
Ebiquity STV Group
Haynes Publishing Ten Alps
Huntsworth Trinity Mirror
Johnston Press Wilmington Group
M&C Saatchi Yell Group
Mecom Group YouGov
Directors’ remuneration report continued Future plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
The Board is due to review these rates during the forthcoming year.
Non-executive Directors are not included in any 
performance-related bonus, share incentive schemes 
or pension arrangements. 
Policy on Directors’ service contracts and termination payments
(a) Service contracts of executive Directors and compensation
The service contracts of executive Directors are terminable on 
one year’s notice. Compensation for early termination is limited to 
one year’s basic annual salary and beneﬁ ts and the Director would 
be required to mitigate their loss. Any entitlements under share 
incentive plans will vest or lapse, as applicable, at the discretion 
of the committee, in accordance with the terms of such plans. 
The details are shown in the table below.
New service contracts will be implemented during the year 
for Mark Wood and Graham Harding to reﬂ ect their new roles.
(b)  Letters of appointment of non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors have three-year appointments with the 
Company, which are terminable on three months’ notice by either 
party or if the Director is not reappointed at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting.
Retirement and re-election
It is the Company’s policy that every Director stands for election 
every year.
Policy on external appointments
The Company believes that exposure of its executive Directors 
to other Boards can be beneﬁ cial and can help to broaden their 
experience and knowledge. Executive Directors are therefore 
permitted to join other boards as non-executive Directors, subject 
to the prior approval of the Board. Currently, neither of the executive 
Directors holds an external appointment on the board of any other 
publicly-listed company so no fees are due to them or the Company. 
Whilst she was Chief Executive, Stevie Spring was chairman of the 
Trustees for BBC Children in Need, which is a registered charity.
Performance graphs: Total Shareholder Return against 
FTSE Media (UK companies)
The committee has again chosen to publish graphs for two different 
periods. In each case, these show the TSR on a holding of shares in 
the Company compared with a hypothetical holding of shares made 
up of shares of the same kinds and number as those by reference 
to which the FTSE Media Sector Index (UK companies) is calculated.
FTSE Media Sector Index
The following is a list of companies currently included in the 
FTSE Media Sector Index (UK companies). 
4imprint Group Mecom Group
Aegis Group moneysupermarket.com Group
Bloomsbury Publishing Pearson
British Sky Broadcasting Perform Group
Centaur Media Reed Elsevier
Chime Communications Rightmove
Creston Tarsus Group
Daily Mail ‘A’ Trinity Mirror
Euromoney Institutional Investor UBM
Huntsworth UTV Media
Informa Wilmington Group
ITE Group WPP Group
ITV Yell Group
Graph 1 (overleaf) shows the TSR during the one ﬁ nancial year ended 
30 September 2011. Graph 2 (overleaf) shows the TSR for the past 
ﬁ ve ﬁ nancial years ended 30 September 2011.
The FTSE Media Sector Index (UK companies) is chosen by the 
Company because it is the index which contains the companies 
which currently make up the comparator companies for the 
purposes of the TSR-based performance criteria set in respect 
of share-based awards granted by the Company since November 
2001. The sector currently comprises the companies listed above.
Name of Director Date of contract
Unexpired term 
of contract on 
30 September 2011
Notice period under 
contract
Compensation payable on early 
termination
Stevie Spring 6 June 2006 Until normal 
retirement age
12 months Salary and beneﬁ ts during 
unexpired notice period
John Bowman 24 November 2004 Until normal 
retirement age
12 months Salary and beneﬁ ts during 
unexpired notice period Future plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Graph 1: Financial year ended 30 September 2011
Total Shareholder Return: Rebased to Future plc as of 1 October 2010
0
20
40
60
120
140
100
80
160
Future FTSE All Share Media Index TSR (rebased to Future)
Oct 10 Nov 10 Dec 10 Jan 11 Feb 11 Mar 11 Apr 11 May 11 Jun 11 Jul 11 Aug 11 Sep 11 Oct 11
Graph 2: Past ﬁ ve ﬁ nancial years ended 30 September 2011
Total Shareholder Return: Rebased to Future plc as of 1 October 2006
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
Future FTSE All Share Media Index TSR (rebased to Future)
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Directors’ remuneration report continued Future plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Directors’ remuneration (audited)
The emoluments of the Directors of the Company (including any entitlement to fees or emoluments from subsidiary companies and interests 
in any long-term cash incentive schemes) are set out below: 
A. Aggregate emoluments
Year ended 
30 September 2011 
£’000
Year ended 
30 September 2010 
£’000
Salaries and fees 758 888
Beneﬁ ts 19 21
Performance-related bonuses – 199
Pension contributions 111 111
Total 888 1,219
B. Individual emoluments of Directors
Salary and fees
Performance- 
related bonuses
Value of any other 
non-cash beneﬁ ts
Pension 
contributions
Year ended 
30 September
Directors in ofﬁ ce at 30 September 2011
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2011
£’000
2010
£’000
2011
Total
£’000
2010
Total
£’000
Executive
Stevie Spring
1,8
400 400 – 160 10 12 80 80 490 652
John Bowman
1,9
246 246 – 39 9 9 31 31 286 325
Non-executive
Peter Allen
5
14 – – ––––– 14 –
Seb Bishop 35 35 – ––––– 35 35
Mark Whiteling
3
38 – – ––––– 38 –
Manjit Wolstenholme
4
25 – – ––––– 25 –
Notes:
1.  Beneﬁ ts for executive Directors comprise principally car allowance and private health insurance. There were no taxable expenses paid to any Director in the year.
2.  Roger Parry served as non-executive Chairman until August 2011 and retired as a Director on 28 September 2011 and fees paid totalled £90,000 (2010: £90,000). 
Roger Parry’s services were provided by West Eight Investments Limited and fees in respect of his services were paid to that company. 
3.  Mark Whiteling became a Director on 8 October 2010.
4. Manjit Wolstenholme became a Director on 9 February 2011.
5. Peter Allen became a Director on 5 August 2011.
6. Patrick Taylor and Michael Penington ceased to be Directors on 9 February 2011 and fees totalling £14,000 had been paid to each of them.
7.  In respect of the above emoluments, the total employer’s National Insurance contributions for the year ended 30 September 2011 were £105,000 (2010: £139,000).
8. Stevie Spring ceased to be a Director on 27 October 2011.
9. John Bowman ceased to be a Director on 27 October 2011.
10. Mark Wood and Graham Harding were appointed to the Board on 27 October 2011. Future plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Directors’ interests in share schemes (audited)
Details of options and other share incentives held by executive Directors and movements during the year are set out below along with details of 
the awards made during the year.
Directors in ofﬁ ce at 
30 September 2011 Date of grant
Price paid 
for grant
Earliest 
exercise date Expiry date
Exercise 
price per 
share (p)
Balance at 
1 Oct 2010
Vested/ 
exercised 
during the
year
5
Granted 
during the
year
6
Lapsed 
unexercised 
during the 
year
Balance at 
30 Sept 2011 
Executive discretionary 
share option schemes
1
John Bowman 19 Nov 2001 Nil 19 Nov 2004 19 Nov 
2011
47 200,000 – – – 200,000
PSP
2
Stevie Spring 5 Dec 2007 Nil 5 Dec 2010 N/A Nil 931,298 – – (931,928) –
19 Dec 2008 Nil 19 Dec 2011 N/A Nil 1,876,923 – – – 1,876,923
27 Nov 2009 Nil 27 Nov 2012 N/A Nil 2,000,000 – – – 2,000,000
21 Dec 2010 Nil 21 Dec 2013 N/A Nil – – 1,666,667 – 1,666,667
John Bowman 5 Dec 2007 Nil 5 Dec 2010 N/A Nil 751,145 – – (751,145) –
19 Dec 2008 Nil 19 Dec 2011 N/A Nil 1,513,846 – – – 1,513,846
27 Nov 2009 Nil 27 Nov 2012 N/A Nil 1,230,000 – – – 1,230,000
21 Dec 2010 Nil 21 Dec 2013 N/A Nil – – 1,025,000 – 1,025,000
Deferred Bonus Shares
3
Stevie Spring 19 Dec 2008 Nil 19 Dec 2009 
& 25 Nov 2010
N/A – 274,214 (274,214) – – –
John Bowman 19 Dec 2008 Nil 19 Dec 2009 
& 25 Nov 2010
N/A – 18,281 (18,281) – – –
Sharesave
4
 
Stevie Spring 12 Apr 2010 Nil 1 Jun 2013 1 Dec 2013 15.5 58,548 – – – 58,548
Directors in ofﬁ ce at 
15 December 2011 Date of grant
Price paid 
for grant
Earliest 
exercise date Expiry date
Exercise 
price per 
share (p)
Balance at 
1 Oct 2010
Vested/ 
exercised 
during the
year
5
Granted 
during the
year
6
Lapsed 
unexercised 
during the 
year
Balance at 
30 Sept 2011 
PSP
2
Graham Harding 5 Dec 2007 Nil 5 Dec 2010 N/A Nil 164,315 – – (164,315) –
19 Dec 2008 Nil 19 Dec 2011 N/A Nil 331,157––– 331,157
27 Nov 2009 Nil 27 Nov 2012 N/A Nil 269,065 – – – 269,065
21 Dec 2010 Nil 21 Dec 2013 N/A Nil – – 224,221 – 224,221
Deferred Bonus Shares
3
Graham Harding 19 Dec 2008 Nil 19 Dec 2009 
& 25 Nov 2010
N/A – 18,281 (18,281) – – –
Sharesave
4
Mark Wood 20 Dec 2010 Nil 1 Feb 2014 1 Aug 2014 16.5 – – 54,545 – 54,545
Graham Harding 22 Dec 2008 Nil 1 Feb 2012 1 Aug 2012 10 96,000 – – – 96,000
DABS
7
Graham Harding 5 Dec 2007 Nil 5 Dec 2010 N/A Nil 72,519 (72,519) – – –
19 Dec 2008 Nil 19 Dec 2011 N/A Nil 118,269 – – – 118,269
21 Dec 2010 Nil 21 Dec 2013 N/A Nil – – 62,500 – 62,500
Notes:
1.  The performance criteria which applied to this scheme are set out in note 25 on page 71.
2.  The performance criteria which apply to the PSP scheme are set out on page 72. All PSP awards held by Stevie Spring and John Bowman lapsed following 
their resignations on 27 October 2011 due to the failure by the Company to satisfy performance criteria for the pro rata period from the dates of grant until 
27 October 2011.
3.  Details of the Deferred Bonus Share awards, which have no performance conditions, are set out in note 25 on page 72.
4.  Details of the Sharesave scheme, which has no performance conditions, are set out in note 25 on page 71. 
5.  The market price at the time of vesting of the Deferred Bonus Shares was 20.5p and at the time of vesting of the DABS was 21p. 
6.  The market price at the time of grant of the PSP awards was 24p, at the time of grant of the Sharesave award was 23.3p and at the time of grant of the 
DABS award was 24p.
7.  Graham Harding is no longer eligible to receive awards under the DABS scheme as an executive Director of the Company, but retains the beneﬁ t of awards 
made prior to his appointment as an executive Director on 27 October 2011.
Directors’ remuneration report continued Future plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Share-based incentive awards granted to other employees
Executive discretionary share options have been granted over the 
Company’s shares under the share option schemes described in 
note 25 on pages 69 to 72. Options granted since the 2001 rights 
issue are subject to performance criteria linked to growth in 
TSR or EPS, and are summarised in note 25. 
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS)
The DABS is a share-based incentive scheme, intended for senior 
managers, with levels of participation dependent on the relevant 
Group company’s ﬁ nancial performance during the most recent 
ﬁ nancial year and, for certain individuals, on Group ﬁ nancial 
performance. The maximum value of any award of shares granted 
under the DABS to any one participant is an amount which is equal 
to a ﬁ xed percentage of that eligible participant’s annual cash 
bonus actually received or payable for the previous ﬁ nancial year. 
The number of shares to be awarded to each eligible participant 
will be calculated by reference to the market value of a share 
in the Company on the date of the award.
The shares awarded under the DABS will be transferred to the 
eligible participant three years after the date of award, subject 
only to the employee remaining in the employment of the Group 
throughout those three years.
In December 2010, DABS awards were granted over 752,672 shares 
to senior managers, the values of which were calculated in respect 
of each individual by reference to the cash bonus payable to them 
in respect of the ﬁ nancial year to 30 September 2010. Certain 
limited DABS awards will be made in the 42-day period following 
announcement of preliminary results on 24 November 2011. 
Sharesave plan
The Board wishes to continue to encourage employee share 
ownership. The Company’s Sharesave plan is open to all eligible 
UK employees at the date an invitation is made. Full details of the 
Sharesave Plan are set out in note 25 on page 71. In total, under 
the Company’s Sharesave Plan there were, as at 30 September 2011, 
share options outstanding over 8,667,741 shares. Included in this 
total are the options granted to executive Directors in the table 
shown opposite.
It is the Board’s intention to continue to consider the issue of 
invitations to eligible employees each year normally within the 
period of 42 days following the publication of the Company’s interim 
and/or annual results. The Board is minded to approve the issue 
of an invitation to all eligible UK employees following announcement 
of the interim results in May 2012. 
Interests in shares
The Directors’ interests in the issued shares of the Company, 
and movements since 1 October 2010, are set out on page 23 of 
the Directors’ report. The Directors’ interests in discretionary/
executive share options and sharesave options are set out on page 38. 
Dilution
The Remuneration committee has regard to ABI limits on dilution 
and regularly reviews the number of shares committed under share 
incentive schemes in any rolling 10-year period and the headroom 
available for granting share-based incentives in accordance with 
ABI guidelines on dilution limits.
As at 1 October 2010, the number of shares committed under 
share-based incentive schemes since 1 October 2000 was 25,237,823.
During the year, a further 4,980,723 shares were committed under 
share-based incentive schemes, 3,250,799 awards and options 
lapsed and 273,430 committed shares ceased to be counted because 
they fell outside the rolling ten-year period.
The total number of shares committed under share-based incentive 
schemes as at 30 September 2011 was 26,694,317.
As at 30 September 2011, in respect of the 5% dilution limit, the 
16,924,822 shares committed minus the 1,426,848 shares held 
by the EBT represented 4.7%, and in respect of the 10% dilution 
limit, the 26,694,317 shares committed minus the 1,426,848 shares 
held by the EBT represents 7.7%.
Purchase of shares by Employee Beneﬁ t Trust
Due to the restriction of such thresholds the Company would not 
have been able to issue grants under the PSP or DABS schemes in 
full from December 2010. As these schemes are an important part 
of remuneration packages of its senior executives, the committee 
decided to start to purchase shares into the EBT to allow continued 
grants. As at the date of last year’s annual report, the EBT had 
purchased 425,000 shares. The EBT purchased a further 1,000,324 
shares during December 2010 and April 2011 and as at 15 December 
2011 holds 1,426,848 shares.
For the forthcoming year the committee may decide to grant 
PSP awards to the executive team in the 42-day period following 
announcement of the preliminary or interim results. In addition, 
a decision on Sharesave grants has been deferred until the 42-day 
period following announcement of the interim results for the period 
ending 31 March 2012.
Share price during the ﬁ nancial year
The middle-market price of a share in the Company during the 
ﬁ nancial year was in the range from 10.5 pence to 30 pence. 
The average price for the ﬁ nancial year was 20.15 pence and 
at the end of the ﬁ nancial year the share price was 10.5 pence. 
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Manjit Wolstenholme
Chairman of the Remuneration committee
15 December 2011 Future plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Independent auditors’ report 
to the members of Future plc
We have audited the ﬁ nancial statements of Future plc for the year 
ended 30 September 2011 which comprise the Consolidated income 
statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, 
the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Company 
statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated balance sheet, 
the Company balance sheet, the Consolidated and Company cash 
ﬂ ow statements and notes to the Consolidated and Company cash 
ﬂ ow statements, the accounting policies and the related notes. 
The ﬁ nancial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and, as regards 
the parent company ﬁ nancial statements, as applied in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibility statement 
set out on pages 23 and 25, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the ﬁ nancial statements and for being satisﬁ ed that 
they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and 
express an opinion on the ﬁ nancial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the ﬁ nancial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the ﬁ nancial statements sufﬁ cient to give reasonable 
assurance that the ﬁ nancial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of signiﬁ cant accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the ﬁ nancial statements. In addition, we read 
all the ﬁ nancial and non-ﬁ nancial information in the annual report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited ﬁ nancial 
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Opinion on ﬁ nancial statements 
In our opinion: 
::  the ﬁ nancial statements give a true and fair view of the state 
of the Group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 
30 September 2011 and of the Group’s loss and Group’s 
and parent company’s cash ﬂ ows for the year then ended;
::  the Group ﬁ nancial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
::  the parent company ﬁ nancial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
::  the ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 
the Group ﬁ nancial statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
::  the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited 
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006;
::  the information given in the Directors’ report for the ﬁ nancial year 
for which the ﬁ nancial statements are prepared is consistent with 
the ﬁ nancial statements; and
::  the information given in the Corporate Governance report 
with respect to internal control and risk management systems 
is consistent with the ﬁ nancial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
::  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
::  the parent company ﬁ nancial statements and the part of 
the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not 
in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
::  certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration speciﬁ ed 
by law are not made; or 
::  we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
::  the Directors’ statement, set out on pages 28 and 29, in relation 
to going concern;
::  the parts of the Corporate Governance report relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code speciﬁ ed for our review; and
::  certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board 
on Directors’ remuneration.
Philip Stokes (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
15 December 2011 Future plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Contents
Consolidated income statement 42
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 42
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 43
Company statement of changes in equity 43
Consolidated balance sheet 44
Company balance sheet 45
Consolidated and Company 
cash ﬂ ow statements 46
Notes to the Consolidated 
and Company cash ﬂ ow statements 47
Accounting policies 48
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements 52
Financial statements Future plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 September 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Revenue 1,2 141.7 151.5
Operating proﬁ t before exceptional items,
impairment and amortisation of intangible assets 1 6.6 10.1
Exceptional items 5 (4.8) –
Impairment of intangible assets 12 (17.1) –
Amortisation of intangible assets 12 (1.2) (2.7)
Operating (loss)/proﬁ t 3 (16.5) 7.4
Finance income 7 – –
Finance costs 7 (1.5) (1.8)
Net ﬁ nance costs 7 (1.5) (1.8)
(Loss)/proﬁ t before tax 1 (18.0) 5.6
Tax on (loss)/proﬁ t 8 (1.3) (0.1)
(Loss)/proﬁ t for the year attributable to owners of the parent (19.3) 5.5
Earnings per 1p Ordinary share
Note
2011
pence
2010
pence
Basic (loss)/earnings per share 10 (5.9) 1.7
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share 10 (5.9) 1.6
As permitted by the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 no Company income statement is presented.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 September 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
(Loss)/proﬁ t for the year (19.3) 5.5 
Currency translation differences – 0.1
Cash ﬂ ow hedges 26 – 0.1
Other comprehensive income for the year – 0.2
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year attributable to owners of the parent (19.3) 5.7
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax. Future plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 September 2011
Group Note
Issued
share 
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Treasury 
reserve
£m
Cash ﬂ ow 
hedge 
reserve
£m
Accumulated 
losses
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 October 2009 3.3 24.5 109.0 (0.1) (0.2) (55.0) 81.5
Proﬁ t for the year – – – – – 5.5 5.5
Currency translation differences – – – – – 0.1 0.1
Cash ﬂ ow hedges 26 – – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Other comprehensive income for the year –––– 0.1 0.1 0.2
Total comprehensive income for the year –––– 0.1 5.6 5.7
Final dividend relating to 2009 9 – – – – – (1.6) (1.6)
Share schemes
– Value of employees’ services 6 – – – – – 0.5 0.5
– Deferred tax on share schemes 14 – – – – – 0.1 0.1
Transfer between reserves 26 – – – 0.1 – (0.1) – 
Balance at 30 September 2010 3.3 24.5 109.0 – (0.1) (50.5) 86.2
Loss for the year ––––– (19.3) (19.3)
Currency translation differences ––––– ––
Cash ﬂ ow hedges 26––––– ––
Other comprehensive income for the year ––––– ––
Total comprehensive loss for the year ––––– (19.3) (19.3)
Interim dividend relating to 2010 9 – – – – – (1.6) (1.6)
Final dividend relating to 2010 9 – – – – – (2.0) (2.0)
Share schemes
– Value of employees’ services 6 – – – – – 0.4 0.4
– Deferred tax on share schemes 14 – – – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Treasury shares acquired 26––– (0.3) – – (0.3)
Balance at 30 September 2011 3.3 24.5 109.0 (0.3) (0.1) (73.1) 63.3
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 September 2011
Company Note
Issued
share 
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Cash ﬂ ow 
hedge 
reserve
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 October 2009 3.3 24.5 – 54.4 82.2
Loss for the year ––– (3.1) (3.1)
Cash ﬂ ow hedges 26 – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Other comprehensive loss for the year – – (0.1) – (0.1)
Total comprehensive loss for the year –– (0.1) (3.1) (3.2)
Final dividend relating to 2009 9 – – – (1.6) (1.6)
Share schemes
– Value of employees’ services – – – 0.5 0.5
– Deferred tax on share schemes – – – 0.1 0.1
Balance at 30 September 2010 3.3 24.5 (0.1) 50.3 78.0
Loss for the year ––– (3.2) (3.2)
Cash ﬂ ow hedges 26 – – 0.1 – 0.1
Other comprehensive income for the year 0.1 – 0.1
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year –– 0.1 (3.2) (3.1)
Interim dividend relating to 2010 9 – – – (1.6) (1.6)
Final dividend relating to 2010 9 – – – (2.0) (2.0)
Share schemes
– Value of employees’ services – – – 0.4 0.4
– Deferred tax on share schemes – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Balance at 30 September 2011 3.3 24.5 – 43.8 71.6 Future plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 30 September 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 3.4 3.2
Intangible assets – goodwill 12 94.1 110.9
Intangible assets – other 12 2.6 1.2
Deferred tax 14 1.0 0.9
Total non-current assets 101.1 116.2
Current assets
Inventories 15 3.5 3.4
Corporation tax recoverable – 0.3
Trade and other receivables 16 22.7 23.8
Cash and cash equivalents 17 12.5 13.3
Total current assets 38.7 40.8
Total assets 139.8 157.0
Equity and liabilities
Equity
Issued share capital 24 3.3 3.3
Share premium account 24.5 24.5
Merger reserve 26 109.0 109.0
Treasury reserve 26 (0.3) –
Cash ﬂ ow hedge reserve 26 (0.1) (0.1)
Accumulated losses (73.1) (50.5)
Total equity 63.3 86.2
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 5.1 7.8
Financial liabilities – derivatives 20 0.4 0.4
Deferred tax 14 1.8 2.0
Provisions 21 2.1 0.8
Other non-current liabilities 22 1.9 2.4
Total non-current liabilities 11.3 13.4
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities – interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 19.2 12.9
Financial liabilities – derivatives 20 0.3 0.3
Trade and other payables 18 39.6 40.8
Corporation tax payable 6.1 3.4
Total current liabilities 65.2 57.4
Total liabilities 76.5 70.8
Total equity and liabilities 139.8 157.0
The ﬁ nancial statements on pages 41 to 73 were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 December 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
 
Peter Allen Graham Harding
Chairman Group Finance Director Future plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Company balance sheet
as at 30 September 2011
Note
2011
£m
2010
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investment in Group undertakings 13 159.1 159.1
Deferred tax 14 0.1 0.2
Total non-current assets 159.2 159.3
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 16 27.8 39.5
Cash and cash equivalents 17 – 0.7
Total current assets 27.8 40.2
Total assets 187.0 199.5
Equity and liabilities
Equity
Issued share capital 24 3.3 3.3
Share premium account 24.5 24.5
Cash ﬂ ow hedge reserve 26 – (0.1)
Retained earnings 43.8 50.3
Total equity 71.6 78.0
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities – interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 4.9 7.8
Financial liabilities – derivatives 20 0.4 0.4
Provisions 21 0.6 0.7
Total non-current liabilities 5.9 8.9
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities – interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 6.9 5.9
Financial liabilities – non-interest-bearing overdraft 19 6.0 –
Financial liabilities – derivatives 20 0.2 0.2
Trade and other payables 18 96.4 106.5
Total current liabilities 109.5 112.6
Total liabilities 115.4 121.5
Total equity and liabilities 187.0 199.5
The ﬁ nancial statements on pages 41 to 73 were approved by the Board of Directors on 15 December 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
 
Peter Allen Graham Harding
Chairman Group Finance Director Future plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
Consolidated and Company cash ﬂ ow statements
for the year ended 30 September 2011
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Cash ﬂ ows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 3.8 (3.4) 12.0 (3.7)
Tax received 1.4 – 1.4 –
Interest paid (1.2) (0.9) (1.4) (1.2)
Tax paid (0.1) – (0.2) –
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 3.9 (4.3) 11.8 (4.9)
Cash ﬂ ows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1.2) – (0.8) –
Purchase of magazine titles, websites and trademarks –– (0.2) –
Purchase of computer software and website development (2.4) – (0.8) –
Net movement in amounts owed to/by subsidiaries –3.4 –13.2
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (3.6) 3.4 (1.8) 13.2
Cash ﬂ ows from ﬁ nancing activities
Purchase of own shares by Employee Beneﬁ t Trust (0.3) – ––
Draw down of bank loans 10.0 5.0 ––
Repayment of bank loans (7.2) (7.2) (9.9) (8.7)
Equity dividends paid (3.6) (3.6) (1.6) (1.6)
Net cash used in ﬁ nancing activities (1.1) (5.8) (11.5) (10.3)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (0.8) (6.7) (1.5) (2.0)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 13.3 0.7 14.6 2.7
Exchange adjustments –– 0.2 –
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 12.5 (6.0) 13.3 0.7 Future plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Notes to the Consolidated and Company cash ﬂ ow statements
for the year ended 30 September 2011
A. Cash generated from/(used in) operations
The reconciliation of (loss)/proﬁ t for the year to cash ﬂ ows generated from/(used in) operations is set out below:
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
(Loss)/proﬁ t for the year (19.3) (3.2) 5.5 (3.1)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charge 1.2 – 1.6 –
Amortisation of intangible assets 1.2 – 2.7 –
Impairment of intangible assets 17.1 – ––
Share schemes
– Value of employees’ services 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.3
Impairment of ﬁ xed asset investment –0.3 –0.2
Finance costs 1.5 1.3 1.8 1.5
Tax charge/(credit) 1.3 (1.8) 0.1 (2.1)
Proﬁ t/(loss) before changes in working capital and provisions 3.4 (3.3) 12.2 (3.2)
Movement in provisions 1.3 (0.1) (0.3) (0.3)
Increase in inventories (0.1) – (0.1) –
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 1.2 – (0.7) –
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (2.0) – 0.9 (0.2)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 3.8 (3.4) 12.0 (3.7)
B. Analysis of net debt
Group
1 October 
2010
£m
Cash ﬂ ows
£m
Finance leases 
entered into
£m
Other 
non-cash 
changes
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
30 September 
2011
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 13.3 (0.8) – –  – 12.5 
Debt due within one year (12.9) (2.8) (0.1) (3.2) (0.2) (19.2)
Debt due after more than one year (7.8) – (0.2) 2.9 – (5.1)
Net debt (7.4) (3.6) (0.3) (0.3) (0.2) (11.8)
Company
1 October 
2010
£m
Cash ﬂ ows
£m
Non-cash 
changes
£m
30 September 
2011
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 0.7 (6.7) – (6.0)
Debt due within one year (5.9) 2.2 (3.2) (6.9)
Debt due after more than one year (7.8) – 2.9 (4.9)
Net debt (13.0) (4.5) (0.3) (17.8)
C. Reconciliation of movement in net debt
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Net debt at start of year (7.4) (13.0) (15.6) (19.4)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (0.8) (6.7) (1.5) (2.0)
Movement in borrowings (2.8) 2.2 9.9 8.7
Finance leases entered into (0.3) – ––
Other non-cash changes (0.3) (0.3) (0.3) (0.3)
Exchange movements (0.2) – 0.1 –
Net debt at end of year (11.8) (17.8) (7.4) (13.0) Future plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The ﬁ nancial statements have been prepared under the historical cost 
convention, except for derivative ﬁ nancial instruments and share awards 
which are stated at fair value.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the 
consolidated ﬁ nancial statements published in this 2011 Annual Report 
are set out below. These policies have been applied consistently to all 
years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The ﬁ nancial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the International 
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee’s (IFRIC) interpretations 
as adopted by the European Union, applicable as at 30 September 2011, 
and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption under Section 408 of 
the Companies Act 2006 not to present a Company income statement.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to 
govern the ﬁ nancial and operating policies, generally accompanying 
a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights. The existence 
and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or 
convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls 
another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the 
date that control ceases. The purchase method of accounting is used 
to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets 
given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed 
at the date of exchange, and includes the fair value of any asset or 
liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. 
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identiﬁ able assets 
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition 
date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest. The excess of 
the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the 
identiﬁ able net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on 
transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated but are considered an impairment indicator 
of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been 
changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies 
adopted by the Group.
Segment reporting
The Group is organised and arranged primarily by geographical segment. 
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal 
reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker which is 
considered to be the Board of Future plc.
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement 
when the signiﬁ cant risks and rewards of ownership have been 
transferred to the buyer. Revenue from services rendered is recognised 
in the income statement once the service has been completed. 
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or 
receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course 
of the Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, 
estimated returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating 
sales within the Group. The following recognition criteria also apply:
•  Magazine newsstand circulation and advertising revenue is 
recognised according to the date that the related publication 
goes on sale.
•  Event income is recognised when the event has taken place.
•  Licensing revenue is recognised on the supply of the licensed 
content.
•  Other revenue is recognised at the time of sale or provision 
of service.
Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the ﬁ nancial statements of each of the Group’s entities 
are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated 
ﬁ nancial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Group’s 
presentation currency.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency 
using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction. Foreign 
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such 
transactions and from the translation at balance sheet exchange rates 
of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
recognised in the income statement.
( c )  Group companies
The results and ﬁ nancial position of all the Group entities that have 
a functional currency different from the presentation currency are 
translated into the presentation currency as follows:
(i)    Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet are translated 
at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet.
(ii)  Income and expenses for each income statement are translated 
at average exchange rates.
(iii)  All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate 
component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of 
the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other 
currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are 
taken to shareholders’ equity. When a foreign operation is sold, exchange 
differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income 
statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments existing at the transition date have 
been treated as assets and liabilities of the acquiring company. Goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity 
post transition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity 
and translated at the closing rate.
Employee beneﬁ ts
(a) Pension obligations
The Group has a number of deﬁ ned contribution plans. For deﬁ ned 
contribution plans the Group pays contributions into a privately 
administered pension plan on a contractual or voluntary basis. 
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions 
have been paid. Contributions are charged to the income statement 
as they are incurred. Future plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
(b) Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based 
compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received 
in exchange for the grant of the awards is recognised as an expense. 
The total amount to be expensed over the appropriate service period is 
determined by reference to the fair value of the awards. The calculation 
of fair value includes assumptions regarding the number of cancellations 
and excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions 
(for example, earnings per share). Non-market vesting conditions are 
included in assumptions about the number of awards that are expected 
to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of 
the number of awards that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact 
of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, 
with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Shares in the Company are held in trust to satisfy the exercise of awards 
under certain of the Group’s share-based compensation plans and 
exceptional awards. The trust is consolidated within the Group accounts. 
These shares are presented in the consolidated balance sheet as a 
deduction from equity at the market value on the date of acquisition.
( c )  Bonus plans
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses taking into 
consideration the proﬁ t attributable to the Company’s shareholders 
after certain adjustments. The Group recognises a provision where 
contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created 
a constructive obligation.
Leases
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership of the leased assets are classiﬁ ed as ﬁ nance 
leases. All other leases are classed as operating leases.
Assets held under ﬁ nance leases are included as property, plant and 
equipment at the lower of their fair value at inception or the present value 
of the minimum lease payments and are depreciated over their estimated 
economic lives or the ﬁ nance lease period, whichever is the shorter. 
The corresponding liability is recorded within borrowings. The interest 
element of the rental costs is charged against proﬁ ts over the period 
of the lease using the actuarial method.
Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received 
from the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the period of the lease.
Tax
Tax on the proﬁ t or loss for the year comprises current tax and deferred 
tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that 
it relates to items recognised directly in equity in which case it is 
recognised in equity.
Current tax is payable based on taxable proﬁ ts for the year, using tax 
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, along with any adjustment relating to tax payable in previous 
years. Taxable proﬁ t differs from net proﬁ t in the income statement in 
that income or expense items that are taxable or deductible in other 
years are excluded – as are items that are never taxable or deductible. 
Current tax assets relate to payments on account not offset against 
current tax liabilities.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary 
differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and 
their carrying amounts in the consolidated ﬁ nancial statements. However, 
deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an 
asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that 
at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable proﬁ t 
or loss. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are 
expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the 
deferred tax liability is settled in the appropriate territory.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that 
future taxable proﬁ ts will be available against which the temporary 
differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary 
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the 
Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse 
in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other where 
they relate to the same jurisdiction and there is a legally enforceable 
right to offset.
Dividends
Interim dividend distributions to the Company’s shareholders are 
recognised as a liability in the ﬁ nancial statements in the period in 
which they are paid. Final dividend distributions are recognised in 
the period in which they are approved.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost (or deemed cost) less 
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Certain items of 
property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value prior 
to 1 October 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the 
basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date of that 
valuation. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the items.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate 
the cost of property, plant and equipment less residual value over 
estimated useful lives, as follows:
•  Leasehold properties and improvements – 50 years or period 
of the lease if shorter.
•  Plant and machinery – between one and ﬁ ve years.
•  Equipment, ﬁ xtures and ﬁ ttings – between one and ﬁ ve years.
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted 
if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. An asset’s carrying amount 
is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s 
carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds 
with carrying amounts. These are included in the income statement. Future plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase 
method of accounting. In respect of business combinations that have 
occurred since 1 October 2004, goodwill represents the difference 
between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of net identiﬁ able 
assets acquired. In respect of business combinations prior to this date, 
goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents 
the amount recorded under previous GAAP. The classiﬁ cation and 
accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior 
to 1 October 2004 has not been reconsidered in preparing the Group’s 
opening IFRS balance sheet.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is allocated to appropriate cash generating units (those 
expected to beneﬁ t from the business combination) and it is not 
subject to amortisation but is tested annually for impairment. 
(b) Titles, trademarks, advertising relationships and other 
‘magazine and website related’ intangibles
Magazine-related intangible assets have a ﬁ nite useful life and are stated 
at cost less accumulated amortisation. Assets acquired as part of a 
business combination are initially stated at fair value. Amortisation is 
calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of these 
intangibles over their estimated useful lives (between one and ﬁ ve years).
Expenditure incurred on the launch of new magazine titles is recognised 
as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
(c)  Computer software and website development
Non-integral computer software purchases are stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation. Costs incurred in the development of new 
websites are capitalised only where the cost can be directly attributed to 
developing the website to operate in the manner intended by management 
and only to the extent of the future economic beneﬁ ts expected from 
its use. These costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their 
estimated useful lives (between one and three years). Costs associated 
with maintaining computer software programmes or websites are 
recognised as an expense as incurred.
Impairment tests and Cash-Generating Units (CGUs)
A CGU is deﬁ ned as the smallest identiﬁ able group of assets that 
generates cash inﬂ ows that are largely independent of the cash 
inﬂ ows from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is not amortised but tested for impairment at least once a year 
or more frequently when there is an indication that it may be impaired. 
Therefore, the evolution of general economic and ﬁ nancial trends as 
well as actual economic performance compared to market expectations 
represent external indicators that are analysed by the Group, together 
with internal performance indicators, in order to assess whether an 
impairment test should be performed more than once a year. 
IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ requires these tests to be performed 
at the level of each CGU or group of CGUs likely to beneﬁ t from 
acquisition-related synergies, within an operating segment. 
Any impairment of goodwill is recorded in the income statement as a 
deduction from operating income and is never reversed subsequently. 
Other intangible assets with a ﬁ nite life are amortised and are tested for 
impairment only where there is an indication that an impairment may 
have occurred.
Recoverable amount
To determine whether an impairment loss should be recognised, 
the carrying value of the assets and liabilities of the CGUs or groups 
of CGUs is compared to their recoverable amount. 
Carrying values of CGUs and groups of CGUs tested include goodwill, 
intangible assets with indeﬁ nite useful lives arising from business 
combinations and assets with ﬁ nite useful lives (property, plant and 
equipment, intangible assets and net working capital). 
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs 
to sell and its value in use. Fair value less costs to sell is the best estimate 
of the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset in an arm’s length 
transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of 
disposal. This estimate is determined, on 30 September, on the basis 
of the discounted present value of expected future cash ﬂ ows plus a 
terminal value and reﬂ ects general market sentiment and conditions. 
Value in use is the present value of the future cash ﬂ ows expected to 
be derived from the CGUs or groups of CGUs. Cash ﬂ ow projections 
are based on economic assumptions and forecast trading conditions 
drawn up by the Group’s management, as follows: 
•  cash ﬂ ow projections are based on ﬁ ve-year business plans; 
•  cash ﬂ ow projections beyond that time frame are extrapolated 
by applying a zero growth rate to perpetuity; and
•  the cash ﬂ ows obtained are discounted using appropriate rates 
for the business and the territories concerned.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
For raw materials, cost is taken to be the purchase price on a ﬁ rst 
in, ﬁ rst out basis. For work in progress and ﬁ nished products, cost 
is calculated as the direct cost of production. It excludes borrowing 
costs. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary 
course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest 
method, less a provision for impairment. 
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with 
banks and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings 
in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value 
and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs 
incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with 
any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the 
redemption value recognised in the income statement over the period 
of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classiﬁ ed as current liabilities unless the Group has 
an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 
12 months after the balance sheet date. Future plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation as a result of past events, and it is more likely than 
not that an outﬂ ow of resources will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the 
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet 
date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Derivative ﬁ nancial instruments and hedging activities
The Group uses derivative ﬁ nancial instruments to reduce exposure 
to foreign exchange and interest rate risks and recognises these at fair 
value in its balance sheet. The Group applies cash ﬂ ow hedge accounting 
under IAS 39 in respect of certain instruments held. For instruments for 
which hedge accounting is applied, gains and losses are taken to equity. 
Any changes to the fair value of derivatives not hedge accounted for are 
recognised in the income statement. Any new instruments entered into 
by the Group will be reviewed on a ’case by case’ basis at inception to 
determine whether they should qualify as hedges and be accounted for 
accordingly under IAS 39. In accordance with its treasury policy, the 
Group does not hold or issue any derivative ﬁ nancial instruments for 
trading purposes.
Investments
The Company’s investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at the 
fair value of consideration payable, including related acquisition costs, 
less any provisions for impairment.
Exceptional items
The Group classiﬁ es transactions as exceptional where they relate 
to an event that falls outside the ordinary activities of the business and 
where individually or in aggregate they have a material impact on the 
ﬁ nancial statements. This classiﬁ cation excludes impairment charges 
made on the carrying value of CGUs or groups of CGUs.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements
The preparation of the accounts under IFRS requires the use of certain 
critical accounting assumptions and requires management to exercise 
its judgement and to make estimates in the process of applying the 
Group’s accounting policies. The areas requiring a higher degree of 
judgement or areas where assumptions and estimates are signiﬁ cant 
to the ﬁ nancial statements are discussed below:
(a) Intangible ﬁ xed assets
The Group uses forecast cash ﬂ ow information and estimates of future 
growth to assess whether goodwill and other intangible ﬁ xed assets are 
impaired. If the results of an operation in future years are adverse to the 
estimates used for impairment testing, an impairment may be triggered 
at that point, or a reduction in useful economic life may be required.
(b) Taxation
The Group is subject to tax in all territories, and judgement and estimates 
of future proﬁ tability are required to determine the Group’s deferred tax 
position. If the ﬁ nal tax outcome is different to that assumed, resulting 
changes will be reﬂ ected in the income statement or statement of 
changes in equity as appropriate. The Group corporation tax provision 
reﬂ ects management’s estimation of the amount of tax payable for ﬁ scal 
years with open tax computations where liabilities remain to be agreed 
with Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs.
( c )  Ret urns provision
The Group makes a provision for sales returns at the end of each month. 
The UK estimate is calculated by looking at the forecast sales projections 
for the following month of the titles that were on sale at the year-end and 
providing for any shortfall. The US estimate is made based on a study of 
the historic levels of returns.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards 
adopted by the Group
There has been no material impact from the adoption of the following 
new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations which 
are relevant to the Group:
•  Improvements to IFRS 2009.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards 
that are not yet effective
Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing 
standards have been published that are mandatory for accounting 
periods beginning on or after 1 October 2011 or later periods but 
which the Group has chosen not to adopt early. The new standards 
that could be relevant to the Group’s operations are as follows:
•  Amendment to IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ 
on derecognition.
• IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’.
• IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’.
• IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’.
• IFRS 12 ‘Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities’.
• IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’.
•  Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ 
on Other Comprehensive Income.
•  Amendment to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ on deferred tax.
• Amendment to  IAS 19 (Revised) ‘Employee beneﬁ ts’.
• IAS 24 (Revised) ‘Related Party Disclosures’.
• IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Separate Financial Statements’.
• IAS 28 (Revised) ‘Investment in Associates’.
• Improvements to IFRS 2010.
Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards 
that are effective but not relevant for the Group’s operations
•  Amendment to IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International 
Financial Reporting Standards’ for additional exemptions.
•  Amendment to IFRS 1 ‘First-time Adoption of International 
Financial Reporting Standards’ – Limited Exemption from 
Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters.
•  Amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ on group 
cash-settled share-based payment transactions.
•  Amendment to IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Presentation 
on classiﬁ cation of rights issues’.
•  IFRIC 15 ‘Arrangements for the Construction of Real Estate’. 
•  IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with 
Equity Instruments’. Future plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
Notes to the ﬁ nancial statements
1.  Segmental reporting
The Group is organised and arranged primarily by geographical segment. The Board of Future plc considers the performance of the business from a 
geographical perspective, namely the UK and the US. The Australian business is considered to be part of the UK segment and is not separately reported.
(a) Geographical segment
(i)  Segment revenue
2011
£m
2010
£m
UK 103.4 105.9
US 38.8 46.2
Revenue between segments (0.5) (0.6)
Total 141.7 151.5
Revenue from external parties is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement. Transactions between segments are carried out 
at arm’s length.
(ii) Segment EBITAE
2011
£m
2010
£m
UK 12.5 12.9
US (3.5) 0.2
Central costs (2.4) (3.0)
Total segment EBITAE 6.6 10.1
EBITAE is used by the Board to assess the performance of each segment. Segment EBITAE represents the EBITAE earned by each segment without the 
allocation of central administration costs.
A reconciliation of total segment EBITAE to (loss)/proﬁ t before tax is provided as follows:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Total segment EBITAE 6.6 10.1
Exceptional items (4.8) –
Impairment of intangible assets (17.1) –
Amortisation of intangible assets (1.2) (2.7)
Net ﬁ nance costs (1.5) (1.8)
(Loss)/proﬁ t before tax (18.0) 5.6
(iii) Segment assets and liabilities
Segment assets Segment liabilities
Segment net assets/
(liabilities)
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
UK 123.0 121.4 (52.3) (49.7) 70.7 71.7
US 16.8 35.6 (24.2) (21.1) (7.4) 14.5
Total 139.8 157.0 (76.5) (70.8) 63.3 86.2
(iv) Other segment information
Capital expenditure
Depreciation and 
amortisation Impairment charges Exceptional items
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2010
£m
UK 2.2 0.8 1.2 2.3 – – 4.4 –
US 1.8 0.9 1.2 2.0 17.1 – 0.4 –
Total 4.0 1.7 2.4 4.3 17.1 – 4.8 –
Other than the items disclosed above and a share-based payments charge of £0.4m (2010: £0.5m) there were no other signiﬁ cant non-cash expenses 
during the year. Future plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
1.  Segmental reporting (continued)
(b) Business segment
After geographical location, the Group is managed into four principal business segments. Each business segment comprises groups of individual 
magazines, websites and events, combined according to the market sector in which they operate. The Group considers that the assets within each 
segment are exposed to the same risks.
(i)  Revenue by segment
2011
£m
2010
£m
Games 39.2 43.0
Music & Movies 32.4 34.9
Technology 37.8 41.5
Active 32.8 32.7
Revenue between segments (0.5) (0.6)
Total 141.7 151.5
(ii) Gross proﬁ t by segment
2011
£m
2010
£m
Games 7.7 9.0
Music & Movies 5.7 7.9
Technology 9.0 10.9
Active 8.2 7.1
Add back: distribution expenses 11.2 12.0
Total 41.8 46.9
2.  Revenue
An additional analysis of the Group’s revenue is shown below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Circulation 80.7 88.7
Advertising 43.4 45.4
Customer publishing 12.1 11.6
Licensing, events and other 5.5 5.8
Total 141.7 151.5
3.  Operating (loss)/proﬁ t
2011
£m
2010
Restated*
£m
Revenue 141.7 151.5
Cost of sales (99.9) (104.6)
Gross proﬁ t 41.8 46.9
Distribution expenses (11.2) (12.0)
Administration expenses (24.0) (24.8)
Exceptional items (4.8) –
Impairment of intangible assets (17.1) –
Amortisation of intangible assets (1.2) (2.7)
Operating (loss)/proﬁ t (16.5) 7.4
*  During the year, direct IT costs relating to speciﬁ c websites were reclassiﬁ ed from administration expenses to cost of sales. The 2010 administration expenses 
and cost of sales in the table above are shown restated on a comparable basis, increasing cost of sales by £0.4m and reducing administration expenses by 
£0.4m. There is no change to the 2010 operating proﬁ t. Future plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
4.  Fees payable to auditors
 
2011
£m
2010
£m
Fees payable in respect of the audit of the accounts of the Company and consolidated ﬁ nancial statements 0.1 0.1
Fees payable for other services:
–  In respect of the audit of the accounts of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.1 0.1
–  Tax services 0.2 0.2
– Other services 0.1 –
Total fees 0.5 0.4
5.  Exceptional items
2011
£m
2010
£m
Property costs 1.5 –
Restructuring and redundancy costs 2.4 –
Other costs 0.9 –
Total 4.8 –
The property costs relate to a vacant property provision made against surplus ofﬁ ce space.
The restructuring and redundancy costs relate to staff termination payments following restructuring of the UK and US businesses in line with 
the Group’s strategy.
Other costs relate to ongoing commercial dispute resolution.
6.  Employees
2011
£m
2010
£m
Wages and salaries 46.8 44.2
Social security costs 5.9 5.7
Other pension costs 1.1 1.1
Share schemes
– Value of employees’ services 0.4 0.5
Total staff costs 54.2 51.5
Average monthly number of people (including executive Directors)
2011
No.
2010
No.
Production 954 949
Administration 228 212
Total 1,182 1,161
At 30 September 2011, the actual number of people employed by the Group was 1,172 (2010: 1,199). In respect of our primary segments 950 (2010: 964) 
were employed in the UK and 222 (2010: 235) were employed in the US.
IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’ requires an expense for equity instruments granted to be recognised over the appropriate vesting period, measured 
at their fair value at the date of grant.
The Group has used the Black-Scholes model to value instruments with non-market-based performance criteria such as earnings per share. 
For instruments with market-based performance criteria, notably total shareholder return, the Group has used a Monte Carlo model to determine 
the fair value. Further details are given in note 25.
The expense for the year of £0.4m (2010: £0.5m) has been credited to reserves. Future plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
6.  Employees (continued)
Key management personnel compensation
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Salaries and other short-term employee beneﬁ ts 0.9 0.9 1.1 1.1
Post-employment beneﬁ ts 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Share schemes
– Value of employees’ services 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3
Total 1.1 1.1 1.5 1.5
Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Board of Future plc. It is this Board which has responsibility for planning, directing 
and controlling the activities of the Group.
Further details on the Directors’ remuneration and interests are given in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 32 to 39. The highest paid Director 
during the year was Stevie Spring (2010: Stevie Spring) and details of her remuneration are shown on page 37.
7.  Finance income and costs
2011
£m
2010
£m
Interest receivable – –
Total ﬁ nance income – –
Interest payable on interest-bearing loans and borrowings (1.1) (1.4)
Fair value loss on interest rate derivatives – (0.1)
Exchange gains – 0.1
Amortisation of bank loan arrangement fees (0.3) (0.3)
Other ﬁ nance costs (0.1) (0.1)
Total ﬁ nance costs (1.5) (1.8)
Net ﬁ nance costs (1.5) (1.8)
8.  Tax on (loss)/proﬁ t
The tax charged in the consolidated income statement is analysed below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
UK corporation tax
Current tax at 27% (2010: 28%) on the proﬁ t for the year 0.9 1.9
Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.7 (1.3)
1.6 0.6
Foreign tax
Current tax on the loss for the year – –
Adjustments in respect of previous years – (1.6)
Current tax 1.6 (1.0)
Deferred tax origination and reversal of timing differences
Current year charge/(credit) 0.4 (0.1)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.7) 1.2
Deferred tax (0.3) 1.1
Total tax charge 1.3 0.1
The tax assessed in each period differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK for the relevant period. The differences are explained below:
2011
£m
2010
£m
(Loss)/proﬁ t before tax (18.0) 5.6
(Loss)/proﬁ t before tax at the standard UK tax rate of 27% (2010: 28%) (4.9) 1.6
Different tax rates applicable overseas (2.7) (0.2)
Effect of change in deferred tax rate (0.1) –
Intangible assets: differences relating to impairment 6.7 –
Losses created or utilised – (0.3)
Losses and other timing differences in respect of tax in the US 2.0 0.6
Other net disallowable items 0.3 0.1
Impact of prior year adjustments – (1.7)
Total tax charge 1.3 0.1 Future plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
9.  Dividends
Equity dividends 2011 2010
Number of shares in issue at end of year (million) 328.8 328.0
Dividends paid in year (pence per share) 1.1 0.5
Dividends paid in year (£m) 3.6 1.6
No ﬁ nal dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2011 is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 8 February 2012. The interim 
dividend for the six-month period to 31 March 2011 of 0.5 pence per share, amounting to £1.6m, was paid on 3 October 2011. The ﬁ nancial statements 
do not reﬂ ect this dividend.
Whilst the Board recognises that, based on the full year adjusted EPS, the interim dividend of 0.5 pence per share paid on 3 October 2011 does not comply 
with its policy on dividend cover, it retains that policy for future dividends, namely that any such dividend should be covered at least two times by adjusted 
earnings per share.
The dividends totalling £3.6m paid during the year ended 30 September 2011 relate to the interim dividend for the six-month period to 31 March 2010 
of 0.5 pence per share (£1.6m) and the ﬁ nal dividend declared for the year ended 30 September 2010 of 0.6 pence per share (£2.0m).
The dividend totalling £1.6m paid during the year ended 30 September 2010 relates to the ﬁ nal dividend declared for the year ended 30 September 
2009 of 0.5 pence per share.
10. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year. Diluted earnings per share 
have been calculated by taking into account the dilutive effect of shares that would be issued on conversion into Ordinary shares of awards held under 
employee share schemes.
Adjusted earnings per share removes the effect of exceptional items, impairment and amortisation of intangible assets and any related tax effects from 
the calculation as follows:
Adjustments to (loss)/proﬁ t after tax
2011
£m
2010
£m
(Loss)/proﬁ t after tax (19.3) 5.5
Add: Exceptional items 4.8 –
Add: Impairment of intangible assets 17.1 –
Add: Amortisation of intangible assets 1.2 2.7
Tax effect of the above adjustments (1.6) (0.3)
Adjusted proﬁ t after tax 2.2 7.9
2011 2010
Weighted average number of shares in issue during the year:
– Basic 327,526,863 327,314,532
– Dilutive effect of share options 6,070,662 8,442,387
– Diluted 333,597,525 335,756,919
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (in pence) (5.9) 1.7
Adjusted basic earnings per share (in pence) 0.7 2.4
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (in pence) (5.9) 1.6
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (in pence) 0.7 2.3
The share options do not have a dilutive effect where there is a loss. Future plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
10. Earnings per share (continued)
The adjustments to (loss)/proﬁ t have the following effect:
2011
pence
2010
pence
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (5.9) 1.7
Exceptional items 1.5 –
Impairment of intangible assets 5.2 –
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.4 0.8
Tax effect of the above adjustments (0.5) (0.1)
Adjusted basic earnings per share 0.7 2.4
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share (5.9) 1.6
Exceptional items 1.5 –
Impairment of intangible assets 5.2 –
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.4 0.8
Tax effect of the above adjustments (0.5) (0.1)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 0.7 2.3
11. Property, plant and equipment
Group
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
machinery
£m
Equipment, ﬁ xtures 
and ﬁ ttings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2009 3.9 6.0 2.6 12.5
Additions –0.6 0.1 0.7
Disposals –(0.5) –(0.5)
At 30 September 2010 3.9 6.1 2.7 12.7
Additions 0.4 0.8 0.1 1.3
Disposals – (1.2) – (1.2)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 – – 0.1
At 30 September 2011 4.4 5.7 2.8 12.9
Depreciation
At 1 October 2009 (1.8) (4.7) (1.9) (8.4)
Charge for the year (0.4) (0.9) (0.3) (1.6)
Disposals –0.5 –0.5
At 30 September 2010 (2.2) (5.1) (2.2) (9.5)
Charge for the year (0.3) (0.7) (0.2) (1.2)
Disposals – 1.2 – 1.2
At 30 September 2011 (2.5) (4.6) (2.4) (9.5)
Net book value at 30 September 2011 1.9 1.1 0.4 3.4
Net book value at 30 September 2010 1.7 1.0 0.5 3.2
Net book value at 1 October 2009 2.1 1.3 0.7 4.1
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Assets held under ﬁ nance leases included above were:
Group
Plant and 
machinery
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2009 and 30 September 2010 –
Additions 0.1
At 30 September 2011 0.1
Depreciation
At 1 October 2009 and 30 September 2010 –
Charge for the year –
At 30 September 2011 –
Net book value at 30 September 2011 0.1
Net book value at 30 September 2010 –
Net book value at 1 October 2009 – Future plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
12. Intangible assets
Group
Goodwill
£m
Magazine and 
website
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2009 313.2 15.0 7.1 335.3
Additions –0.1 0.9 1.0
Exchange adjustments 0.2 0.1 – 0.3
At 30 September 2010 313.4 15.2 8.0 336.6
Additions –0.1 2.6 2.7
Disposals –– (0.1) (0.1)
Exchange adjustments 0.3 – 0.1 0.4
At 30 September 2011 313.7 15.3 10.6 339.6
Amortisation
At 1 October 2009 (202.4) (13.7) (5.6) (221.7)
Charge for the year – (1.2) (1.5) (2.7)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) – – (0.1)
At 30 September 2010 (202.5) (14.9) (7.1) (224.5)
Charge for the year – (0.2) (1.0) (1.2)
Impairment charge (17.1) – – (17.1)
Disposals –– 0.1 0.1
Exchange adjustments – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
At 30 September 2011 (219.6) (15.2) (8.1) (242.9)
Net book value at 30 September 2011 94.1 0.1 2.5 96.7
Net book value at 30 September 2010 110.9 0.3 0.9 112.1
Net book value at 1 October 2009 110.8 1.3 1.5 113.6
Assets held under ﬁ nance leases included above were:
Group
Other
£m
Cost
At 1 October 2009 and 30 September 2010 –
Additions 0.2
At 30 September 2011 0.2
Amortisation
At 1 October 2009 and 30 September 2010 –
Charge for the year –
At 30 September 2011 –
Net book value at 30 September 2011 0.2
Net book value at 30 September 2010 –
Net book value at 1 October 2009 –
Magazine and website related assets relate mainly to trademarks, advertising relationships and customer lists. These assets are amortised over their 
estimated economic lives, typically ranging between one and ﬁ ve years.
Any residual amount arising as a result of the purchase consideration being in excess of the value of identiﬁ ed magazine related assets is recorded 
as goodwill. Goodwill is not amortised under IFRS, but is subject to impairment testing either annually or on the occurrence of some triggering event. 
Goodwill is recorded and tested for impairment on a territory by territory basis.
Other intangibles relate to capitalised software costs and website development costs. Future plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
12. Intangible assets (continued)
Impairment tests for goodwill and other intangibles
The breakdown of the goodwill balance at 30 September 2011 comprises:
2011
£m
2010
£m
UK 89.1 89.1
US 5.0 21.8
Total 94.1 110.9
The basis for calculating recoverable amounts is described in the accounting policies.
Trends in the economic and ﬁ nancial environment, competition and regulatory authorities’ decisions, or changes in competitor behaviour in response 
to the economic environment may affect the estimate of recoverable amounts, as will unforeseen changes in the political, economic or legal systems 
of some countries.
Other assumptions that inﬂ uence estimated recoverable amounts are set out below:
At 30 September 2011
UK US
Basis of recoverable amount Value in use Value in use
Source used Five year plans Five year plans
Discounted cash ﬂ ow Discounted cash ﬂ ow
Growth rate to perpetuity Nil Nil
EBITDA margins assumed 11.1% to 12.8% -10.3% to 9.2%
Post-tax discount rate 8.5% 8.5%
Pre-tax discount rate 11.4% 11.4%
At 30 September 2010
UK US
Basis of recoverable amount Value in use Value in use
Source used Five year plans Five year plans
Discounted cash ﬂ ow Discounted cash ﬂ ow
Growth rate to perpetuity Nil Nil
EBITDA margins assumed 11.3% to 12.1% 1.5% to 7.0%
Post-tax discount rate 8.5% 8.5%
Pre-tax discount rate 11.4% 11.4%
In accordance with IAS 36 the basis used for impairment testing (value in use or fair value less costs to sell) may vary from one period to another; 
the recoverable amount is the higher of estimated value in use and fair value less costs to sell. In the year ended 30 September 2011, as a result of the 
restructuring actions relating to the US business, certain assets have been valued on the basis of fair value less costs to sell based on indicative market 
prices rather than a value in use calculation.
Sensitivity of recoverable amounts
At 30 September 2011 the analysis of the recoverable amounts gave rise to the following assessments of sensitivity:
(i) UK
 The value in use of the UK business would be equal to the carrying value of the assets if the discount rate was 5.0% higher or if forecast cash ﬂ ows were 
31.6% lower. 
(ii) US
For the US an impairment charge has been recorded in the year as noted below. Therefore the value in use and fair value less costs to sell are effectively 
the same as the carrying value. Any future performance which falls slightly short of that used to determine those values would be liable to result 
in a further impairment. A change of plus or minus 0.5% in the post tax discount rate would decrease or increase respectively the recoverable amount 
by £0.3m. Likewise a change of plus or minus 0.5% in the perpetual growth rate would increase or decrease respectively the recoverable amount by 
£0.2m. Lastly a 10% increase or decrease in cash ﬂ ows after the ﬁ fth year would increase or decrease respectively the recoverable amount by £0.5m.
Impairment
At 30 September 2011 an impairment charge of £17.1m has been taken against the carrying value of the US business. This reﬂ ects the trading patterns 
over the past three years and the challenging economic and trading environment in which the planned restructuring activities for the business are 
taking place.  Future plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
13. Investments
Company
2011
£m
2010
£m
Shares in Group undertakings
At beginning and end of year 159.1 159.1
14. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and the movements thereon, during the current and prior years:
Intangible 
assets
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Depreciation vs 
tax allowances
£m
Tax losses
£m
Provisions and 
other timing 
differences
£m
Total
£m
At 1 October 2009 (2.4) 0.2 0.6 2.8 (4.2) (3.0)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 0.2 (0.1) – (2.2) 1.0 (1.1)
Credited to equity – 0.1 – – – 0.1
Transfers 0.2––– 2.7 2.9
At 30 September 2010 (2.0) 0.2 0.6 0.6 (0.5) (1.1)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 0.2 – (0.2) (0.1) 0.5 0.4
Charged to equity – (0.1) ––– (0.1)
At 30 September 2011 (1.8) 0.1 0.4 0.5 – (0.8)
The Finance (No 2) Act 2010 included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 28% to 27% with effect from 1 April 2011. In his Budget 
speech on 23 March 2011 the Chancellor announced a further reduction in the rate of corporation tax to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011. This further 
reduction was enacted under the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 on 29 March 2011. 
The Finance Act 2011 includes legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 26% to 25% with effect from 1 April 2012. 
The change in rate had no material impact on the Group’s deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014 which are expected to be enacted separately 
each year. The changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and therefore any impacts arising are not included in these ﬁ nancial 
statements. The overall effect of the further changes from 25% to 23%, if these were applied to the deferred tax balances at 30 September 2011, would 
be to reduce the deferred tax liability by approximately £0.1m and reduce the deferred tax asset by approximately £0.1m, spread evenly between 2012 
and 2013.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset against each other where they relate to the same jurisdiction. The following is the analysis 
of deferred tax balances after offset for balance sheet purposes:
2011
£m
2010
£m
Deferred tax assets 1.0 0.9
Deferred tax liabilities (1.8) (2.0)
Net deferred tax liability (0.8) (1.1)
The deferred tax asset of £1.0m (2010: £0.9m) is disclosed as a non-current asset of which the assets due within one year total £0.2m (2010: £0.3m). 
The deferred tax liability of £1.8m (2010: £2.0m) is disclosed as a non-current liability of which the liabilities due within one year total £nil (2010: £nil).
As at 30 September 2011 the Group has:
• unprovided deferred tax assets on tax losses totalling £13.7m (2010: £10.8m) of which £5.7m (2010: £2.1m) arises in the US; and
• unprovided deferred tax assets on other temporary differences totalling £nil (2010: £0.9m) of which £nil (2010: £0.9m) arises in the US.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where it is probable that these assets will be 
recovered.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as any remitted earnings would not give rise to a tax liability in the 
foreseeable future.
The deferred tax asset recognised on the Company’s balance sheet is in respect of share-based payments. The Company has no unprovided deferred 
tax assets or liabilities at 30 September 2011 (2010: £nil). Future plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
15. Inventories
2011
£m
2010
£m
Raw materials 1.0 1.2
Work in progress 1.9 1.9
Finished goods 0.6 0.3
Total 3.5 3.4
The cost of raw material inventories recognised as an expense and included within cost of sales amounted to £12.9m (2010: £12.8m).
16. Trade and other receivables
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Current assets:
Trade receivables 18.1 – 19.5 –
Provisions for impairment of trade receivables (0.6) – (0.5) –
Trade receivables net 17.5 – 19.0 –
Amounts owed by Group undertakings –27.8 –39.5
Other receivables 0.5 – 0.1 –
Prepayments and accrued income 4.6 – 4.7 –
22.6 27.8 23.8 39.5
Non-current assets:
Other receivables 0.1 – ––
Total 22.7 27.8 23.8 39.5
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Receivable balances from the two main magazine distributors, one in the UK segment and one in the US segment, represented 24% of the Group’s trade 
receivables balance at 30 September 2011.
The average credit period taken on sales is 45 days (2010: 45 days). The Group has provided for estimated irrecoverable amounts in accordance with its 
accounting policy described on page 50 of these ﬁ nancial statements.
Credit checks are obtained and, if applicable, guarantees put in place before a new customer is accepted and terms and credit limits are agreed. 
Bookings are not taken before all these factors have been fulﬁ lled. In addition, annual credit checks are carried out and fully documented. Final decisions 
on credit terms are made by an appropriate senior manager within advertising or ﬁ nance. In the event of a request to increase a customer’s credit limit 
the following factors will be considered: trading history to date, re-review of credit status and review of the reason for the increase.
Included within the Group’s trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of £3.7m (2010: £4.6m) which are past due at the reporting 
date but for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a signiﬁ cant change in credit quality and the Group believes that the amounts are still 
recoverable. These relate to advertising and licensing debtors in the UK and US. The Group does not hold any security over these balances. A breakdown 
of the ageing is as set out below:
Past due
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
0–30 days 2.3 3.0
31–60 days 0.7 1.0
61–90 days 0.5 0.5
91+ days 0.2 0.1
Total 3.7 4.6
As at 30 September 2011, trade receivables of £0.6m (2010: £0.5m) were impaired and provided for. The individually impaired receivables mainly relate 
to advertising and licensing customers. It is assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered. These receivables are all more than 
60 days old. Future plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
16. Trade and other receivables (continued)
The movement in the Group provision for trade receivables during the year is as follows:
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
At 1 October 0.5 1.3
Provision for receivables impaired 0.3 (0.1)
Receivables written off during the year (0.2) (0.7)
At 30 September 0.6 0.5
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in administration expenses in the income statement. Amounts charged 
to the allowance account are written off when there is no realistic expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other asset classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold 
any collateral as security for trade receivables.
All the Company’s receivables are with Group undertakings and no additional disclosure in relation to credit risk is required. Interest on £0.3m 
of the amounts owed by Group undertakings has been charged at three-month LIBOR + 2.8%. The balance of amounts owed by Group undertakings 
is interest-free without any terms for repayment.
17. Cash and cash equivalents
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 12.5 – 13.3 0.7
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdraft) 12.5 – 13.3 0.7
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash ﬂ ow statements:
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 12.5 – 13.3 0.7
Bank overdraft (note 19) –(6.0) ––
Cash and cash equivalents 12.5 (6.0) 13.3 0.7
The Group has a number of authorised counterparties with whom cash balances are held in the countries in which the Group operates. Credit risk 
is minimised by considering the credit standing of all potential bankers before selecting them by the use of external credit ratings. 
The Company has a non-interest-bearing overdraft of £6.0m (2010: nil) which forms part of the Group cash pooling account and can be offset against cash 
balances in other Group companies.
18. Trade and other payables
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Trade payables 15.0 – 15.7 –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings –96.3 –106.3
Other taxation and social security 1.2 – 1.2 –
Other payables 0.6 – 1.3 –
Accruals and deferred income 22.8 0.1 22.6 0.2
Total 39.6 96.4 40.8 106.5
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period for trade 
purchases is 41 days (2010: 42 days). The Group has ﬁ nancial risk management policies in place to ensure all payables are paid within the agreed 
credit terms.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured and interest-free without any terms for repayment. Future plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
19. Financial liabilities – loans, borrowings and overdrafts
Non-current liabilities
Interest rate at
30 September
2011
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Sterling term loan – unsecured 3.7% 4.9 4.9 7.8 7.8
Obligations under ﬁ nance leases 3.0% – 15.0% 0.2 – ––
Total 5.1 4.9 7.8 7.8
Current liabilities
Interest rate at
30 September
2011
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Sterling term loan – unsecured 3.7% 2.9 2.9 3.0 3.0
Sterling revolving loan – unsecured 3.7% 4.0 4.0 2.9 2.9
US Dollar revolving loan – unsecured 3.2% 12.2 – 7.0 –
19.1 6.9 12.9 5.9
Obligations under ﬁ nance leases 3.0% – 15.0% 0.1 – ––
Total 19.2 6.9 12.9 5.9
The interest-bearing loans and borrowings are repayable as follows:
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Within one year 19.2 6.9 12.9 5.9
Between one and two years 5.1 4.9 2.9 2.9
Between two and ﬁ ve years –– 4.9 4.9
Total 24.3 11.8 20.7 13.7
During the year to 30 September 2011 bank debt was provided under the terms of the banking facility signed in May 2009 and due to mature in November 
2012. The bank borrowings and interest were guaranteed by Future plc, Future Holdings 2002 Limited, Future Publishing Limited and Future US, Inc. 
The total facility available to the Group amounted to £33.6m and this could be drawn in sterling, US Dollars or Euros. Interest payable was calculated 
as the cost of three-month LIBOR (currently approximately 0.7%) plus an interest margin of between 2.5% and 3.25%, dependent on covenant ratio. 
The availability of the facility was subject to certain covenants; the key bank covenants applicable at the end of the year were that: (i) net debt was not 
to exceed two times Bank EBITDA; (ii) net interest payable was to be covered at least four times by Bank EBITDA. These covenants were tested quarterly 
on the basis of rolling ﬁ gures for the preceding 12 months. The covenant position at the year-end is as set out in the following table:
30 September 2011 Covenant
Net debt/EBITDA 1.5 < 2.0 times
EBITDA/Interest 6.8 > 4.0 times
Based on the above calculations the Group had headroom of £4.1m at 30 September 2011.
On 21 November 2011 the Group agreed an extension of the current banking facility for 12 months to 30 November 2013 together with new covenant levels 
to give the Group ﬂ exibility above the two times Net debt/EBITDA covenant level until the quarter ended 30 September 2012 to carry out its restructuring 
plans. As part of the extension the Group granted security to its banks, gave additional covenants and undertakings including an undertaking by the 
Board, consistent with the Chairman’s statement on dividends, not to declare any dividends or undertake any share buybacks whilst the Net debt/EBITDA 
ratio is more than two times. Fees relating to the extension amounted to £0.4m and these will be amortised over the remaining term of the facility.
Interest payable under the new banking facility is calculated as the cost of three-month LIBOR (as noted above) plus an interest margin of between 
2.5% and 3.75%, dependent on covenant ratio. The key covenants are as set out in the following table:
Bank covenant
Net debt/EBITDA Periods from 31 December 2011 to 30 June 2012 – between less than 2.55 and 2.8 times
Periods from 30 September 2012 onwards – less than 2.0 times
EBITDA/Interest More than 4.0 times
Cash ﬂ ow cover Ratios to be met on a quarterly basis measured against an agreed budget
Capital expenditure 115% of agreed annual budget
In addition to the above there is a limit of £1.9m on exceptional cash costs which can be excluded from the calculation of Bank EBITDA in the year ended 
30 September 2012. The Board is conﬁ dent that it has sufﬁ cient headroom and ﬂ exibility under these revised covenants to execute its plans as set out in 
this Annual Report. Future plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
19. Financial liabilities – loans, borrowings and overdrafts (continued)
The minimum lease payments due under ﬁ nance leases are set out below:
Group
2011
£m
2010
£m
Within one year 0.1 –
Between one and ﬁ ve years 0.2 –
Total 0.3 –
The present value of minimum lease payments due under ﬁ nance leases is set out below:
Group
2011
£m
2010
£m
Within one year 0.1 –
Between one and ﬁ ve years 0.2 –
Total 0.3 –
The Company has a non-interest-bearing overdraft of £6.0m (2010: £nil) which forms part of the Group cash pooling account and can be offset against 
cash balances in other Group companies.
20. Financial liabilities – derivatives
The fair value of hedging derivatives is split between current and non-current assets or liabilities based on the maturity of the cash ﬂ ows.
Non-current liabilities
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Interest rate derivatives 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
Total 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
In line with the Board’s policy of hedging interest rate risk as disclosed in note 23, the Group has entered into interest rate derivatives to reduce its 
exposure on a proportion of the outstanding debt under its committed facility.
In October 2007, the Group entered into a UK interest rate collar over £5.0m which has a seven-year period but is cancellable by the bank after four years. 
The collar has a cap at 6.00% and a ﬂ oor of 4.65%. In September 2009, the Group entered into a UK interest rate swap for £5.0m which had a ﬁ xed rate of 
1.91% and expired on 12 October 2011.
A fair value loss for the year of £nil (2010: £0.1m) on interest rate derivatives has been included within ﬁ nance costs in the income statement.
Current liabilities
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 – 0.1 –
Interest rate derivatives 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2
Total 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2
In October 2009 and September 2010, the Group entered into a number of forward foreign exchange contracts to sell Australian Dollars. These contracts 
had monthly maturity dates and ended in September 2011. In July 2010, the Group entered into a number of forward foreign exchange contracts to sell 
US Dollars, which had monthly maturity dates and also ended in September 2011. 
In May 2011, the Group entered into a number of forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US Dollars and Australian Dollars. These contracts have 
monthly maturity dates and end in September 2012.
A fair value gain for the year of £nil (2010: £0.1m) on forward foreign exchange contracts has been recognised directly in equity as hedge accounting is 
applied to these contracts.
The amounts in the tables above are the fair value of ﬁ nancial liabilities using Level 2 – inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly 
(that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices). Future plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
20. Financial liabilities – derivatives (continued)
The maturity analysis of the Group’s derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities is set out below:
2011 2010
Group
Interest rate 
derivatives
£m
Forward foreign 
exchange contracts
£m
Interest rate 
derivatives
£m
Forward foreign 
exchange contracts
£m
Within one year 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1
Between one and two years 0.2 – 0.2 –
Between two and ﬁ ve years 0.2 – 0.2 –
Total 0.6 0.1 0.6 0.1
The maturity analysis of the Company’s derivative ﬁ nancial liabilities is set out below:
Company
2011
Interest rate 
derivatives
£m
2010
Interest rate 
derivatives
£m
Within one year 0.2 0.2
Between one and two years 0.2 0.2
Between two and ﬁ ve years 0.2 0.2
Total 0.6 0.6
21. Provisions
Group
Property and 
dilapidations
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 October 2010 0.1 0.7 0.8
Charged in the year 1.4 0.7 2.1
Utilised in the year –(0.8) (0.8)
At 30 September 2011 1.5 0.6 2.1
The provision for property and dilapidations relates to obligations under short leasehold agreements on vacant property. The provision has been 
discounted at a rate in line with the Group’s post-tax cost of capital which is 8.5% and is expected to be utilised over the next four years.
Other provisions as shown above and provisions of £0.6m (2010: £0.7m) for the Company relate to disposals made during 2007 and ongoing commercial 
dispute resolution. These are expected to be fully utilised or reversed over the next two years.
22. Other non-current liabilities
Group
2011
£m
2010
£m
Other creditors 1.9 2.4
Other creditors consist mainly of deferred subscription revenue and a deferred property lease liability.
23. Financial instruments
Financial instruments by category
The Group’s ﬁ nancial assets and ﬁ nancial liabilities are set out below:
Fair value Amortised cost 2011
Group Note
Derivatives
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Other 
liabilities
£m
Total carrying 
value
£m
Total market
value
£m
Trade receivables net 16 – 17.5 – 17.5 17.5
Other receivables –1.5 –1.51.5
Cash and cash equivalents 17 – 12.5 – 12.5 12.5
Total ﬁ nancial assets – 31.5 – 31.5 31.5
Trade payables 18 – – (15.0) (15.0) (15.0)
Other liabilities – – (10.4) (10.4) (10.4)
Current borrowings 19 – – (19.2) (19.2) (19.2)
Non-current borrowings 19 – – (5.1) (5.1) (5.1)
Derivatives 20 (0.7) – – (0.7) (0.7)
Total ﬁ nancial liabilities (0.7) – (49.7) (50.4) (50.4) Future plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
23. Financial instruments (continued)
Fair value Amortised cost 2010
Group Note
Derivatives
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Other 
liabilities
£m
Total carrying 
value
£m
Total market
value
£m
Trade receivables net 16 – 19.0 – 19.0 19.0
Other receivables – 1.9 – 1.9 1.9
Cash and cash equivalents 17 – 13.3 – 13.3 13.3
Total ﬁ nancial assets – 34.2 – 34.2 34.2
Trade payables 18 – – (15.7) (15.7) (15.7)
Other liabilities – – (5.9) (5.9) (5.9)
Current borrowings 19 – – (12.9) (12.9) (13.2)
Non-current borrowings 19 – – (7.8) (7.8) (8.1)
Derivatives 20 (0.7) – – (0.7) (0.7)
Total ﬁ nancial liabilities (0.7) – (42.3) (43.0) (43.6)
Total ﬁ nancial liabilities are shown net of unamortised costs which amounted to £0.3m (2010: £0.6m).
The Company’s ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities are set out below:
Fair value Amortised cost 2011
Company Note
Derivatives
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Other 
liabilities
£m
Total carrying 
value
£m
Total market
value
£m
Other receivables 16 – 27.8 – 27.8 27.8
Total ﬁ nancial assets – 27.8 – 27.8 27.8
Other liabilities 18 – – (96.4) (96.4) (96.4)
Overdrafts 19 – – (6.0) (6.0) (6.0)
Current borrowings 19 – – (6.9) (6.9) (6.9)
Non-current borrowings 19 – – (4.9) (4.9) (4.9)
Derivatives 20 (0.6) – – (0.6) (0.6)
Total ﬁ nancial liabilities (0.6) – (114.2) (114.8) (114.8)
Fair value Amortised cost 2010
Company Note
Derivatives
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Other 
liabilities
£m
Total carrying 
value
£m
Total market
value
£m
Other receivables 16 – 39.5 – 39.5 39.5
Cash and cash equivalents 17 – 0.7 – 0.7 0.7
Total ﬁ nancial assets – 40.2 – 40.2 40.2
Other liabilities 18 – – (106.5) (106.5) (106.5)
Current borrowings 19 – – (5.9) (5.9) (6.2)
Non-current borrowings 19 – – (7.8) (7.8) (8.1)
Derivatives 20 (0.6) – – (0.6) (0.6)
Total ﬁ nancial liabilities (0.6) – (120.2) (120.8) (121.4)
Total ﬁ nancial liabilities are shown net of unamortised costs which amounted to £0.3m (2010: £0.6m).
The fair value is the amount for which a ﬁ nancial instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties. If an active market exists, 
the market price is applied. If an active market does not exist a discounted cash ﬂ ow or generally accepted estimation and valuation technique based 
on market conditions at the balance sheet date is used to calculate an estimated value.
The market value of ﬁ nancial instruments is determined by the use of valuation techniques including estimated discounted cash ﬂ ows.
Treasury overview
The Group uses ﬁ nancial instruments to raise funding for its operations and to manage the ﬁ nancial risks arising from those operations. The agreements 
governing the principal instruments entered into were approved by the Board.
The principal ﬁ nancing and treasury exposures faced by the Group arise from foreign currencies, working capital management, the ﬁ nancing of capital 
expenditure and acquisitions, the management of interest rates on the Group’s debt, the investment of surplus cash and the management of the Group’s 
debt facilities. The Group manages all of these exposures with an objective of remaining within covenant ratios agreed with the Group’s banks and the 
Group has been in compliance with its covenants during the year. These ratios are disclosed in note 19. Future plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
23. Financial instruments (continued)
Treasury overview (continued)
The capital structure of the Group is reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that the debt/equity ratio of funding remains appropriate for the Group.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Currency and interest rate proﬁ le
The currency and interest rate proﬁ le of the Group’s ﬁ nancial assets and liabilities is shown below:
Financial assets Financial liabilities
Floating 
rate
£m
Non-
interest 
bearing
£m
Total
£m
Floating 
rate
£m
Fixed rate
£m
Non- 
interest 
bearing
£m
Total
£m
Net ﬁ nancial 
(liabilities)/ 
assets
£m
At 30 September 2011
Currency:
Sterling –19.419.4 (7.1) (5.0) (18.7) (30.8) (11.4)
US Dollar 1.6 6.6 8.2 (12.2) – (6.6) (18.8) (10.6)
Euro – 0.6 0.6 – – (0.6) (0.6) –
Other 0.2 3.1 3.3 – – (0.2) (0.2) 3.1
Total 1.8 29.7 31.5 (19.3) (5.0) (26.1) (50.4) (18.9)
At 30 September 2010
Currency:
Sterling – 19.1 19.1 (8.7) (5.0) (14.5) (28.2) (9.1)
US Dollar 2.9 8.8 11.7 (7.0) – (7.0) (14.0) (2.3)
Euro – 0.7 0.7 – – (0.5) (0.5) 0.2
Other – 2.7 2.7 – – (0.3) (0.3) 2.4
Total 2.9 31.3 34.2 (15.7) (5.0) (22.3) (43.0) (8.8)
Interest rate risk
Details of the interest rates on borrowings as at 30 September 2011 are set out in note 19.
The Group’s overall policy on hedging interest rate risk is as follows:
• To the extent that net debt is below £10m there is no requirement to hedge against interest rate ﬂ uctuations on the balance of the gross debt.
• To the extent that net debt is above £10m a minimum of 25% of the balance of the gross debt greater than £10m should be hedged.
In applying the above policy, management takes full consideration of cash ﬂ ow projections to ﬁ x the period for which any hedging arrangements are 
entered into.
Details of the Group’s interest rate derivatives at 30 September 2011 are set out in note 20.
For 2011, if interest rates on net borrowings had been on average 0.5% higher/lower with all other variables held constant, the post-tax loss for the year 
would have increased/decreased by £0.1m (2010: post-tax proﬁ t would have decreased/increased by £0.1m).
There would be no impact on equity excluding retained earnings.
Foreign exchange risk
Some of the Group’s activities are carried out in countries outside the United Kingdom where transactions are carried out in that country’s own functional 
currency. Movements in exchange rates can therefore have a signiﬁ cant impact on the Group’s total cash ﬂ ows, whilst the translation of the results, 
assets and liabilities of foreign operations into sterling can have a signiﬁ cant effect on the Group’s reported proﬁ ts and balance sheet. The main 
exposures are to movements in the US Dollar and Australian Dollar against sterling, and Canadian Dollar against US Dollar.
The Group’s policy for managing exchange rate risk is summarised as follows:
•  Transaction exposure – the Group manages this by ensuring that transactions are denominated in the local functional currency of the 
operating units wherever possible. Where this is not possible the use of forward contracts to hedge exposure is considered. The use of 
forward contracts (or any other derivative ﬁ nancial instrument) is subject to authorisation by the Group Finance Director. Details of the 
Group’s forward foreign exchange contracts at 30 September 2011 are set out in note 20.
•  Translation exposure – the Group matches currency assets with currency liabilities wherever possible as evidenced by the fact that £12.2m 
of gross debt is denominated in US dollars. Future plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
23. Financial instruments (continued)
The following table summarises the Group’s sensitivity to translational currency exposures at 30 September:
2011 currency risks expressed in 
Currency 1/ Currency 2
£m GBP/USD GBP/AUD USD/CAD
Reasonable shift 10% 10% 10%
Impact on loss after tax if Currency 1 strengthens against Currency 2 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Impact on loss after tax if Currency 1 weakens against Currency 2 0.1 0.1 0.1
Impact on equity excluding retained earnings if Currency 1 strengthens against Currency 2 0.2 0.1 –
Impact on equity excluding retained earnings if Currency 1 weakens against Currency 2 (0.2) (0.1) –
2010 currency risks expressed in 
Currency 1/ Currency 2
£m GBP/USD GBP/AUD USD/CAD
Reasonable shift 20% 20% 20%
Impact on proﬁ t after tax if Currency 1 strengthens against Currency 2 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
Impact on proﬁ t after tax if Currency 1 weakens against Currency 2 0.1 0.1 0.1
Impact on equity excluding retained earnings if Currency 1 strengthens against Currency 2 0.5 0.2 –
Impact on equity excluding retained earnings if Currency 1 weakens against Currency 2 (0.5) (0.2) –
Liquidity risk
For the past three years the Group has funded the business largely from cash ﬂ ows generated from operations and long-term debt. Details of the Group’s 
borrowings are disclosed in note 19.
The Group monitors and manages the cash for the Group and has maintained committed banking facilities as noted above to mitigate any liquidity risk it 
may face. If necessary, inter-company loans within the Group meet short-term cash needs. The following table shows the Group’s remaining contractual 
maturity for ﬁ nancial liabilities and derivative ﬁ nancial instruments. The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash ﬂ ows of ﬁ nancial 
liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group is obliged to pay.
30 September 2011
Less than 
one year
£m
Between one 
and two years
£m
Between two 
and ﬁ ve years
£m
Total
£m
Trade payables 15.0 – – 15.0
Other liabilities 8.9 0.8 0.7 10.4
Borrowings 19.6 5.1 – 24.7
Derivatives 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.7
Total ﬁ nancial liabilities 43.8 6.1 0.9 50.8
30 September 2010
Less than 
one year
£m
Between one 
and two years
£m
Between two 
and ﬁ ve years
£m
Total
£m
Trade payables 15.7 – – 15.7
Other liabilities 5.6 0.3 – 5.9
Borrowings 13.5 3.5 5.0 22.0
Derivatives 0.4 0.2 0.4 1.0
Total ﬁ nancial liabilities 35.2 4.0 5.4 44.6 Future plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
24. Issued share capital
2011
£m
2010
£m
Authorised share capital
600,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each 6.0 6.0
Number 
of shares
2011
£m
Allotted, issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each
At 1 October 2010 327,979,803 3.3
Share scheme exercises 824,957 –
At 30 September 2011 328,804,760 3.3
During the year, 824,957 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of £8,250 were issued by the Company for a total cash commitment of £6,375 pursuant 
to share scheme exercises as detailed in note 25.
In 2010, 782,535 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of £7,825 were issued by the Company for a total cash commitment of £382 pursuant to share 
scheme exercises as detailed in note 25.
25. Share-based payments
The income statement charge for the year for share-based payments was £0.4m (2010: £0.5m). This charge has been included within administration 
expenses.
These charges arise when employees are granted awards under the Group’s share option schemes, performance share plan (PSP), or deferred annual 
bonus scheme (DABS), and when employees are granted awards by the trustees of The Future Network plc 1999 Employee Beneﬁ t Trust (EBT). 
The charge equates to the fair value of the award and has been calculated using the Monte Carlo and Black-Scholes models, using the most appropriate 
model for each scheme. Assumptions have been made in these models for expected volatility, risk-free rates and dividend yields.
The Company has not applied IFRS 2, ‘Share-based Payment’, retrospectively and therefore it has only been applied to options granted after 7 November 
2002 which had not vested before 1 January 2005.
A reconciliation of movements in share options and other share incentive schemes is shown below:
2011 
Number of 
shares
2011 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
2010 
Number 
of shares
2010 
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 21,756,029 £0.062 21,280,323 £0.076
Granted 4,980,723 £0.036 5,444,312 £0.039
Share awards exercised – new share issues (824,957) £0.008 (782,535) £0.003
Share awards exercised – EBT shares (347,339) £0.000 (382,376) £0.000
Lapsed (3,250,799) £0.067 (3,803,695) £0.130
Outstanding at 30 September 22,313,657 £0.058 21,756,029 £0.062
Exercisable at 30 September 658,780 £0.469 701,728 £0.491
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options and other share incentive awards during the year was £0.209 (2010: £0.179). Future plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
25. Share-based payments (continued)
For options and other share incentive schemes outstanding at 30 September the weighted average exercise prices and remaining contractual lives are 
as follows:
Number
of shares
Weighted average
exercise price
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life in years
2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
International Scheme (excluding US)
November 2001 3,085 6,170 £0.470 £0.470 – 1
September 2002 43,086 43,086 £0.470 £0.470 1 2
Senior Scheme
November 2001 168,085 168,085 £0.470 £0.470 – 1
Approved Scheme
May 2001 – 18,141 – £0.747 – 1
November 2001 328,495 350,995 £0.470 £0.470 – 1
September 2002 31,915 31,915 £0.470 £0.470 1 2
2000 US Plan
October 2000 – 1,740 – $8.045 – –
December 2000 – 1,596 – $2.426 – –
November 2001 80,000 80,000 £0.470 £0.470 – 1
Sharesave Plan
December 2007 4,114 297,587 £0.280 £0.280 – 1
December 2008 6,548,352 7,137,792 £0.100 £0.100 1 2
April 2010 1,053,841 1,305,592 £0.155 £0.155 2 3
December 2010 1,061,434 – £0.165 – 3 –
PSP
December 2007 – 2,001,720 – – – –
December 2008 4,034,234 4,034,234 – – – 1
November 2009 3,752,815 3,752,815 – – 1 2
December 2010 3,127,346 – – – 2 –
DABS
December 2007 – 659,739 – – – –
December 2008 1,118,706 1,233,768 – – – 1
November 2009 246,211 283,715 – – 1 2
December 2010 711,938 – – – 2 –
Deferred Bonus Shares
December 2008 – 347,339 – – – –
Total outstanding at 30 September 22,313,657 21,756,029 £0.058 £0.062 1 1
The fair value per share for grants made during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
2011 2010
DABS PSP Sharesave DABS PSP Sharesave
Grant date 21/12/10 21/12/10 20/12/10 27/11/09 27/11/09 12/04/10
Share price at grant date £0.240 £0.240 £0.233 £0.180 £0.180 £0.190
Exercise price –– £0.165 –– £0.155
Vesting period (years) 333 333
Expected volatility 67% 67% 67% 67% 67% 68%
Option life (years) 333 333
Expected life (years) 333 333
Risk-free rate 2% 2% 2% 2% 2% 2%
Dividend yield 5% 5% 5% 5% 5% 5%
TSR correlation –6% – –12% –
Fair value £0.208 £0.185 £0.102 £0.155 £0.131 £0.079
Fair value – EPS element –£0.208 – –£0.155 –
Fair value – TSR element –£0.162 – –£0.107 –
Notes:
1.  The expected volatility is based on Future’s historical volatility, averaged over a period equal to the expected life, where possible.
2.  The Black-Scholes model has been used to value all options with the exception of 50% of the PSP grants which have market-based performance criteria; 
the Monte Carlo model has been used to value these awards. Future plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
25. Share-based payments (continued)
Future plc operates eight share option schemes being:
–  The Future Network plc 1999 International Share Option Scheme 
(International Scheme)
–  The Future Network plc 1999 Senior Management Scheme 
(Senior Scheme)
–  The Future Network plc 1999 Approved International Share Option 
Scheme (Approved Scheme)
–  The Future Network plc 2000 US Stock Option Plan 
(2000 US Plan)
–  The Future Network plc International Sharesave Scheme (International 
Sharesave Scheme)
–  Addendum to The Future Network plc International Sharesave Scheme 
(Addendum)
–  The Future Network plc UK Inland Revenue Approved Sharesave Plan 
2000 (2000 Sharesave Plan)
–  The Future plc 2010 Approved Sharesave Plan 
(2010 Sharesave Plan)
As at 30 September 2011, options or awards had been granted under all 
of the above schemes.
The International Scheme
The International Scheme was used for the grant of options to all 
employees, save for those persons entitled to participate in the 
Senior Scheme.
Options granted in November 2001 and September 2002 under the 
International Scheme vested three years after the date of grant, subject 
to satisfaction of performance criteria that required that the total 
shareholder return of the Company, for the three-year period following 
date of grant, must rank in the top quartile of UK companies whose 
shares are listed in the Media and Entertainment Sector of the London 
Share Service of the Financial Times newspaper. If the Company ranked 
in the second quartile of this comparator group, then only one-half of the 
options vested; if the Company ranked below the 50th percentile of this 
comparator group, then none of the options vested.
The options granted in November 2001 and September 2002 each 
vested 50%.
No further options will be granted under this scheme.
The Senior Scheme
The Senior Scheme was used historically for the grant of options to 
the Board. Details of options outstanding are given in the Directors’ 
remuneration report on page 38 and the performance criteria relating 
to these options are as set out below for ‘The Approved Scheme’.
No further options will be granted under this scheme.
The Approved Scheme
The Approved Scheme was used for the grant of options to all UK 
employees up to a value of £30,000.
Options granted in May 2001 vested in eight equal tranches, one tranche 
every six months following publication of the annual and interim results 
of the Group, depending on the satisfaction of performance criteria 
that required the normalised earnings per share of the Group to 
grow by at least 3% per annum above the increase in the RPI over the 
relevant period.
Options granted in November 2001 and September 2002 vested three 
years after the date of grant, subject to satisfaction of performance 
criteria that required that the total shareholder return of the Company, for 
the three-year period following date of grant, must rank in the top quartile 
of UK companies whose shares are listed in the Media and Entertainment 
Sector of the London Share Service of the Financial Times newspaper. 
If the Company ranked in the second quartile of this comparator group, 
then only one-half of the options vested; if the Company ranked below the 
50th percentile of this comparator group, then none of the options vested.
The options granted in November 2001 and September 2002 each 
vested 50%.
No further options will be granted under this scheme.
The 2000 US Plan
The 2000 US Plan was used for the grant of options to employees of 
the Company’s US business.
For options granted under the 2000 US Plan until May 2001, 25% of 
the shares under option typically vested on the ﬁ rst anniversary of an 
employee joining (or, where options were granted under the US Plan to 
an existing employee, on the anniversary of the grant of such options). 
The balance of 75% vested in equal monthly tranches over the three-year 
period commencing on the ﬁ rst vesting date. Whilst the Company had the 
right to impose performance conditions, up until November 2001 none 
were imposed as it was the Board’s view that it was unusual for options 
granted by US competitors to their US employees to contain such criteria.
Options granted in November 2001 under the 2000 US Plan vested three 
years after the date of grant, subject to satisfaction of performance 
criteria that required that the total shareholder return of the Company, for 
the three-year period following date of grant, must rank in the top quartile 
of UK companies whose shares are listed in the Media and Entertainment 
sector of the London Share Service of the Financial Times newspaper. 
If the Company ranked in the second quartile of this comparator group, 
then only one-half of the options vested; if the Company ranked below the 
50th percentile of this comparator group, then none of the options vested.
The options granted in November 2001 vested 50%.
No further options will be granted under this scheme.
The 2000 Sharesave Plan, 2010 Sharesave Plan, International 
Sharesave Scheme and the Addendum (the Sharesave Plans)
Under the Sharesave Plans the option entitlement granted to participating 
employees is linked to the monthly contributions which such employees 
have agreed to pay into the Sharesave Plans (up to a maximum amount 
of £250 per month). The options granted under the Sharesave Plans vest 
on the third anniversary of the grant of such options (or in the case of the 
Addendum applicable in the US, due to legal constraints, two years after 
the date of grant of such options). Where legal and regulatory constraints 
permit, the Company uses its discretion to offer options granted under 
the Sharesave Plans at a discount to the market price in force at the date 
of the invitation being made.
The Board exercised its discretion in November 2010 to issue invitations 
to participate in the Company’s 2010 Sharesave Plan to eligible 
employees in the UK only. The option price represents a 20% discount 
to the market price at the time of the invitation.
Other share-based payments
No further share options are to be granted. Instead, the Group has put 
into place a number of alternative share incentive schemes and awarded 
deferred bonus shares in 2008. Future plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial statements continued
26. Other reserves
Treasury reserve
The treasury reserve represents the cost of shares in Future plc purchased in the market and held by the EBT to satisfy awards made by the trustees.
Group
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Balance at 1 October – (0.1)
Acquired in the year (0.3) –
Utilised in the year – 0.1
At 30 September (0.3) –
During the year Future plc paid £0.2m (2010: £0.1m) to Abacus Corporate Trustees Limited as trustees of the EBT, which was used to purchase Future plc 
shares in the market. The shares purchased represented 0.4% of the Company’s issued share capital.
During the prior year, the Group transferred £0.1m of shares to employees under Deferred Bonus Share Awards. 
The treasury reserve is non-distributable.
Cash ﬂ ow hedge reserve
The cash ﬂ ow hedge reserve represents the net gains or losses on effective cash ﬂ ow hedging instruments.
Group
2011
£m
Company
2011
£m
Group
2010
£m
Company
2010
£m
Balance at 1 October (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) –
Net fair value gains/(losses) –0.1 0.1 (0.1)
At 30 September (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1)
Merger reserve
The merger reserve of £109.0m (2010: £109.0m) arose following the 1999 Group reorganisation and is non-distributable.
25. Share-based payments (continued)
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The PSP is a share-based incentive scheme open to the executive 
Directors and senior management, based on a percentage of the 
participant’s salary. Awards under this scheme are subject to 
stretching performance criteria measured against both earnings 
per share (EPS) and total shareholder return (TSR). Subject to the 
participant’s continued employment with the Group, awards will 
vest three years after the date of grant assuming that the following 
performance criteria are achieved:
•  A maximum of 50% of an award will vest if the Group’s growth in 
adjusted EPS is equal to RPI plus 8%, 0% will vest if the Group’s 
growth in adjusted EPS is equal to RPI plus 3%, and vesting will 
be on a pro rata straight-line basis between the two. If growth in 
the Group’s adjusted EPS is less than RPI plus 3%, none of that 
50% of the award will vest.
•  The remaining 50% of the award will vest if the Company’s TSR 
performance, compared to a group of similar companies, places 
it in the top quintile as against the comparator companies. If the 
Company’s TSR performance is median, 12.5% of the award will 
vest, and vesting will be on a pro rata straight-line basis between 
the two points. If the Company’s performance is below median, 
none of that 50% of the award will vest. The comparator groups 
of companies are as disclosed on page 34 of this Annual Report.
Grants were made under the PSP in November 2009 and December 2010.
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS)
The DABS is a share-based incentive scheme, with the levels of 
participation dependent on the relevant operating subsidiary’s ﬁ nancial 
performance during the previous ﬁ nancial year. The maximum value of 
any shares granted under the DABS to any one participant will be an 
additional amount which is equal to a ﬁ xed percentage of that eligible 
participant’s annual cash bonus actually received or payable for the 
previous ﬁ nancial year. The number of shares over which an award is 
to be granted to each participant will be calculated by reference to the 
market value of an Ordinary share in the Company on the date of the 
award. The shares awarded under the DABS will be issued or transferred 
to the participant three years after the date of the award, subject only to 
the employee remaining in the employment of the Group throughout the 
three-year period.
Grants were made under the DABS in November 2009 and December 2010.
2008 Future plc Deferred Bonus Share Awards
In December 2008 deferred bonus share awards were made to Stevie 
Spring, John Bowman and other key senior managers including Graham 
Harding, now the Group Finance Director. The shares awarded were 
transferred to the participants in two equal tranches in December 2009 
and November 2010. Future plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
27. Pensions
The Group operates a deﬁ ned contribution scheme for employees resident in the United Kingdom.
In the US, the Group operates a section 401(K) proﬁ t sharing deﬁ ned contribution plan in respect of pensions, which covers substantially all Future 
US employees. The section 401(K) plan allows employees to invest in eight funds run by T. Rowe Price, but the employees, not the employer, have 
complete control over what they invest in, although they have no control over the stocks owned by the funds.
During the year, £1.1m (2010: £1.1m) contributions were made to these plans.
28. Commitments and contingent liabilities
(a) Operating lease commitments
At 30 September 2011, the Group had the following total future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases:
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other
£m
Total
2011
£m
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other
£m
Total
2010
£m
Within one year 3.7 0.2 3.9 4.0 0.1 4.1
Between one and ﬁ ve years 14.1 0.4 14.5 12.1 0.2 12.3
After ﬁ ve years 11.4 – 11.4 11.0 – 11.0
Total 29.2 0.6 29.8 27.1 0.3 27.4
Future minimum sub-lease receipts expected under non-cancellable subleases at 30 September 2011 total £1.9m (2010: £2.7m).
During the year, £4.3m (2010: £4.5m) was recognised in the income statement in respect of operating lease rental payments and £0.8m (2010: £1.0m) 
was recognised in respect of sub-lease receipts.
The Group leases various ofﬁ ces under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal 
rights. The Group also leases other equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
(b) Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities expected to result in a material loss for the Group.
( c )  Capital commitment s
There were no material capital commitments as at 30 September 2011 (2010: £nil).
29. Related party transactions
The Group has no material transactions with related parties which might reasonably be expected to inﬂ uence decisions made by users of these 
ﬁ nancial statements.
During the year, the Company had management charges receivable of £0.5m (2010: £0.6m) from subsidiary undertakings.
30. Principal subsidiary undertakings
The principal subsidiary undertakings at 30 September 2011 are shown below. A full list of subsidiaries is available at the Company’s registered ofﬁ ce. 
All subsidiaries are included in the consolidation. Shares of those companies marked with an * are indirectly owned by Future plc through an intermediate 
holding company.
Company name Country of incorporation Nature of business Holding % Class of shares
Subsidiaries
Future Publishing Limited* England and Wales Publishing 100 £1 Ordinary shares
Future US, Inc* USA (State of California) Publishing 100 Not applicable
31. Events after the reporting period
On 27 October 2011 the former Chief Executive and Group Finance Director resigned and were replaced by Mark Wood and Graham Harding. 
Subsequently, further ongoing restructuring costs are planned to be incurred. The total of these exceptional cash costs is estimated at £1.9m for the year 
ending 30 September 2012. Future plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notice of Annual General Meeting
11.  That, in substitution for any existing authority, the Directors be and 
are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance 
with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) to exercise all 
the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities (as deﬁ ned 
in note 20 on page 78):
  11.1  in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue (comprising 
equity securities as deﬁ ned by section 560 of the Act), up to an 
aggregate nominal amount of £2,192,000 (such amount to be 
reduced by the nominal amount of any relevant securities 
allotted under paragraph 11.2 below):
    (a)   to holders of Ordinary shares in proportion 
(as nearly as may be practicable) to their 
respective holdings; and
    (b)   to holders of any other equity securities as required 
by the rights of those securities or as the Directors 
otherwise consider necessary,
     but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the 
Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury 
shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical 
problems in or under the laws of any territory or the 
requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange; and
  11.2  in any other case, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£1,096,000 (such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount 
of any equity securities allotted under paragraph 11.1 above in 
excess of £1,096,000),
   at any time or times during the period beginning on the date of the 
passing of this resolution and ending following the conclusion of the 
Company’s next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, on 31 March 
2013 (unless previously revoked or varied by the Company in General 
Meeting) save that the Company may before expiry of this authority 
make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant 
securities to be allotted after its expiry and the Directors may allot 
relevant securities pursuant to such an offer or agreement as if the 
authority hereby conferred had not expired.
12.  That, following the broader deﬁ nitions introduced by sections 363 to 
365 of the Act of the terms used in (i), (ii) and (iii) below (which for the 
purposes of this resolution have the meanings given by the Act), the 
Company and its subsidiaries at any time during the period for which 
the resolution is effective be authorised together to:
  (i)   make political donations to political parties and/or independent 
election candidates not exceeding £50,000 in total;
  (ii)   make political donations to political organisations other than 
political parties not exceeding £50,000 in total; and
  (iii)  incur political expenditure not exceeding £50,000 in total,
   during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this 
resolution and ending following the conclusion of the Company’s 
next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, on 31 March 2013.
This Notice of Meeting is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you should consult your 
stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent adviser 
authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Future plc, please forward 
this notice, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to 
the purchaser or transferee or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so that 
they can pass these documents to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the thirteenth Annual General Meeting of 
Future plc will be held on Wednesday 8 February 2012 at Future’s London 
ofﬁ ce, 2 Balcombe Street, London NW1 6NW at 12 noon at which the 
following resolutions numbered 1 to 12 will be proposed as ordinary 
resolutions, and resolutions numbered 13 to 15 will be proposed as 
special resolutions.
Ordinary resolutions
1.   To receive and adopt the audited ﬁ nancial statements of the 
Company for the ﬁ nancial year ended 30 September 2011 and 
the reports of the Directors and the Auditors.
2.   To approve the Remuneration report as set out in the Annual Report 
of the Company for the ﬁ nancial year ended 30 September 2011.
3.   To re-elect as a Director Seb Bishop.
4.   To re-elect as a Director Mark Whiteling.
5.   To elect as a Director Peter Allen.
6.   To elect as a Director Manjit Wolstenholme.
7.   To elect as a Director Mark Wood.
8.  To elect as a Director Graham Harding.
9.   To reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Chartered Accountants 
and Registered Auditors, as auditors of the Company to hold ofﬁ ce 
until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at which accounts 
are laid before the Company.
10.  To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the 
auditors of the Company. Future plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
14.  That the Company be generally and unconditionally permitted to 
make market purchases (within the meaning of section 693(4) 
of the Act) of Ordinary shares of one penny each in the capital 
of the Company on such terms and in such manner as the 
Directors may think ﬁ t provided that:
  (a)   the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary shares which 
may be purchased be limited to 32,880,000 (representing just 
under 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 
15 December 2011);
  (b)   the minimum price payable per Ordinary share be one penny;
  (c)   the maximum price which may be paid for such Ordinary 
shares shall not be more than the higher of: 
    (i)   an amount equal to 5% above the average of the market 
values for an Ordinary share as derived from the London 
Stock Exchange’s Daily Ofﬁ cial List for the ﬁ ve business 
days immediately preceding the date on which the 
Ordinary shares are purchased; and
    (ii)   the amount stipulated by Article 5(1) of the Buy-back 
and Stabilisation Regulation 2003;
  (d)   unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, this authority 
shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General 
Meeting following the date of this resolution or, if earlier, 
on 31 March 2013; and
  (e)    the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under 
the authority conferred by this resolution prior to expiry of such 
authority, which may be executed wholly or partly after expiry 
of this authority.
15.  That a general meeting, other than an Annual General Meeting, 
may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
On behalf of the Board
Mark Millar
Company Secretary and General Counsel
15 December 2011
Special resolutions
13. That the Directors be and are hereby empowered:
  (i)   subject to the passing of resolution 11, pursuant to section 
570 of the Act to allot equity securities (within the meaning 
of section 560 of the Act) for cash pursuant to the authority 
conferred upon it for the purposes of section 551 of the Act 
by resolution 11; and
  (ii)  to allot treasury shares,
   in either case as if section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any such 
allotment at any time or times during the period beginning on the 
date of the passing of this resolution and ending following the 
conclusion of the Company’s next Annual General Meeting or, 
if earlier, on 31 March 2013 (save that the Company may before 
the expiry of the power hereby conferred make an offer or 
agreement which would or might require equity securities to 
be allotted after its expiry and the Directors may allot equity 
securities pursuant to such an offer or agreement as if the power 
hereby conferred had not expired), such power being limited to:
  (a)   the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by 
way of a rights issue in favour of the holders of Ordinary shares 
in proportion (as nearly as may be) to their respective holdings 
and, if the rights attaching to any other equity securities so 
provide, in favour of the holders of those equity securities in 
accordance with such rights, but subject to such exclusions or 
other arrangements as the Directors consider necessary or 
expedient in connection with ordinary shares representing 
fractional entitlements or on account of either legal or practical 
problems arising in connection with the laws of any territory, 
or of the requirements of any generally recognised regulatory 
body or stock exchange in any territory; and
  (b)   the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a) above) of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £164,000 (representing just under 5% of the issued 
share capital of the Company as at 15 December 2011). Future plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued
Documents available for inspection
6.   Printed copies of the following documents will be available for 
inspection during usual business hours on any weekday (Saturdays, 
Sundays and public holidays excluded) at the registered ofﬁ ce 
of the Company at 30 Monmouth Street, Bath BA1 2BW and at 
the Company’s London ofﬁ ce at 2 Balcombe Street, London 
NW1 6NW, including on the day of the meeting from 11.45am 
until its completion:
  (a)    the service contracts of the Company’s Directors and the 
letters of appointment for the non-executive Directors;
  (b)   the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration committee;
  (c)   the Terms of Reference of the Audit committee; and
  (d)   the Terms of Reference of the Nomination committee.
Eligible shareholders
7.   The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of The Uncertiﬁ cated 
Securities Regulations 2001, speciﬁ es that only those members on 
the register of the Company as at 6pm on Monday 6 February 2012 
or, if this meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours 
before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend 
and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares 
registered in their name at that time. Changes to entries on the 
Register after 6pm on Monday 6 February 2012, or, if this meeting is 
adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of 
any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the 
rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Indirect investors
8.   Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person that has been 
nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights 
(a ‘Nominated Person’) does not have a right to appoint a proxy. 
However, a Nominated Person may, under an agreement with the 
registered shareholder by whom they were nominated (a ‘Relevant 
Member’), have a right to be appointed (or to have someone else 
appointed) as a proxy for the meeting. Alternatively, if a Nominated 
Person does not have such a right, or does not wish to exercise it, 
they may have a right under any such agreement to give instructions 
to the Relevant Member as to the exercise of voting rights. 
A Nominated Person’s main point of contact in terms of their 
investment in the Company remains the Relevant Member 
(or, perhaps, the Nominated Person’s custodian or broker) and 
the Nominated Person should continue to contact them (and not 
the Company) regarding any changes or queries relating to the 
Nominated Person’s personal details and their interest in the 
Company (including any administrative matters). The only exception 
to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from 
the Nominated Person.
Notes:
Further information about the AGM
1.    Information regarding the meeting, including the information 
required by section 311A of the Act, is available from: 
www.futureplc.com/investors.
Attendance at the AGM
2.   If you wish to attend the meeting in person, please bring the 
attendance card attached to your form of proxy and arrive at Future’s 
London ofﬁ ce in sufﬁ cient time for registration. Directions will be 
provided at reception and the venue is accessible for the disabled. 
Appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending 
the meeting and voting in person. If a member has appointed a 
proxy and attends the meeting in person, the proxy appointment 
will automatically be terminated.
Appointment of proxies
3.   Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint 
one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in their place. 
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each 
proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share 
or shares held by that shareholder. If you appoint multiple proxies 
for a number of shares in excess of your holding, the proxy 
appointments may be treated as invalid. A proxy need not be a 
member of the Company. A proxy card is enclosed. To be effective, 
proxy cards should be completed in accordance with these notes 
and the notes to the proxy form, signed and returned so as to be 
received by the Company’s Registrars, Computershare Investor 
Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY 
not later than 12 noon on Monday 6 February 2012 being two 
business days before the time appointed for the holding of the 
meeting. If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, 
the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt 
of proxies will take precedence.
Electronic appointment of proxies
4.   As an alternative to completing the printed proxy form, you may 
appoint a proxy electronically by visiting the following website: 
www.eproxyappointment.com. You will be asked to enter the 
Control Number, the Shareholder Reference Number (SRN) and 
PIN as printed on your proxy form and to agree to certain terms 
and conditions. To be effective, electronic appointments must have 
been received by the Company’s Registrars not later than 12 noon 
on Monday 6 February 2012.
Number of shares in issue
5.   As at the close of business on 15 December 2011 (being the last 
business day prior to the publication of this notice) the Company’s 
issued share capital consisted of 328,844,120 Ordinary shares of one 
penny each. Each Ordinary share carries one vote. There are 
no shares held in treasury. The total number of voting rights in the 
Company is therefore 328,844,120. Future plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Revoking a proxy
11.  In order to revoke a proxy instruction, a signed letter clearly stating 
a member’s intention to revoke a proxy appointment must be sent 
by post or by hand to the Company’s Registrars, Computershare 
Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol 
BS99 6ZY. Note that the deadlines for receipt of proxy appointments 
(see above) also apply in relation to revocations; any revocation 
received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Corporate members
12.  In the case of a member which is a company, any proxy form, 
amendment or revocation must be executed under its common 
seal or signed on its behalf by an ofﬁ cer of the company or an 
attorney for the company. Any power of attorney or any other 
authority under which the documents are signed (or a duly 
certiﬁ ed copy of such power of authority) must be included. 
A corporate member can appoint one or more corporate 
representatives who may exercise, on its behalf, all its powers 
as a member provided that no more than one corporate 
representative exercises powers over the same share. 
Joint holders
13.  Where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint 
a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the member 
whose name appears ﬁ rst on the register will be accepted.
Questions at the AGM
14.  Under section 319A of the Act, the Company must answer any 
question you ask relating to the business being dealt with at 
the meeting unless:
  (a)   answering the question would interfere unduly with the 
preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of 
conﬁ dential information;
  (b)   the answer has already been given on a website in the form 
of an answer to a question; or
  (c)   it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good 
order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Members’ right to require circulation of a resolution 
to be proposed at the AGM
15.  Under section 338 of the Act, a member or members meeting 
the qualiﬁ cation criteria set out at note 18 below, may, subject 
to conditions set out at note 19, require the Company to give 
to members notice of a resolution which may properly be 
moved and is intended to be moved at that meeting.
Members’ right to have a matter of business dealt with at the AGM
16.  Under section 338A of the Act, a member or members meeting 
the qualiﬁ cation criteria set out at note 18 below, may, subject to 
the conditions set out at note 19, require the Company to include 
in the business to be dealt with at the AGM a matter (other than 
a proposed resolution) which may properly be included in the 
business (a matter of business).
Appointment of proxies through CREST
9.   CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through 
the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the 
meeting and any adjournment(s) thereof by using the procedures 
described in the CREST Manual. CREST Personal Members or other 
CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have 
appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST 
sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the 
appropriate action on their behalf.
    In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the 
CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message 
(a ‘CREST Proxy Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in 
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s speciﬁ cations 
and must contain the information required for such instructions, 
as described in the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of 
whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an 
amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy 
must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the 
issuer’s agent (ID 3RA50) by 12 noon on Monday 6 February 2012, or, 
if the meeting is adjourned, not less than 48 hours before the time 
ﬁ xed for the adjourned meeting. For this purpose, the time of receipt 
will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied 
to the message by the CREST Applications Host) from which the 
issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST 
in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change 
of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be 
communicated to the appointee through other means.
   CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or 
voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland 
Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for 
any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations 
will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy 
Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned 
to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or 
sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider(s), 
to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) 
take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message 
is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular 
time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, 
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, 
in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning 
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
    The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in 
the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertiﬁ cated 
Securities Regulations 2001.
Amending a proxy
10.  To change a proxy instruction, a member needs to submit a new 
proxy appointment using the methods set out above. Note that the 
deadlines for receipt of proxy appointments (see above) also apply 
in relation to amended instructions; any amended proxy appointment 
received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded. Where 
a member has appointed a proxy using the paper proxy form and 
would like to change the instructions using another such form, 
that member should contact the Registrars on +44 (0)870 707 1443. 
If more than one valid proxy appointment is submitted, the 
appointment received last before the deadline for the receipt 
of proxies will take precedence. Future plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Notice of Annual General Meeting continued
  (d)    in the case of a request made in hard copy form, such request 
must be:
    (i)   signed by you and state your full name and address; and
    (ii)   sent either: by post to Mark Millar, Company Secretary, 
Future plc, Beauford Court, 30 Monmouth Street, Bath 
BA1 2BW; or by fax to +44(0)1225 822836 marked for the 
attention of the Company Secretary; and
  (e)   in the case of a request made in electronic form, such request 
must:
    (i)   state your full name and address; and
    (ii)   be sent to cosec@futurenet.com. Please state ‘AGM’ 
in the subject line of the email. You may not use this 
electronic address to communicate with the Company 
for any other purpose.
Relevant Securities
20.  Relevant Securities are:
  (a)    Ordinary shares in the Company other than shares allotted 
pursuant to:
    (i)   an employee share scheme (as deﬁ ned by section 1166 
of the Act);
    (ii)   a right to subscribe for shares in the Company where the 
grant of the right itself constituted a Relevant Security; or
    (iii)  a right to convert securities into shares in the Company 
where the grant of the right itself constituted a Relevant 
Security.
  (b)   Any right to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares 
in the Company other than rights to subscribe for or convert 
any security into shares allotted pursuant to an employee share 
scheme (as deﬁ ned by section 1166 of the Act). References to 
the allotment of Relevant Securities in the resolution include 
the grant of such rights.
Website publication of any audit concerns
17.  Pursuant to Chapter 5 of Part 16 of the Act, where requested by a 
member or members meeting the qualiﬁ cation criteria set out at 
note 18 below, the Company must publish on its website a statement 
setting out any matter that such members propose to raise at the 
AGM relating to the audit of the Company’s accounts (including 
the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be 
laid before the AGM.
   Where the Company is required to publish such a statement 
on its website:
  (a)   it may not require the members making the request to pay 
any expenses incurred by the Company in complying with 
the request;
  (b)   it must forward the statement to the Company’s auditors 
no later than the time the statement is made available on 
the Company’s website; and
  (c)   the statement may be dealt with as part of the business 
of the AGM.
  The request:
  (d)   may be in hard copy form or in electronic form and must 
be authenticated by the person or persons making it 
(see note 19(d) and (e) below);
  (e)   should either set out the statement in full or, if supporting 
a statement sent by another member, clearly identify the 
statement which is being supported; and
  (f)   must be received by the Company at least one week before 
the AGM.
Members’ qualiﬁ cation criteria
18.  In order to be able to exercise the members’ rights set out in notes 
15 to 17 above the relevant request must be made by:
  (a)   a member or members having a right to vote at the AGM and 
holding at least 5% of total voting rights of the Company; or
  (b)   at least 100 members having a right to vote at the AGM and 
holding, on average, at least £100 of paid up share capital.
Conditions
19.  The conditions are that:
  (a)   any resolution must not, if passed, be ineffective (whether by 
reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Company’s 
constitution or otherwise);
  (b)   the resolution or matter of business must not be defamatory of 
any person, frivolous or vexatious;
  (c)   the request:
    (i)  may be in hard copy form or in electronic form;
    (ii)    must identify the resolution or the matter of business of 
which notice is to be given by either setting it out in full or, 
if supporting a resolution/matter of business sent by 
another member, clearly identifying the resolution/matter 
of business which is being supported;
    (iii)  in the case of a resolution, must be accompanied by 
a statement setting out the grounds for the request;
    (iv)  must be authenticated by the person or persons making 
it; and
    (v)   must be received by the Company not later than six weeks 
before the date of the AGM; Future plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial review Operating review Governance & Financial Statements
Investor information Directors and advisers
Investor enquiries and information about Future
For enquiries of a general nature regarding the Company and 
for investor relations enquiries please contact Graham Harding 
at the Company’s Bath ofﬁ ce, or visit www.futureplc.com and select 
the investor relations section.
Registrar and transfer ofﬁ ce
The Company’s share register is maintained by:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS13 8AE
Tel: +44 (0)870 707 1443
Shareholders should contact the Registrar, Computershare, 
in connection with changes of address, lost share certiﬁ cates, 
transfers of shares and bank mandate forms to enable automated 
payment of dividends.
Online information – www.investorcentre.co.uk
Our Registrar, Computershare, has a service to provide shareholders 
with online internet access to details of their shareholdings. The service 
is free, secure and easy to use. To register for the service, go to 
www.investorcentre.co.uk.
Unsolicited mail
The share register is by law a public document. To limit the receipt 
of mail from other organisations, please register with the Mailing 
Preference Service, by visiting www.mpsonline.org.uk/mpsr/.
Warning to shareholders – ‘boiler room’ scams
In recent years, many companies have become aware that their 
shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence 
concerning investment matters. These are typically from overseas-based 
‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often 
turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments. 
These operations are commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’. These ‘brokers’ 
can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by 
the Financial Services Authority (FSA) reported that the average amount 
lost by investors is around £20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way; 
many of the victims had been successfully investing for several 
years. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited 
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company 
reports. If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
•  Make sure you get the correct name of the person and 
organisation
•  Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting 
involved by visiting www.fsa.gov.uk/register/
•  Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 
or visiting www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk 
• If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised ﬁ rm, you will not be eligible to receive 
payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at 
www.fsa.gov.uk
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses 
will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found at 
www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk
Directors
Peter Allen
Chairman
Manjit Wolstenholme
Senior independent 
non-executive Director
Mark Wood
Chief Executive
Seb Bishop
Non-executive Director
Graham Harding
Group Finance Director
Mark Whiteling
Non-executive Director
Company Secretary and General Counsel
Mark Millar
London ofﬁ ce
2 Balcombe Street
London NW1 6NW
Tel +44 (0)20 7042 4000
www.futureplc.com
Registered ofﬁ ce
Future plc
Beauford Court
30 Monmouth Street
Bath BA1 2BW
Tel +44 (0)1225 442244
Company registration number 
3757874
Registered in England and Wales
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered accountants and 
registered auditors
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
Broker
Numis Securities Ltd
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
Solicitors
Allen & Overy LLP
One Bishops Square
London E1 6AD
Registrars
Computershare Investor 
Services PLC
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS13 8AE
Norton Rose LLP
3 More London Riverside
London SE1 2AQ Future plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Financial calendar Contacts
Announcement of annual results 
24 November 2011
Annual General Meeting
8 February 2012
Half-year end
31 March 2012
Announcement of interim results
May 2012
Financial year-end
30 September 2012
Future plc
www.futureplc.com
Beauford Court
30 Monmouth Street
Bath BA1 2BW
UK
Tel +44 (0)1225 442244
2 Balcombe Street
London NW1 6NW
UK
Tel +44 (0)20 7042 4000
Future Publishing Ltd
Beauford Court
30 Monmouth Street
Bath BA1 2BW
UK
Tel +44 (0)1225 442244
2 Balcombe Street
London NW1 6NW
UK
Tel +44 (0)20 7042 4000
Future US, Inc.
4000 Shoreline Court
Suite 400
South San Francisco
CA 94080
USA
Tel +1 650 872 1642
149 Fifth Avenue
9th Floor
New York
NY 10010
USA
Tel +1 212 768 2966
Future Publishing (Overseas) Ltd
Suite 3, Level 10
100 Walker Street
North Sydney
NSW 2060
Australia
Tel +61 2 9955 2677 Future plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Designed and produced by Salterbaxter
Printed by Emtone Beauford Court
30 Monmouth Street
Bath BA1 2BW
United Kingdom
Tel +44 (0)1225 442244
2 Balcombe Street
London NW1 6NW
United Kingdom
Tel +44 (0)20 7042 4000
Future plc
www.futureplc.com
