 Future plc  
Annual Report and  
Accounts 2013
Reaching 58 million global unique 
users every month Revenue
£112.3m  
2012: £123.5m (-9% t)
Overview
Group 
highlights
01
Future plc is an international media group and leading digital 
publisher, listed on the London Stock Exchange (symbol: FUTR).  
These highlights refer to the Group’s annual results for the year 
ended 30 September 2013.
Future is named Media Company of the Year 
at the British Media Awards in May. Future 
is the biggest winner on the night: Digital 
Camera also wins Print Product of the Year 
and the Marketing team behind Mollie Makes 
is named Media Marketing Team.
Future’s Consumer Insight unit wins at the 
International FIPP Research Forum Awards 
2013 for its research into ‘Embracing the 
Opportunity of Apple’s Newsstand’. Judges 
said: “This is an outstanding piece of 
research into ways of making the most of the 
potential for digital platforms.”
Future US’s integrated Hyundai/Walking Dead 
digital and experiential campaign is named 
winner of the Excellence Award at the annual 
international Communicator Awards, recognising 
big ideas in marketing and communication. 
A Year of Awards
Future plc
Future has won more than 40 major industry awards in the last twelve months. Highlights include:
04.13 05.13 05.13 
EBITE represents earnings 
before interest, tax and 
exceptional items. 
EBITE
£4.7m  
2012: £6.8m (-31% t)
Dividend per Share  
0.2p
2012: -
Net Debt 
£(6.9)m   
2012: £(14.1)m +51% s
EBITDAE represents 
earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation, amortisation 
and exceptional items.
EBITDAE
£7 .6m 
2012: £9.4m (-19% t)
Pre-tax Profit 
£5.8m  
2012: £1.1m (+427%s) Future secures the Association of Online 
Publishers’ Award as Consumer Digital 
Publisher of the Year for an unprecedented 
third year running. Judges praise Future’s 
“outstanding achievement in the digital  
media environment”.
Future picks up the Consumer Digital 
Publisher of the Year Award at the Professional 
Publishers Association for the second year 
running. Future is now unprecedented in 
winning all of the ‘big three’ industry awards in 
a single year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report
01 Group highlights
03 Chairman’s statement
05 Chief Executive’s review 
07 Business model 
09 Where we operate 
11 What we do 
13 Business review
19  Risks and uncertainties
21 Corporate responsibility 
Financial Review
 
23 Financial review  
Corporate Governance
29 Board of Directors 
31 Directors’ report 
35 Corporate Governance report 
41 Directors’ remuneration report 
52 Independent auditors’ report  
Financial Statements
55 Financial statements  
88 Normalised results 
89 Notice of Annual General Meeting 
94 Investor information  
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
06.13 09.13 
Normalised Digital Revenues 
+38%    
year-on-year
Normalised Digital Advertising 
59%
of total advertising revenues (2012: 48%)
Normalised Unique Users  
57.7m    
a month (+14% year-on-year)
Normalised Digital Edition Revenues   
+44% 
year-on-year
Normalised results are presented to better reflect the current 
size and structure of the business and give a better indication 
of the performance of the ongoing business. The normalised 
results exclude revenues and costs relating to activities closed or 
divested between 1 October 2011 and 30 September 2013, but 
include any new activities launched or acquired in that period. 
02 The strategy agreed by the Board 
over the past two years to diversify 
revenues and reduce dependence 
on print is clearly delivering the 
anticipated results. Digital and 
Diversified revenues − including 
revenues from digital circulation, 
digital advertising, digital commerce, 
FutureFolio, Future Plus and events 
− are now one third of the business 
and we are on a trajectory to maintain 
this momentum.
It has been particularly encouraging to 
see an effective focus on increasing 
monetisation of our digital traffic and 
to follow the development of our digital 
agency activity in the US and the UK 
as a substantial new business.
We have placed great emphasis on 
managing our operating margins, and 
continue to re-engineer our cost base 
as part of that focus. We are pleased 
with progress in this area and the 
efforts undertaken to reduce costs in 
the UK and streamline the business 
organisation by removing some layers 
of management.
The improvement in performance 
and the encouraging trends as we 
entered the 2013-14 financial year 
were seen by the Board as justifying 
a resumption of dividend payments, 
which were suspended in 2011. We 
will therefore pay a dividend of 0.2p 
per share for all shareholders on the 
register as at 14 February 2014. This 
decision reflects confidence in the 
business and the prospects for the 
period ahead.
We are delighted to welcome Zillah 
Byng-Maddick as Chief Financial 
Officer. She brings with her invaluable 
experience of managing the print-
to-digital transition at Trader Media, 
publisher of Auto Trader. We thank 
her predecessor, Graham Harding, 
for his contribution as CFO and many 
years of distinguished service to 
Future and we wish him well.
Peter Allen 
Chairman
We are pleased with the results, which show the business 
gathering momentum in the second half and ending the 
year with every sector performing well. We believe the 
advances in digital revenues mark an important turning 
point for the business, with advertising revenues now  
two thirds digital.
Gathering momentum
“ The improvement in 
performance and the 
encouraging trends as we 
entered the 2013-14 financial 
year were seen by the Board 
as justifying a resumption of 
dividend payments.”
Peter Allen
Chairman
Chairman’s 
statement
03 Future plc To reach and grow high-value global audiences with 
world-class content produced by talented experts; 
and to be tireless innovators in the way we engage 
with those consumers and generate value for Future 
and our commercial partners.
The Future Mission 
04 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance Future has achieved further significant progress in the transition 
to a diversified digital business and delivered revenue growth, 
despite challenging trading conditions over much of the year. 
Digital revenues rose 38% − the highest rate of growth in recent 
years − and we passed a significant inflection point, with more 
than half of all advertising revenues (59% across the Group) now 
digital. This demonstrates how far the business has developed in 
its digital transformation.
Significant progress
Our strategy
The past 12 months have 
seen Future make good 
progress against its strategy 
as we maintain momentum 
towards digital transition and 
diversified revenues.
Mark Wood
Chief Executive
Chief 
Executive’s 
review
05 Future plc
Overview
Overall, Digital and Diversified revenues − 
including revenues from digital circulation, 
digital advertising, digital commerce, software 
business FutureFolio, custom publishing 
business Future Plus and events − made up 
32% of the business.
As a result of disposals and restructuring we 
have strengthened the balance sheet, net 
debt has been halved to £6.9m (leverage 0.99 
times) and a new four year £25m maturing 
credit facility agreed. Second half performance 
was significantly better than the first half 
and, after an encouraging fourth quarter, we 
entered the 2013-14 financial year with forward 
advertising bookings pacing ahead of last year. 
For the year as a whole, revenues grew by 3% 
and profit before tax came in at £1.9m against 
a loss in the prior year of £2.7m, with growth 
in digital revenues more than offsetting print 
declines. A cyclical decline in the Games market 
was a significant drag on the business in the 
first three quarters. But by the fourth quarter 
Games had substantially recovered and trading 
was stronger in Q4 across all other sectors. 
During the second half a number of key 
elements of the transition programme were 
delivered: the US was operating profitably and 
restructuring activity in the UK was completed 
which will deliver margin benefits in 2014.  
Digital growth across all key brands 
We increased our digital reach by 14% to  
58 million unique users (UUs) a month. Future 
now has 14 websites that each attract more than 
one million UUs a month. We achieved greater 
Driving Future’s transformation into a 
global, digitally-led content business 01.
Innovating digitally to increase audience 
engagement and diversify monetisation 03.
Managing our print assets for 
cash generation 04.
Constantly controlling costs & targeting 
investment to manage margin 05.
Focussing on building brands across 
channels – TechRadar is our no.1 priority 02. 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
audience engagement across the portfolio, with 
page views rising 19% to 328 million, increased 
dwell times and a 32% increase in average 
revenue per user across all sites.
We saw sustained digital growth across all 
key sectors of the portfolio – Technology, 
Games, Photography, Sport, Crafts, Music 
and Digital Creative.
TechRadar, the news and reviews site which 
is Future’s top brand, reached 20 million 
UUs a month and continued to grow a global 
audience. TechRadar US more than doubled 
its audience to 8.3 million UUs and was one 
of the fastest growing US technology sites.  
In the UK we launched TechRadar Pro, 
focussed on the business technology sector, 
and saw rapid growth in visitor traffic and 
advertiser interest. 
TechRadar is now unchallenged as the  
UK’s number one technology website and is 
increasingly competing with CNet in global 
markets. Future’s CyclingNews and BikeRadar 
are global leaders in their sectors, while CVG, 
PC Gamer and GamesRadar all had market- 
leading positions in the UK and US. Creative 
Bloq took the lead in the high-value UK Digital 
Design space within a year of launch and 
generated traffic of more than 2.2 million  
UUs a month. 
Revenues from Future’s digital editions on 
tablets such as the iPad increased by 44% on 
the prior year and Mac|Life, our US title, saw 
subscriptions increase to 80,000. We now 
have more than 340,000 digital subscriptions 
worldwide and renewal rates have been 
running at close to 70%.
Innovation and diversified revenues 
Content Marketing was an area of substantial 
digital growth and is developing into a 
material new business area. Future has 
developed expertise in managing consumer 
engagement and marketing campaigns for 
major brands in both the US and the UK. 
Revenues from new business in this area 
doubled and are now generating more than 
15% of total advertising revenues.  
Future US created the blueprint, winning 
content production, audience engagement 
and experiential marketing campaigns for 
major partners including Hyundai, Bethesda 
and DTS. The UK built on that experience 
and secured content marketing campaigns 
for brands including Samsung, Carphone 
Warehouse, Canon, Microsoft and Tesco.
In the fast-growing Photography market, Future 
is the market-leading publisher in print and 
digital formats and our interactive Photography 
Week tops the sector on Apple’s Newsstand. 
We also secured the licence to stage The 
Photography Show, set to be Europe’s biggest 
annual event of its kind, at the Birmingham 
NEC. The Photography Show will debut in 
March 2014. Our Events division, launched 
in 2012, also launched successful B2B 
conferences and shows in Photography, 
Digital Creative and Music in the last year. 
This demonstrates the success of our model 
of creating the best brands and content in a 
sector and then leveraging this across other 
engagement vehicles.
In other areas, FutureFolio, our tablet edition 
software, extended its customer list. New 
clients include the Daily Telegraph and 
publishing group Redan, which has chosen 
FutureFolio to publish a highly interactive 
version of the magazine based on the hugely 
popular children’s character Peppa Pig. In 
addition, we increased revenues from real-time 
programmatic data trading, which enables us 
to monetise unsold advertising inventory. 
International growth 
More than 40% of the Group’s revenues  
were generated outside the UK in the last 
year. In the US, revenues increased by 6% 
and in Australia by 23%, boosted by the 
acquisition of two technology brands. These 
have made Future a leader in the technology 
sector and will provide leverage to build 
TechRadar Australia. 
We continue to see Future’s biggest 
opportunities internationally in the US and 
have an efficient model for repurposing  
UK-produced content for the American 
market. As well as significant growth in the US 
Technology and Games sectors, we see further 
potential in Photography, Crafts and Cycling.
In Europe, we launched a French-language 
version of MusicRadar and began producing 
Sport and Technology content for print and 
digital products in German and Italian. 
Agile management of our  
magazine portfolio 
We manage our print business for cash 
generation and have continued to innovate 
in creating new revenue streams. We launch 
new titles into areas where we identify 
opportunity for revenue and profit growth. 
Recent new launches have included 
Love Patchwork & Quilting and Science 
Uncovered, a mainstream science title  
aimed at the 16-25 demographic. 
We have significantly mitigated the impact 
of declines in mainstream title sales by 
substantially expanding production of high-
value specials and bookazines. We print these 
in the UK, US and China and are targeting 
markets in the US, Asia, UK and Europe. 
Summary & outlook
We have halved our debt during the year as 
a result of selling our portfolio of Rock titles, 
closing loss-making titles and successfully 
securing sub-letting deals in the US and UK, 
reducing our property liabilities by £1.4m. 
We maintain a rigorous focus on operating 
margins. We have reshaped the business 
to support our increasingly digital revenues, 
reducing headcount in the UK to its lowest  
level for more than 10 years.
Future has developed an entrepreneurial and 
innovative culture and is well positioned to 
seize opportunities as digital markets evolve. 
Future won all three top UK awards for Digital 
Publisher of the Year in 2013, the first company 
ever to take every top industry honour. This 
is evidence that the Company is seen as 
undisputed digital leader by the rest of the UK 
media industry.
We will put that innovative flair to work as we 
continue to build Future’s digital business at 
speed in the year ahead. 
Looking forward, we see the encouraging Q4 
trends continuing with forward advertising 
bookings up year-on-year, and revenue 
momentum across all sectors.
As we began the 2013-14 financial period, 
trading was in line with our expectations across 
all parts of the business. 
Mark Wood
Chief Executive
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
 
PC Gamer is the world’s 
most popular PC  
gaming website
 
BikeRadar is the world’s 
most popular cycling 
reviews website
 
MusicRadar is the world’s 
most popular website  
for musicians
No.1 No.1 No.1 The Future Advantage 
We’re proud of the entrepreneurial 
and innovation-led culture at Future. 
We have world-class content creators 
and digital innovators whose passion 
is to connect, inspire and entertain the 
millions of engaged consumers who 
make up our global audience. 
Our borderless communities of interest 
continue to enable our global expansion, 
and we’re trusted to help consumers make 
informed purchase decisions through content 
channels online, on mobile and in print. 
Our audience reach and our high levels of 
engagement allow us to create innovative  
and successful consumer engagement for  
our commercial partners.
01. 
Content
Creating high quality and 
unique branded content for 
our engaged international 
communities of interest.
Our brands are our most important channels 
– and they are powered by our passionate, 
world-class expert journalists, designers, 
developers and editors. In the last year our 
people have won more than 40 industry 
awards and their talent, experience, creativity 
and innovation is recognised internationally. 
Our people live our brands. 
Our focus on specialist sectors that ignite the 
passions of consumers the world over allows 
Future to create branded content that travels in 
the new borderless digital media landscape.
From T3 to Total Film, Digital Camera to 
Computer Arts, Mollie Makes to Procycling, 
we create brands our consumers keep coming 
back to again and again.
Across the globe, our consumers are united 
by one thing – they love and trust our content. 
Whether they’re following minute-by-minute 
coverage of the Giro D’Italia on Cyclingnews.com 
or they were one of over four million people to 
watch T3’s exclusive un-boxing video review of  
the PS4 in July 2013. 
Future creates trusted content, and in so doing 
we create loyal communities of interest. 
Increasingly our content is used in real  
time to influence and inform purchase  
decisions. TechRadar – which now reaches  
over 20 million unique users a month globally – 
is a prime example of a Future brand selected 
by consumers already in the purchase funnel, 
actively looking for guidance they trust.
Future is focussed on growing and engaging high-value global 
audiences. We create shareholder value by monetising these 
audiences and the meaningful engagement our reach delivers 
for our commercial partners.
Creating value
Business 
model
07 Future plc
02. 
Consumers
Focussing on sectors in growth, 
and entertaining and informing 
our consumers. We deliver revenues from print and digital 
product sales – we sold over 19 million 
magazines and over five million digital editions 
in the last year. 
Future has focussed on developing multi-
channel engagement with its consumers. 
With 14 digital properties now attracting over 
a million unique users a month, we have 
extended page views and dwell times on our 
own sites and utilised social networks to reach 
new consumers. As we increase engagement 
we are evolving new ways to monetise 
our audiences, above all through affiliate 
partnerships with retailers.
Our new Events business is a vital part of our 
consumer engagement across photography, 
technology, design and music sectors.
Our brands are hubs for our communities of 
interest. They provide a range of touchpoints 
into their lives – online, on mobile, in print, 
and beyond. 
And they provide valuable opportunities for our 
commercial partners to engage with passionate 
enthusiasts and active purchasers alike. 
Future has rapidly developed a diversified 
revenue stream in its content marketing 
offering: providing integrated creative solutions 
and digital agency services to a growing roster 
of international brands, including Samsung, 
Hyundai, O2, and Carphone Warehouse. 
Future’s Content Marketing revenues have 
doubled in the last 12 months – delivering 
tangible return on investment to clients as  
well as winning international awards.
08 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
03. 
Engagement
Monetising consumers through 
innovative engagement models.
04. 
Partnership
Monetising our audiences via 
access to these communities for 
our commercial partners.
58m
Online
We have 58 million unique 
users from across the  
globe visiting our web 
properties monthly
£0.75m
Digital Editions
Over £0.75m gross revenue a 
month via all digital editions. 
Over five million sales across 
all channels in 2013
6.5m
Social Media
Future has 6.5 million  
followers across all the  
main social networks
132m
Video
Last year our video content had 
over 132 million views – that’s 
706 years’ worth of content
19m
Print
Over 19 million printed copies 
sold in 2013 – that’s 37 every 
minute of every day
Future in numbers Future’s focus is on creating high quality content that travels.  
Our innovation and agility has placed us at the centre of the 
digital media revolution and the last year has seen massive 
growth in our international audience. We now reach 58 million 
unique users globally each month and 75% of our digital edition 
sales are to non-UK consumers. 
A global business
Where we 
operate
09 Future plc
Future has become a global 
leader in publishing on the iPad 
through Apple’s Newsstand, 
with over £16m in gross 
revenue since its launch in 
October 2011. In 2013 Future 
sold over five million digital 
editions across all platforms 
and three quarters of our 
market is outside the UK. 
And international partners are showing keen 
interest in licensing FutureFolio for their own 
brands. We are working with publishers in 
the US, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Brazil and 
Taiwan, and FutureFolio is now signed up to 
power 90 digital editions for partners. 
We have strategic partnerships with 82 
overseas media businesses, and 218 licences 
and licensed editions available in 92 countries 
worldwide – making us the largest UK-based 
publisher by licence. The enhancement of our 
product offerings makes it easier than ever for 
international partners to utilise our best-in-
class content. 
These initiatives include the development 
of our website technology solutions and the 
introduction of a dedicated translation unit to 
provide local language content to our digital 
and print content partners. 
58m
Global unique users 
a month
82
Strategic partnerships 
with overseas partners
218 
Licensed editions 
available in 92 countries
At a glance 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
Top 10 Countries for 
Digital Editions 
1 United States
2 United Kingdom
3 Australia
4 Canada
5 Germany
6 Norway
7 The Netherlands
8 Denmark
9 South Africa
10 Singapore
Top 10 International  
Digital Brands
1 Mac|Life
2 T3
3 N-Photo
4 Digital Camera World
5 Maximum PC
6 Photography Week
7 PC Gamer 
8 Total Film
9 MacFormat
10 Edge
Top 10 International 
Licensing Brands 
1 T3
2  Di g it al C a me r a
3 Procycling
4 Computer Arts
5 Cycling Plus
6 Total Film
7 PC Format
8  Xbox: The Official 
Magazine
9 Mollie Makes
10 Mountain Biking UK
Top 10 Countries by 
Licensed product
1 Germany
2 Brazil
3 Spain
4 Thailand
5 Sweden
6 Malaysia
7 Italy 
8 Indonesia
9 Lebanon
10 South Africa
Top Five Countries  
for Export  
1 United States
2 Australia
3 Canada
4 New Zealand
5 South Africa
No.1  
UK licensor of monthly 
magazines by value
3m 
Future magazines sold 
overseas each year
75%  
of digital edition sales 
outside the UK
Digital edition sales
 Primary markets
 Secondary markets Computing
Mac|Life is the ultimate source 
of all things Apple in the US – it is 
our biggest-selling digital edition 
at over 80,000 copy sales monthly. 
Windows 7: Help & Advice magazine 
continues to serve the world’s 
largest installed operating system. 
Elsewhere, MacFormat, the number 
one Apple title in the UK, celebrated 
its 20th anniversary in 2013. Its fully 
interactive iPad edition continues 
to grow sales since the new format 
launched in July 2013. And Linux 
Format, the world’s number one 
technology magazine covering open 
source software and Linux operating 
systems, continues to thrive.
Key brands:
Mac|Life 
MacFormat
Windows 7
•  We hold market-leading positions  
in Technology, Photography, Games, 
Guitars, Creative & Design, Craft  
and Sport sectors.  
•  We attract 58 million monthly  
global unique users to our websites, 
which include TechRadar.com, 
GamesRadar.com, BikeRadar.com  
and MusicRadar.com. 
•  Future sold more than 19 million 
print magazines last year, that’s 37 
magazines sold every minute. Our 
most well-known brands include T3, 
Cycling Plus, Total Film, Mollie Makes 
and Xbox: The Official Magazine.  
•  Future has developed its own  
app-creation software, FutureFolio. 
We produce over 100 digital editions, 
and have sold over 5 million digital 
issues in the last year.
•  Future has 218 licensed properties 
available in 92 countries, making us 
the UK’s number one exporter and 
licensor of magazine content.
Follow Future
 
@futureplc  
www.linkedin.com/company/future-publishing 
Our portfolios
What we do
11 Future plc
Technology
Future’s sector-leading Technology 
portfolio is constantly innovating, 
reflecting the fast-moving markets in 
which it operates. Today, we reach 
more technology enthusiasts than ever 
before through digital, print and events. 
More than 27 million unique users every 
month use our influential websites, 
including TechRadar.com, T3.com 
and Gizmodo.co.uk. TechRadar alone 
reaches more than 20 million unique 
users a month, and is the UK’s biggest 
technology reviews website. T3, our 
flagship technology and lifestyle brand, 
is the world’s leading multiplatform 
technology media brand and is the 
market leader on iPad in the UK.
Key brands:
TechRadar.com
T3
Gizmodo.co.uk
Future plc is an international media group and leading digital 
business. We have operations in the UK, US and Australia, 
creating more than 200 publications, apps, websites and events 
across ten content portfolios.
Film
Future is a leading film publisher, with 
a strong multiplatform portfolio across 
print, tablet, online, video, mobile, apps 
and events. Future’s movie websites 
attract over 44 million page views each 
month. Total Film, an exemplar of a 
modern multiplatform brand, is the 
flagship title in a portfolio that includes 
SFX, SFX Presents and Comic 
Heroes. We have a unique position in 
the market, delivering cross-platform 
campaigns to influential movie fans 
throughout the full product lifecycle of a 
movie: from the early buzz to cinematic 
and DVD release. 
Key brands:
Total Film
SFX
Comic Heroes
Games
Our Games portfolio holds a unique 
position in the global games media 
market, combining the strongest games 
industry partnerships with an innovative 
multi-channel approach. We are the 
only games media owner with audience 
reach across print, digital editions, 
online, social, video, mobile, on-console 
and events. The consumer engagement 
of Future’s games brands – including 
GamesRadar.com, CVG.co.uk and  
PC Gamer – is at a record high, 
delivering a global monthly reach of 
over 15 million, up 14% year-on-year. 
The Games portfolio records more than 
four million views of its video content 
across its YouTube sites every month.
Key brands: 
GamesRadar.com
CVG.co.uk
PC Gamer 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
Photography
Future is the world’s market-leading 
Photography publisher, serving a wide 
variety of creative audiences through 
a best-in-class mix of digital content, 
print products and events. Recent iPad 
launch Photography Week is already 
the international number one weekly 
on the iPad, while Digital Camera 
is the UK’s best-selling title in print 
and digital editions. We also publish 
the leading newsstand magazines 
for Nikon – N-Photo – and Canon – 
PhotoPlus. In March 2014 Future will 
debut The Photography Show at 
Birmingham’s NEC, which will instantly 
become the biggest annual event of its 
kind in Europe. 
Key brands:
Digital Camera
N-Photo
Photography Week
Creative & Design
Future’s Creative & Design group 
serves professional creatives involved 
in design, web development and 
animation. Our magazines such as 
Computer Arts, net, 3D World and 
ImagineFX have long been influential 
titles in their sectors. But our new 
umbrella website, CreativeBloq.com, 
has grown a much bigger international 
audience since its launch in 2012. With 
over two million unique users a month, 
it has already become the UK’s most 
popular destination for digital creatives. 
And with its recently launched adaptive 
capabilities it is now reaching more 
international mobile users than ever.
Key brands:
net
Computer Arts
CreativeBloq.com
Music
With long-established, market-leading 
brands like Guitarist, Rhythm, 
MusicRadar.com and Future Music, 
Future has one of the most highly-
respected music portfolios in the 
world. We continue to lead the market 
through print and digital innovation as 
we look to target more musicians on a 
global scale. Guitarist is the magazine 
for guitar aficionados, offering the 
world’s most authoritative guitar, 
amplifier and effects reviews. Total 
Guitar is the definitive one-stop shop 
for all things guitar. MusicRadar.com, 
our flagship music-making website, is 
the world’s number one destination for 
professional musicians.
Key brands:
Guitarist
Total Guitar
MusicRadar.com
Future Women
Future Women delivers award-winning 
content to creative and active women 
internationally. Future’s craft brands, 
online, on mobile and in print reach 
over one million women per month. 
Mollie Makes is now the UK’s number 
one contemporary craft brand and 
has a strong and growing international 
presence. The Simple Things, our 
mindful consumer brand, has a monthly 
brand reach of over 80,000. And in 
the last 12 months we have launched 
two new craft titles into emerging new 
sectors – Simply Crochet and Love 
Patchwork & Quilting – underlining 
our innovative approach to developing 
new opportunities.
Key brands:
Mollie Makes
The Simple Things
Simply Knitting
Sport
Future’s depth and reach of content 
makes us the world’s number one 
cycling publisher, and our portfolio 
continues to grow. Online, our cycling 
websites now attract over 5 million 
global unique users every month. 
Cyclingnews.com is the world’s 
biggest news and results service for 
professional cycling, with bulletins  
from around the globe accessible 
online, on mobile and in app format. 
BikeRadar.com is the go-to site for 
road cyclists and mountain bikers of 
all levels, a source of product reviews, 
information and a database of cycle 
routes. A 24/7 global operation, it is the 
world’s biggest digital cycling brand.
Key brands:
Cycling Plus
BikeRadar.com
Cyclingnews.com
Auto
Future’s Automotive portfolio reaches a 
broad audience of passionate motoring 
enthusiasts, through its seven auto 
brands and six auto events. Through 
our specialist motoring magazines, 
websites and interactive events, we 
engage with nearly 900,000 people 
whose lives are driven by a love of 
modified cars, classic cars, individual 
marques and motorbikes. The Future 
Auto Events Series saw over 73,000 
enthusiasts attend our series last year. 
Fast Bikes is the magazine for the 
sports bike fan and is the UK’s top-
selling sports bike title.
Key brands:
Fast Car
Fast Bikes
Classics Monthly Driving digital transformation
Business 
review
13 Future plc
Future is recognised as a leader in the transition from print to 
digital media, and 2013 saw good momentum in that progression. 
The period saw us develop new and diversified revenue streams 
as we seek to broaden the ways in which we engage with our 
growing international audiences.
Adaptive design opens the door to 
optimised mobile opportunities
CVG, Future’s flagship games news website 
is thriving in what is set to be one of the most 
exciting times in the UK games market in 
years. Following a major re-launch in May we 
have seen record traffic, increased commercial 
opportunities and successful brand extensions.
The re-launched CVG was the first UK gaming 
site to feature adaptive design, enabling our 
users to access all of CVG’s functionality 
regardless of the device being used. Prior to 
re-launch we knew over 30% of our traffic was 
coming via mobile or tablet devices. Now CVG 
is platform neutral, users are consuming content 
in greater numbers than ever before, resulting in 
a 50% year-on-year increase in traffic.
CVG’s adaptive design also presents our 
partners with new advertising formats and 
increased commercial opportunities. We now 
provide games publishers with all the benefits 
of adaptive design but integrated within our 
most popular content, meaning that the 
commercial messaging sits perfectly within  
our engaging editorial. 
Creative Bloq: Delivering a must-visit 
destination for international creatives
Our flagship online property for global 
design professionals, Creative Bloq has 
demonstrated rapid international growth 
since launching in 2012. The brand is now the 
UK’s most popular design site, and boasts 
over two million monthly unique users. The 
audience profile truly reflects the site’s global 
nature, with the top 10 countries by page 
views including the UK, US, India, Canada, 
Australia, the Philippines and Brazil.
In September the brand entered its second 
phase of development. To capitalise on its 
success, the extensive evolution responds 
to the changing ways international users 
interact with the site to provide a richer, 
bespoke experience tailored to their needs. 
Adaptive design enables users to access all 
of Creative Bloq’s functionality regardless 
of the device being used. Whether on a 
phone, tablet or desktop – the content scales 
perfectly to users’ devices. The new look site 
also offers truly global solutions to Creative 
Bloq’s commercial partners. 
Creating the world’s number one iPad 
brand for photographers
Future is the world’s leading photography 
publisher and has been leading the way in 
digital innovation and international growth 
over the last 12 months. Launched in October 
2012, Photography Week has rapidly become 
the international number one photography 
weekly on the iPad. 
Innovative, packed with interactivity, and with 
community at its heart, Photography Week 
gives readers a compelling, interactive, fun 
way of learning, regardless of their skill level. 
The most innovative title in its sector, 
Photography Week has already become the 
world’s biggest consumer photography brand 
on Facebook, as well as establishing itself 
as one of Future’s most profitable digital 
editions. Recently launched as an optimised 
edition for the iPhone as well as the iPad, 
Photography Week was named Digital 
Innovation of the Year by the Professional 
Publishers Association in June and named 
one of the 60 best tablet apps in the world at 
the international Tabby Awards in July. 
Driving Future’s transformation into a 
global, digitally-led content business 01.
CVG’s adaptive design 
wins mobile users
No.1 photography 
weekly on iPad
No.1 destination for UK 
design professionals
Strategy in execution – examples of success. 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
Focussing on building brands across 
channels – TechRadar is our no.1 priority 02.
The strength of our brands is at the centre of the Future Advantage. 
The last year has seen brand reach grow internationally across all 
our core content sectors. And as our reach grows, so we continue 
to focus on new ways to generate a deeper level of engagement 
with consumers across a range of new touchpoints.
TechRadar: Building a 24/7 global 
consumer technology brand
TechRadar has grown to become a true 24/7 
global brand over the last 12 months, and 
we have identified it as a priority target for 
continued growth in 2014. Globally, TechRadar 
is accessed by more than 20 million unique 
users a month and in the last year it launched 
operations with localised content in the US 
and Australia – allowing us to more effectively 
monetise those territories. The site has 
become a go-to destination internationally for 
opinions, exclusives and authoritative reviews 
of everything from mobile phones and tablets 
to the latest cameras and televisions.
Over 16 million TechRadar unique users 
are from outside the UK. Over the last year 
TechRadar US more than doubled its audience 
to 8.3 million unique users a month, and was 
one of the fastest-growing US technology sites. 
Already the US audience for TechRadar is twice 
as big as the UK’s and continues to grow at 
speed. In the UK, the brand is overwhelmingly 
the market leader. And with offices in San 
Francisco, London and Sydney, the brand 
became a truly 24/7 global operation this year. 
Multiplying the Mollie Makes  
brand power
The Future Women portfolio of craft brands 
now reaches over one million women per 
month. Mollie Makes is the UK’s number one 
contemporary craft brand – with a range of 
print and digital touchpoints developed in the 
last year. Its unique approach curates the best 
online craft content into a beautiful, collectable 
magazine at the heart of the brand.
Mollie Makes also has a strong international 
presence. It is the number one craft title in 
Barnes & Noble US – in a category with over 
400 titles listed. 
In October 2012 we launched Gathered by 
Mollie Makes, a weekly tablet-only offering 
for contemporary craft fans. Gathered by 
Mollie Makes showcases Mollie Makes’ 
favourite things, and gives users three simple 
weekly craft projects with easy step-by-step 
guides. Meanwhile a series of Mollie Makes 
bookazines introduced in the last year, 
including Mollie Makes Homes and Mollie 
Makes Handmade Wedding, have also proven 
popular and driven revenues for the brand.
Creating face-to-face experiences
Future has identified events as a key platform 
for strategic brand development and diversified 
revenue growth, providing face-to-face 
opportunities for our communities of interest 
to meet and interact with our brands and each 
other. Our Events division delivered a number of 
new conferences and events over the last year.
Generate, a brand extension from web design 
brand net, delivered a very successful debut 
conference for web design professionals in 
London. Meanwhile PhotoLive provided a 
brand new two-day learning experience for 
over one thousand amateur photographers in 
October. And Future also secured the licence 
to produce The Photography Show – a live 
four-day event at Birmingham’s NEC. The 
show will instantly become Europe’s largest 
annual event of its kind for consumers and 
professionals when it debuts in March 2014. 
Our existing branded awards events – 
including the T3 Gadget Awards and the 
Golden Joystick Awards – continue to go from 
strength-to-strength. The Joysticks delivered a 
record-breaking ten million votes this year.
Building brands across channels
ISSUE 27 PRINTED IN THE UK •  £4.99 
27
£4.99 
ISSUE 
Tw ENTy-SEVEN
 exclusive IDEAS TO SEw & CROCHET
Stitch this sweet purse
Fashion & furnishings 
with plenty of sparkle
g REAT g ATSby
tea and a chat PEARL LOw E SHARES 
VINTAg E SHOPPINg TIPS
✹ Crochet camera cosy
✹ Retro patchwork pinny
✹ Embellished denim shorts
✹ Scrap-fabric folk doll 
✹ Floral baby blanket
Carry it off
 beautifully!
TechRadar has 20 million global 
unique users a month
Mollie Makes extends brand 
into tablet weekly
Record voting at this year’s 
Golden Joystick Awards
Strategy in execution – examples of success. Business 
review
15 Future plc
Increasing engagement
Business 
review
Future has rapidly built a business delivering agency and content 
marketing solutions for partner brands as we create new and 
innovative ways to deepen the engagement between our loyal 
audiences and clients. These new diversified revenues are 
growing fast. 
Future turns green to support 
Microsoft’s Xbox One
As Microsoft unveiled its major new console 
launch, it partnered with Future for a multi-
platform campaign to reach our 10 million  
UK tech, games and film enthusiasts.
Microsoft chose Future UK’s Technology, 
Games, Film and Auto portfolios to develop 
a two-month-long campaign to promote the 
launch of Microsoft’s next-gen console: Xbox 
One. The major partnership saw the creation 
of a unique multi-platform, multi-brand 
campaign across flagship brands including 
T3, Total Film, CVG and Fast Car.
The unique partnership saw a complete 
homepage redesign of seven of Future’s 
flagship sites – T3, TechRadar, Gizmodo 
UK, CVG, GamesRadar, OXM and Total 
Film – to replicate the Xbox One dashboard. 
Xbox One channels were created to provide 
authoritative insight on the specific areas 
of the Xbox One and were integrated with 
weekly video content taking a look at all 
aspects of the new system. The partnership 
also saw the redesign of the Future brands’ 
logos to mirror the Xbox One logo. 
Future brings Saints Row IV to life at 
San Diego Comic-Con 
Future US developed an innovative integrated 
social, digital and experiential campaign for 
the launch of one of the major ‘triple-A’ video 
games of 2013: Saints Row IV.
In partnership with video game developer 
Deep Silver, Future hit the streets of San Diego 
to promote the release of the fourth edition in 
the Saints Row franchise, cruising the crowded 
San Diego streets in a custom Saints Row IV-
branded Presidential limousine.
Harnessing the buzz and awareness generated 
from Comic-Con, Future secured major traffic 
with the launch of SaintsGov.com, a mock 
government website for Saints Row IV fans 
to vote on potential legislation, register their 
super-charged weapons, create SRIV driver’s 
licenses and get the latest from the Steelport 
Police Department scanner.
Promotional integration for this programme 
included high-impact ad units, editorial 
coverage on Future’s MaximumPC, social 
promotion via GamesRadar, and print spreads 
in PC Gamer and the Official Xbox Magazine.
Future is the ‘Smart Choice’ for 
Carphone Warehouse
Future’s technology brands – including 
TechRadar, T3 and Gizmodo UK− deliver 
more than five million tech enthusiasts in 
the UK. Future’s access to this tech-savvy 
audience and its ability to co-create best-
in-class digital and video content enabled 
Carphone Warehouse to reach consumers  
in the crucial period of consideration prior  
to upgrading their smartphone.
Carphone Warehouse required a media partner 
and multi-platform content which would let them 
reach consumers early in this consideration 
phase and provide them with engaging and 
helpful information. The six month partnership 
involved the creation of a ‘Smart Choice’ 
content destination within TechRadar offering 
compelling and in-depth information, including 
rapid answers to questions from consumers 
researching their next handset. ‘Smart Choice’ 
also included integrated video content in 
partnership with Carphone Warehouse video 
agency Adjust Your Set. T3 and Gizmodo were 
also integrated into the partnership, with activity 
driving digital reach among Future’s valuable 
technology audience.
Innovating digitally to increase audience 
engagement and diversify monetisation 03.
Delivering impact for the 
Saints Row IV launch
Unique website takeover 
partnership with Microsoft
Carphone Warehouse partnership reaches 
consumers ahead of purchase decision
Strategy in execution – examples of success. 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
Generating cash from print
Managing our print assets for 
cash generation 04.
Consumer insight underpins craft 
launch success
In January 2013, Simply Crochet hit the 
newsstands. Crochet is a craft in growth, both 
in the UK and internationally. In fact, ‘How to 
Crochet’ was the fourth most searched ‘How 
to’ term on Google in the UK in 2012, according 
to the Google Zeitgeist survey. And Simply 
Crochet has been created specifically to 
deliver to this large and growing audience. 
There are currently an estimated 1.8 million 
quilters in the UK − an increase of 124% since 
2011, showing incredible growth in interest 
and participation. According to the Quilting 
in America study, 14% of US households are 
home to at least one quilter.
Love Patchwork & Quilting launched in October 
2013 and is also available internationally as a 
digital edition on Apple’s Newsstand, Google 
Newsstand, Amazon Kindle Fire, Barnes & 
Noble’s Nook and Zinio, as well as a print 
edition. The new brand fills a clear gap for 
a more modern product in a very traditional 
quilting sector, delivering trend-led projects 
through contemporary design. It delivered 
strong pre-launch subscriptions, has a 
growing social media audience and is already 
established in the sector’s blogging community.
Science Uncovered: A brand new 
international magazine
Future’s most recent regular frequency launch 
is a new title in the mainstream science 
sector. Science Uncovered – which launched 
in November 2013 – presents the world of 
scientific discovery in a highly impactful, 
exciting and accessible way for an audience in 
the 16-25 demographic. 
Interest in popular science has never been 
greater – from what happens when the sun’s 
magnetic poles flip, to the science of Doctor 
Who, and the dawn of holidaying in space with 
Virgin Galactic. Science Uncovered explains 
and unlocks all this and more in every issue.
The new print brand is 100% science and 
provides those interested in popular science-
related subjects with intelligent, topical and 
timely content delivered in an accessible format. 
In Science Uncovered, leading scientists from 
around the globe – and famous faces from 
popular science shows in the UK and beyond – 
explain how the world around us works. 
It is packed with fascinating insights into 
space, nature, the human body, engineering 
and technology, all brought to life with stunning 
photography and illustrations. 
Bookazines: Finding new revenue 
opportunities for print launches
In the last 12 months Future has significantly 
increased production of its regular series of 
premium-priced one-shot and brand extension 
bookazines. Printed in the UK, US and China, 
Future’s bookazines have generated £6m in 
revenue during the year.
We distribute in the UK and internationally, 
and work with many of the world’s best-known 
retailers. Future bookazines and specials are 
also licensed to more than 80 countries  
across the world. 
A dedicated in-house team has been created in 
the last year to accelerate our bookazine activity.
Future’s bookazine programme has been 
developed to increase our activity in new 
and exisiting content areas, working with 
international retailers to research core 
consumer demand and respond quickly to  
new consumer trends internationally.  
Designed to appeal both as a standalone  
read and to complement the regular 
magazines, they maximise profitability  
and leverage the reach of some of our  
best known titles.
2-way  
pattern 
cowl  
& skirt
Granny 
squares
+
Triangle 
shapes
Cushions, bag
& jewellery
Blanket 
Bootees & 
Bunting crochet your way 40 great patterns 
to start today!
for all seasons
Make a scarf
Issue three £4.99
bathing beauties
Luxe ideas for towels, baskets and accessories
ISSUE 03 PRINTED IN THE UK •  £4.99 
Hooked on H andmade
Crochet
Simply
Make me
now!
NEW!
C
03
Hooked on H andmade www .simpl ycrocH etmag.com ba THRoom S, CUSHIo NS a ND TRIaN gl ES
We launch new regular titles where we identify market gaps 
in the sectors we serve. We have an established method of 
researching a market using social media tools and pre-launching 
new titles the same way, creating an audience, providing 
valuable real-time feedback and de-risking launch.  
Delivering into a growing 
crochet sector
Unlocking the world of 
scientific discovery
Bookazine production 
increased significantly
Strategy in execution – examples of success. Business 
review
17 Future plc
Constantly controlling costs & targeting 
investment to manage margin 05.
The key performance indicators are presented on a normalised basis.
2013 2012
Corporate KPIs
EBITDAE (£m): 6.4 6.4
Year-on-year movement in EBITDAE 0% +83%
EBITE (£m): 3.5 4.0
Year-on-year movement in EBITE -13% +208%
Digital KPIs
Year-on-year movement in digital revenues +38% +25%
Number of unique users logging onto our websites (monthly) 57.7 51.2
Number of digital magazines sold per month (thousands) 433 239
Digital subscriber base (thousands) 342 235
Print KPIs
Number of magazines sold per month 1.7m 1.7m
Print subscriber base (thousands) 639 727
Copies sold as a percentage of copies printed  
(including subscriptions)
52% 54%
Year-on-year movement in print revenues -3% -10%
Focus on cost control
We halved our debt during the year as a result of selling our 
portfolio of UK Rock titles, closing loss-making titles and securing 
sub-letting deals in the US and UK. 
An update on the key performance 
indicators on a normalised basis is 
given here. The KPI trends noted 
demonstrate the further progress 
made during the year in digital and 
in the management of the overall 
profitability of the Group.
Key Performance Indicators
Group Employee numbers
Actual numbers at 30 September
US Employee numbers
Actual numbers at 30 September
2013 2009 2010 2011 2012
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
198
235
222
144
149
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,189
1,199
1,172
1,013
980
Strategy in execution – examples of success.
We maintain a rigorous focus on operating margins, and have reshaped the business in the year, 
reducing headcount in the Group to its lowest level in five years. Strategic Report Financial review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Driving digital success
Revenues from Future’s digital 
editions increased by 44% on the 
prior year. We now have more 
than 340,000 digital subscribers 
worldwide and renewal rates have 
been running at close to 70%. 19 Future plc
Risks and 
uncertainties
Like all businesses, our business faces risks and uncertainties 
that could impact on the Group’s achievement of its objectives. 
Risk is accepted as being a part of operating any business 
and we have therefore established a continuous process of 
identifying, evaluating and managing risk. 
Risks and uncertainties
Risk management 
Risks Description Mitigation
Operating environment The macro-economic environment continues to be difficult. Despite a more positive outlook, in 
both the UK and the US, general trading conditions remain tough. The economic environment, 
as well as the general move to digital products, has resulted in printed magazine sales and 
print-related advertising revenues falling.
The Company has proved more resilient than many of its competitors due to the nature of its 
special-interest content, although more so in the UK where it has greater scale than in the US.  
It continues to innovate, making available its special-interest content to consumers in print, 
where we have had a number of successful launches in recent years and where we have 
significantly increased the production of bookazines, as well as in new digital media, including 
on the various digital newsstands where we have led the way.
Intellectual property Future uses, and grants licences to its licensees to use various types of third-party content 
including music, audiovisual material, photos, images and text. As publisher, Future is 
responsible for any intellectual property or other infringement relating to the same and as 
licensor, Future is responsible to its licensees.
Future produces guidance and in-house training to educate its staff on the importance of 
obtaining appropriate rights or licences and has a dedicated in-house rights management team. 
Future’s legal team reviews all significant licences relating to third-party content and, where 
appropriate, seeks warranties and indemnities relating to the same. Future licenses content to 
third parties based on standard contracts which seek to limit Future’s liability. As the digital world 
emerges Future is developing its existing rights management system to be media neutral.
Financial Forecasting remains difficult in all consumer markets but this is particularly the case in relation 
to sales through digital newsstands which are emerging. The long lag time for reporting on 
sales of printed copies and associated retail promotional spend in the US and bookazines 
continued to be a challenge in the year. As we diversify our revenue streams, new activities  
are inherently more difficult to accurately forecast.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended  
30 September 2013 are set out in the Audit Committee section of the Corporate Governance 
report on page 39. 
Future’s forecasting in respect of innovative products will become easier as those products 
develop a more consistent customer base and stable business models. 
 
On printed product a more conservative initial view on sales estimates continues, and the 
exposure in the US has been reduced further.
Future manages interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk through the use of hedging 
arrangements (see note 23 to the financial statements for more detail).
Review by Audit Committee with external auditor.
IT In the event of a total network or server failure or data loss there would be a major impact on the 
production of magazines, operation of websites and the operational effectiveness of the business.
Future’s network has at least two diverse routes for all key offices and business-critical 
data is held on two highly resilient storage devices in different locations. In addition, all 
core switches are duplicated in different buildings so there are no single points of failure. 
Servers are distributed across several controlled server rooms in different buildings in Bath, 
London and San Francisco. Future can switch services from one server to another within a 
few hours. In addition, all mission-critical services have more than one server so there is no 
single point of failure. Further investment in the IT infrastructure has been made in 2013 and 
more is planned for 2014. 
Staff The Group’s strong reputation in digital media makes its staff potentially attractive to 
competitors. There is a risk that key staff will move elsewhere if offered significant increases  
in remuneration with which Future is unable to compete. 
Future employs people who are passionate about their subject and invests in the training of 
those people. In addition, Future offers a number of other staff benefits and steps are taken to 
ensure that the Group is not excessively reliant upon any one employee
Personal data A loss of personal data triggers the need to notify users and the Information Commissioner’s 
Office (ICO) and Future may suffer reputational risk, as well as a significant financial penalty,  
if it is responsible for the breach. 
During 2012 Future suffered one criminal attack of its TechRadar website which resulted in 
encrypted non-sensitive data being stolen. The ICO was notified and confirmed that Future had 
taken considerable steps to ensure that such a breach does not occur in the future. We seek to 
ensure all of our systems comply with best practice as regards to security and we have in place a 
plan to mitigate the effects of any future hack. No attacks were suffered in 2013. 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
01  Identification of risks
02   Evaluation of level of risks 
and controls in place to 
manage those risks
03  Action taken to manage risks
04  Risks reported and monitored
01. IDENTIFY
02. EVALUATE
03. ACT
04. REPORT
Future’s 
assessment 
of risks
There are a number of general business 
risks to which Future is naturally 
exposed in the UK and US. In addition, 
the range of industry-specific risks faced 
by Future has increased since last year, 
due to the increasingly digital focus of 
the media landscape and the increasing 
number of evolving business models. 
Our internal controls seek to minimise the 
impact of risks, as explained in our Corporate 
Governance report on page 37, and during 
the year we have continued to develop those 
controls in response to the wider range of risks.
Risk management 
Risks Description Mitigation
Operating environment The macro-economic environment continues to be difficult. Despite a more positive outlook, in 
both the UK and the US, general trading conditions remain tough. The economic environment, 
as well as the general move to digital products, has resulted in printed magazine sales and 
print-related advertising revenues falling.
The Company has proved more resilient than many of its competitors due to the nature of its 
special-interest content, although more so in the UK where it has greater scale than in the US.  
It continues to innovate, making available its special-interest content to consumers in print, 
where we have had a number of successful launches in recent years and where we have 
significantly increased the production of bookazines, as well as in new digital media, including 
on the various digital newsstands where we have led the way.
Intellectual property Future uses, and grants licences to its licensees to use various types of third-party content 
including music, audiovisual material, photos, images and text. As publisher, Future is 
responsible for any intellectual property or other infringement relating to the same and as 
licensor, Future is responsible to its licensees.
Future produces guidance and in-house training to educate its staff on the importance of 
obtaining appropriate rights or licences and has a dedicated in-house rights management team. 
Future’s legal team reviews all significant licences relating to third-party content and, where 
appropriate, seeks warranties and indemnities relating to the same. Future licenses content to 
third parties based on standard contracts which seek to limit Future’s liability. As the digital world 
emerges Future is developing its existing rights management system to be media neutral.
Financial Forecasting remains difficult in all consumer markets but this is particularly the case in relation 
to sales through digital newsstands which are emerging. The long lag time for reporting on 
sales of printed copies and associated retail promotional spend in the US and bookazines 
continued to be a challenge in the year. As we diversify our revenue streams, new activities  
are inherently more difficult to accurately forecast.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended  
30 September 2013 are set out in the Audit Committee section of the Corporate Governance 
report on page 39. 
Future’s forecasting in respect of innovative products will become easier as those products 
develop a more consistent customer base and stable business models. 
 
On printed product a more conservative initial view on sales estimates continues, and the 
exposure in the US has been reduced further.
Future manages interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk through the use of hedging 
arrangements (see note 23 to the financial statements for more detail).
Review by Audit Committee with external auditor.
IT In the event of a total network or server failure or data loss there would be a major impact on the 
production of magazines, operation of websites and the operational effectiveness of the business.
Future’s network has at least two diverse routes for all key offices and business-critical 
data is held on two highly resilient storage devices in different locations. In addition, all 
core switches are duplicated in different buildings so there are no single points of failure. 
Servers are distributed across several controlled server rooms in different buildings in Bath, 
London and San Francisco. Future can switch services from one server to another within a 
few hours. In addition, all mission-critical services have more than one server so there is no 
single point of failure. Further investment in the IT infrastructure has been made in 2013 and 
more is planned for 2014. 
Staff The Group’s strong reputation in digital media makes its staff potentially attractive to 
competitors. There is a risk that key staff will move elsewhere if offered significant increases  
in remuneration with which Future is unable to compete. 
Future employs people who are passionate about their subject and invests in the training of 
those people. In addition, Future offers a number of other staff benefits and steps are taken to 
ensure that the Group is not excessively reliant upon any one employee
Personal data A loss of personal data triggers the need to notify users and the Information Commissioner’s 
Office (ICO) and Future may suffer reputational risk, as well as a significant financial penalty,  
if it is responsible for the breach. 
During 2012 Future suffered one criminal attack of its TechRadar website which resulted in 
encrypted non-sensitive data being stolen. The ICO was notified and confirmed that Future had 
taken considerable steps to ensure that such a breach does not occur in the future. We seek to 
ensure all of our systems comply with best practice as regards to security and we have in place a 
plan to mitigate the effects of any future hack. No attacks were suffered in 2013. 21 Future plc
Corporate 
responsibility
Corporate responsibility is integral to the way Future conducts 
its business. We focus our efforts around three key areas 
where we think we can make a difference.
Responsible business
1. The environment
A responsible approach to the environment is 
essential to ensure the future sustainability of 
our business. 
Our Head of Production and Procurement is 
chairman of the PPA (Professional Publishers 
Association) Environment Committee.
Our environmental policy can be found on our 
website, www.futureplc.com.
Sourcing paper
Paper is the largest raw material we use as 
a Group. We work hard to make sure that 
whatever we consume, we do in a way that 
is ethically responsible and environmentally 
sustainable. In 2013, 100% of our paper across 
the Group was sourced from either recycled 
fibre or sustainable forests where at least one 
tree is planted for every tree felled. In the UK 
Future holds the FSC (Forestry Stewardship 
Council) Chain of Custody certification. This 
recognises Future’s commitment to sourcing 
paper supplies from sustainable forests. In 
2013, over 90% of the paper we used in the UK 
was FSC certified. We actively encourage our 
suppliers to work towards FSC certification or 
one of the other internationally recognised and 
independently audited certification schemes 
for environmental care in forest management 
and conservation.
Recycling and waste
The Group is strongly incentivised to 
minimise the number of unsold magazines 
and we employ sophisticated techniques to 
help achieve this. In the UK Future’s unsold 
magazines are recycled. We also support 
the PPA’s initiative encouraging readers to 
recycle their magazines after use and we 
incorporate the WRAP recycle logo in all our 
magazines. We comply with our obligations 
under the Producer Responsibility Obligations 
(Packaging Waste) Regulations. The disposal 
of waste materials is also included in our print 
supplier audit.
Plastic packaging
We use plastic film to package magazines 
at retail and to wrap subscriptions copies for 
mailing. Future is a member of the OPRL (On- 
Pack Recycling Label) scheme to encourage 
readers to recycle plastic film. Some plastic 
films are unsuited to recycling and in these 
instances we use oxo-biodegradable film. 
Supplier audits
We undertake environmental and ethical  
audits on our main suppliers which include 
aspects such as the processing and disposal 
of effluents, emissions and waste materials, 
and the use of labour.
2. Our people
Future’s employees are our most important 
assets; they are the driving force behind our 
success as a business.
Developing our people
In 2013 the training focus was on social media 
and the digital space. Globally we continued 
our programme of excellence with core skill 
training across all disciplines.
We delivered cost effective, multi-platform 
training to our editorial, sales, central and 
technical teams with specific skills to reflect the 
evolving media landscape. Our sales teams 
were once again skills audited and specific 
high-end suppliers were used to deliver targeted 
skill-set training to assist in the growing portfolio 
of products we offer to our clients.
Training needs are also identified as part of each 
employee’s annual performance appraisal. The 
2013 annual appraisal process began in July 
and is in progress. 
Health and safety
The health and safety of all employees is a 
key priority for the Group. Future is largely 
an office-based environment. All companies 
across the Group comply with relevant 
legislation and we communicate our health and 
safety policy to all employees. In the UK, during 
the year to 30 September 2013, there were no 
fatalities or reportable (RIDDOR) injuries and 
13 minor injuries. There were no fatalities and 
two minor injuries in the US, and no fatalities or 
injuries in Australia during this period.
Policy on disability
The Group aims to ensure that when 
considering recruitment, training, career 
Employment data across the Group 2013
Split of female:male employees as at 30 September 2013 39%:61%
Split of female:male Directors of the Company as at 30 September 2013 1:5
Split of female:male members of the Group Management Board as at 30 September 2013 2:8
Earnings meet at least legal minimum or minimum set by industry Yes
Cases of reported and proven discrimination or harassment None
Consultation and communication procedures in place for all areas of the business Yes
Code of conduct circulated to all existing and new employees Yes
Employment of young people under the age of 15 None
Future in the UK holds 
FSC Chain of Custody 
certification. This 
recognises Future’s 
commitment to sourcing 
paper supplies from well 
managed forestry.
 
We are members of the 
Professional Publishers 
Association (PPA) and 
support its initiative 
encouraging readers to 
recycle their magazines 
after use. We incorporate 
the recycle logo in all our 
UK magazines.
We have continued our 
partnership with Bath- 
based charitable 
foundation, Quartet.
The London Advertising Sales team have 
continued their support of the Apples and 
Pears playground in Hackney. 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
development, promotion or any other aspect 
of employment, no employee or job applicant 
is discriminated against, either directly 
or indirectly, on the grounds of disability. 
If an employee became disabled while in 
employment and as a result was unable to 
perform their duties, we would make every 
effort to offer suitable alternative employment 
and assistance with retraining.
Internal communication
Future has policies on employee 
communication; acceptable use of IT; health 
and safety and whistle-blowing, and we have 
a commitment to diversity and opportunity. 
Our employees also have access to free 
confidential employee well-being helplines.
In addition, we hold meetings for all employees 
at least annually, and extended leadership 
team meetings where we discuss the financial 
performance of the Group and key strategic 
initiatives. In the UK we have an Employee 
Involvement Group, which allows employees 
to comment on and play a part in strategic-
level decision-making. Future’s lively culture is 
echoed in our company intranets which update 
employees on industry and business news and 
celebrate team successes.
3. The community
We actively support the communities in which 
we operate through charitable donations and 
by encouraging our people to get involved in 
community initiatives.
Giving something back
Future is fully engaged with the local 
communities in all of its locations. In the UK 
the Group has continued its partnership with 
Bath-based charitable foundation Quartet, 
who make donations to local charities on our 
behalf. Charities supported this year include 
Positive Action on Cancer, Bath Deaf Club and 
the Beechen Cliff Youth Project. The London 
Advertising Sales team have continued their 
support of the Apples and Pears playground in 
Hackney for another year. This year’s Golden 
Joystick Awards raised money for GamesAid, 
a UK charity which supports disabled and 
disadvantaged children and young people in 
the UK. In the US, staff have supported the 
San Francisco Food Bank and also organised 
a goodwill clothing drive.
Future in the wider community
Future people are actively involved with a 
number of national organisations including the 
Professional Publishers Association, European 
Magazine Media Association, Association of 
Online Publishers, NABS, European & Leisure 
Software Publishers Association, the IPA, 
the Marketing Society and the International 
Federation of the Periodical Press. We are  
also represented on The Bath Initiative, a 
public/private collaboration.
Statement of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions for the Group 
Global GHG emissions in tonnes of CO
2
 equivalent:
Emissions from Current Year
The combustion of fuel: gas for heating 
and fuel for vehicles 
(Scope 1)
UK   470 tonnes 
USA  102 tonnes
Total   572 tonnes
The purchase of electricity, heat, steam 
or cooling by the Group for its own use 
(Scope 2)
UK 1,285 tonnes
USA  376 tonnes
Australia 25 tonnes
Total 1,686 tonnes
Total Emissions 2,258 tonnes CO
2
e
Intensity Ratio
Tonnes per £1million revenue 20.1 tonnes/£1m
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 
(Strategic Report and Directors’ Reports) Regulations 2013.
The emissions sources fall within our financial statements. We do not have responsibility for 
any emission sources that are not included in our financial statements. 
Methodology:
We have used the UK Government’s Environmental Reporting Guidance (2013 version).  
We have applied the 2013 DEFRA GHG Conversion Factor Repository to calculate the CO
2
e. 
As a Group with only office-based activities and no manufacturing activities, under the GHG 
Protocol Corporate Standard, our emissions fall under Scope 1 (the combustion of fuel) and 
Scope 2 (the purchase of electricity). 
Notes: 
•  Scope 1 – Time periods for combustion of gas for heating – figures for the US office are for 
the financial year. Figures for UK offices are a mix of pro-rated calendar year consumption 
(London) and financial year consumption (Bath). All figures are estimates based on % 
share of office space within leased buildings except for UK Bath offices which are actual 
consumption where whole buildings or floors within buildings have their own meters.  
•  Scope 1 – Time periods for combustion of fuel in vehicles – only the UK operates leased 
vehicles and figures for the consumption of fuel are based on averaged annual mileage.
•  Scope 2 – Time periods for consumption of electricity – figures for the US office are for 
the financial year. Figures for the Australian office are pro-rated from typical (August 
2013) monthly consumption. Figures for UK offices are a mix of pro-rated calendar year 
consumption (London) and financial year consumption (Bath). All figures are estimates 
based on % share of office space within leased buildings except for UK Bath offices  
which are actual consumption where whole buildings or floors within buildings have  
their own meters.  
•  Scope 2 – Electricity Sources – No electricity was purchased from owned or  
controlled sources.  
•  Fugitive Emissions – the Group benefits from air conditioning in some of its leasehold 
buildings. The scale of emissions from leaks is very small (estimated to be less than  
0.5% of total emissions) and is deemed to be immaterial to overall reporting and trends.   
•  Base Year – Financial year 2013 will be our baseline year for future comparisons.  
•  Intensity Ratio – we are using ‘Tonnes per £1million revenue’ as the most appropriate 
measure in the context of our dual aims of growing revenues whilst restraining overheads. 
•  We have maintained our focus on other environmental impacts, particularly initiatives to 
reduce waste and to continue sourcing all our magazine paper from sustainable forestry.  This financial review is based on a comparison of the Group’s 
results for the year ended 30 September 2013 with those for 
the year ended 30 September 2012. In running the business 
operationally, management use a number of Key Performance 
Indicators (KPIs) which are set out on page 17. 
Diversifying revenues
“ Digital and Diversified 
revenues generated from our 
UK- and US-based businesses 
continued to show strong 
growth and were up 20% 
overall, driven by further 
increases in digital circulation 
and increases in online 
advertising.”
Statutory results for the year ended 30 September 2013 
Statutory results for the year 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 112.3 123.5
EBITDAE 7.6 9.4
Depreciation charge (0.9) (1.1)
Amortisation of intangible assets (2.0) (1.5)
EBITE 4.7 6.8
Exceptional items 2.5 (3.6)
EBIT (Operating profit) 7.2 3.2
Net finance costs (1.4) (2.1)
Pre-tax profit 5.8 1.1
Earnings per share (p) 1.3 0.1
Adjusted earnings per share (p) 0.6 1.1
Dividends relating to the period (pence per share) 0.2 -
Normalised results for the year ended 30 September 2013
The normalised results for the Group, and a reconciliation to the statutory results above, are set 
out on page 88.
Normalised results are presented to better reflect the current size and structure of the business 
and to give a better indication of the performance of the ongoing business. The normalised results 
exclude revenues and costs relating to activities closed or divested between 1 October 2011 and 
30 September 2013, but include any new activities launched in that period.
Normalised results for the year
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 106.9 103.6
EBITDAE 6.4 6.4
Depreciation charge (0.9) (1.1)
Amortisation of intangible assets (2.0) (1.3)
EBITE 3.5 4.0
Exceptional items (0.2) (4.6)
EBIT (Operating profit/(loss)) 3.3 (0.6)
Net finance costs (1.4) (2.1)
Pre-tax profit/(loss) 1.9 (2.7)
Adjusted earnings per share (p) 0.3 0.4
Financial 
review
23 Future plc
Zillah Byng-Maddick
Chief Financial Officer
and Company Secretary
Digital & Diversified 
Defined:
• Digital circulation
• Digital advertising
• Digital commerce
• FutureFolio
• Future Plus
• Events 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Review of operations
The review of operations is based primarily on a comparison of normalised results for the year 
ended 30 September 2013 with those for the year ended 30 September 2012. Unless otherwise 
stated, change percentages relate to a comparison of these two periods.  
Analysis of revenue 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Change
%
Digital and Diversified 34.7 29.0 +20%
Print 72.2 74.6 -3%
Total revenue 106.9 103.6 +3%
Group revenue overall rose by 3% to £106.9m and encouragingly we saw increases in both the UK 
and the US. In particular Digital and Diversified revenues generated from our UK- and US-based 
businesses continued to show strong growth and were up 20% overall, driven by further increases 
in digital circulation and increases in online advertising fuelled from the continuing growth in our 
audience. Digital and Diversified revenues now represent 32% of the Group revenues with digital 
advertising now representing 59% of our total advertising revenues. 
Overall print based revenues continued to decline in the UK and the US although the level of that 
decline has been mitigated with a significant increase in the number of bookazines that have been 
published in the year – we have increased the number from 92 in 2012 to 203 in 2013. 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Change
%
UK 87.6 85.4 +3%
US 20.1 18.9 +6%
Intra-group (0.8) (0.7)
Total revenue 106.9 103.6 +3%
Analysis of EBITDAE 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Change
%
UK 7.5 8.3 -10%
US (1.1) (1.9) +42%
Total EBITDAE 6.4 6.4 0%
Further analysis of the key drivers of the increase in EBITDAE is provided in the table overleaf 
which analyses the year-on-year variances across Digital and Diversified activities, print activities 
and overheads.
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
Group revenue  
by country 
1 :  U K 8 1 % 
2 :  U S 1 9 %
2
1
2013
2012
Normalised
Group revenues (£m)
Digital & Diversified
0 10 20 30 40 50
34.7
29.0
+20%
Print
0 20 40 60 80 100
72.2
74.6
-3%
2013
2012 Analysis of EBITDAE (continued) 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Change
%
Digital and Diversified 7.4 4.8 +54%
Print 18.2 21.4 -15%
Overheads (19.2) (19.8) -3%
EBITDAE 6.4 6.4 0%
The table above clearly illustrates the continuing progress being made in Digital and Diversified 
activities whilst at the same time demonstrating the relative impact of the print declines and 
overhead savings achieved during the year. The 3% reduction in overheads achieved during the 
year does not reflect the most recent restructuring activity.
Further commentary on those movements is provided in the following sections.
UK-based performance 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Change
%
Circulation revenue 54.4 53.2 +2%
Advertising revenue 23.6 23.4 +1%
Customer publishing 3.8 4.0 -5%
Licensing, events and other 5.8 4.8 +21%
Total revenue 87.6 85.4 +3%
EBITDAE 7.5 8.3 -10%
EBITDAE margin 9% 10%
Depreciation (0.7) (0.8) -13%
Amortisation (1.2) (0.7) +71%
EBITE 5.6 6.8 -18%
EBITE margin 6% 8%
UK-based activities saw revenue up by 3%.  Within this we saw Digital and Diversified revenues 
increase by 16%, offsetting the declines in print-related revenues.
Circulation revenues increased by 2%. Print copy sales were flat whilst digital copy sales increased 
from 6% of total circulation revenue to 8% of total circulation revenue in the year.
Advertising revenues overall were up 1%. Digital advertising revenues increased by 17%, more than 
offsetting the print decline of 11%, and now represent 50% of total advertising revenue in the UK.
Headcount in the UK at the end of September 2013 was 831, a reduction of 4% from the end of 
September 2012. Further restructuring was undertaken in Q4, the full-year effect of which will be 
seen in the current year. Following this restructuring activity there is an on-going focus on the 
margin, to ensure that any further declines in revenue are offset by appropriate structuring of  
the cost base.
Financial 
review
25 Future plc
Group revenue 2013
1:  Digital and Diversified 32%
2: US Print 8%
3: UK Print 60%
1
2
3
UK revenue 2013
1: Digital & Diversified 26%  
2: Print 74%
1
2 US-based performance 
2013
$m
2012
$m
Change
%
Circulation revenue 10.5 10.9 -4%
Advertising revenue 15.0 13.0 +15%
Customer publishing 5.1 5.1 0%
Licensing, events and other 0.9 0.8 +13%
Total revenue 31.5 29.8 +6%
EBITDAE (1.7) (2.9) +41%
EBITDAE margin -5% -10%
Depreciation (0.3) (0.5) -40%
Amortisation (1.3) (1.0) +30%
EBITE (3.3) (4.4) +25%
EBITE margin -10% -15%
The US-based activities have shown revenue growth of 6% from 2012. Within this we saw Digital and 
Diversified revenues increase by 28%, offsetting the ongoing declines in print-related revenues.
Circulation revenue overall fell by 4% with the largest impact arising from print subscriptions which 
were down 20%. Advertising revenues were up 15%, with digital advertising up 49% and print 
advertising down 42%. Digital advertising in the US now represents 81% of total advertising revenues.
The improvement of $1.2m in EBITDAE is driven by the digital revenue increases and the full 
year impact of the restructuring action undertaken through 2012 which has resulted in a $0.8m 
saving year-on-year in overheads. In the second half the US business produced a positive 
EBITDAE of $0.4m. 
Exceptional items
Exceptional items on a statutory basis can be split into three elements as follows:
£m
Profit on the sale of UK assets 2.7
Vacant property provision movements 1.2
Restructuring (1.4)
Total exceptional items 2.5
The UK Rock titles were sold in April 2013 for gross consideration of £10.2m. 
The restructuring cost relates to further action taken in the UK through the year, the benefits of 
which will be seen in 2014.
As a result of the restructuring activities in the US in 2012 we vacated one floor of the offices in 
San Francisco. During the year we have sublet that floor and therefore released an element of the 
vacant property provision established in 2012. 
26 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
US revenue 2013
1: Digital & Diversified 60%  
2: Print 40%
1
2 Net finance costs
Net finance costs were £1.4m (2012: £2.1m) reflecting a decrease in the average net debt position 
over the year following the sale of the UK Rock titles in April 2013.
Taxation
The tax charge for the year amounted to £1.5m (2012: £0.9m), comprising a current tax charge of 
£1.2m (2012: £1.2m) and a deferred tax charge of £0.3m (2012: deferred tax credit of £0.3m). The 
current year charge arises in the UK where the standard rate of corporation tax is 23.5%. In the US 
the impact of the current year and brought forward tax losses means that there is no tax charge 
relating to the US.
Overall the effective rate for the Group when applied to the profit before tax was 26%. The Group 
continues to focus on compliance with tax authorities in all territories in which it operates. During 
the year the Group reached agreement with HMRC relating to the tax treatment of certain one-off 
transactions which took place in 2003. Part of that agreement will result in the Group paying tax of 
£6.2m plus interest (comprising instalments of £85,000 per month over five years from July 2013 
and a final instalment of £2m). The tax payable was fully provided for in prior year accounts.
Earnings per share 
2013 2012
Statutory Normalised Statutory Normalised
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (p) 1.3 0.4 0.1 (0.9)
Adjusted earnings per share (p) 0.6 0.3 1.1 0.4
Adjusted earnings per share are based on the profit/(loss) after taxation which is then adjusted 
to exclude exceptional items and related tax effects. The normalised adjusted profit after tax 
amounted to £1.0m (2012: £1.3m) and the weighted average number of shares in issue was  
332m (2012: 329m).
Dividend
The Board’s policy is that dividends should be covered at least twice by adjusted earnings per 
share. As noted above for the year ended 30 September 2013 statutory adjusted earnings per 
share were 0.6p and on this basis the Board has recommended a final total dividend of 0.2p per 
share for the year.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 February 2014, a final dividend of 0.2p 
per share will be paid on 14 March 2014 to all shareholders on the register on 14 February 2014. 
The ex dividend date will be 12 February 2014. 
Cash flow and net debt
Net debt at 30 September 2012 was £14.1m. During the period there was a cash inflow from 
operations before cash exceptional items of £6.7m (2012: cash inflow of £6.5m). Cash inflow from 
the sale of non-core titles amounted to £9.2m (2012: £2.1m).
Financial 
review
27 Future plc
0 3 6 9 12 15 18
£(6.9)m
£(14.1)m
Net debt
+51%
2013
2012 During the year cash outflows totalled £8.9m (2012: £11.4m) in respect of the following items:
• £2.4m (2012: £4.4m) in exceptional costs
• £2.9m (2012: £2.5m) in respect of capital expenditure
• £1.2m (2012: £1.4m) in net interest payments
• £1.8m (2012: £1.0m) in net taxation payments
• £0.6m (2012: £0.5m) in respect of bank arrangement fees
• £nil (2012: £1.6m) in respect of dividends
Foreign exchange and other movements accounted for the balance of cash flows.
As a result of the above, net debt at 30 September 2013 was £6.9m, a decrease of 51% from 
September 2012.
Credit facility and covenants
The Group signed a new four year Credit Facility in February 2013. Interest payable under the 
facility is calculated as the cost of three month LIBOR plus an interest margin of between 2.0% and 
3.25%, dependent on covenant ratio performance. The key covenants are set out in the following 
table where net debt is exclusive of non-current tax and other payables and Bank EBITDA is not 
materially different to statutory EBITDA.
Bank Covenant
Net debt/Bank EBITDA Less than 2.25 times for December 2013 and 
thereafter less than 2.0 times
Bank EBITDA/Interest More than 4.0 times
Capital expenditure 125% of agreed annual budget
The Group was in compliance with all its covenants at 30 September 2013 as set out in the 
following table:
Covenant 30 September 2013 Limit
Net debt: Bank EBITDA 0.99 Less than 2.25 times
Bank EBITDA: Net interest 7.74 More than 4.0 times
The Group also met its covenant for capital expenditure at 30 September 2013.
Based on the calculation of 2013 EBITDA for bank purposes the Group had headroom of £9.4m 
over and above the level of bank debt at 30 September 2013.
Trading updates during the financial year
During the financial year the Group issued trading updates or made Interim Management Statements 
(IMSs) on 4 February 2013 (IMS), 22 May 2013 (Interim results), 18 July 2013 (IMS and trading 
update) and 15 October 2013 (trading update). The IMS and trading update on 18 July 2013 stated 
that the Board expected EBITDA to be £9.5m and EBITDAE to be £8.0m. The actual EBITDA result 
was £10.1m (ahead of the £9.5m forecast as a result of lower than anticipated restructuring costs 
effected through redeployment) and the actual EBITDAE result was £7.6m, broadly in line with the 
forecast £8.0m.
28 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
Approved by the Board of Directors 
and signed on its behalf by:
Zillah Byng-Maddick
Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary
13 December 2013 Strong leadership
Board of 
Directors
29 Future plc
Peter Allen
Independent non-executive  
Chairman
Seb Bishop
Independent non-executive
Manjit Wolstenholme
Senior independent  
non-executive
Mark Wood
Chief Executive
Mark Whiteling
Independent non-executive
Zillah Byng-Maddick
Chief Financial Officer and 
Company Secretary s
Member of the 
Nomination 
Committee
l
Member of the 
Remuneration 
Committee
n
Member of the Audit 
Committee
30 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Zillah Byng-Maddick 
Chief Financial Officer  
and Company Secretary
Zillah joined the Board on 1 November 2013 
and was appointed as Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary of Future plc with 
effect from 18 November 2013. Zillah was 
CFO of Fitness First Group from 2006 to 2009 
and, prior to her appointment to the Future plc 
Board, she was CFO of Trader Media Group 
– owner of Auto Trader – from 2009 to 2012, 
and interim CEO of Trader Media from 2012 
to 2013. Zillah is currently a non-executive 
director of Mecom Group plc and Betfair plc. 
Zillah is a chartered management accountant 
and qualified treasurer.
Peter Allen 
Chairman 
sln
Peter was named Chairman in August 2011. 
He was Chief Financial Officer of Celltech 
Group plc between 1992 and 2004. In 2003 he 
was also appointed Deputy Chief Executive 
Officer of Celltech until the company was sold 
in 2004. He was Chief Financial Officer of the 
electronics company Abacus Group plc from 
2005 until the company was sold to Avnet Inc 
in January 2009. Peter is currently Chairman of 
Clinigen plc, Chroma Therapeutics Limited and 
ProStrakan plc and a non-executive director 
of Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited, 
Mecom Group plc, Scancell Holdings plc and 
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc.
Manjit Wolstenholme 
Senior independent non-executive 
sln
Manjit joined Future as the senior non-
executive Director in February 2011. She is a 
non-executive director of Provident Financial 
plc, Unite Group plc and Aviva Investors. After 
qualifying as a chartered accountant in 1988 
with PricewaterhouseCoopers, Manjit spent 
13 years with Dresdner Kleinwort, latterly as 
co-head of investment banking including more 
than a decade specialising in the media sector. 
She was a partner at Gleacher Shacklock from 
2004 to 2006.  
Seb Bishop 
Independent non-executive 
sl 
Seb joined Future as an independent non-
executive Director in June 2007 and became 
a member of the Remuneration Committee 
in November 2008. He is the CEO of goop, a 
digital media and e-commerce company. Prior 
to goop, Seb was the International CEO of 
PRODUCT (RED), the business set up by Bono 
and Bobby Shriver to fight AIDS in Africa. In 
2000, he founded Espotting, the company that 
pioneered pay-per-click advertising and search 
marketing in the UK. He expanded Espotting 
before selling the company to MIVA, a US 
Nasdaq-quoted company in 2004, and taking 
up the Presidency of MIVA until 2007. Seb is 
Chairman of Steak, a digital marketing agency, 
a Governor of the School of Communication 
Arts, a member of the World Economic Forum’s 
Young Global Leaders and an investor in digital 
start-ups such as Summly (sold to Yahoo), 
Adjug (sold to IgnitionOne) and Orlebar Brown.
Mark Wood 
Chief Executive 
Mark was named Chief Executive of Future 
plc in October 2011. He joined Future in 
April 2009 as an independent non-executive 
Director and was appointed as Chief Executive 
of Future UK in September 2010. Mark has 
been accelerating the growth of Future’s digital 
businesses. In the UK, Future has been named 
Consumer Digital Publisher of the Year in 2013 
by the Professional Publishers Association, 
the Association of Online Publishers and the 
British Media Awards. Before joining Future, 
Mark was Chief Executive of ITN, the television 
news organisation, where he developed a 
range of digital ventures, including a world-
leading digital image business. Prior to ITN, 
Mark was Editor-in-Chief and Head of Media 
at Reuters. He began his career as a foreign 
correspondent for Reuters and was based in 
Berlin, Moscow, Bonn and Vienna.  
Mark Whiteling 
Independent non-executive 
sln 
Mark joined Future as an independent non-
executive Director in October 2010. Mark has a 
Master of Commerce degree and qualifications 
as both a New Zealand ACA and an American 
CPA. He is currently Chief Financial Officer 
of FTSE 250 company Premier Farnell plc, a 
leading multi-channel electronics distributor of 
products and services to design and purchasing 
professionals globally. His experience includes 
Group Finance Director of Communisis plc, the 
pan-European print management/direct mail 
group and Tibbett & Britten plc, a FTSE 250 
logistics company, as well as roles at SmithKline 
Beecham plc in both the USA and Europe.
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance 31 Future plc
Principal activity
The principal activity of the Company and 
its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) as a whole is 
the publishing of special-interest consumer 
magazines, apps and websites, notably in the 
areas of Technology, Film, Games, Future 
Women, Sport, Auto and Music.
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in 
the UK and has subsidiaries operating in the 
UK, the US and Australia.
Business review 
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide 
information to the shareholders of the Company.
Reviews of the Group’s activities during 
the year, the position at the year-end and 
developments since then are set out in the 
Chairman’s statement, Chief Executive’s 
review, the Corporate Governance report and 
the Financial review. The Financial review and 
Strategic report explain financial performance, 
KPIs, the position at the year-end, any post 
balance sheet events, any likely future 
developments and a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties facing the Group and 
how these are managed.
The Annual Report contains certain 
forward-looking statements with respect to 
the operations, performance and financial 
condition of the Group. By their nature, these 
statements involve uncertainty since future 
events and circumstances can cause results 
to differ from those anticipated. The forward-
looking statements reflect knowledge and 
information available at the date of preparation 
of this Annual Report and the Company 
undertakes no obligation to update those 
forward-looking statements.
Result of 2013 Annual General Meeting
All resolutions put to the Annual General 
Meeting held on 4 February 2013 were passed 
unanimously on a show of hands. Shareholders 
holding more than 85% of all issued shares 
submitted proxy votes and of these, more than 
89% were cast in favour of all resolutions. 
Reported financial results
The audited financial statements for the 
year ended 30 September 2013 are set out 
on pages 55 to 87. Details of the Group’s 
results are set out in the consolidated income 
statement on page 56 and in the notes to the 
financial statements on pages 66 to 87.
Dividends
The Board’s policy on dividends and its 
recommendation for a final dividend are set  
out on page 27 in the Financial review.   
The Company’s Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) 
waives its entitlement to any dividends.
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share 
capital which is divided into Ordinary shares 
of one penny each. The rights and obligations 
attaching to the Company’s Ordinary shares 
and provisions governing the appointment and 
replacement of, as well as the powers of, the 
Directors, are set out in the Company’s Articles 
of Association, copies of which can be obtained 
from Companies House in the UK or by writing 
to the Company Secretary. Save for restrictions 
that may from time to time be set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association or imposed 
by laws and regulations (including the Listing 
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority), there 
are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching 
to the Ordinary shares or on the transfer of the 
Ordinary shares. The Articles of Association 
may be amended only by a special resolution of 
the Company’s shareholders. 
Details of all movements in share capital  
are given in note 24 on page 83. As at  
30 September 2013, the number of shares in 
issue was 333.4 million. This represents a small 
increase of 0.1% compared with the number of 
shares in issue as at 30 September 2012. All of 
the new shares were issued in satisfaction of 
employee share option exercises or share 
awards vesting during the year. 
The Company was granted authority, at the 
Annual General Meeting held on 4 February 
2013, to purchase up to 33,300,000 of its own 
shares, representing just under 10% of the 
Company’s issued share capital at a maximum 
price per share of 5% above average of the 
market values for an Ordinary share as derived 
from the London Stock Exchange’s Daily 
Official List for the five business days prior to 
the relevant purchase as at 14 December 2012, 
being the date the notice for the Annual General 
Meeting in 2013 was prepared. The Company 
has never purchased any of its shares and this 
authority will expire following the end of the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting to be held 
on 3 February 2014, at which a resolution to 
renew such authority is proposed.  
Directors
Biographical details of the Directors holding 
office as at 13 December 2013 are set out on 
page 30. 
Directors’ shareholdings in the Company’s 
share capital are set out opposite. No Director 
Directors’ 
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2013
Significant shareholdings
At 13 December 2013, the Company had been notified of the following significant interests in its Ordinary shares:
Shareholder Number of shares
Percentage of 
issued share capital
Aberforth Partners LLP 77,101,394 23.12%
Schroders Plc 72,790,854 21.83%
FIL Ltd 36,368,960 10.90%
Investec Asset Management Ltd 28,710,000 8.61%
Herald Investment 18,265,000 5.48%
Franklin Templeton Investments Corp 16,663,407 5.00%
Gartmore Investments Limited 16,446,486 4.93%
Artemis Investment Management Ltd 10,627,757 3.19%
276,973,858 83.06%
Directors’ holdings (see opposite) 1,637,999 0.49%
Total of significant holdings 278,611,857 83.55%
Total number of shares in issue 333,476,541 100%
The information presented in this Directors’ report relates to 
Future plc and its subsidiaries. The Chairman’s statement, 
Chief Executive’s review, Financial review and Corporate 
responsibility statement are each incorporated by reference 
into, and form part of, this Directors’ report.
Directors’ report 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
has any interest in any other share capital of 
the Company or any other Group company, nor 
does any Director have a material interest in 
any contract of significance to the Group.
Significant agreements
The provisions of the European Directive on 
Takeover Bids (as implemented in the UK in 
the Companies Act 2006) require the Company 
to disclose any significant agreements which 
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change 
of control of the Company. In common with 
many other companies, the Group’s bank 
facility (details of which are set out in note 19 on 
pages 77 and 78) is terminable upon change of 
control of the Company. In common with market 
practice, awards under certain of the Group’s 
long-term incentive plans (details of which are 
set out in the Directors’ remuneration report on 
page 43 and note 25 on page 84) will vest or 
potentially be exchangeable into awards over 
a purchaser’s share capital upon change of 
control of the Company. There is also a change 
of control provision in the service agreements 
of the two executive Directors, exercisable 
within three months of a change of control by 
the Company or on one month’s notice by the 
executive to expire no later than three months 
from the date of the change of control.
Financial instruments
Information in relation to the Group’s use of 
financial instruments is set out in note 23 on 
pages 80 to 83.
Corporate governance
The Board supports best practice in corporate 
governance. The Board’s report on this subject 
is set out on pages 35 to 40.
Conflicts of interest
The Board has a set of procedures to ensure 
that: (i) conflicts of interest are raised by 
Directors (and any potential Directors prior 
to appointment); (ii) appropriate guidelines 
are followed before any conflict is authorised 
(including ensuring that only Directors who 
have no interest in the matter being considered 
will be able to take the relevant decision and 
in taking the decision the Directors act in a 
way they consider, in good faith, will be most 
likely to promote the Company’s success); 
and (iii) records are kept of conflicts of interest 
and authorisations. The Directors are satisfied 
that the Board’s powers of authorisation 
of conflicts are operating effectively and 
that the procedures have been followed. 
The procedures and any authorisations will 
continue to be reviewed annually.
Directors’ responsibility for accounts
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Directors’ remuneration 
report and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to 
prepare financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law the Directors have 
prepared the Group and parent company 
financial statements in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. 
The Directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and the Company and of the profit 
or loss of the Group for that period and that 
the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, business 
model and strategy. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
::  select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
::  make judgements and accounting 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Company 
and the Group and enable them to ensure that 
the financial statements and the Directors’ 
remuneration report comply with the Companies 
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Corporate responsibility
The Board considers that issues of corporate 
responsibility are important. The Board’s 
report, including a statement on Greenhouse 
Gas Emissions for the Group, is set out on 
pages 21 and 22.
Annual General Meeting 2014
At the Company’s fifteenth Annual General 
Meeting, which will be held on Monday  
3 February 2014 at 12 noon at Future’s 
Notes:
1. All holdings are beneficial.
2. Between 30 September 2013 and 13 December 2013 (being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document) there were no changes to the holdings of serving Directors. 
3. Details of the share options and awards for executive Directors are set out on page 45. There are no such options or awards for non-executive Directors.
4.  Graham Harding left the Company on 30 November 2013. There were no changes to his holdings. Zillah Byng-Maddick was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2013. As at 13 December 2013, she 
holds no shares in the Company.
Directors in office at 30 September 2013
Balance as at
30 September 2012
Purchases
during the year
Balance as at
30 September 2013
Executive
Mark Wood - - -
Graham Harding
4
333,110 - 333,110
Non-executive
Peter Allen 800,000 - 800,000
Seb Bishop 17,000 - 17,000
Mark Whiteling 400,000 - 400,000
Manjit Wolstenholme 34,000 53,889 87,889
Total 1,584,110 53,889 1,637,999
Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance 33 Future plc
Headquarters at 2 Balcombe Street, London 
NW1 6NW, a number of resolutions will be 
proposed. The resolutions are set out in the 
Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 
89 to 90 and an explanation of all proposed 
resolutions is provided below.
Ordinary resolution 1 – Financial 
statements
Shareholders will be asked to approve the 
financial statements of the Company for the 
financial year ended 30 September 2013, 
together with the reports of the Directors and 
auditors. The audited financial statements 
appear on pages 55 to 87.
Ordinary resolution 2 – Directors’ 
remuneration implementation report
Shareholders will be asked to approve the 
Directors’ remuneration implementation report 
for the financial year ended 30 September 
2013, which is set out on pages 42 to 47.
Ordinary resolution 3 – Directors’ 
remuneration policy 
Shareholders will be asked to approve the 
Directors’ remuneration policy for the three 
year period commencing on 1 October 2013 
which is set out on pages 48 to 51.
Ordinary resolution 4 – Payment of 
final dividend 
The Directors propose a final dividend of  
0.2 pence per Ordinary share to be paid on  
14 March 2014 to those Ordinary shareholders 
on the register at the close of business on  
14 February 2014. Since no interim dividend 
was paid in respect of the period to 31 March 
2013 the total dividend payable in respect of the 
year ended 30 September 2013 amounts to 0.2 
pence per Ordinary share. The Board’s policy 
on dividends and its recommendation for a final 
dividend are set out in the Chairman’s statement 
and on page 27 of the Financial review.
Ordinary resolutions 5 to 10 – Election 
of Zillah Byng-Maddick and annual  
re-election of other Directors
Following Zillah Byng-Maddick’s appointment to 
the Board on 1 November 2013, she stands for 
election to confirm her appointment. Under the 
terms of her appointment Zillah is committed to 
perform her services for the equivalent of seven 
days in every ten, notwithstanding the fact 
that as a Director she will work such hours as 
may be reasonably necessary to enable her to 
properly discharge her duties.
Consistent with our policy since 2004, all 
Directors are proposed for re-election. 
Biographical details of all Directors are  
set out on page 30.
Following a rigorous evaluation and taking into 
account the need for progressive refreshing 
of the Board, the Board confirms that the 
performance of each executive and non-
executive Director of the Company continues 
to be effective and demonstrates commitment 
to the role. The Nomination Committee has 
carefully considered the time commitments 
required from and the contribution made 
by each Director and both the Nomination 
Committee and the Board unanimously 
recommends that Zillah Byng-Maddick be 
elected as a Director and each Director 
standing for re-election be re-elected. 
Ordinary resolutions 11 and 12 – 
Auditors
A resolution proposing the reappointment of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of 
the Company and authorising the Directors to 
determine their remuneration will be proposed 
at the Annual General Meeting. An explanation 
regarding the Board’s proposal to reappoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors 
can be found on page 40 in the Corporate 
Governance report.
Ordinary resolution 13 – To authorise 
the Directors to issue and allot new 
Ordinary shares
Under the provisions of section 551 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (the 2006 Act), the 
Directors may allot and issue Ordinary  
shares only if authorised to do so by the 
Company’s Articles of Association or by 
shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting. 
Consistent with guidance issued by the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) this 
resolution will, if passed, authorise the 
Directors to allot shares up to a maximum 
nominal value of £2,222,000 as follows:
(a)  in relation to a pre-emptive rights issue 
only, equity securities (as defined by 
section 560 of the 2006 Act) up to a 
maximum nominal amount of £2,222,000 
which represents approximately two 
thirds of the Company’s issued Ordinary 
shares (excluding treasury shares) as at 13 
December 2013. This maximum is reduced 
by the nominal amount of any Relevant 
Securities allotted under paragraph 13.2 of 
the Notice of AGM; and
(b)  in any other case, Relevant Securities 
up to a maximum nominal amount of 
£1,111,000 which represents just under one 
third of the Company’s issued Ordinary 
shares as at 13 December 2013. This 
maximum is reduced by the nominal 
amount of any equity securities allotted 
under paragraph 13.1 of the Notice of  
AGM in excess of £1,111,000.
If granted, this authority would replace all 
previous authorities granted in this connection. 
The authority granted by this resolution will 
expire on 31 March 2015 or, if earlier, following 
the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company. 
If the Directors exercise the authority granted 
under paragraph 13.1 of the Notice of AGM, they 
will all stand for re-election at the following AGM.
The Directors do not have any present intention 
of exercising this authority other than in 
connection with any exercises under share 
option and other share incentive schemes,  
but intend to seek this authority each year.  
In addition, there may be circumstances  
where it would be appropriate for the Company 
to issue new Ordinary shares, such as an 
acquisition where it might be appropriate for 
the consideration to be settled in whole, or in 
part, by the issue of new Ordinary shares. The 
Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Ordinary resolution 14 – Approval of 
political donations
It remains the policy of the Company not to 
make political donations or to incur political 
expenditure, as those expressions are 
normally understood. However, following 
broader definitions introduced by the 2006 Act, 
the Directors continue to propose a resolution 
designed to avoid inadvertent infringement of 
these definitions.
The 2006 Act requires companies to obtain 
shareholders’ authority for donations to 
registered political parties and other political 
organisations totalling more than £5,000 in 
any 12-month period, and for any political 
expenditure, subject to limited exceptions. 
The definition of donation in this context is 
very wide and extends to bodies such as those 
concerned with policy review, law reform and 
the representation of the business community. 
It could also include special interest groups, 
such as those involved with the environment, 
which the Company and its subsidiaries might 
wish to support, even though these activities 
are not designed to support or to influence 
support for any particular political party. 
Special resolution 15 – Disapplication 
of statutory pre-emption rights 
Resolution 15 will be proposed to renew 
the Directors’ existing authority to allot new 
Ordinary shares for cash other than pro rata 
to existing shareholdings. Section 561 of the 
2006 Act requires that equity securities issued 
for cash must first be offered to the Company’s 
existing holders of securities in proportion to 
their existing rights.
Consistent with the previous practice of the 
Company, the authority now sought would 
permit the allotment of Ordinary shares up to the 
amount covered by resolution 13 in connection 
with a rights issue (or other pro rata Ordinary 
Directors’ 
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2013 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
share issue) and otherwise up to an aggregate 
nominal amount not exceeding £166,700, 
equivalent to just under 5% of the Company’s 
issued Ordinary share capital as at 13 December 
2013, such authority to expire on 31 March 
2015 or, if earlier, following the conclusion of the 
Company’s next Annual General Meeting save 
that the Company would, before the expiry of 
the power conferred, be able to make an offer or 
agreement which would or might require equity 
securities to be allotted after its expiry and the 
Directors would be able to allot equity securities 
pursuant to such an offer or agreement as 
if the power, if conferred, had not expired. If 
granted, this authority would replace all previous 
authorities existing in this connection. The Board 
intends to renew this authority each year.
The Board does not currently intend to issue 
more than 7.5% of the Ordinary issued share 
capital of the Company in any rolling three-
year period without prior consultation with the 
Investment Committees of the Association of 
British Insurers and the National Association  
of Pension Funds.
Special resolution 16 – Purchase of 
own shares
Resolution 16 is proposed to renew the 
Company’s authority to make market 
purchases of its own Ordinary shares.  
The maximum number of Ordinary shares 
that may be purchased will be 33,340,000 
representing just under 10% of the issued 
Ordinary share capital of the Company as  
at 13 December 2013.
The minimum price payable for shares will be 
the nominal value of one penny per Ordinary 
share and the maximum price will not be more 
than the higher of 5% above the average of 
the middle-market quotation of the Company’s 
Ordinary shares as derived from the London 
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 
business days immediately preceding the day 
on which the Ordinary shares are purchased 
and that stipulated by Article 5(1) of the Buy-
back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003. This 
authority, if granted, would expire on 31 March 
2015 or, if earlier, following the conclusion of 
the Company’s next Annual General Meeting 
save that the Company would, before expiry 
of the power conferred, be able to make a 
contract to purchase shares which may be 
executed wholly or partly after its expiry, as if 
the power, if conferred, had not expired. The 
Board intends to seek this authority each year. 
If approved, the power would be used only 
where it was demonstrably in shareholders’ 
interests, such as by improving adjusted EPS.
While the Board has no current intention to 
use the power proposed, it considers that it 
is desirable to have this authority each year, 
as there could be circumstances in which the 
purchase by the Company of its own shares 
would be in the best interests of the Company 
and its shareholders generally. 
The 2006 Act permits certain listed companies 
to hold shares in treasury as an alternative to 
cancelling them following a purchase of own 
shares by the Company. Shares held in treasury 
may subsequently be cancelled or sold for cash, 
or used to satisfy employee share option or 
other awards under the Company’s share option 
or long-term incentive schemes. Once held in 
treasury, a company is not entitled to exercise 
any rights, including the right to attend and vote 
at Company meetings in respect of the shares 
and no dividend or distribution of the Company’s 
assets may be made to the Company in respect 
of shares held in treasury. If the Directors 
exercise the authority conferred by resolution 16, 
they will consider holding any shares purchased 
in treasury rather than cancelling them.
The total number of options to subscribe for 
or awards granted in respect of Ordinary 
shares that were outstanding at 13 December 
2013 (being the latest practicable date prior to 
publication of this document) was 12,911,750. 
The proportion of issued share capital that they 
represented at that time was 3.87% and the 
proportion of issued share capital that they will 
represent if the full authority to purchase shares 
(existing and being sought) is used is 4.30%.
Special resolution 17 – General 
meetings on 14 days’ notice
Notice periods for AGMs must give at least  
21 days’ clear notice. For other general meetings, 
the old minimum notice period of 14 days 
was increased to 21 days by the Companies 
(Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009, unless 
shareholders approve a shorter period of at 
least 14 clear days. In the interests of greater 
efficiency, resolution 17 seeks to renew approval 
for notice periods of at least 14 clear days.
Action to be taken
A form of proxy is included with this Annual 
Report for use in connection with the Annual 
General Meeting. Please complete and return 
the form in accordance with the instructions 
printed on it to Computershare Investor 
Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, 
Bristol BS99 6ZY as soon as possible and, in 
any event, no later than 12 noon on Thursday 
30 January 2014. The return of the form of proxy 
will not prevent you from attending the Annual 
General Meeting and voting in person if you 
wish to do so. Further information about the 
AGM, including about electronic appointment 
of proxies, is provided on pages 91 to 92. 
Recommendations
The Board believes that each of the resolutions 
to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting 
is in the best interests of the Company and 
its shareholders as a whole. Accordingly, the 
Directors unanimously recommend that you 
vote in favour of all of the resolutions proposed, 
as they intend to do in respect of their own 
beneficial holdings.
Annual General Meeting procedures 
and result
As in previous years, the Company will: (a) 
indicate the level of proxies lodged on each 
resolution together with the balance for and 
against each resolution and the number of 
abstentions; (b) announce the results of voting 
to the London Stock Exchange; and (c) post 
the results of voting on our corporate website, 
www.futureplc.com.
Disclosure of information to  
the auditors
The Directors confirm that they have complied 
with the relevant provisions of the 2006 Act in 
preparing the financial statements. 
In addition, each of the Directors confirms that, 
so far as they are aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the auditors are 
unaware. Each Director has taken all reasonable 
steps to ensure that they are aware of any 
relevant audit information and that the auditors 
are aware of any relevant audit information.
Responsibility statement 
Each of the Directors, whose names and 
functions are listed in the Board of Directors 
section on pages 29 and 30, confirm that to the 
best of their knowledge:
(a)  the Group financial statements, which have 
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group; and
(b)  the Strategic report and Financial review 
include a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and 
the position of the Group, together with 
a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that it faces; and
(c)  the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess the Group’s performance, 
business model and strategy.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed 
on its behalf by:
Zillah Byng-Maddick
Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary
13 December 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance Our approach to corporate 
governance
In this report, we provide detail on the role 
of the Board of Directors, followed by a more 
detailed focus on the work of each of the three 
key committees: the Audit Committee, the 
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration 
Committee. Together, these give a clear insight 
into how we manage corporate governance 
principles and processes within the Group.
For the financial year ended 30 September 
2013, we have complied in full with the 
requirements of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (2012) which is available on the Financial 
Reporting Council website www.frc.org.uk/
corporate/ukcgcode.cfm. The disclosures on 
share ownership, appointing and replacing 
Directors and other similar disclosures required 
by rule 7.2.6 of the Disclosure and Transparency 
Rules are set out in the Directors’ report on 
pages 31 to 34.
1. Board of Directors
Membership of the Board
The Board consists of two executive and 
four non-executive Directors. Biographies 
of Directors and details of their other time 
commitments are set out on pages 29 and 30. 
Mark Millar resigned as Company Secretary 
and was replaced by Graham Harding, Chief 
Financial Officer, on 25 January 2013. There 
were no other changes during the year to  
30 September 2013. On 1 November 2013, Zillah 
Byng-Maddick was appointed to the Board to 
replace Graham Harding who left the Company 
on 30 November 2013. Zillah Byng-Maddick 
took on the role of Chief Financial Officer and 
Company Secretary on 18 November 2013.
Role of the non-executive Directors
The non-executives play a critical role on the 
Board in overseeing and scrutinising the running 
of the business and in ensuring that corporate 
governance remains at the top of the agenda. 
The non-executive Directors all serve three-
year terms, terminable by either party on three 
months’ notice at any time and subject to their 
election and annual re-election or removal by 
shareholders. Although annual re-election is 
not a requirement for Future, we believe it is the 
best way to ensure non-executives are directly 
accountable to shareholders.
All of the non-executive Directors are 
considered to be independent by the Board. 
Manjit Wolstenholme is the Senior independent 
non-executive Director. There is a genuine mix 
of views and insights, as well as experience. 
Each non-executive Director is expected to 
commit 20 days a year to their role to allow for 
preparation for and attendance at Board and 
Committee meetings and keeping in touch with 
the senior management team, shareholders 
and other stakeholders.
Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive
The duties and responsibilities of the Board 
are effectively divided so that the Chairman 
leads the Board and the Chief Executive leads 
the business. 
Board meetings
The Board had six scheduled meetings 
during the financial year and attendance 
is summarised below. The Board had four 
unscheduled telephone meetings to deal with 
matters that arose during the year during which 
all members were present. 
All Directors are aware of the need to be 
available and there is a clear contact process. 
Board meetings are sometimes preceded by 
an informal dinner where senior management 
can update the Board on business issues  
and challenges. 
There is a regular and comprehensive 
exchange of information between meetings to 
ensure Board members are well informed to 
participate effectively in meetings. Directors 
receive a Board pack a week before the 
meeting with minutes of the previous meeting, 
all papers for agenda items, a report from the 
Company Secretary summarising any key legal 
issues and providing any regulatory/legislative 
updates, and a summary of share ownership 
and recent share dealing. Similar packs are 
provided for all Committee meetings. Between 
meetings, the Board receives a monthly Board 
report written by the executive Directors 
which summarises financial and operational 
performance and provides updates on key 
programmes within the business.
Director
Attendance  
(6 scheduled meetings)
Peter Allen 6 of 6 
Seb Bishop 6 of 6
Mark Whiteling 6 of 6
Manjit Wolstenholme 6 of 6 
Mark Wood 6 of 6
Graham Harding 6 of 6
“ The non-executives play 
a critical role on the 
Board in overseeing and 
scrutinising the running 
of the business and in 
ensuring that corporate 
governance remains at  
the top of the agenda.”
Effective corporate governance requires not just compliance 
with legislative and regulatory requirements, but also applying 
the principle of good governance in the boardroom and 
throughout the business. At Future, we are committed to 
ensuring that good corporate governance is enshrined at the 
heart of our business structure and processes. 
Good Practice
Corporate 
Governance 
report
Zillah Byng-Maddick
Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary
35 Future plc
Quick find contents
Board of Directors 
Page 35  
Audit Committee 
Page 38
 
Nomination Committee
Page 40 
Remuneration Committee
Page 40 There is a written schedule of matters reserved 
for the Board which sets out those matters that 
require Board approval including setting strategy, 
approving budgets and financial statements and 
setting up policies. This schedule was reviewed 
in July 2013 and it was noted that 36 matters had 
been considered by the Board during the year. 
The schedule is available on the Company’s 
website at www.futureplc.com. The Board 
delegates day-to-day operational matters to  
the Group management board.
Board decisions are made unanimously 
whenever possible but can be made by majority. 
If Directors have concerns that cannot be 
resolved about the running of the Company or a 
proposed action, their concerns are recorded in 
the minutes. No such concerns arose in the year.
The Board regularly appoints a sub-committee 
consisting of at least two Directors in order to 
finalise and approve those matters that have 
been approved in principle by the Board, 
subject to final amendments only. A permanent 
sub-committee consisting of at least two 
Directors exists to approve the issue and 
allotment of new shares in satisfaction of 
employee share schemes. 
The Board has a number of nominated advisers 
(as listed on page 94). During the last financial 
year meetings were regularly held with key 
advisers to keep them aware of issues, and 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP attended Audit 
Committee meetings and briefings with members 
of the executive and senior finance teams.
Advice and support
All Directors have access to the Company 
Secretary who can advise them on issues 
of governance, best practice and any other 
legislative or regulatory matters.  
The appointment and removal of the Company 
Secretary is a Board decision. The Directors 
may also take independent professional advice 
at the Company’s expense provided that they 
give notice to the Chairman. No such advice was 
sought during 2013. The Company maintains 
appropriate insurance for its Directors.
Terms of reference for the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees
The terms of reference for all Committees  
are available on the Company’s website,  
www.futureplc.com.
Effective Development
Training and induction
The Board’s training and development policy 
requires that all new Directors should receive 
appropriate induction on joining the Board, both 
in respect of the Group’s activities as a whole 
and of each operating company individually. 
Ongoing training for Directors is available as 
appropriate whether by presentations to the 
Board by senior management or more formally 
where individual Directors request training on 
specific issues. The training and development 
needs of each individual Director are assessed 
and discussed during individual performance 
evaluation meetings with the Chairman and 
Company Secretary as part of the annual 
Board performance evaluation. The Board 
encourages appropriate training and regular 
updates and refresher sessions are provided 
by the Company Secretary and the Company’s 
legal advisers and auditors, to inform the Board 
or relevant Committees of important changes in 
legislation, regulation and best practice.
36 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Non-executive Directors
As a smaller company we are only 
required to have two independent 
non-executive Directors, however 
we have chosen voluntarily to 
comply with the full requirement 
and have at least half the Board 
as non-executive Directors. This 
brings broader experience with 
the diversity of our business and 
our desire to ensure that our 
non-executives have the time to 
devote to corporate governance 
as well as monitoring and 
challenging the executive team on 
operational and strategic matters.
i
Summary of performance evaluation
Objectives for 2013 Steps taken during 2013
Financing of the business through  
digital transition
Signed new four-year credit facility agreement  
in February 2013
Improve balance sheet The sale of the UK Rock titles and the signing 
of the new credit facility agreement has 
significantly strengthened the balance sheet
Consolidation and development  
of US business
Good progress has been made in the year in 
significantly reducing the level of EBITDAE 
losses in the US business. Management 
believe the business is on track for EBITDAE 
profitability in 2014.
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance Corporate 
Governance 
report
37 Future plc
Performance evaluation
The Directors completed a detailed Board 
performance evaluation questionnaire as 
part of the annual performance evaluation 
process. Each questionnaire was analysed 
and the results were presented to the Board for 
discussion. The Chairman discussed the Board’s 
performance during the year and any specific 
requirements for training and development with 
each Director. During the process the Board also 
compared its performance with the results and 
recommendations from prior year’s performance 
evaluations and noted that the Board had made 
significant progress in dealing with the risks and 
challenges identified for the year. The Board 
considers this exercise to be of significant value 
in ensuring a functional and effective Board  
and Committees.
The Chairman also met with non-executive 
Directors during the year without the presence 
of executive Directors, in order to assess the 
performance of the executive Directors.
Accountability and going concern
The Directors are required to make an 
assessment of the Group’s ability to continue 
to trade as a going concern.
The Directors have given this matter due 
consideration and have concluded that it is 
appropriate to prepare the Group financial 
statements on a going concern basis.  
The two main considerations were as follows:
a) Strength of the Group’s cash flow
The Group has continued to generate operating 
cash flows during the year. It has also generated 
additional cash flows from the disposal of 
certain assets (predominantly print based) in the 
UK. Most of the Group’s operating expenditure 
is cash expenditure, and the majority of the 
Group’s revenue is collected from distributors 
(print and digital), subscribers (print and digital) 
and advertising agencies and clients.
b) Continued support of the Group’s banks
The Board maintains a regular and constructive 
dialogue with the banking syndicate to keep 
them informed of the Group’s performance on a 
monthly basis. 
Credit facility
The Company signed a new four year £31m 
credit facility with Barclays and Santander  
on 22 February 2013. This was made up of a 
term loan of £6m and a revolving credit facility 
of £25m. Following the disposal of the UK  
Rock titles in April 2013, the term loan was 
repaid in full. 
Financial covenant compliance
Key covenants are tested quarterly, and are  
set out in the table at the bottom of this page.
At 30 September 2013 following a further 
year of tight working capital management and 
based on the calculation of EBITDA for bank 
purposes the Group had headroom of £9.4m 
over and above the level of net bank debt at  
30 September 2013.
Risk management and internal controls
Details of the principal risks and the Group’s 
approach to managing them are set out on 
pages 19 and 20. The Board conducted an 
annual review of financial, operational, legal 
and compliance risks with the assistance 
of members of the Group legal and finance 
teams to ensure that there is a sound system 
of internal controls in place and that these  
are sufficient to manage (rather than 
eliminate) those risks effectively.  
No significant failings or weaknesses  
were identified as part of this review. 
The internal controls that are in place to ensure 
effective risk management are structured 
to ensure a timely flow of information within 
the Group and a clear structure of delegated 
authority and responsibility. The main features 
of the Group’s internal control and risk  
management systems are explained  
further in the following paragraphs.
The Board approves a set of control 
documents which specify:
(i)   various financial and treasury policies to 
be followed across the Group; and 
(ii)   the powers of delegated authority across 
the Group.
Re-election of Directors 
We are not required to offer 
all our Directors up for annual 
election, however, all our 
Directors take individual and 
collective responsibility for 
the decisions that the Board 
makes and are happy to let 
shareholders judge their 
performance by standing for 
annual re-election. We have 
followed this practice since the 
AGM in 2005.
i
Bank Covenants
Net debt/Bank EBITDA Less than 2.5 times at 31 March 2013 and 30 June 2013, 
less than 2.25 times at 30 September 2013 and  
31 December 2013 and less than 2.0 times thereafter
Bank EBITDA/Interest More than 4.0 times
Capital expenditure 125% of agreed annual budget 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Group finance team manages the financial 
reporting processes ensuring that there is 
appropriate control and review of the financial 
information including the production of the 
consolidated financial statements. Group 
finance is supported by operational finance 
managers throughout the Group who have the 
responsibility and accountability to provide 
information in accordance with our policies 
and procedures. 
The UK and US operating companies each 
have a Board (whose members include the 
two executive Directors) responsible, inter 
alia, for ensuring that the control documents 
are applied in practice. The Board of the UK 
operating company also takes responsibility  
for the Australian business.
The executive Directors hold monthly 
management board meetings by video 
conference with senior UK and US 
management in order to provide a proper 
opportunity for financial results and other 
business and operational issues to be  
explored and addressed.
Internal audit
The Audit Committee and the Board have 
again during 2013 reconsidered whether there 
is a need for an internal audit function. It was 
concluded that while an independent internal 
audit department with the necessary technical 
skills is not currently justified, the Committee 
should continue to review this subject each year.
Whistle-blowing policy
As part of its internal controls, the Group has 
a whistle-blowing policy which is updated 
regularly and published on the Group’s intranet 
to encourage employees to report, in good 
faith, any genuine suspicions of fraud, bribery 
or malpractice in order to identify any problems 
within the Group at an early stage. The policy 
is also designed to ensure that any employee 
who raises a genuine concern is protected. 
Relations with shareholders/
communication
We aim to have an open relationship with 
our shareholders and shareholders can find 
up-to-date information on Group activities on 
the Company’s website, www.futureplc.com. 
There is a specific Investor Relations section 
on that site which includes copies of all of 
the Group’s public announcements made via 
the Regulatory News Service of the London 
Stock Exchange, as well as full copies of the 
Company’s annual and interim results and 
presentations provided to analysts.
All Directors are available to meet 
shareholders at the AGM or on request 
by contacting the Chairman or Company 
Secretary. Because more than 80% of 
the Company’s shares are held by major 
institutions, the executive Directors hold a 
series of meetings presenting the interim and 
annual results to these institutions in order to 
update them on the progress of the business 
and gauge their views following the analyst 
presentations of the results.
In order that all Directors are aware of the views 
of shareholders, Board packs include a note 
of views as expressed by shareholders during 
meetings held with Directors or as reported 
to Directors through the Company’s brokers, 
together with copies of analysts’ notes, press 
articles and other relevant information.
2. Audit Committee
Member
Attendance 
(3 scheduled meetings)
Mark Whiteling
1
  
(Chairman)
3 of 3 
Peter Allen 3 of 3 
Manjit Wolstenholme 3 of 3
1.  The Chairman of the Committee, Mark Whiteling, has recent 
and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee’s primary objective is 
to provide effective financial governance and 
monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial 
statements and internal controls.
The Audit Committee meets before the interim 
and annual results announcements and 
reviews the relevant financial results with the 
executive management team and the external 
auditors. The Audit Committee also meets 
separately for the purposes of planning the 
audit process, monitoring its effectiveness, 
reviewing the Group’s relationship with the 
external auditors and undertaking a detailed 
review of the Group’s internal controls and risk 
management systems. It considered whether 
the 2013 Annual Report was fair, balanced 
and understandable and advised the Board 
accordingly. The Audit Committee carries 
out the functions required by rule 7.1.3 of the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
“ G oo d co r p o r a t e 
governance is  
essential for the  
long-term success  
of the Company.” 
 
Peter Allen 
Chairman
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance Significant financial reporting judgements 
The Audit Committee discussed the key risks 
and judgements with management and the 
auditors as part of the audit planning process 
in July. At the same time they discussed and 
agreed upon appropriate levels of materiality 
in the context of the anticipated results for the 
year. As a result of those discussions an audit 
plan was agreed and subsequently executed.
The significant issues considered in relation 
to the financial statements for the year ended 
30 September 2013, which were originally 
identified and discussed as part of the planning 
process referred to above, are set out below 
and were addressed as follows:
1. Impairment
  IAS 36 requires an impairment test to 
be performed for goodwill on an annual 
basis. Management prepared a detailed 
impairment assessment of the UK business 
and the US business as separate cash 
generating units.
  The key assumptions made in that 
assessment were as follows:
 
 Growth rate to perpetuity 2.0%
 EBITAE growth rate in years 1-5 5.2%
 Discount rate (post-tax) 9.5%
  Management discussed the impairment 
assessment and responded to the 
challenges put forward by the auditors 
and the Audit Committee. Management 
concluded that as a result of this 
assessment no impairment is required at 
30 September 2013. The Audit Committee 
agree with this conclusion.
2. Revenue recognition
  The areas of revenue which carry the most 
judgement are newstrade revenue (both 
domestic and export) and revenue relating to 
the increasing number of larger advertising 
contracts. Management have carefully 
considered the estimates made in respect of 
newstrade revenues and have ensured that 
the recognition of revenues on the larger 
advertising contracts is appropriate. In all 
cases the estimates and judgements made 
have been discussed with the auditors and 
the Audit Committee. Particular attention 
has been given to bookazines in the context 
of the fact that returns information relating 
to export newstrade can take up to nine 
months from the on sale date to be finalised. 
Whilst it is recognised that there is an 
increased level of uncertainty in the area of 
newstrade estimates due to the increased 
volume of products which went on sale in 
the second half of the year (in particular 
relating to bookazines) management believe 
the estimates made were appropriate.
3.  Risk of management override of  
internal controls
  The Audit Committee have discussed this 
with the auditors and noted the one-off 
testing carried out by the auditors on a 
sample basis. Based on those discussions, 
the fact that the one-off testing did not reveal 
any issues and the levels of review of the 
financial results of the business the Audit 
Committee are satisfied that this risk has 
been managed effectively and mitigated 
where possible.
4. Going concern
  The Audit Committee have considered the 
going concern assumption as set out on 
page 37.
5. Tax position
  The Audit Committee have reviewed the tax 
position of the Group with management and 
the auditors. During the year the Committee 
approved the settlement agreement with 
HMRC noted in the Financial review and 
have been actively involved in considering 
any areas of judgement relating to tax 
positions in the UK, US and Australia.
Audit fees
The Audit Committee has reviewed 
the remuneration received by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for non-audit 
work conducted during the financial year. 
The fees for non-audit work were at a level 
equivalent to the audit fee, and related mainly 
to advising in relation to taxation. For further 
details regarding fees paid, see note 4 to the 
financial statements on page 68.
Auditor independence
The Audit Committee monitors the Company’s 
safeguards against compromising the 
objectivity and independence of the external 
auditors by performing an annual review of 
non-audit services provided to the Group and 
their cost, reviewing whether the auditors 
believe there are any relationships that may 
affect their independence and obtaining 
written confirmation from the auditors that 
they are independent.
For the financial year ended 30 September 
2013, the Audit Committee has conducted 
its review of the auditors’ independence and 
Corporate 
Governance 
report
39 Future plc
“ The Audit Committee 
is responsible for 
providing effective 
financial governance 
and monitoring the 
integrity of the Group’s 
financial statements 
and internal controls.” 
 
Mark Whiteling 
Chairman of Audit Committee 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
concluded that no conflict of interest exists 
between PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP audit 
and non-audit work and that their involvement in 
non-audit matters, which was mainly tax-related 
and performed by a separate team, was the 
most effective way of conducting the Group’s 
business during the year.
Auditor appointment policy
The Audit Committee has reviewed its  
policy for appointing auditors and awarding  
non-audit work.
The Group has recently had little  
non-audit work outside of tax work but has  
an open mind about instructing firms  
other than PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
where appropriate.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
the Board has decided that it is in the best 
interests of the Company to put a resolution to 
shareholders that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 
who have been the Company’s external auditor 
for 14 years, be reappointed as auditors for the 
forthcoming year. The resolution to appoint 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will propose that 
they hold office until the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting at which accounts are 
laid before the Company, at a level of 
remuneration to be determined by the Directors.
3. Nomination Committee
Member
Attendance 
(1 scheduled meeting)
Peter Allen (Chairman) 1 of 1
Manjit Wolstenholme 1 of 1
Seb Bishop 1 of 1 
Mark Whiteling 1 of 1
In addition to the scheduled meeting, there 
was one conference call during which all 
Committee members were present to discuss 
the departure of Graham Harding and the 
recruitment of his replacement.
The Committee agreed that the search for 
a new Chief Financial Officer should focus 
on finding a candidate with experience of 
the transition from a print to digital business 
and that a recruitment consultancy would be 
appointed to lead the search. Zillah Byng-
Maddick was subsequently identified, outside 
of that process, as being an ideal candidate 
fulfilling key criteria. Zillah was interviewed 
by each non-executive Director before her 
appointment was confirmed and attended a 
Board meeting as an observer prior to the  
date on which her appointment started.
Following discussion of the skills and 
contribution of each Director, the Nomination 
Committee supports the proposed re-election 
of all Directors standing for re-election at 
the 2014 AGM and the election of Zillah 
Byng-Maddick to confirm her appointment 
to the Board. In line with best practice, each 
Committee member seeking re-election was 
excluded from approving the proposal for  
their re-election. 
4. Remuneration Committee
Member
Attendance 
(3 scheduled meetings)
Manjit Wolstenholme 
(Chairman)
3 of 3 
Peter Allen 3 of 3
Mark Whiteling 3 of 3 
Seb Bishop 3 of 3
In addition to the three scheduled meetings there 
were two unscheduled conference calls during 
which all Committee members were present.
The Remuneration Committee determines 
the remuneration packages of executive 
Directors, including performance-related 
awards and share-based incentives, 
remuneration policy, which includes the 
individual bonus targets for executive Directors 
and performance criteria attached to share-
based incentives, the remuneration of the 
Chairman, recommendations of remuneration 
levels for non-executive Directors and senior 
management in line with industry remuneration 
packages and the implementation of any new 
share-based incentive scheme proposed to 
be implemented. The Directors’ remuneration 
report is set out on pages 41 to 51.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed 
on its behalf by:
Zillah Byng-Maddick
Chief Financial Officer  
and Company Secretary 
13 December 2013
Investor Relations
For copies of all of the Group’s 
public announcements made  
via the RNS and copies of  
the Committees’ terms of  
reference, visit 
www.futureplc.com/investors
i
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors’ 
remuneration 
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2013
41 Future plc
Dear shareholders, 
I am pleased to present the Directors’ remuneration report for the financial year ended  
30 September 2013. This report has been prepared on behalf of the Future plc Board by  
the Remuneration Committee, and has been approved by the Future plc Board.
As required under the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (Sl 2013/1981) Directors’ Remuneration 
Regulations, this report is split into two sections: an Implementation report, setting out 
details of Directors’ remuneration for the financial year ended 30 September 2013, and a 
Remuneration policy report, setting out the Group’s forward-looking remuneration policy 
(“Policy”) for executive and non-executive Directors for the three year period  
from 1 October 2013.
The key challenge faced by the Remuneration Committee during the year related to the 
change in the Chief Financial Officer. Graham Harding has served the business over a 
number of years and has been instrumental in the past two years in the actions taken 
to stabilise the balance sheet and funding position of the business. The Remuneration 
Committee therefore felt it was appropriate to exercise a reasonable degree of 
discretion in arriving at a commercial position regarding compensation for loss of office. 
The Policy will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the Company’s AGM on  
3 February 2014 and will take effect immediately thereafter.
During the year to 30 September 2013, the Committee has considered the level and 
make-up of the executive Directors’ remuneration packages, including the grant of share-
based incentive awards and the basis of performance-related bonuses, details of which 
are set out in the Implementation report and the Policy. There has been no significant 
change in the Committee’s approach to Directors’ remuneration during the year. 
The remuneration philosophy is based on the need to motivate and incentivise the 
executive Directors, whilst aligning their interests with those of the shareholders. As 
a result, remuneration levels are designed to reflect the relative performance of the 
business for the relevant period. Overall the results of the business for the year ended 
30 September 2013 were satisfactory in the context of a difficult market environment 
and the need for the business to focus on stabilisation of the balance sheet in the form 
of a new Credit Agreement and the sale of certain assets – both of which were executed 
successfully. Trading results, however, were below the expectations set at the beginning 
of the year and as a result no performance-related bonuses were payable in respect of 
the year ended 30 September 2013.
We believe that the Policy will incentivise the executive team to deliver growth in 
the short, medium and long term, and hope to receive your continued support at the 
Company’s 2014 AGM.
Manjit Wolstenholme
13 December 2013
Annual statement
The remuneration philosophy is based on the need to 
motivate and incentivise the executive Directors, whilst 
aligning their interests with those of the shareholders.
Quick find contents
Implementation report
Page 42  
Remuneration policy 
report 
Page 48 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Remuneration Committee
Four independent non-executive Directors 
served on the Remuneration Committee during 
the year to 30 September 2013: Manjit 
Wolstenholme chairs the Committee and Peter 
Allen, Seb Bishop and Mark Whiteling served 
throughout the period. Graham Harding, Chief 
Financial Officer and Company Secretary,  
has been Secretary to the Committee since  
25 January 2013 following the resignation of  
Mark Millar, who was Company Secretary and 
Secretary to the Committee from September 
2002. On 1 October 2013, it was announced that 
Graham Harding would be leaving the Company 
on 30 November 2013 and would be replaced by 
Zillah Byng-Maddick, who would become the 
new Chief Financial Officer as well as Secretary 
to the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for determining 
the basic annual salaries, incentive 
arrangements and terms of employment  
of executive Directors, for making 
recommendations regarding non-executive 
Directors’ fees, the level and make-up of the 
remuneration packages of senior managers, 
including bonus schemes and share-based 
incentives, and ensuring that remuneration 
policies and practices do not encourage 
excessive risk-taking. The Committee is  
also responsible for fixing the Chairman’s 
remuneration and approving the terms of any 
new share-based incentive scheme for any 
employees of the Group, subject, where 
appropriate, to shareholder approval. 
It is the Board that is responsible for 
determining the remuneration of non-executive 
Directors following the recommendation of the 
Committee as set out on page 43.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her 
own remuneration. As explained on page 36, 
the terms of reference of the Remuneration 
Committee, reviewed annually, are available  
on the Company’s website.
Performance-related bonus  
(Annual Bonus Scheme)
Operation of the scheme
The performance-related bonus is subject to 
both profit related and subjective individual 
performance criteria, with 20% of the potential 
maximum performance-related bonus payable 
being subject to individual performance criteria 
determined by the Committee.
The potential maximum performance-related 
bonus payable to the executive Directors  
under the Annual Bonus Scheme during  
2013 was 100% of basic annual salary for 
the Chief Executive and 65% for the Chief 
Financial Officer. 
Payment of any performance-related bonus 
under the Annual Bonus Scheme is made in 
December, following announcement of the 
preliminary results and conclusion of the audit 
in respect of the preceding financial year. 
Payment of any performance-related bonus 
is also subject to the executive Director being 
in the Company’s employment at the time of 
payment of such performance-related bonus 
and not having given or received notice of 
termination of employment and certain other 
events not having occurred.
Performance targets
The profit criteria for payment of the 
performance-related bonus for 2013 was  
in a range from 90% to 115% target EBITE,  
as follows:
::  If EBITE is 10% below target EBITE,  
no discretionary bonus will be payable. 
Single Total Figure of Remuneration (audited)
The remuneration of the Directors is set out below: 
Salary/fees Benefits
1
Annual bonus
3
PSP
3, 4, 5
Pension
2
Total
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
2013
£’000
2012
£’000
2013 
£’000
2012 
£’000
Mark Wood 285 258 10 10 - 130 - - 36 32 331 430
Graham Harding 185 169  7  6 -  55 - - 23 19 215 249
Total for executive Directors 470 427 17 16 - 185 - - 59 51 546 679
Peter Allen 120 112 - - - - - - - - 120 112
Manjit Wolstenholme 45 44 - - - - - - - - 45 44
Mark Whiteling 45 44 - - - - - - - - 45 44
Seb Bishop 40 39 - - - - - - - - 40 39 
Total for non-executive Directors 250 239  -  - - - - - - - 250 239
Total 720 666 17 16 - 185 - - 59 51 796 918
Notes:
1.  Benefits for executive Directors comprise principally car allowance, private health insurance and life assurance. There were no taxable expenses paid to any Director in the year.
2.  Mark Wood received a cash supplement in lieu of pension contribution. This additional cash payment is not included in determining his entitlement to any bonus, share-based incentive or pension entitlement.
3.  Details relating to the Annual Bonus Scheme and the Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) are set out on pages 42 and 43.
4.   The PSP award granted to Graham Harding in November 2009, when he occupied the role of Group Financial Controller, lapsed in November 2012 as a result of both EPS and TSR performance 
criteria not being satisfied. For more information, see explanation relating to PSP scheme on page 43.
5.   The PSP award granted to Graham Harding in December 2010, when he occupied the role of Group Financial Controller, will lapse in December 2013 since performance criteria have not been 
satisfied. For more information, see explanation relating to PSP scheme on page 43.
6.  Zillah Byng-Maddick was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2013 and consequently no remuneration is included in the table above.
Implementation report
The following report provides details of Directors’ remuneration 
for the year ended 30 September 2013. In setting remuneration 
for the year, the Committee applied the principles set out in the 
Remuneration policy report.
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance ::  If EBITE is between EBITE target and 10% 
below EBITE target, such amount as the 
Committee determines in its discretion 
will be payable. The Committee retained 
discretion to ensure that the level of bonus 
was merited by the individual.
::  If EBITE target is achieved, 40% of basic 
annual salary will be payable to the Chief 
Executive and 26% of basic annual salary 
will be payable to the Chief Financial Officer.  
::  If EBITE target is exceeded by up to 
15%, such amount as the Remuneration 
Committee determines in its discretion in 
excess of 40% and 26% of basic annual 
salary respectively will be payable.
::  If EBITE target is exceeded by 15% or 
more, the maximum profit related element 
of the bonus equal to 80% of basic annual 
salary for the Chief Executive and 52% of 
basic annual salary for the Chief Financial 
Officer will be payable.  
The EBITE target is not disclosed as this 
is believed to be a commercially sensitive 
number but it is set by the Committee to be 
challenging and is set by reference to the 
budget for the relevant financial year. In 2013, 
it was adjusted to take into account the impact 
on EBITE in the year of the sale of the UK Rock 
titles in April 2013. 
The individual performance criteria set by 
the Committee were designed to reward the 
successful implementation of specific elements 
of the Group’s financial and operational strategy.
Payment of any part of the individual 
performance-related bonus was subject to  
the 90% EBITE floor being achieved.
Actual performance against targets for 
the year
Since the actual EBITE achieved of £4.7m was 
below the 90% floor, no performance-related 
bonus is payable to either of the executive 
Directors in respect of the financial year to  
30 September 2013.
2005 Performance Share Plan (PSP) 
Operation of the scheme
The PSP has been in operation since 2005 
and is designed to reward performance over a 
three-year period in the context of performance 
targets which are designed to align the interests 
of the executive Directors with those of the 
shareholders. Those targets are set out in the 
next two columns. The maximum amount of an 
award in any financial year is normally 100% 
of basic annual salary. However, in exceptional 
circumstances, where it is felt necessary 
to provide further incentive to the executive 
Directors, awards of up to 200% of basic annual 
salary may be approved. Prior to January 2012 
awards were granted to executive Directors and 
key senior executive management, including 
Graham Harding in his role as Group Financial 
Controller. Since this date, awards have been 
made only to the two executive Directors.
Performance targets
Subject to the executive Directors remaining  
in employment at the vesting date, awards 
shall vest subject to the following criteria 
having been met.
::  Earnings Per Share (50% of award)
Growth in EPS over the three years of at 
least annual Retail Price Index (RPI) + 3% 
for this part of the award to vest (at this level 
the vested amount is zero), with full vesting at 
annual RPI + 8% and on a straight-line basis 
between these levels.
::  Total Shareholder Return (50% of award)
The Company’s TSR performance is 
compared against a basket of comparator 
companies comprising at all times a minimum 
of 15 companies.
If the Company’s TSR performance places 
it below median ranking, none of the part of 
the award dependent on TSR performance 
will vest. If the TSR performance places it in 
median ranking, 25% of this part of the award 
will vest through to 100% if the Company is 
ranked in the upper quintile, i.e. top 20%. 
Between median and upper quintile, this part 
of the award will vest on a pro rata straight-
line basis.
In respect of the TSR performance for  
awards granted up to 20 December 2010,  
the Company’s TSR performance was 
measured against the following basket  
of comparator companies:
Bloomsbury Publishing
Centaur Media
Chime Communications
Euromoney Institutional Investor
Haynes Publishing
HIBU
Informa
ITE Group
ITV
Johnston Press
Mecom Group
Pearson Group
Reed Elsevier
STV Group
Trinity Mirror
Wilmington Group
WPP Group
The list of comparator companies in relation 
to all PSP awards granted from 21 December 
2010 onwards is as follows:
Bloomsbury Publishing
Centaur Media
Chime Communications
Ebiquity
Haynes Publishing
HIBU
Huntsworth
Johnston Press
M&C Saatchi
Mecom Group
Motivcom
Progressive Digital Media
Quarto Group
STV Group
Ten Alps
Trinity Mirror
Wilmington Group
YouGov
Performance against targets in respect of 
the 27 November 2009 award
The movement in EPS for the relevant 
measurement period was -39%, and TSR 
performance placed the Company 15th within 
the group of 18 comparator companies. 
Consequently, the PSP award granted to 
Graham Harding in November 2009 lapsed in 
its entirety on 27 November 2012.
Performance against targets in respect of 
the 21 December 2010 award
The Committee exercised its discretion to 
waive the requirement for Graham Harding 
to remain employed within the Group at 
the vesting date and to allow the award 
to vest in December 2013, subject to the 
relevant performance criteria having been 
met. The movement in EPS for the relevant 
measurement period was -67% and TSR 
performance placed the Company 16th within 
the group of 19 comparator companies. 
Consequently, the PSP award granted to 
Graham Harding in December 2010 shall 
lapse in its entirety on 21 December 2013.
Non-executive Directors’ remuneration
Non-executive Directors do not participate 
in any of the Company’s share incentive 
arrangements, nor do they receive any 
benefits. Their fees are reviewed every three 
years. The Chairman’s fees are set by the 
Committee, and those for the non-executive 
Directors are set by the Board as a whole.
Directors’ 
remuneration 
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2013
43 Future plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Pension entitlements (audited)
The only element of remuneration that is 
pensionable is basic annual salary, excluding 
performance related bonuses and benefits in 
kind. Employer’s pension contributions are 
payable for the executive Directors at a rate 
of 12.5%. Mark Wood receives his entitlement 
to employer’s pension contributions in cash 
as a salary supplement. This additional cash 
payment is not included in determining his 
entitlement to any performance-related bonus, 
share based incentive or pension.
The liability of the Company in respect of the 
executive Directors’ pensions amounts to £1,927 
as at 30 September 2013. Normal retirement age 
under the scheme rules is 75. 
Payments to past Directors (audited)
No payments were made to any past 
Directors during the financial year ended  
30 September 2013.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
During the financial year to 30 September 2013, 
no payments were made to any Director who 
served during the year ended 30 September 
2013 or any previous financial year in respect  
of loss of office.
Graham Harding left the Company on  
30 November 2013 having served two months 
of his contractual notice period. In lieu of the 
remaining ten months’ notice, he will receive a 
lump sum payment of £123,933 in December 
2013 and a further £30,983 on 31 July 2014  
save that, where he has found alternative 
employment by 31 July 2014, any amount that 
he is due to earn in August and September 
2014 shall be deducted from the amount 
payable on 31 July 2014. In addition, the 
Company shall pay a pension contribution in 
the amount of £15,417 into the Company’s 
group personal pension plan on his behalf in 
December 2013, and a further contribution of 
£3,854 on 31 July 2014, save that such 
amount will be reduced by any amount due to 
be paid into any future employer’s pension 
plan during August and September 2014. In 
addition to the above, he will receive a further 
ex gratia amount of £34,838 in December 
2013 as compensation for employment claims 
arising on termination and certain benefits 
including private health insurance up until  
30 September 2014.
Statement of Directors’ shareholding 
and share interests (audited)
The Company has a policy on share ownership 
by executive Directors which requires that any 
such Director should accumulate a holding in 
shares over a five year period from appointment 
where the acquisition cost of those shares 
represents at least one times salary. In respect 
of Mark Wood and Graham Harding, no shares 
were purchased between 27 October 2011 and 
30 September 2013, however Graham Harding 
has a holding of 330,110 shares which was 
accumulated prior to his appointment. The 
relevant five year period ends on 26 November 
2016. In respect of Zillah Byng-Maddick, the 
period commenced on 1 November 2013 and 
will end on 31 October 2018.
Details of Directors’ shareholdings are set  
out on page 32 of the Directors’ report.
Share incentives awarded during the year (audited) 
PSP Grant: 17 December 2012 
% salary Value (£)
% vesting at 
min performance
No. shares 
awarded
Performance 
period
Mark Wood 100% £285,000 12.5% 1,583,333 1 Oct 2012 – 
30 Sept 2015
Graham Harding 100% £185,000 12.5% 1,027,778 1 Oct 2012 – 
30 Sept 2015
Notes:
1. The value of the PSP award is calculated using the share price at the date of grant, which was 18p per share.
2. The PSP awards are exercisable at nil value.
3.    The performance conditions attached to the grant of the above awards are the same as set out on page 43.
4. The percentage vesting at minimum performance represents the 25% vesting of the TSR element of the award.
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors’ 
remuneration 
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2013
45 Future plc
Directors’ interests in share schemes (audited) 
Details of options and other share incentives held by executive Directors and movements during the year are set out below, including details of the 
awards made during the year. 
Directors in office at  
30 September 2013 Date of grant
Price 
paid 
for 
grant
Earliest  
exercise date
Expiry  
date
Exercise 
price per 
share 
(p)
Balance at 
1 Oct 
2012
Granted 
during the
year
4
Lapsed  
unexercised 
during  
the year
Balance at  
30 Sept 
2013
PSP
1
Mark Wood 18 Jan 2012 Nil 18 Jan 2015 N/A Nil 3,500,000 - - 3,500,000
17 Dec 2012
4
Nil 17 Dec 2015 N/A Nil - 1,583,333 - 1,583,333
Graham Harding
5
27 Nov 2009 Nil 27 Nov 2012 N/A Nil 269,065 - (269,065) -
21 Dec 2010 Nil 21 Dec 2013 N/A Nil 224,221 - - 224,221
18 Jan 2012 Nil 18 Jan 2015 N/A Nil 2,000,000 - (555,556) 1,444,444
17 Dec 2012
4
Nil 17 Dec 2015 N/A Nil - 1,027,778 (1,027,778) -
Sharesave
2
Mark Wood 20 Dec 2010 Nil 1 Feb 2014 1 Aug 2014 16.5 54,545 - - 54,545
Graham Harding 20 Dec 2012 Nil 1 Feb 2016 1 Aug 2016 14.0 - 64,285 - 64,285
DABS
3
Graham Harding
5
21 Dec 2010 Nil 21 Dec 2013 N/A Nil 62,500 - - 62,500
As noted on page 32, Graham Harding’s beneficial interests in the shares of the Company were 333,110 at 30 September 2013 (333,110 at 30 September 
2012). Mark Wood held no beneficial interest in the shares of the Company on these dates.
Notes:
1. The performance criteria which apply to awards under the PSP scheme are set out on page 43. 
2. Details of the Sharesave scheme, which has no performance conditions, are set out in note 25 on page 85. 
3.  Graham Harding is not eligible to receive awards under the DABS as an executive Director of the Company, but retains the benefit of awards made prior to his appointment as an executive Director 
on 27 October 2011. The DABS has been in operation since January 2005 and applies to Group senior managers below executive Director level. The maximum value of any award granted under the 
DABS to any participant is an amount which is equal to a fixed percentage of the participant’s annual cash bonus received or receivable in respect of the previous financial year. The number of shares 
awarded is calculated by reference to the market value of a share in the Company on the date of the award. Shares awarded will vest three years from the date of grant of the award, subject only to the 
participant remaining employed within the Group at the vesting date.
4. The market price at the time of grant of the PSP awards on 17 December 2012 was 18p.
5.  Graham Harding left the Company on 30 November 2013. The PSP Award granted on 17 December 2012 over 1,027,778 shares lapsed in full on 30 September 2013. The Committee exercised its 
discretion to waive the requirement for Graham Harding to be in employment on the vesting date of the DABS Award, and allow the DABS Award granted over 62,500 shares to vest as normal on  
21 December 2013. The Committee further exercised its discretion to allow a portion of the PSP Award granted on 18 January 2012 to vest as normal on 18 January 2015 on a pro rata basis (subject 
to the relevant performance criteria being met), therefore 555,556 options lapsed on 30 September 2013 and 1,444,444 options will vest as normal on 18 January 2015 subject to performance criteria 
having been met.
Company performance
The performance graph opposite shows the TSR on a holding of shares in the Company compared with the FTSE All Share Media Index (UK companies).
The following is a list of the companies currently included in the FTSE All Share Media Index (UK companies): 
British Sky BCast Group
Centaur Media
Chime Comms
Entertainment One (DI)
Euromoney Instl. Investor
Huntsworth
Informa
ITE Group
ITV
Johnston Press
Moneysupermarket.com GP
Pearson
Perform Group
Reed Elsevier
Rightmove
Tarsus Group
Trinity Mirror
UBM
UTV Media
Wilmington Group
WPP
4Imprint Group 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chief Executive pay during last five years
Year
Chief Executive
 single figure 
£’000
Bonus paid as %
of maximum
Share based incentives
 vesting as % of maximum
2009 (Stevie Spring) £423 0% 100%
1
2010 (Stevie Spring) £746 40% 48%
2
2011 (Stevie Spring) £546 0% 100%
3
2012 (Mark Wood) £430 50% 0%
4
2013 (Mark Wood) £331 0% 0%
4
Notes:
1. This represents shares which were granted as part of an exceptional one-off award intended to aid recruitment and retention. The award was not subject to performance criteria.
2.  This represents the first tranche of a deferred bonus share award which was not subject to performance criteria and the PSP award granted in December 2006 which partially vested in December 2009 
following the partial satisfaction of TSR performance criteria.
3. This represents the second tranche of a deferred bonus share award which was not subject to performance criteria. The PSP award granted in December 2007 lapsed in December 2010.
4. The first awards granted to Mark Wood under the PSP were granted in January 2012 and will not vest until January 2015, subject to performance criteria being met.
Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive
 Salary Benefits (inc pension) Bonus
 2013 2012 % change 2013 2012 % change 2013 2012 % change
Mark Wood £285,000 £260,000 +9.6% £46,000 £42,000 +9.5% £0 £130,000 -100.0%
All employees £35,418 £34,896 +1.5% £3,454 £3,501 -1.3% £144 £545 -73.6%
Future (rebased to 100) FTSE All-Share Media Index (UK companies) (rebased to 100)
Graph: Past five financial years ended 30 September 2013
Total Shareholder Return: Rebased to Future plc as of 1 October 2008
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
50
100
150
200
250
300
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors’ 
remuneration 
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2013
47 Future plc
Relative importance of spend on pay
The relative importance of the spend on pay for the business is shown in the table below.
2013
£m
2012
£m
Group pay 45.5 47.4
Group operating costs excluding Group pay & exceptional costs 62.1 69.3
Capital expenditure 2.9 2.5
Dividends 0.0 1.6
The table shows the actual expenditure of the Group, and change between the current and previous years, on remuneration paid to all employees 
compared to the total operating costs for the Group excluding exceptional costs and remuneration, and investment in capital expenditure and dividends.
Shareholder voting
At the last Annual General Meeting, votes on the Directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 30 September 2012 were cast as follows:
For % Discretionary % Against % Abstain %
Approval of Directors’ remuneration 
report for 2012
277,694,590 99.89 273,367 0.10 21,018 0.01 500 0.00
Implementation of remuneration policy in the year to 30 September 2014 
The Remuneration Committee proposes the following changes to the remuneration policy for 2014, as outlined in the Remuneration policy report on 
pages 48 to 51, subject to shareholder approval at the Company’s AGM on 3 February 2014.
Element Operation of element Max. potential value
Performance,  
weighting & time
Base salary No change No change
1,2
No change
Benefits No change No change No change
Annual Bonus No change No change
3
The Committee approved an increase in the stretch of the range of profit- 
related targets, from 90% to 115% of EBITE to a range of 85% to 115% 
of EBITE. The weighting of profit-related targets to individual subjective 
performance targets remains unchanged.
PSP No change No change No change
Pension No change No change No change
Notes:
1.  Pay reviews take place annually and any increase takes effect from 1 October. The Company has postponed pay reviews across the Group, including for executive Directors. To the extent that the 
Company implements a pay rise during the year for all employees, the executive Directors’ salaries shall be increased with effect from the same date as any increase for all employees and such 
increase shall be limited to the average percentage increase awarded to all employees.
2.  A new Chief Financial Officer has been appointed with effect from 18 November 2013. While the basic annual salary and potential maximum bonus of Zillah Byng-Maddick on a full-time equivalent 
basis are higher than that of Graham Harding, they remain in line with the remuneration policy. 
3.   Performance targets for the Annual Bonus for 2014 are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity. In the event that there is an increase in the executive Directors’ base salaries during the year, 
the potential maximum value of the Annual Bonus and pension shall increase accordingly.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
New Bridge Street Consultants have been independent advisers to the Committee since the Committee appointed it in 2002. They provide no other 
services to the Company or its Directors. No formal advice was sought during the year.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board has complied fully with the provisions of Section D of the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to Directors’ remuneration policy 
and practice, and has followed Schedule A to the Code in relation to performance-related remuneration policy. Further information regarding the 
Company’s compliance with the provisions of the Code is set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 35 to 40.  48 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The policy set out below is intended to apply for all financial 
years beginning on or after 1 October 2013 to 30 September 
2016, subject to shareholder approval at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting to be held on 3 February 2014 and shall take 
effect following conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Remuneration policy report
To aid understanding of this policy, we  
have included detailed explanations of how  
our forward-looking policy differs from the  
policy in operation in the financial year to  
30 September 2013.
The policy, if adopted, will be displayed  
on the Company’s website, in the area 
reserved for investors, immediately after  
the 2014 AGM.
The Committee considers the remuneration 
policy annually to ensure that it remains 
aligned with the Group’s business needs 
and is appropriately positioned relative to 
the market. However, there is no intention 
to put the policy forward to shareholders for 
approval more frequently than every three 
years unless an amendment is proposed.
Approach to recruitment  
remuneration for executive and  
non-executive Directors
The Committee’s objective at the time of 
an appointment to a new role is to weight 
executive Directors’ remuneration packages 
towards performance-related pay, with 
performance-related targets linked to financial 
performance of the Group against budget and 
the Group’s performance against business 
objectives and its stated strategy. 
Any new executive Director’s remuneration 
package would include the same elements as 
those of the existing executive Directors, as 
shown in next column.
Element of remuneration Maximum % of salary
Salary
Not higher than 
market value
Benefits
Dependent on 
circumstances
Pension
12.5% of basic 
annual salary
Performance-  
related bonus
2
100%
Share incentive  
schemes
1
100% 
Notes:
1.    PSP scheme rules provide for awards of up to 100% of 
basic annual salary, save in exceptional circumstances 
where the Committee is allowed discretion to award up to 
200% of basic annual salary. 
2.   The Committee retains discretion to make one-off sign 
on payments or to grant awards under the share-based 
incentive scheme of up to 200% of basic annual salary to the 
extent that it is necessary to recruit a high calibre individual, 
or to compensate the individual for loss of bonus or other 
incentive awards granted by the previous employer.
3.   In the event of an internal promotion, any commitments made 
by the Company to an internal candidate shall be honoured 
even if it would otherwise be inconsistent with the policy.
In determining the level and make-up of executive 
Directors’ remuneration, the Committee carefully 
considers the following issues:
(a)  Remuneration packages offered to executive 
Directors should be competitive with those 
available for comparable roles in companies 
operating in similar markets and on a similar 
scale. They should be sufficiently desirable 
so as to attract, retain and motivate high 
calibre Directors to perform at the highest 
levels, whilst at the same time ensuring that 
recruitment and remuneration expenditure 
is not excessive and does not encourage 
excessive risk-taking. 
(b)  The interests of executive Directors  
should be aligned with those of 
shareholders by ensuring that a significant 
proportion of remuneration is linked to 
Group performance.
(c)  Remuneration packages and employment 
conditions of executive Directors are 
considered in conjunction with both those of 
key senior managers (keeping succession 
planning in mind) and all employees in 
the Group in order to achieve a consistent 
remuneration policy across the Group. 
(d)   Bonus potential and share scheme awards 
that are capped at a percentage of salary 
are restricted if salaries are low.
(e)  Subjective criteria are applied to an 
element of the performance-related bonus 
of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer (with a financial underpin) in order 
to ensure that the Committee retains 
discretion and to ensure no performance- 
related bonus is unjustly received.  
When determining the level of non-executive 
Directors’ fees, the Board considers that the 
fees offered should be competitive with those 
available for non-executive Directors operating 
in similar markets on a similar scale, and 
should be sufficiently desirable to attract and 
retain high calibre individuals.
Service contracts and payments for loss of office 
Executive Directors 
Contract provision Policy Details
Notice periods Director or Company shall be entitled to serve  
6 months’ notice (in Zillah Byng-Maddick’s case)  
or 12 months’ notice (in Mark Wood’s case).
A Director may be required to work during their 
notice period or be put on garden leave.
Compensation for loss of office Director shall be entitled to receive 6 months’  
(in Zillah Byng-Maddick’s case) or 12 months’  
(in Mark Wood’s case) salary and benefits during 
any unexpired notice period.
While service agreements allow for monthly 
payments during notice period which are subject 
to mitigation, the Committee retains discretion to 
make payments in such manner as is deemed 
appropriate particularly by reference to the 
circumstances of the loss of office.
Treatment of share incentives
on termination
Incentives will lapse or vest at the Committee’s 
discretion, subject to performance criteria being 
met and the rules of the scheme .
The Committee has discretion to allow awards 
to vest partially or in full on termination, or to 
preserve awards until normal vesting date.
Change of control In the event of a change of control, a Director  
may terminate their appointment on serving no 
less than 1 month’s notice.
In the event of termination by either the 
Director or the Company, the Director will be 
entitled to receive 6 or 12 months’ salary, in 
line with the contractual notice period.
Non-executive Directors
Notice periods 3 months’ notice from either Company
or Director.
Appointed for a 3 year term, subject to annual  
re-election by shareholders at AGM.
Copies of Directors’ service agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection on request at the Company’s registered office.
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance Remuneration table
Executive Directors 
Element Operation Objective & link to strategy Max. potential value Performance measures Changes for 2014
Basic annual salary Basic annual salary is paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year and is reviewed annually,  
with any change taking effect from 1 October. When assessing the level of basic annual salary, the 
Committee takes into account performance, market conditions, remuneration of equivalent roles within 
comparable companies, the size and scale of the business and pay in the Group as a whole. 
To recruit, retain and motivate individuals of high calibre,  
and reflect the skills, experience and contribution of the 
relevant Director.
Current basic annual salary of Chief Executive is £285,000 and  
Chief Financial Officer is £160,000 (£228,600 on a full-time equivalent 
basis). Salary increases shall generally reflect market conditions, 
performance of the individual, new challenges or a new strategic 
direction for the business. Similarly, the Committee may approve a 
higher basic annual salary for a newly appointed Director than the 
outgoing Director received where it considers it necessary in order  
to recruit an individual of sufficient calibre for the role.
Not applicable. On 1 November 2013, Zillah Byng-Maddick 
was appointed to the Board of Future plc and 
took over the role of Chief Financial Officer on 
18 November 2013. Her basic annual salary of 
£160,000 and maximum bonus potential are 
higher than that of the previous Chief Financial 
Officer on a full-time equivalent basis.  
The annual pay review due to take place on  
1 October 2013 was postponed. In the event  
that a pay increase is awarded during the  
year, the maximum increase will be in line  
with the average staff increase and will take  
effect at the same time as any such staff  
salary increase.
Benefits Current benefits available to executive Directors are car allowance, permanent health insurance, 
healthcare and life assurance. Additional benefits may be offered if applicable and subject to the 
maximum value of all benefits not exceeding the maximum potential value set by the Committee.
To ensure broad competitiveness with market practice. The Company shall continue to provide benefits to executive 
Directors at similar levels; where insurance cover is provided by the 
Company, that cover shall be maintained at a similar level and the 
Company shall pay the then current market rates for such cover.
Not applicable. No change.
Pension The Company shall make a contribution up to a maximum percentage of basic annual  
salary (currently 12.5%).
To ensure broad competitiveness with market practice. Total cost annually shall not exceed 15% of basic annual salary. Not applicable. No change.
Performance- 
related bonus
1
Targets are set annually by the Committee, based on (i) financial performance against budget and  
(ii) individual subjective performance targets which are determined for each executive Director.  
The Committee retains discretion to set the financial targets based on the performance during the 
previous financial year and the budget for the forthcoming year, and performance of the individual 
against their specific subjective performance targets.
Designed to reward delivery of shareholder value and 
implementation of the Group’s strategy.
Chief Executive: 100% of basic annual salary (of which  
80% is linked to profit targets and 20% is linked to individual  
subjective criteria).
Chief Financial Officer: 80% of basic annual salary (of which  
80% is linked to profit targets and 20% is linked to individual 
subjective criteria).
The Committee retains discretion to vary the potential total 
maximum bonus, the weighting of the variable elements and the 
stretch of the targets in order to incentivise or recruit executive 
Directors, provided that the total maximum potential bonus for any 
one year shall not exceed 150% of basic annual salary and that 
maximum bonus shall only be payable for over performance.
Profit element:
If EBITE is more than 15% below target EBITE, no profit-related bonus will be payable.
If EBITE is 15% below target EBITE, 10% of the potential maximum of the profit-related 
bonus will be payable in the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute 
discretion, that such payment is merited by the individual.
If EBITE is 10% below target EBITE, 20% of the potential maximum of the profit-related 
bonus will be payable in the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute 
discretion, that such payment is merited by the individual.
If EBITE is 5% below target EBITE, 30% of the potential maximum of the profit-related 
bonus will be payable in the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute 
discretion, that such payment is merited by the individual.
If EBITE target is achieved, 50% of the potential maximum of the profit-related bonus 
will be payable.
If EBITE target is exceeded by 5%, 65% of the potential maximum of the profit-related 
bonus will be payable in the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute 
discretion, that such payment is merited by the individual.
If EBITE target is exceeded by 10%, 85% of the potential maximum of the profit-related 
bonus will be payable in the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute 
discretion, that such payment is merited by the individual.
If EBITE target is exceeded by 15% or more, 100% of the potential maximum of the 
profit-related bonus will be payable.
If EBITE falls in between any of the above levels, a percentage of the potential maximum 
profit-related bonus will be payable, on a pro rata basis to the levels expressed above, in 
the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute discretion, that such payment is 
merited by the individual.
Subjective element:
Chief Executive: bonus of up to 20% of basic annual salary (i.e. 20% of maximum 
potential bonus) is determined by subjective criteria.
Chief Financial Officer: bonus of up to 16% of basic annual salary (i.e. 20% of 
maximum potential bonus) is determined by subjective criteria.
The stretch of the range of the profit-related 
targets has been changed from 90% to 115% 
of target EBITE to 85% to 115% of target 
EBITE and the levels at which a certain fixed 
percentage of the potential maximum of the 
profit-related bonus may be payable at the 
discretion of the Committee have been  
clearly defined. 
Long term 
share-based 
incentive
Annual awards to executive Directors of up to a maximum of 1x basic annual salary, with discretion 
to award up to a maximum of 2x basic annual salary in exceptional circumstances, e.g. recruitment 
of a Director to “buy out” awards granted by prior employer. The scheme rules allow the Committee 
discretion to change the performance targets and the Committee shall be entitled to exercise its 
discretion to change performance criteria to the extent that it reflects market practice and/or the 
Committee considers alternative performance targets to be more appropriate to the business.
Designed to reward delivery of shareholder value in the 
medium-to-long term.
Value of grant as a maximum percentage of salary is 100% of basic 
annual salary, however in exceptional circumstances the Committee 
retains discretion to grant awards of a value up to 200% of basic 
annual salary.
Awards vest at the end of three-year performance period. 50% of award vests based on 
EPS performance and 50% vests based on TSR performance.
EPS: Growth in EPS over three years must exceed annual RPI + 3% for the award to 
vest, with full vesting at RPI + 8% and on a straight-line basis between these levels.
TSR: Against comparator group comprising a minimum of 15 companies at all times, 
if TSR performance places it above median ranking 25% will vest through to 100% if 
placed in the upper quintile. Between median and upper quintile, the award vests on a 
pro rata straight-line basis.
The Committee retains the discretion to set such performance criteria as are deemed 
appropriate to the Company at the time an award is made.
No change.
Non-executive Directors 
Element Operation Objective & link to strategy Max. potential value Performance measures Changes for 2014
Fees
1
Non-executive Directors’ fees are reviewed every three years and paid in 12 monthly instalments. Current 
fees were set in 2011.
Reflects the time commitment and responsibilities  
of the roles.
Chairman: £120,000
Other non-executive Directors: £40,000
Additional fees payable:
Chairman of Committee: £5,000
Senior independent Director: £5,000
Member of Committee: Nil
Not applicable No change to fees  
for 2014 compared  
to 2013
Notes to the table
1.  Fees are paid at a standard annual rate to reflect the time, commitment and responsibilities of the roles, with additional fees paid to those who chair Board Committees to reflect their additional 
responsibilities. Separately, the Board sets the fee payable to the Chairman of the Board. Additional fees apply only once, regardless of the number of Committees of which a non-executive Director is 
a member or a Chairman. Non-executive Directors are not included in any performance-related bonus, share incentive schemes or pension arrangements. 
Directors’ 
remuneration 
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2013
49 Future plc
Notes to the table
1.  Performance-related bonus targets: The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee and are designed to align executive Directors’ interests with those of the Company’s 
shareholders and to reward good performance by the Company. Financial targets are set by reference to the Company’s budget for the relevant financial year, and individual performance targets are 
set by reference to the Company’s strategy and goals for the relevant financial year. The targets for the financial year to 30 September 2014 are not disclosed here due to their commercial sensitivity. 
2.  PSP performance targets: additional details of the performance criteria attaching to PSP grants are set out on page 43. Remuneration table
Executive Directors 
Element Operation Objective & link to strategy Max. potential value Performance measures Changes for 2014
Basic annual salary Basic annual salary is paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year and is reviewed annually,  
with any change taking effect from 1 October. When assessing the level of basic annual salary, the 
Committee takes into account performance, market conditions, remuneration of equivalent roles within 
comparable companies, the size and scale of the business and pay in the Group as a whole. 
To recruit, retain and motivate individuals of high calibre,  
and reflect the skills, experience and contribution of the 
relevant Director.
Current basic annual salary of Chief Executive is £285,000 and  
Chief Financial Officer is £160,000 (£228,600 on a full-time equivalent 
basis). Salary increases shall generally reflect market conditions, 
performance of the individual, new challenges or a new strategic 
direction for the business. Similarly, the Committee may approve a 
higher basic annual salary for a newly appointed Director than the 
outgoing Director received where it considers it necessary in order  
to recruit an individual of sufficient calibre for the role.
Not applicable. On 1 November 2013, Zillah Byng-Maddick 
was appointed to the Board of Future plc and 
took over the role of Chief Financial Officer on 
18 November 2013. Her basic annual salary of 
£160,000 and maximum bonus potential are 
higher than that of the previous Chief Financial 
Officer on a full-time equivalent basis.  
The annual pay review due to take place on  
1 October 2013 was postponed. In the event  
that a pay increase is awarded during the  
year, the maximum increase will be in line  
with the average staff increase and will take  
effect at the same time as any such staff  
salary increase.
Benefits Current benefits available to executive Directors are car allowance, permanent health insurance, 
healthcare and life assurance. Additional benefits may be offered if applicable and subject to the 
maximum value of all benefits not exceeding the maximum potential value set by the Committee.
To ensure broad competitiveness with market practice. The Company shall continue to provide benefits to executive 
Directors at similar levels; where insurance cover is provided by the 
Company, that cover shall be maintained at a similar level and the 
Company shall pay the then current market rates for such cover.
Not applicable. No change.
Pension The Company shall make a contribution up to a maximum percentage of basic annual  
salary (currently 12.5%).
To ensure broad competitiveness with market practice. Total cost annually shall not exceed 15% of basic annual salary. Not applicable. No change.
Performance- 
related bonus
1
Targets are set annually by the Committee, based on (i) financial performance against budget and  
(ii) individual subjective performance targets which are determined for each executive Director.  
The Committee retains discretion to set the financial targets based on the performance during the 
previous financial year and the budget for the forthcoming year, and performance of the individual 
against their specific subjective performance targets.
Designed to reward delivery of shareholder value and 
implementation of the Group’s strategy.
Chief Executive: 100% of basic annual salary (of which  
80% is linked to profit targets and 20% is linked to individual  
subjective criteria).
Chief Financial Officer: 80% of basic annual salary (of which  
80% is linked to profit targets and 20% is linked to individual 
subjective criteria).
The Committee retains discretion to vary the potential total 
maximum bonus, the weighting of the variable elements and the 
stretch of the targets in order to incentivise or recruit executive 
Directors, provided that the total maximum potential bonus for any 
one year shall not exceed 150% of basic annual salary and that 
maximum bonus shall only be payable for over performance.
Profit element:
If EBITE is more than 15% below target EBITE, no profit-related bonus will be payable.
If EBITE is 15% below target EBITE, 10% of the potential maximum of the profit-related 
bonus will be payable in the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute 
discretion, that such payment is merited by the individual.
If EBITE is 10% below target EBITE, 20% of the potential maximum of the profit-related 
bonus will be payable in the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute 
discretion, that such payment is merited by the individual.
If EBITE is 5% below target EBITE, 30% of the potential maximum of the profit-related 
bonus will be payable in the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute 
discretion, that such payment is merited by the individual.
If EBITE target is achieved, 50% of the potential maximum of the profit-related bonus 
will be payable.
If EBITE target is exceeded by 5%, 65% of the potential maximum of the profit-related 
bonus will be payable in the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute 
discretion, that such payment is merited by the individual.
If EBITE target is exceeded by 10%, 85% of the potential maximum of the profit-related 
bonus will be payable in the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute 
discretion, that such payment is merited by the individual.
If EBITE target is exceeded by 15% or more, 100% of the potential maximum of the 
profit-related bonus will be payable.
If EBITE falls in between any of the above levels, a percentage of the potential maximum 
profit-related bonus will be payable, on a pro rata basis to the levels expressed above, in 
the event that the Committee determines, in its absolute discretion, that such payment is 
merited by the individual.
Subjective element:
Chief Executive: bonus of up to 20% of basic annual salary (i.e. 20% of maximum 
potential bonus) is determined by subjective criteria.
Chief Financial Officer: bonus of up to 16% of basic annual salary (i.e. 20% of 
maximum potential bonus) is determined by subjective criteria.
The stretch of the range of the profit-related 
targets has been changed from 90% to 115% 
of target EBITE to 85% to 115% of target 
EBITE and the levels at which a certain fixed 
percentage of the potential maximum of the 
profit-related bonus may be payable at the 
discretion of the Committee have been  
clearly defined. 
Long term 
share-based 
incentive
Annual awards to executive Directors of up to a maximum of 1x basic annual salary, with discretion 
to award up to a maximum of 2x basic annual salary in exceptional circumstances, e.g. recruitment 
of a Director to “buy out” awards granted by prior employer. The scheme rules allow the Committee 
discretion to change the performance targets and the Committee shall be entitled to exercise its 
discretion to change performance criteria to the extent that it reflects market practice and/or the 
Committee considers alternative performance targets to be more appropriate to the business.
Designed to reward delivery of shareholder value in the 
medium-to-long term.
Value of grant as a maximum percentage of salary is 100% of basic 
annual salary, however in exceptional circumstances the Committee 
retains discretion to grant awards of a value up to 200% of basic 
annual salary.
Awards vest at the end of three-year performance period. 50% of award vests based on 
EPS performance and 50% vests based on TSR performance.
EPS: Growth in EPS over three years must exceed annual RPI + 3% for the award to 
vest, with full vesting at RPI + 8% and on a straight-line basis between these levels.
TSR: Against comparator group comprising a minimum of 15 companies at all times, 
if TSR performance places it above median ranking 25% will vest through to 100% if 
placed in the upper quintile. Between median and upper quintile, the award vests on a 
pro rata straight-line basis.
The Committee retains the discretion to set such performance criteria as are deemed 
appropriate to the Company at the time an award is made.
No change.
Non-executive Directors 
Element Operation Objective & link to strategy Max. potential value Performance measures Changes for 2014
Fees
1
Non-executive Directors’ fees are reviewed every three years and paid in 12 monthly instalments. Current 
fees were set in 2011.
Reflects the time commitment and responsibilities  
of the roles.
Chairman: £120,000
Other non-executive Directors: £40,000
Additional fees payable:
Chairman of Committee: £5,000
Senior independent Director: £5,000
Member of Committee: Nil
Not applicable No change to fees  
for 2014 compared  
to 2013
Notes to the table
1.  Fees are paid at a standard annual rate to reflect the time, commitment and responsibilities of the roles, with additional fees paid to those who chair Board Committees to reflect their additional 
responsibilities. Separately, the Board sets the fee payable to the Chairman of the Board. Additional fees apply only once, regardless of the number of Committees of which a non-executive Director is 
a member or a Chairman. Non-executive Directors are not included in any performance-related bonus, share incentive schemes or pension arrangements. 
50 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
3.  All employees of the Group receive a basic annual salary, benefits, pension and annual bonus (subject to financial performance). The maximum value of remuneration packages is based on the 
seniority and responsibilities of the relevant role. Discretionary share incentives are not awarded to employees other than executive Directors (PSP) and senior managers (DABS), however an 
approved Sharesave scheme operates for all permanent UK employees. 200
100
300
400
500
600
700
200
100
300
400
500
600
700
51 Future plc
Directors’ 
remuneration 
report
For the year ended 
30 September 2013
Total remuneration scenarios
Consideration of employee conditions 
within the Group
The Committee takes into consideration the 
pay and conditions of employees across the 
Group when determining remuneration for 
executive Directors.  
All employees receive a basic annual salary, 
benefits and an entitlement to receive a bonus, 
subject to financial performance, under the 
Group’s profit improvement scheme. 
Discretionary share incentive awards are 
granted to senior managers in all territories 
under the DABS scheme, the details of  
which are set out at note 25 on page 86.  
And all permanent UK employees are  
entitled to participate in the Company’s 
Sharesave scheme. 
Consideration of shareholder views
The remuneration policy remains largely 
unchanged from previous years and the 
Company has therefore not needed to 
consult with shareholders with regard to 
the remuneration policy. In the event of any 
significant change to remuneration policy, 
in particular the performance related bonus 
scheme and any long term incentive schemes, 
the Board will consult with major institutional 
shareholders in advance, and any changes 
to the remuneration policy will require 
shareholder approval.
The 2005 Performance Share Plan (“2005 
PSP”) which was adopted in January 2005, 
following extensive consultation with major 
shareholders relating to the scheme itself and 
the performance criteria, will expire in January 
2015. The Remuneration Committee considered 
during the year whether to replace the PSP with 
an alternative long term incentive scheme, but 
intends to renew the current scheme when it 
expires in January 2015. It is the Committee’s 
intention to review the performance criteria 
attaching to the 2005 PSP during the year as 
they have been unchanged since the 2005 PSP 
was adopted. In the event that the Committee 
wishes to exercise its discretion to make any 
significant changes to the performance criteria, 
the Board will consult with major institutional 
shareholders prior to proposing a resolution 
to shareholders at the Company’s AGM in 
February 2015 to adopt a new PSP scheme  
with effect from the same date.
The 2005 Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme 
(“2005 DABS”) which applies to Group senior 
managers below executive Director level and 
local country senior managers, was adopted in 
January 2005 and will also expire in January 
2015. The Committee considered during the 
year whether to replace the 2005 DABS with 
an alternative incentive scheme, but intends 
to renew the current scheme when it expires 
in January 2015. The Board therefore expects 
to propose a resolution to shareholders at the 
Company’s AGM in February 2015 to adopt a 
new DABS scheme, the provisions of which will 
remain unchanged from the 2005 DABS. 
Salary, pension 
& benefits
Bonus 
Notes:
1.  Zillah Byng-Maddick was appointed with effect from 1 November 2013. 
2.   Annual salary is based on basic salary for the financial year ending 30 September 2014. Salary increases take effect from  
1 October each year, however, for the financial year to 30 September 2014, the pay review has been postponed. To the extent 
that pay rises are implemented during the year for all staff, the salaries of executive Directors will be increased by the same 
percentage of basic annual salary. 
3.  The value of pension is determined as a percentage of salary, based on salary for 2014. The value of benefits in kind is calculated 
on the basis of the value for 2013. 
4.   On-target performance would deliver 60% of the maximum annual bonus for the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, 
assuming that individual performance targets are met and the maximum individual performance-related element of the bonus is 
awarded by the Committee. Maximum performance would result in the maximum annual bonus payment of 100% of basic annual 
salary for the Chief Executive and 80% of basic annual salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
5. No share options or other share incentives are due to vest in the financial year ending 30 September 2014.
Minimum Target Maximum
Mark Wood
54%
100%
66%
Minimum Target Maximum
Zillah Byng-Maddick
59%
71%
100%
34%
46%
29%
41%
£331,000
£502,000
£616,000
£186,000
£263,000
£314,000 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Independent auditors’ report to 
the members of Future plc
Our opinion
In our opinion:
•  The financial statements, defined below, give 
a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s 
and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 
30 September 2013 and of the Group’s profit 
and of the Group’s and Parent Company’s 
cash flows for the year then ended;
•  The Group financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
•  The Parent Company financial statements 
have been properly prepared in accordance 
with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•  The financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 
2006 and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what 
we say below.
What we have audited
The Group financial statements and parent 
company financial statements (the “financial 
statements”), which are prepared by Future 
plc, comprise:
•  the Consolidated and Company balance 
sheets as at 30 September 2013;
•  the Consolidated income statement and 
statement of comprehensive income for the 
year then ended;
•  the Consolidated and Company statements 
of changes in equity and statements of cash 
flows for the year then ended; and
•  the notes to the financial statements, which 
include a summary of significant accounting 
policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation comprises 
applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the Parent 
Company, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Certain disclosures required by the financial 
reporting framework have been presented 
elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts 
(the “Annual Report”), rather than in the notes 
to the financial statements. These are cross-
referenced from the financial statements  
and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements 
involves
We conducted our audit in accordance 
with International Standards on Auditing 
(UK & Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)). An 
audit involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of:
•  whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and Parent 
Company’s circumstances and have  
been consistently applied and  
adequately disclosed;
•  the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the Directors; and 
•  the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and  
non-financial information in the Annual Report 
to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify 
any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications 
for our report.
Overview of our audit approach
Materiality
We set certain thresholds for materiality. 
These helped us to determine the nature, 
timing and extent of our audit procedures  
and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, 
both individually and on the financial 
statements as a whole. 
Based on our professional judgement, we 
determined materiality for the Group financial 
statements as a whole to be £0.6m.
Materiality is based on 0.5% of revenue, 
because, in our view, this is the most relevant 
measure of underlying performance given the 
nature of the Group’s operations and its results.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we 
would report to them misstatements identified 
during our audit above £28,000 as well as 
misstatements below that amount that, in our 
view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit
The Group reports its results for its two 
geographical segments, being the UK 
(incorporating the Australian results) and the 
US. The Group financial statements are a 
consolidation of these three business operations 
and the Group’s centralised functions. 
In establishing the overall approach to the 
Group audit, we determined the amount and 
type of work that needed to be performed at 
each of the individual reporting units to be able 
to conclude whether sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence had been obtained as a 
basis for our opinion on the Group financial 
statements as a whole.
Accordingly, of the Group’s three business 
operations, we identified two that, in our view, 
required an audit of their complete financial 
information due to their size, together with the 
Group centralised functions. This, together 
with additional procedures performed at 
the Group level, gave us the evidence we 
needed for our opinion on the Group financial 
statements as a whole.
Areas of particular audit focus
In preparing the financial statements, the 
Directors made a number of subjective 
judgements, for example in respect of 
significant accounting estimates that involved 
making assumptions and considering future 
events that are inherently uncertain. We 
primarily focussed our work in these areas 
by assessing the Directors’ judgements 
against available evidence, forming our own 
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures  
in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined 
information, using sampling and other auditing 
techniques, to the extent we considered 
necessary to provide a reasonable basis for 
us to draw conclusions. We obtained audit 
evidence through testing the effectiveness 
of controls, substantive procedures or a 
combination of both. 
We considered the areas on page 53 to be 
those that required particular focus in the 
current year.  This is not a complete list of all 
risks or areas of focus identified by our audit. 
We discussed these areas of focus with the 
Audit Committee. Their report on those matters 
that they considered to be significant issues  
in relation to the financial statements is set  
out on page 39.
Report on the financial statements
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
Goodwill impairment assessment
We focussed on this area because the determination of whether or not an impairment 
charge for goodwill was necessary involved significant judgements by the directors 
about the future results of the UK business.
We needed to obtain evidence for the goodwill of £82.8m in this part of the business. 
(Refer also to note 12 to the financial statements.)
We evaluated the Directors’ future cash flow forecasts, including comparing them to 
the latest Board approved budgets, testing the underlying calculations and testing the 
accuracy of historic forecasts.  
We challenged:
•  The Directors’ key assumptions for long-term growth rates by comparing them 
to historical results and checking that they do not exceed the current IMF 
inflation forecast. 
•  The discount rate used by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and 
comparable organisations. 
We also performed sensitivity analysis around both the growth forecasts and discount 
rates. Having ascertained the extent of change in the growth and discount rates that 
would be required for the goodwill to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of 
such movement in those key assumptions arising.
Revenue recognition
ISAs (UK & Ireland) presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition. 
In addition, we focussed on this area because, as noted in the critical accounting 
judgements section on page 65, of the significant level of management judgement 
in the calculation of the returns provision, which directly affects the recognition of 
newsstand sales.
We tested revenue transactions by tracing to contract, sales orders and cash receipts 
(where applicable).
We identified and challenged the key assumptions and judgements made by 
management in their calculation of returns provisions on newsstand sales by 
considering initial sales returns from distributors and stores. We also compared the 
equivalent judgements made by management when preparing the prior year financial 
statements to actual post year-end outcomes to test the historic effectiveness of the 
process of making judgements.
For significant contracts, we tested the timing of revenue recognition, taking into 
account contractual obligations and the Group’s accounting policies.
Risk of management override of internal controls 
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the 
arrangements for staff to “whistle-blow” inappropriate actions.
We tested the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the 
financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that may represent a risk 
of material misstatement due to fraud. In addition, we carried out unpredictable 
audit procedures in areas that may be susceptible to fraud including contributors’ 
payments, free adverts and barter transactions. We also tested key year-end 
reconciliations and journal entries. 
Going concern
We considered the Directors’ decision to apply the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the financial statements in the context of the covenants attached to the 
Group’s financing facility.
We obtained the Directors’ forecast of the Group’s funding requirements for the next 
12 months from the date the financial statements were signed and: 
•  Tested whether appropriate account had been taken of the seasonal cash flows 
inherent in the Group’s business.
•  Challenged the expected rate of adoption of digital versus print distribution. 
•  Challenged the assumptions underlying the Directors’ forecasts prepared to 
demonstrate compliance with covenant requirements, in particular the sales and 
cash collection forecasts. 
•  Challenged the mitigating actions that management can take to reduce 
unnecessary cash spend in the event that forecast cash flows are lower than 
expected. 
Our conclusion on going concern is shown opposite.
Provision for tax liabilities
As noted in the critical accounting judgements section on page 65, estimates are made 
with respect to the tax position for prior fiscal years not yet agreed with tax authorities. 
We focussed on this area because there are historical open tax positions that are both 
material to the financial statements and require judgement in assessing the appropriate 
accounting treatment for this year.
We requested and read the latest correspondence between the Group and the 
relevant tax authorities. 
We discussed the potential tax exposure with senior Group management, including 
the Group’s in-house tax specialists. 
We utilised our experience of similar challenges elsewhere to independently assess 
the evidence described above. 
53 Future plc
Independent 
auditors’  
report Going Concern
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the Directors’ statement, set out on 
page 37, in relation to going concern. We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the 
Directors have concluded that it is appropriate 
to prepare the Group’s and Parent Company’s 
financial statements using the going concern 
basis of accounting. The going concern 
basis presumes that the Group and Parent 
Company have adequate resources to remain 
in operation, and that the Directors intend them 
to do so, for at least one year from the date the 
financial statements were signed. As part of our 
audit we have concluded that the Directors’ use 
of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or 
conditions can be predicted, these statements 
are not a guarantee as to the Group’s and the 
Parent Company’s ability to continue as  
a going concern.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
•  the information given in the Strategic 
Report and the Directors’ report for the 
financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with 
the financial statements;
•  the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•  the information given in the Corporate 
Governance report set out on pages 35 
to 40 in the Annual Report with respect 
to internal control and risk management 
systems and about share capital structures 
is consistent with the financial statements.
Other matters on which we are required 
to report by exception 
Adequacy of accounting records and 
information and explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion:
•  we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit; or
•  adequate accounting records have not been 
kept by the Parent Company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•  the parent company financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ remuneration 
report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report if, in our opinion, certain 
disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law have not been made, and 
under the Listing Rules we are required 
to review certain elements of the report to 
shareholders by the Board on Directors’ 
remuneration.  We have no exceptions to 
report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion,  
a corporate governance statement has not 
been prepared by the parent company.  
We have no exceptions to report arising  
from this responsibility.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review the part of the Corporate Governance 
statement relating to the Company’s compliance 
with nine provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (“the Code”). We have 
nothing to report having performed our review.
On page 34 of the Annual Report, as required 
by the Code Provision C.1.1, the Directors 
state that they consider the Annual Report 
taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information 
necessary for members to assess the 
Group’s performance, business model and 
strategy. On page 39, as required by C3.8 
of the Code, the Audit Committee has set 
out the significant issues that it considered 
in relation to the financial statements, and 
how they were addressed. Under ISAs (UK & 
Ireland) we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
•  the statement given by the Directors is 
materially inconsistent with our knowledge 
of the Group acquired in the course of 
performing our audit; or
•  the section of the Annual Report describing 
the work of the Audit Committee does not 
appropriately address matters communicated 
by us to the Audit Committee.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Other information in the Annual Report
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion, information in 
the Annual Report is:
•  materially inconsistent with the information 
in the audited financial statements; or
•  apparently materially incorrect based on, or 
materially inconsistent with, our knowledge 
of the Group and Parent Company acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
• is otherwise misleading.
We have no exceptions to report arising from 
this responsibility.
Responsibilities for the financial 
statements and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the 
Directors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ 
responsibilities statements set out on pages  
32 and 34, the Directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the Group and Parent Company 
financial statements and for being satisfied that 
they give a true and fair view. 
Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the Group and Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and ISAs (UK & Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for 
no other purpose.  We do not, in giving these 
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for 
any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands 
it may come save where expressly agreed by 
our prior consent in writing.
Colin Bates 
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Bristol
13 December 2013
54 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance 55
Contents
Consolidated income statement 56
Consolidated statement of  56
comprehensive income 
Consolidated statement of  57
changes in equity
 
Company statement of  57
changes in equity 
Consolidated balance sheet 58
Company balance sheet 59
Consolidated and Company 
cash flow statements 60
Notes to the Consolidated and 
Company cash flow statements 61
Accounting policies 62
Notes to the financial statements 66
Financial statements
Future plc 56
Consolidated income statement 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 1,2 112.3 123.5 
Operating profit before exceptional items 1 4.7 6.8
Exceptional items 5 2.5 (3.6)
Operating profit 3 7.2 3.2
Finance income 7 0.8 0.2
Finance costs 7 (2.2) (2.3)
Net finance costs 7 (1.4) (2.1)
Profit before tax 1 5.8 1.1
Tax on profit 8 (1.5) (0.9)
Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 4.3 0.2
Earnings per 1p Ordinary share
Note
2013
pence
2012
pence
Basic earnings per share 10 1.3 0.1
Diluted earnings per share 10 1.3 0.1
As permitted by the exemption under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 no Company income statement or statement of comprehensive income 
is presented.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit for the year 4.3 0.2
Items that may be reclassified to the consolidated income statement
Currency translation differences - 0.1
Cash flow hedges 26 0.2 0.1
Other comprehensive income for the year 0.2 0.2
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to owners of the parent 4.5 0.4
Items in the statement above are disclosed net of tax.
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
 
Group Note
Issued
share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Merger 
reserve
£m
Treasury 
reserve
£m
Cash flow 
hedge 
reserve 
£m
Accumulated 
losses
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 October 2011 3.3 24.5 109.0 (0.3) (0.1) (73.1) 63.3
Profit for the year - - - -  -  0.2 0.2
Currency translation differences - - - - - 0.1 0.1
Cash flow hedges 26 - - - - 0.1 - 0.1
Other comprehensive income for the year - - - -  0.1 0.1 0.2  Total comprehensive income for the year - - - -  0.1 0.3 0.4
Interim dividend relating to 2011 9 - - - -  -  (1.6) (1.6)
Share schemes 
- Value of employees’ services 6 - - - -  -  0.2 0.2
New share capital subscribed 24 - 0.3 - -  -  -  0.3
Balance at 30 September 2012 3.3 24.8 109.0 (0.3) - (74.2) 62.6 
Profit for the year - - - - - 4.3 4.3
Cash flow hedges 26 - - - - 0.2 - 0.2
Other comprehensive income for the year - - - - 0.2 - 0.2
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 0.2 4.3 4.5
Share schemes 
- Value of employees’ services 6 - - - - - 0.3 0.3
Balance at 30 September 2013 3.3 24.8 109.0 (0.3) 0.2 (69.6) 67.4
Company statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Company Note
Issued
share 
capital
£m
Share 
premium 
account
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
equity
£m
Balance at 1 October 2011 3.3 24.5 43.8 71.6
Loss for the year - - (2.5) (2.5)
Other comprehensive income for the year - - - -
Total comprehensive loss for the year - - (2.5) (2.5)
Interim dividend relating to 2011 9 - - (1.6) (1.6)
Share schemes 
- Value of employees’ services - - 0.2 0.2
New share capital subscribed 24 - 0.3 - 0.3
Balance at 30 September 2012 3.3 24.8 39.9 68.0
Profit for the year - - - -
Other comprehensive income for the year - - - -
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - -
Share schemes 
- Value of employees’ services - - 0.3 0.3
Balance at 30 September 2013 3.3 24.8 40.2 68.3
Financial 
statements
57 Future plc Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 30 September 2013
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 2.5 2.8
Intangible assets - goodwill 12 86.3 92.3
Intangible assets - other 12 3.5 3.0
Deferred tax 14 0.4 0.8
Total non-current assets 92.7 98.9
Current assets
Inventories 15 1.9 1.9
Financial assets - derivatives 20 0.4 -
Trade and other receivables 16 21.4 20.3
Cash and cash equivalents 17 4.6 8.5
Total current assets 28.3 30.7
Total assets 121.0 129.6
Equity and liabilities
Equity
Issued share capital 24 3.3              3.3  
Share premium account 24.8 24.8
Merger reserve 26 109.0            109.0  
Treasury reserve 26 (0.3) (0.3)
Cash flow hedge reserve 26 0.2 -
Accumulated losses (69.6) (74.2)
Total equity 67.4 62.6
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities - interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 - 1.7
Financial liabilities - derivatives 20 - 0.2
Corporation tax payable 8 5.2 -
Deferred tax 14 1.2 1.3
Provisions 21 1.5 4.1
Other non-current liabilities 22 1.5 1.3
Total non-current liabilities 9.4 8.6
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities - interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 11.5 20.9
Financial liabilities - derivatives 20 0.2 0.2
Trade and other payables 18 31.6 31.0
Corporation tax payable 8 0.9 6.3
Total current liabilities 44.2 58.4
Total liabilities 53.6 67.0
Total equity and liabilities 121.0 129.6
The financial statements on pages 55 to 87 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 December 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
Peter Allen Zillah Byng-Maddick
Chairman Chief Financial Officer
58 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Company balance sheet
as at 30 September 2013
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Investment in Group undertakings 13 159.1 159.1 
Deferred tax 14 0.1 0.1 
Total non-current assets 159.2 159.2 
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 16 43.3 35.7
Cash and cash equivalents 17 - - 
Total current assets 43.3 35.7
Total assets 202.5 194.9
Equity and liabilities
Equity
Issued share capital 24 3.3 3.3 
Share premium account 24.8 24.8
Retained earnings 40.2 39.9
Total equity 68.3 68.0
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities - interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 - 1.7
Financial liabilities - derivatives 20 - 0.2
Corporation tax payable 8 5.2 -
Provisions 21 - 0.3
Total non-current liabilities 5.2 2.2
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities - interest-bearing loans and borrowings 19 6.6 18.9
Financial liabilities - non-interest-bearing overdraft 19 7.5 11.9
Financial liabilities - derivatives 20 0.2 0.2 
Trade and other payables 18 113.8 93.7
Corporation tax payable 8 0.9 -
Total current liabilities 129.0 124.7
Total liabilities 134.2 126.9
Total equity and liabilities 202.5 194.9
The financial statements on pages 55 to 87 were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 December 2013 and signed on its behalf by:
Peter Allen Zillah Byng-Maddick
Chairman Chief Financial Officer
Future plc
Company registration number: 3757874
Financial 
statements
59 Future plc Consolidated and Company cash flow statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013
Note
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(used in) operations A 4.3 (1.7) 2.1 (3.1)
Interest paid (1.2) (1.0) (1.4) (1.1)
Tax paid (1.8) (0.1) (1.0) -  
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 1.3 (2.8) (0.3) (4.2)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (0.6) - (0.5) -  
Purchase of magazine titles, websites and trademarks - - (0.1) -  
Purchase of computer software and website development (2.3) - (1.9) -  
Disposal of magazine titles and trademarks 10.3 - 2.7 -
Costs of business disposals (1.1) - (0.6) -
Net movement in amounts owed to/by subsidiaries - 21.7 - (8.7)
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities 6.3 21.7 (0.4) (8.7)
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of Ordinary share capital - - 0.3 0.3
Draw down of bank loans 26.0 19.0 17.9 16.0
Repayment of bank loans (36.7) (32.9) (19.3) (7.2)
Bank arrangement fees (0.6) (0.6) (0.5) (0.5)
Repayment of finance leases (0.1) - (0.1) -
Equity dividends paid - - (1.6) (1.6)
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities (11.4) (14.5) (3.3) 7.0
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (3.8) 4.4 (4.0) (5.9)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 8.5 (11.9) 12.5 (6.0)
Exchange adjustments (0.1) - - -
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 4.6 (7.5) 8.5 (11.9)
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
60 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated and Company cash flow statements
for the year ended 30 September 2013
A. Cash generated from/(used in) operations
The reconciliation of profit/(loss) for the year to cash flows generated from/(used in) operations is set out below:
 
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Profit/(loss) for the year 4.3 - 0.2 (2.5)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charge 0.9 - 1.1              -
Amortisation of intangible assets 2.0 - 1.5              -
Profit on disposal of magazine titles and trademarks (2.7) - (1.2) -
Share schemes
- Value of employees’ services 0.3 - 0.2 -
Impairment of investment in Group undertakings - 0.3 - 0.2
Dividend receivable from Group undertakings - (1.5) - -
Net finance costs 1.4 1.1 2.1 0.9
Tax charge/(credit) 1.5 (1.3) 0.9 (1.5)
Profit/(loss) before changes in working capital and provisions 7.7 (1.4) 4.8 (2.9)
Movement in provisions (2.7) (0.3) 1.8 (0.3)
Decrease in inventories 0.1 - 1.6             -
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (1.6) - 2.3             -
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 0.8 - (8.4) 0.1
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 4.3 (1.7) 2.1 (3.1)
B. Analysis of net debt
 
Group
1 October 
2012
£m
Cash flows
£m
Other 
non-cash changes
£m
Exchange 
movements
£m
30 September 
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents 8.5 (3.8) - (0.1) 4.6
Debt due within one year (20.9) 9.1 0.1 0.2 (11.5)
Debt due after more than one year (1.7) 1.7 - - -
Net debt (14.1) 7.0 0.1 0.1 (6.9)
 
Company
1 October 
2012
£m
Cash flows
£m
Other 
non-cash changes
£m
30 September 
2013
£m
Cash and cash equivalents (11.9) 4.4 - (7.5)
Debt due within one year (18.9) 12.2 0.1 (6.6)
Debt due after more than one year (1.7) 1.7 - -
Net debt (32.5) 18.3 0.1 (14.1)
 C. Reconciliation of movement in net debt
 
 
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Net debt at start of year (14.1) (32.5) (11.8) (17.8)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (3.8) 4.4 (4.0) (5.9)
Movement in borrowings 10.8 13.9 1.5 (8.8)
Other non-cash changes 0.1 0.1 - -
Exchange movements 0.1 - 0.2 -
Net debt at end of year (6.9) (14.1) (14.1) (32.5)
Financial 
statements
61 Future plc Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except 
for derivative financial instruments and share awards which are stated at fair value. 
 
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements published in this 2013 Annual Report are set out on pages 62 to 65.  These 
policies have been applied consistently to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
 
The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the International Financial Reporting 
Interpretations Committee’s (IFRIC) interpretations as adopted by the European Union, 
applicable as at 30 September 2013, and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 
applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
 
The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing these financial statements as 
stated by the Directors on page 37.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are all entities over which 
the Group has the power to govern the 
financial and operating policies, generally 
accompanying a shareholding of more than 
one half of the voting rights. The existence 
and effect of potential voting rights that are 
currently exercisable or convertible are 
considered when assessing whether the 
Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries 
are fully consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the Group. They are 
deconsolidated from the date that control 
ceases. The purchase method of accounting 
is used to account for the acquisition of 
subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as 
the fair value of the assets given, equity 
instruments issued and liabilities incurred 
or assumed at the date of exchange, and 
includes the fair value of any asset or liability 
resulting from a contingent consideration 
arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are 
expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities and contingent 
liabilities assumed in a business combination 
are measured initially at their fair values at 
the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of 
acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s 
share of the identifiable net assets acquired is 
recorded as goodwill. 
Inter-company transactions, balances 
and unrealised gains on transactions 
between Group companies are eliminated.  
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but 
are considered an impairment indicator of 
the asset transferred. Accounting policies 
of subsidiaries have been changed where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the 
policies adopted by the Group.
Segment reporting
The Group is organised and arranged primarily 
by geographical segment. Operating segments 
are reported in a manner consistent with 
the internal reporting provided to the Chief 
Operating Decision Makers who are considered 
to be the executive Directors of Future plc.
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in 
the income statement when the significant risks 
and rewards of ownership have been transferred 
to the buyer. Revenue from services rendered 
is recognised in the income statement once the 
service has been completed.  
Revenue comprises the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable for the 
sale of goods and services in the ordinary 
course of the Group’s activities. Revenue 
is shown net of value-added tax, estimated 
returns, rebates and discounts and after 
eliminating sales within the Group. The 
following recognition criteria also apply:
•  Magazine newsstand circulation and 
advertising revenue is recognised according 
to the date that the related publication goes 
on sale.
•  Revenue from the sale of digital magazine 
subscriptions is recognised uniformly over 
the term of the subscription. 
•  Event income is recognised when the event 
has taken place.
•  Licensing revenue is recognised on the 
supply of the licensed content. 
•  Other revenue is recognised at the time of 
sale or provision of service.
Accounting policies
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
62 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of 
each of the Group’s entities are measured 
using the currency of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates 
(‘the functional currency’). The consolidated 
financial statements are presented in sterling, 
which is the Group’s presentation currency.
(b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated 
into the functional currency using the exchange 
rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.  
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting 
from the settlement of such transactions 
and from the translation at balance sheet 
exchange rates of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are recognised in the income statement, 
with exchange differences arising on trading 
transactions being reported in operating 
profit and with those arising on financing 
transactions reported in net finance costs 
unless as a result of cash flow hedging they 
are reported in other comprehensive income.
(c) Group companies
The results and financial position of all the Group 
entities that have a functional currency different 
from the presentation currency are translated 
into the presentation currency as follows:
(i)   Assets and liabilities for each balance 
sheet are translated at the closing rate at 
the date of that balance sheet.
(ii)   Income and expenses for each income 
statement are translated at average 
exchange rates.
(iii)   All resulting exchange differences are 
recognised as a separate component  
of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising 
from the translation of the net investment in 
foreign operations, and of borrowings and 
other currency instruments designated as 
hedges of such investments, are taken to 
shareholders’ equity. When a foreign  
operation is sold, exchange differences that 
were recorded in equity are recognised in  
the income statement as part of the gain  
or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments existing 
at the transition date have been treated as 
assets and liabilities of the acquiring company.  
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on 
the acquisition of a foreign entity post transition 
are treated as assets and liabilities of the 
foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Employee benefits
(a) Pension obligations
The Group has a number of defined 
contribution plans. For defined contribution 
plans the Group pays contributions into a 
privately administered pension plan on a 
contractual or voluntary basis. The Group 
has no further payment obligations once the 
contributions have been paid. Contributions 
are charged to the income statement as they 
are incurred.
(b) Share-based compensation
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, 
share-based compensation plans. The fair  
value of the employee services received 
in exchange for the grant of the awards is 
recognised as an expense. The total amount 
to be expensed over the appropriate service 
period is determined by reference to the fair 
value of the awards. The calculation of fair value 
includes assumptions regarding the number of 
cancellations and excludes the impact of any 
non-market vesting conditions (for example, 
earnings per share). Non-market vesting 
conditions are included in assumptions about 
the number of awards that are expected to vest.  
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises 
its estimates of the number of awards that 
are expected to vest. It recognises the impact 
of the revision of original estimates, if any, in 
the income statement, with a corresponding 
adjustment to equity.
The grant by the Company of share awards 
to the employees of subsidiary undertakings 
is treated as a capital contribution. The 
fair value of employee services received, 
measured by reference to the grant date fair 
value, is recognised over the vesting period 
as an increase to investment in subsidiary 
undertakings, with a corresponding credit to 
equity in the Company’s financial statements.
Shares in the Company are held in trust to 
satisfy the exercise of awards under certain  
of the Group’s share-based compensation 
plans and exceptional awards. The trust is 
consolidated within the Group financial 
statements. These shares are presented  
in the consolidated balance sheet as a 
deduction from equity at the market value  
on the date of acquisition.
(c) Bonus plans
The Group recognises a liability and 
an expense for bonuses taking into 
consideration the profit attributable to the 
Company’s shareholders after certain 
adjustments. The Group recognises a 
provision where contractually obliged or 
where there is a past practice that has 
created a constructive obligation.
Leases
Leases in which the Group assumes 
substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of the leased assets are classified 
as finance leases. All other leases are classed 
as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are included 
either as property, plant and equipment or 
intangible assets at the lower of their fair 
value at inception or the present value of the 
minimum lease payments and are depreciated 
over their estimated economic lives or the 
finance lease period, whichever is the shorter. 
The corresponding liability is recorded within 
borrowings. The interest element of the rental 
costs is charged against profits over the period 
of the lease using the actuarial method.
Payments made under operating leases (net 
of any incentives received from the lessor) are 
charged to the income statement on a straight-
line basis over the period of the lease.
Tax
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises 
current tax and deferred tax. Tax is recognised 
in the income statement except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised directly in 
equity in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is payable based on taxable 
profits for the year, using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted 
at the balance sheet date, along with any 
adjustment relating to tax payable in previous 
years. Management periodically evaluates 
items detailed in tax returns where the tax 
treatment is subject to interpretation. Taxable 
profit differs from net profit in the income 
statement in that income or expense items that 
are taxable or deductible in other years are 
excluded – as are items that are never taxable 
or deductible. Current tax assets relate to 
payments on account not offset against  
current tax liabilities.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the 
liability method, on temporary differences 
arising between the tax bases of assets and 
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the 
consolidated financial statements. However, 
deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises 
from initial recognition of an asset or liability 
in a transaction other than a business 
combination that at the time of the transaction 
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit 
or loss. Deferred tax is determined using 
tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date and are expected to apply when 
the related deferred tax asset is realised 
or the deferred tax liability is settled in the 
appropriate territory.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the 
extent that it is probable that future taxable 
profits will be available against which the 
temporary differences can be utilised.  
Deferred tax is provided on temporary 
differences arising on investments in 
subsidiaries, except where the timing of 
the reversal of the temporary difference is 
controlled by the Group and it is probable that 
the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset 
against each other where they relate to 
the same jurisdiction and there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset.
Financial 
statements
63 Future plc Dividends
Interim dividend distributions to the 
Company’s shareholders are recognised as 
a liability in the financial statements in the 
period in which they are paid. Final dividend 
distributions are recognised in the period in 
which they are approved.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost 
(or deemed cost) less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses. Certain items of 
property, plant and equipment that had been 
revalued to fair value prior to 1 October 2004, 
the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on 
the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued 
amount at the date of that valuation.  Cost 
includes expenditure that is directly attributable 
to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-
line method to allocate the cost of property, 
plant and equipment less residual value over 
estimated useful lives, as follows:
•  Land and buildings – 50 years or period of 
the lease if shorter.
•  Plant and machinery – between one and  
five years.
•  Equipment, fixtures and fittings – between 
one and five years.
The assets’ residual values and useful lives 
are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, 
at each balance sheet date. An asset’s 
carrying amount is written down immediately 
to its recoverable amount if the asset’s 
carrying amount is greater than its estimated 
recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined 
by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts. 
These are included in the income statement. 
Intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
In respect of business combinations that have 
occurred since 1 October 2004, goodwill 
represents the difference between the cost 
of the acquisition and the fair value of net 
identifiable assets acquired. In respect of 
business combinations prior to this date, 
goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed 
cost, which represents the amount recorded 
under previous GAAP. The classification and 
accounting treatment of business combinations 
that occurred prior to 1 October 2004 has not 
been reconsidered in preparing the Group’s 
opening IFRS balance sheet.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated 
impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to 
appropriate cash generating units (those 
expected to benefit from the business 
combination) and it is not subject to amortisation 
but is tested annually for impairment.  
(b) Titles, trademarks, customer lists, 
advertising relationships and other 
‘magazine and website related’ intangibles
Magazine-related intangible assets have a 
finite useful life and are stated at cost less 
accumulated amortisation. Assets acquired 
as part of a business combination are initially 
stated at fair value. Amortisation is calculated 
using the straight-line method to allocate the 
cost of these intangibles over their estimated 
useful lives (between one and five years).
Expenditure incurred on the launch of new 
magazine titles is recognised as an expense in 
the income statement as incurred. 
(c) Computer software and website 
development
Non-integral computer software purchases are 
stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.  
Costs incurred in the development of new 
websites are capitalised only where the cost 
can be directly attributed to developing the 
website to operate in the manner intended by 
management and only to the extent of the future 
economic benefits expected from its use. These 
costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over 
their estimated useful lives (between one and 
three years). Costs associated with maintaining 
computer software or websites are recognised 
as an expense as incurred.
Impairment tests and Cash-Generating 
Units (CGUs)
A CGU is defined as the smallest identifiable 
group of assets that generates cash inflows 
that are largely independent of the cash inflows 
from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is not amortised but tested for 
impairment at least once a year or more 
frequently when there is an indication that it 
may be impaired. Therefore, the evolution of 
general economic and financial trends as well 
as actual economic performance compared 
to market expectations represent external 
indicators that are analysed by the Group, 
together with internal performance indicators, 
in order to assess whether an impairment test 
should be performed more than once a year.
IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ requires these 
tests to be performed at the level of each 
CGU or group of CGUs likely to benefit from 
acquisition-related synergies, within an 
operating segment.
Any impairment of goodwill is recorded in the 
income statement as a deduction from operating 
profit and is never reversed subsequently.
Other intangible assets with a finite life are 
amortised and are tested for impairment only 
where there is an indication that an impairment 
may have occurred.
Recoverable amount
To determine whether an impairment loss 
should be recognised, the carrying value of the 
assets and liabilities of the CGUs or groups of 
CGUs is compared to their recoverable amount.
Carrying values of CGUs and groups of CGUs 
tested include goodwill and assets with finite 
useful lives (property, plant and equipment, 
intangible assets and net working capital).
The recoverable amount of a CGU is the higher 
of its fair value less costs to sell and its value 
in use. Fair value less costs to sell is the best 
estimate of the amount obtainable from the 
sale of an asset in an arm’s length transaction 
between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the 
costs of disposal. This estimate is determined, 
on 30 September, on the basis of the discounted 
present value of expected future cash flows plus 
a terminal value and reflects general market 
sentiment and conditions. 
Value in use is the present value of the future 
cash flows expected to be derived from the 
CGUs or group of CGUs. Cash flow projections 
are based on economic assumptions and 
forecast trading conditions drawn up by the 
Group’s management, as follows:
•  cash flow projections are based on five-year 
business plans;
•  cash flow projections beyond that time frame 
are extrapolated by applying a 2.0% growth 
rate to perpetuity; and
•  the cash flows obtained are discounted 
using appropriate rates for the business and 
the territories concerned.
If goodwill has been allocated to a CGU and 
an operation within that CGU is disposed, 
the goodwill associated with that operation 
is included in the carrying amount of the 
operation in determining the profit or loss on 
disposal. The goodwill allocated to the  
disposal is measured on the basis of the 
relative profitability of the operation disposed 
and the operations retained.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and 
net realisable value. For raw materials, cost is 
taken to be the purchase price on a first in, first 
out basis. For work in progress and finished 
goods, cost is calculated as the direct cost 
of production. It excludes borrowing costs. 
Net realisable value is the estimated selling 
price in the ordinary course of business, less 
applicable variable selling expenses.
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are initially 
recognised at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less a provision for impairment.  
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
64 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A provision for impairment of trade 
receivables is made when there is objective 
evidence that the Group will not be able to 
collect all amounts due in accordance with the 
original terms of the receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in 
hand, deposits held at call with banks and 
bank overdrafts for the purpose of the cash 
flow statement. Bank overdrafts are shown 
within borrowings in current liabilities on the 
balance sheet.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are initially 
recognised at fair value and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method.
Borrowings
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, 
net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings 
are subsequently stated at amortised cost with 
any difference between the proceeds (net of 
transaction costs) and the redemption value 
recognised in the income statement over the 
period of the borrowings using the effective 
interest method.
  
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities 
unless the Group has an unconditional right to 
defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 
months after the balance sheet date.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has 
a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of past events, and it is more likely than 
not that an outflow of resources will be required 
to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best 
estimate of the expenditure required to settle 
the obligation at the balance sheet date, and 
are discounted to present value where the 
effect is material.
Derivative financial instruments and 
hedging activities
The Group uses derivative financial 
instruments to reduce exposure to foreign 
exchange and interest rate risks and 
recognises these at fair value in its balance 
sheet. The Group applies cash flow hedge 
accounting under IAS 39 in respect of certain 
instruments held. For instruments for which 
hedge accounting is applied, gains and losses 
are taken to equity. Any changes to the fair 
value of derivatives not hedge accounted for 
are recognised in the income statement. Any 
new instruments entered into by the Group 
will be reviewed on a ‘case by case’ basis at 
inception to determine whether they should 
qualify as hedges and be accounted for 
accordingly under IAS 39. In accordance with 
its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or 
issue any derivative financial instruments for 
trading purposes.
Investments
The Company’s investments in subsidiary 
undertakings are stated at the fair value of 
consideration payable, including related 
acquisition costs, less any provisions for 
impairment.
Exceptional items
The Group classifies transactions as 
exceptional where they relate to an event 
that falls outside the ordinary activities of 
the business and where individually or in 
aggregate they have a material impact on 
the financial statements. This classification 
excludes impairment charges made on the 
carrying value of CGUs or groups of CGUs.
Critical accounting assumptions and 
judgements
The preparation of the financial statements 
under IFRS requires the use of certain 
critical accounting assumptions and requires 
management to exercise its judgement and 
to make estimates in the process of applying 
the Group’s accounting policies. The areas 
requiring a higher degree of judgement or 
areas where assumptions and estimates are 
significant to the financial statements are 
discussed below:
(a) Intangible assets
The Group uses forecast cash flow information 
and estimates of future growth to assess 
whether goodwill and other intangible assets 
are impaired. If the results of an operation in 
future years are adverse to the estimates used 
for impairment testing, an impairment may be 
triggered at that point, or a reduction in useful 
economic life may be required.
(b) Taxation
The Group is subject to tax in all territories, 
and judgement and estimates of future 
profitability are required to determine the 
Group’s deferred tax position. If the final tax 
outcome is different to that assumed, resulting 
changes will be reflected in the income 
statement or statement of changes in equity 
as appropriate. The Group corporation tax 
provision reflects management’s estimation of 
the amount of tax payable for fiscal years with 
open tax computations where liabilities remain 
to be agreed with Her Majesty’s Revenue and 
Customs and other tax authorities.
(c) Returns provision
The Group makes a provision for sales returns 
at the end of each month. The UK estimate 
is calculated by looking at the forecast sales 
projections for the following month of the titles 
that were on sale at the year-end and providing 
for any shortfall. The US estimate is made 
based on a study of the historic levels of returns.
New or revised accounting standards 
and interpretations 
There has been no material impact from 
the adoption of the following new or revised 
standards or interpretations which are relevant 
to the Group:
•  Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation 
of Financial Statements on Other 
Comprehensive Income. 
Certain new standards, amendments and 
interpretations to existing standards have 
been published that are mandatory for 
accounting periods beginning on or after  
1 October 2013 or later periods but which  
the Group has chosen not to adopt early. 
These include the following standards  
which are relevant to the Group:
• IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
•  IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in other 
entities.
• IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
•  IAS 27 (revised) Separate financial 
statements.
•  IAS 28 (revised) Associates and joint 
ventures.
The Group does not expect that these 
standards and interpretations issued but not 
yet effective will have a material impact on 
results or net assets.
 
Financial 
statements
65 Future plc 1. Segmental reporting 
The Group is organised and arranged primarily by reportable segment. The executive Directors consider the performance of the business from a 
geographical perspective, namely the UK and the US. The Australian business is considered to be part of the UK segment and is not separately 
reported due to its size. 
(a) Reportable segment
(i) Segment revenue
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK 92.2 99.1
US 20.9 25.1
Revenue between segments (0.8) (0.7)
Total 112.3 123.5
Transactions between segments are carried out at arm’s length.
(ii) Segment EBITE
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK 6.5 9.7 
US (1.8) (2.9)
Total segment EBITE 4.7 6.8
EBITE is used by the executive Directors to assess the performance of each segment. 
A reconciliation of total segment EBITE to profit before tax is provided as follows:
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Total segment EBITE 4.7 6.8
Exceptional items 2.5 (3.6)
Net finance costs (1.4) (2.1)
Profit before tax 5.8 1.1
(iii) Segment assets and liabilities
Segment assets Segment liabilities
Segment net 
assets/(liabilities)
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK 110.7 119.7 (42.3) (56.2) 68.4 63.5
US 10.3 9.9 (11.3) (10.8) (1.0) (0.9)
Total 121.0 129.6 (53.6) (67.0) 67.4 62.6
(iv) Other segment information
Capital expenditure
Depreciation 
and amortisation Exceptional items
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK 2.6 1.8 1.9 1.5 (1.3) 0.6
US 0.9 0.7 1.0 1.1 (1.2) 3.0
Total 3.5 2.5 2.9 2.6 (2.5) 3.6
Other than the items disclosed above and a share-based payments charge of £0.3m (2012: £0.2m) there were no other significant non-cash expenses 
during the year.
Notes to the financial statements
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
66 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1. Segmental reporting (continued)
(b) Business segment
After geographical location, the Group is managed into five key business segments. Each business segment comprises groups of individual 
magazines, websites and events, combined according to the market sector in which they operate. The Group considers that the assets within each 
segment are exposed to the same risks.
(i) Revenue by business segment
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Entertainment 29.6 36.5
Technology 27.4 26.8
Music 13.0 20.3
Creative 23.4 21.0
Sport & Auto 19.7 19.6
Revenue between segments (0.8) (0.7)
Total 112.3 123.5
(ii) Gross profit by business segment
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Entertainment 6.3 8.2
Technology 6.7 6.4
Music 2.7 4.1
Creative 5.9 5.5
Sport & Auto 5.2 5.2
Add back: distribution expenses 7.7 9.6
Total 34.5 39.0
2. Revenue
An additional analysis of the Group’s revenue is shown below:
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Circulation 64.8 72.5
Advertising 34.4 37.1
Customer publishing 7.3 8.6
Licensing, events and other 5.8 5.3
Total 112.3 123.5
3. Operating profit
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 112.3 123.5
Cost of sales (77.8) (84.5)
Gross profit 34.5 39.0
Distribution expenses (7.7) (9.6)
Administration expenses (22.1) (22.6)
Exceptional items 2.5 (3.6)
Operating profit 7.2 3.2
Financial 
statements
67 Future plc 4. Fees paid to auditors
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Audit fees in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1
Fees payable for other services:
- The audit of the financial statements of the Company’s subsidiaries 0.1 0.1
- Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1
- Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1
Total fees 0.4 0.4
5. Exceptional items
2013
£m
2012
£m
Vacant property provision movements (1.2) 2.7
Restructuring and redundancy costs 1.4 2.1
Profit on disposal of magazine titles and trademarks (2.7) (1.2)
Total (2.5) 3.6
In 2013, the vacant property provision movement relates to the release of a provision following the sublease of a vacant floor of a property in the US. 
The vacant property provisions made in 2012 related to surplus office space in the UK and US.
The restructuring and redundancy costs relate mainly to staff termination payments following the restructuring of the UK and US businesses in line 
with the Group’s strategy.
The profit on disposal in 2013 relates to the sale of the UK Rock titles and in 2012 it relates to the sale of the New York Music titles and the sale of two 
UK based titles, Trucking and Truckstop News.
  
6. Employees 
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Wages and salaries 39.2 41.1
Social security costs 5.1 5.4
Other pension costs 1.2 0.9
Share schemes
- Value of employees’ services 0.3 0.2
Total staff costs 45.8 47.6
Average monthly number of people (including Directors)
2013
No.
2012
No.
Production 822 834
Administration 214 202
Total 1,036 1,036
At 30 September 2013, the actual number of people employed by the Group was 980 (2012: 1,013). In respect of our reportable segments 831  
(2012: 869) were employed in the UK and 149 (2012: 144) were employed in the US.
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
68 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 6. Employees (continued)
Key management personnel compensation
 
 
Group 
2013
£m
Company 
2013
£m
Group 
2012
£m
Company 
2012
£m
Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 0.8 0.3 1.0 0.3
Termination benefits - - 0.8 0.8
Share schemes
- Value of employees’ services 0.2 - 0.1 -
Total 1.0 0.3 1.9 1.1
Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Board of Future plc. It is this Board which has responsibility for planning, directing 
and controlling the activities of the Group.
Mark Wood and Graham Harding are paid by Future Publishing Limited, a subsidiary company, for their services. In 2013 £0.2m (2012: £0.2m) was 
recharged to Future plc by Future Publishing Limited in respect of Mark Wood and £0.1m (2012: £0.1m) was recharged in respect of Graham Harding.
Further details on the Directors’ remuneration and interests are given in the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 41 to 51. The highest paid 
Director during the year was Mark Wood (2012: Stevie Spring) and details of his remuneration are shown on page 42.
7.  Finance income and costs
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Interest receivable 0.6 -
Fair value gain on interest rate derivative not in a hedge relationship 0.2 0.2
Total finance income 0.8 0.2
Interest payable on interest-bearing loans and borrowings (1.0) (1.5)
Amortisation of bank loan arrangement fees (0.4) (0.5)
Other finance costs (0.7) (0.3)
Exchange losses (0.1) -
Total finance costs (2.2) (2.3)
Net finance costs (1.4) (2.1)
8. Tax on profit
The tax charged in the consolidated income statement is analysed below:
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK corporation tax
Current tax at 23.5% (2012: 25%) on the profit for the year 1.4 1.6
Adjustments in respect of previous years (0.2) (0.4)
Current tax 1.2 1.2
Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences
Current year charge - 0.2
Adjustments in respect of previous years 0.3 (0.5)
Deferred tax 0.3 (0.3)
Total tax charge 1.5 0.9 
Financial 
statements
69 Future plc 8. Tax on profit (continued)
The tax assessed in each year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK for the relevant year. The differences are explained below:
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit before tax 5.8 1.1
Profit before tax at the standard UK tax rate of 23.5% (2012: 25%) 1.4 0.3
Different tax rates applicable overseas (0.1) (0.7)
Effect of change in deferred tax rate (0.1) -
Losses and other temporary differences not recognised in respect of tax in the US 0.3 1.9
Profits relieved against brought forward losses (1.7) (0.3)
Other net disallowable items 1.6 0.6
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 (0.9)
Total tax charge 1.5 0.9
During the year the Group reached agreement with HMRC relating to the tax treatment of certain one-off transactions which took place in 2003. Part of 
that agreement will result in the Group paying tax of £6.2m plus interest (comprising instalments of £85,000 per month over five years from July 2013 
and a final instalment of £2.0m). The tax payable was fully provided for in prior year accounts. 
The liability in the balance sheet has been split based on this agreement between current liabilities and non-current liabilities. 
9. Dividends
Equity dividends 2013 2012
Number of shares in issue at end of year (million) 333.4 333.0
Dividends paid in year (pence per share) - 0.5
Dividends paid in year (£m) - 1.6
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2013 of 0.2 pence per share, amounting to a total dividend of £0.7m, is to be proposed at 
the Annual General Meeting on 3 February 2014. The financial statements do not reflect this dividend.
The dividends totalling £1.6m paid during the year ended 30 September 2012 relate to the interim dividend for the six-month period to 31 March 2011 
of 0.5 pence per share.
10. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.  Diluted earnings per share 
have been calculated by taking into account the dilutive effect of shares that would be issued on conversion into Ordinary shares of awards held under 
employee share schemes.
Adjusted earnings per share removes the effect of exceptional items and any related tax effects from the calculation as follows:
Adjustments to profit after tax
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit after tax 4.3 0.2
Exceptional items (2.5) 3.6
Tax effect of the above adjustment 0.2 (0.3)
Adjusted profit after tax 2.0 3.5
 2013 2012
Weighted average number of shares in issue during the year: 
- Basic 331,812,054 329,101,739
- Dilutive effect of share options 6,298,779 3,751,837
- Diluted 338,110,833 332,853,576
Basic earnings per share (in pence) 1.3 0.1
Adjusted basic earnings per share (in pence) 0.6 1.1
Diluted earnings per share (in pence) 1.3 0.1
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (in pence) 0.6 1.1
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
70 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10. Earnings per share (continued)
The adjustments to profit have the following effect:
 
 
2013
pence
2012
pence
Basic earnings per share 1.3 0.1
Exceptional items (0.8) 1.1
Tax effect of the above adjustment 0.1 (0.1)
Adjusted basic earnings per share 0.6 1.1
Diluted earnings per share 1.3 0.1
Exceptional items (0.8) 1.1
Tax effect of the above adjustment 0.1 (0.1)
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 0.6 1.1
11. Property, plant and equipment 
Group
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and 
machinery
£m 
Equipment, 
fixtures and 
fittings
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost 
At 1 October 2011 4.4 5.7 2.8 12.9
Transfer (0.1) 0.1 - -
Additions 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.5
Disposals (0.4) (0.2) (0.5) (1.1)
Exchange adjustments - (0.1) - (0.1)
At 30 September 2012 4.1 5.7 2.4 12.2
Additions - 0.5 0.1 0.6
Disposals - (0.2) - (0.2)
At 30 September 2013 4.1 6.0 2.5 12.6
Accumulated depreciation    
At 1 October 2011 (2.5) (4.6) (2.4) (9.5)
Charge for the year (0.4) (0.6) (0.1) (1.1)
Disposals 0.4 0.2 0.5 1.1
Exchange adjustments - 0.1 - 0.1
At 30 September 2012 (2.5) (4.9) (2.0) (9.4)
Charge for the year (0.2) (0.6) (0.1) (0.9)
Disposals - 0.2 - 0.2
At 30 September 2013 (2.7) (5.3) (2.1) (10.1)
Net book value at 30 September 2013 1.4 0.7 0.4 2.5
Net book value at 30 September 2012 1.6 0.8 0.4 2.8
Net book value at 1 October 2011 1.9 1.1 0.4 3.4
Depreciation is included within administration expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Financial 
statements
71 Future plc 12. Intangible assets 
Group
Goodwill
£m
Magazine and 
website
£m
Other
£m 
Total
£m 
Cost 
At 1 October 2011 313.7 15.3 10.6 339.6
Additions - 0.1 1.9 2.0
Disposals (1.7) - (0.2) (1.9)
Exchange adjustments (0.9) (0.2) (0.2) (1.3)
At 30 September 2012 311.1 15.2 12.1 338.4
Additions 0.2 0.5 2.2 2.9
Disposals (6.2) - (0.1) (6.3)
Exchange adjustments - (0.1) - (0.1)
At 30 September 2013 305.1 15.6 14.2 334.9
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 October 2011 (219.6) (15.2) (8.1) (242.9)
Charge for the year - (0.1) (1.4) (1.5)
Disposals - - 0.1 0.1 
Exchange adjustments 0.8 0.2 0.2 1.2
At 30 September 2012 (218.8) (15.1) (9.2) (243.1)
Charge for the year - (0.1) (1.9) (2.0)
At 30 September 2013 (218.8) (15.2) (11.1) (245.1)
Net book value at 30 September 2013 86.3 0.4 3.1 89.8
Net book value at 30 September 2012 92.3 0.1 2.9 95.3
Net book value at 1 October 2011 94.1 0.1 2.5 96.7
Magazine and website related assets relate mainly to trademarks, advertising relationships and customer lists. These assets are amortised over their 
estimated economic lives, typically ranging between one and five years.
Any residual amount arising as a result of the purchase consideration being in excess of the value of identified magazine related assets is recorded 
as goodwill. Goodwill is not amortised under IFRS, but is subject to impairment testing either annually or on the occurrence of some triggering event.  
Goodwill is recorded and tested for impairment on a territory by territory basis.
Other intangibles relate to capitalised software costs and website development costs. 
Amortisation is included within administration expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Impairment tests for goodwill and other intangibles
The breakdown of the goodwill balance at 30 September 2013 comprises:
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK 82.8 88.9
US 3.5 3.4
Total 86.3 92.3
The basis for calculating recoverable amounts is described in the accounting policies.
Trends in the economic and financial environment, competition and regulatory authorities’ decisions, or changes in competitor behaviour in response 
to the economic environment may affect the estimate of recoverable amounts, as will unforeseen changes in the political, economic or legal systems 
of some countries.
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
72 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12. Intangible assets (continued)
Other assumptions that influence estimated recoverable amounts are set out below:
At 30 September 2013
UK US
Basis of recoverable amount
Source used
Value in use
Five year plans
Discounted cash flow
Value in use
Five year plans
Discounted cash flow
Growth rate to perpetuity 2.0% 2.0%
EBITDA margins assumed 12.1% to 13.7% 1.0% to 7.5%
Post-tax discount rate 9.5% 9.5%
Pre-tax discount rate 13.3% 12.5%
At 30 September 2012
UK US
Basis of recoverable amount
Source used
Value in use
Five year plans
Discounted cash flow
Value in use
Five year plans
Discounted cash flow
Growth rate to perpetuity Nil Nil
EBITDA margins assumed 11.7% to 14.0% 0.1% to 7.4%
Post-tax discount rate 8.5% 8.5%
Pre-tax discount rate 11.5% 11.5%
Sensitivity of recoverable amounts
At 30 September 2013 the analysis of the recoverable amounts gave rise to the following assessments of sensitivity:
(i) UK
The value in use of the UK business exceeded the carrying value by £6.1m. An impairment would be required if the discount rate was more than 1.0% 
higher or if forecast cash flows were more than 7.8% lower.
(ii) US
The value in use of the US business exceeded the carrying value by £1.6m. An impairment would be required if the discount rate was more than 3.1% 
higher or if forecast cash flows were more than 41.1% lower.
Goodwill is not considered to be impaired at 30 September 2013 however a reasonably possible change in the discount rate or forecast cash flows could 
give rise to an impairment.
13. Investments in Group undertakings
Company
2013
£m
2012
£m
Shares in Group undertakings
At beginning and end of year 159.1 159.1
The recoverability of this investment has been considered by taking into account the amounts owed by the Company to Group undertakings (see note 18).
Financial 
statements
73 Future plc 14. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group, and the movements thereon, during the current and prior years.
 
 
Intangible 
assets
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Depreciation vs 
tax allowances
£m
Tax losses
£m
Total
£m
At 1 October 2011 (1.8) 0.1 0.4 0.5 (0.8)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 0.5 - - (0.2) 0.3
At 30 September 2012 (1.3) 0.1 0.4 0.3 (0.5)
Credited/(charged) to income statement 0.1 - (0.1) (0.3) (0.3)
At 30 September 2013 (1.2) 0.1 0.3 - (0.8)
The changes to the main rate of corporation tax for the UK announced in the March 2013 Budget were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013. The 
changes reduced the main rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and to 20% from 1 April 2015. As these changes had been 
substantively enacted before the year-end, any impact has been included in these financial statements. As a result, the Group has booked a credit of 
£0.1m in respect of this.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset against each other where they relate to the same jurisdiction. The following is the analysis 
of deferred tax balances after offset for balance sheet purposes:
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Deferred tax assets 0.4 0.8
Deferred tax liabilities (1.2) (1.3)
Net deferred tax liability (0.8) (0.5)
The deferred tax asset of £0.4m (2012: £0.8m) is disclosed as a non-current asset of which the assets due within one year total £0.1m (2012: £0.3m).  
The deferred tax liability of £1.2m (2012: £1.3m) is disclosed as a non-current liability of which the liabilities due within one year total £nil (2012: £nil).
As at 30 September 2013 the Group has:
• unprovided deferred tax assets on tax losses totalling £11.0m (2012: £7.6m) of which £10.8m (2012: £7.3m) arises in the US; and
• unprovided deferred tax assets on other temporary differences totalling £2.2m (2012: £3.3m) of which £2.2m (2012: £3.3m) arises in the US.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences where it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as any remitted earnings would not give rise to a tax liability in the 
foreseeable future.
The deferred tax asset of £0.1m (2012: £0.1m) recognised on the Company’s balance sheet is in respect of share-based payments. The Company has 
no unprovided deferred tax assets or liabilities at 30 September 2013 (2012: £nil).
15. Inventories 
 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Raw materials 0.4 0.3
Work in progress 1.2 1.2
Finished goods 0.3 0.4
Total 1.9 1.9
The cost of raw material inventories recognised as an expense and included within cost of sales amounted to £8.2m (2012: £10.8m).
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
74 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16. Trade and other receivables
 
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Current assets:
Trade receivables 15.1 - 14.8 - 
Provisions for impairment of trade receivables (0.2) - (0.4) - 
Trade receivables net 14.9 - 14.4 - 
Amounts owed by Group undertakings - 43.3 - 35.7
Other receivables 0.6 - 0.3 - 
Prepayments and accrued income 5.7 - 5.4 - 
21.2 43.3 20.1 35.7
Non-current assets:
Other receivables 0.2 - 0.2 - 
Total 21.4 43.3 20.3 35.7
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Receivable balances from the two main magazine distributors, one in the UK segment and one in the US segment, represented 14% (2012: 18%) of 
the Group’s trade receivables balance at 30 September 2013. 
The Group has provided for estimated irrecoverable amounts in accordance with its accounting policy described on page 64 of these financial 
statements. 
Credit checks are obtained and, if applicable, guarantees put in place before a new customer is accepted and terms and credit limits are agreed. 
Bookings are not taken before these factors have been fulfilled. In addition, annual credit checks are carried out and fully documented. Final decisions 
on credit terms are made by an appropriate senior manager within advertising or finance. In the event of a request to increase a customer’s credit limit 
the following factors will be considered: trading history to date, review of credit status and review of the reason for the increase.
Included within the Group’s trade receivables balance are receivables with a carrying amount of £3.0m (2012: £2.3m) which are past due at the 
reporting date but for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the Group believes that the 
amounts are still recoverable. These relate to advertising and licensing debtors in the UK and US. The Group does not hold any security over these 
balances. A breakdown of the ageing is set out below:
 
Past due
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
0-30 days 1.6 1.0
31-60 days 0.5 0.9
61-90 days 0.7 0.4
91+ days 0.2 -
Total 3.0 2.3
As at 30 September 2013, trade receivables of £0.2m (2012: £0.4m) were impaired and provided for. The individually impaired receivables mainly 
relate to advertising and licensing customers. It is assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered. These receivables are all 
more than 60 days old.
Financial 
statements
75 Future plc 16. Trade and other receivables (continued)
The movement in the Group provision for trade receivables during the year is as follows:
 
 
Group
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
At 1 October 0.4 0.6
Provision for receivables impaired 0.1 0.1
Receivables written off during the year (0.3) (0.3)
At 30 September 0.2 0.4
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in administration expenses in the income statement. Amounts 
charged to the provision are written off when there is no realistic expectation of recovering additional cash. 
The other asset classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold 
any collateral as security for trade receivables.
All the Company’s receivables are with Group undertakings and no additional disclosure in relation to credit risk is required. Interest on £0.3m of the 
amounts owed by Group undertakings has been charged at three-month LIBOR + 3.1%. The balance of amounts owed by Group undertakings is 
interest-free without any terms for repayment.
17. Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 4.6 - 8.5 -
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding bank overdraft) 4.6 - 8.5 -
Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the cash flow statements:
 
 
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 4.6 - 8.5 -
Bank overdraft (note 19) - (7.5) - (11.9)
Cash and cash equivalents 4.6 (7.5) 8.5 (11.9)
The Group has a number of authorised counterparties with whom cash balances are held in the countries in which the Group operates. Credit risk is 
minimised by considering the credit standing of all potential bankers before selecting them by the use of external credit ratings. 80% of the Group’s 
cash is held at counterparties with an S&P credit rating of A.
18. Trade and other payables
 
 
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Trade payables 11.1 - 10.6 -
Amounts owed to Group undertakings - 113.7 - 93.5
Other taxation and social security 1.2 - 1.1 -
Other payables 1.6 - 0.5 -
Accruals and deferred income 17.7 0.1 18.8 0.2
Total 31.6 113.8 31.0 93.7
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The Group has financial risk 
management policies in place to ensure all payables are paid within the agreed credit terms.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Amounts owed to Group undertakings are unsecured and interest-free without any terms for repayment.
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
76 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19. Financial liabilities – loans, borrowings and overdrafts
Non-current liabilities
 
 
Interest rate at
30 September
2013
Interest rate at
30 September
2012
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Sterling term loan - 5.1% - - 1.7 1.7
Total - - 1.7 1.7
Current liabilities
 
 
Interest rate at
30 September
2013
Interest rate at
30 September
2012
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Sterling term loan - 5.1% - - 3.2 3.2
Sterling revolving loan 2.9% 4.1% 6.6 6.6 15.7 15.7
US Dollar revolving loan 2.6% 3.8% 4.9 - 1.9 -
11.5 6.6 20.8 18.9
Obligations under finance leases - 3.0% - 15.0% - - 0.1 -
Total 11.5 6.6 20.9 18.9
The interest-bearing loans and borrowings are repayable as follows:
 
 
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Within one year 11.5 6.6 20.9 18.9
Between one and two years - - 1.7 1.7
Total 11.5 6.6 22.6 20.6
In February 2013, the Group negotiated a new bank facility with a syndicate of banks (comprising Barclays and Santander) to replace its existing facility which 
was due to expire in December 2013. The total facility available to the Group at 30 September 2013 amounts to £25m and this can be drawn in sterling, US 
Dollars or Euros. The Group has granted security to the banks and the availability of the facility, which expires in February 2017, is subject to certain covenants.
Fees relating to the new facility amounted to £0.6m and these are being amortised over the term of the facility. The bank borrowings and interest are 
guaranteed by Future plc, Future Holdings 2002 Limited, Future Publishing Limited and Future US, Inc.
Interest payable under the current credit facility is calculated as the cost of three-month LIBOR (currently approximately 0.5%) plus an interest margin of 
between 2.0% and 3.25%, dependent on the net debt/Bank EBITDA covenant ratio.
The key covenants are set out in the following table where net debt is exclusive of non-current tax and other payables and Bank EBITDA is not materially 
different to statutory EBITDA.
Bank covenant
Net debt/Bank EBITDA Periods from 31 March 2013 to 30 June 2013 – less than 2.50 times
Periods from 30 September 2013 to 31 December 2013 – less than 2.25 times
Periods from 31 March 2014 onwards – less than 2.00 times
Bank EBITDA/Interest More than 4.0 times
Capital expenditure 125% of agreed annual budget
Financial 
statements
77 Future plc 19. Financial liabilities – loans, borrowings and overdrafts (continued)
The covenants are tested quarterly on the basis of rolling figures for the preceding 12 months and the covenant position at the year-end is set out in 
the following table:
30 September 2013 Covenant
Net debt/Bank EBITDA 0.99 < 2.25 times
Bank EBITDA/Interest 7.74 > 4.0 times
The Group met its covenant for capital expenditure at 30 September 2013.
Based on the above calculations the Group had headroom of £9.4m over and above the level of bank debt at 30 September 2013.  
The minimum lease payments due under finance leases are set out below:
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
Within one year - 0.1
Total - 0.1
The present value of minimum lease payments due under finance leases is set out below:
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
Within one year - 0.1
Total - 0.1
The Company has a non-interest-bearing overdraft of £7.5m (2012: £11.9m) which forms part of the Group cash pooling account and can be offset 
against cash balances in other Group companies.
20. Financial assets and liabilities – derivatives
The fair value of hedging derivatives is split between current and non-current assets or liabilities based on the maturity of the cash flows.
 
Current assets
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.4 - - -
Total 0.4 - - -
 
Non-current liabilities
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Interest rate derivatives - - (0.2) (0.2)
Total - - (0.2) (0.2)
 
Current liabilities
Group
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
Interest rate derivatives (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2)
Total (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2)
In line with the Board’s policy of hedging interest rate risk as disclosed in note 23, the Group has entered into interest rate derivatives to reduce its 
exposure on a proportion of the outstanding debt under its committed facility.
In October 2007, the Group entered into a UK interest rate collar over £5.0m which has a seven-year period. The collar has a cap at 6.00% and a  
floor of 4.65%.
A fair value gain for the year of £0.2m (2012: £0.2m) on interest rate derivatives has been included within finance income in the income statement as 
hedge accounting is not applied to these contracts.
The Group hedges its exposure to transactional foreign currency risk and enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US Dollars and 
Australian Dollars. These contracts have monthly maturity dates and the outstanding contracts at 30 September 2013 end in August 2014. 
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
78 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20. Financial assets and liabilities – derivatives (continued) 
A fair value gain for the year of £0.2m (2012: £0.1m) on forward foreign exchange contracts has been recognised directly in equity as hedge 
accounting is applied to these contracts.
The amounts in the tables on page 78 are the fair value of financial assets and liabilities using Level 2 – inputs that are observable for the asset or 
liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices).
The maturity analysis of the Group’s derivative financial assets and liabilities is set out below:
2013 2012
Group
Interest rate 
derivatives
£m
Forward foreign 
exchange 
contracts
£m
Interest rate 
derivatives
£m
Forward foreign 
exchange 
contracts
£m
Within one year (0.2) 0.4 (0.2) -
Between one and two years - - (0.2) -
Total (liabilities)/assets (0.2) 0.4 (0.4) -
The maturity analysis of the Company’s derivative financial liabilities is set out below:
Company
2013
Interest rate 
derivatives
£m
2012
Interest rate 
derivatives
£m
Within one year (0.2) (0.2)
Between one and two years - (0.2)
Total liabilities (0.2) (0.4)
21. Provisions
Group
Property 
£m
Other 
£m
Total
£m
At 1 October 2012 3.8 0.3 4.1
Charged in the year 0.1 - 0.1
Released in the year (1.4) - (1.4)
Utilised in the year (1.1) (0.3) (1.4)
Exchange adjustments 0.1 - 0.1
At 30 September 2013 1.5 - 1.5
The provision for property relates to dilapidations and obligations under short leasehold agreements on vacant property. The release in the provision 
during the year relates to an element of surplus office space in the US which was sublet during the year. The vacant property provision is expected to 
be utilised over the next five years. The dilapidations provision is expected to be utilised on the expiry of property leases.
Provisions for the Company were £nil (2012: £0.3m). These are shown as ‘other’ provisions in the table above and relate to disposals made during 
2007 and ongoing commercial dispute resolution. 
22. Other non-current liabilities
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
Other payables 1.5 1.3
Other payables consist mainly of deferred subscription revenue and a deferred property lease liability.
Financial 
statements
79 Future plc 23. Financial instruments 
Financial instruments by category
The Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are set out below:
 Fair value Amortised cost 2013
Group Note
Derivatives
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Other 
liabilities
£m
Total carrying 
value
£m
Total fair
value
£m
Trade receivables net 16 - 14.9 - 14.9 14.9
Other receivables - 2.9 - 2.9 2.9
Derivatives 20 0.4 - - 0.4 0.4
Cash and cash equivalents 17 - 4.6 - 4.6 4.6
Total financial assets 0.4 22.4 - 22.8 22.8
Trade payables 18 - - (11.1) (11.1) (11.1)
Other liabilities - - (9.6) (9.6) (9.6)
Current borrowings 19 - - (11.5) (11.5) (11.5)
Non-current borrowings 19 - - - - -
Derivatives 20 (0.2) - - (0.2) (0.2)
Total financial liabilities (0.2) - (32.2) (32.4) (32.4)
 Fair value Amortised cost 2012
Group Note
Derivatives
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Other 
liabilities
£m
Total carrying 
value
£m
Total fair 
value
£m
Trade receivables net 16 - 14.4 - 14.4 14.4
Other receivables - 1.6 - 1.6 1.6
Cash and cash equivalents 17 - 8.5 - 8.5 8.5
Total financial assets - 24.5 - 24.5 24.5
Trade payables 18 - - (10.6) (10.6) (10.6)
Other liabilities - - (10.8) (10.8) (10.8)
Current borrowings 19 - -     (20.9) (20.9) (20.9)
Non-current borrowings 19 - - (1.7) (1.7) (1.7)
Derivatives 20 (0.4) - - (0.4) (0.4)
Total financial liabilities (0.4) - (44.0) (44.4) (44.4)
Total financial liabilities are shown net of unamortised costs which amounted to £0.4m (2012: £0.3m).
The Company’s financial assets and liabilities are set out below:
 Fair value Amortised cost 2013
Company Note
Derivatives
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Other 
liabilities
£m
Total carrying
 value
£m
Total fair
 value
£m
Other receivables 16 - 43.3 - 43.3 43.3
Total financial assets - 43.3 - 43.3 43.3
Other liabilities 18 - - (113.8) (113.8) (113.8)
Overdrafts 19 - - (7.5) (7.5) (7.5)
Current borrowings 19 - - (6.6) (6.6) (6.6)
Non-current borrowings 19 - - - - -
Derivatives 20 (0.2) - - (0.2) (0.2)
Total financial liabilities (0.2) - (127.9) (128.1) (128.1)
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
80 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23. Financial instruments (continued)
 Fair value Amortised cost 2012
Company Note
Derivatives
£m
Loans and 
receivables
£m
Other 
liabilities
£m
Total carrying 
value
£m
Total fair
 value
£m
Other receivables 16 - 35.7 - 35.7 35.7
Total financial assets - 35.7 - 35.7 35.7
Other liabilities 18 - - (93.7) (93.7) (93.7)
Overdrafts 19 - - (11.9) (11.9) (11.9)
Current borrowings 19 - - (18.9) (18.9) (18.9)
Non-current borrowings 19 - - (1.7) (1.7) (1.7)
Derivatives 20 (0.4) - - (0.4) (0.4)
Total financial liabilities (0.4) - (126.2) (126.6) (126.6)
Total financial liabilities are shown net of unamortised costs which amounted to £0.4m (2012: £0.3m).
The fair value is the amount for which a financial instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties. If an active market exists, 
the market price is applied. If an active market does not exist a discounted cash flow or generally accepted estimation and valuation technique based 
on market conditions at the balance sheet date is used to calculate an estimated value.
The market value of financial instruments is determined by the use of valuation techniques including estimated discounted cash flows.
Treasury overview
The Group uses financial instruments to raise funding for its operations and to manage the financial risks arising from those operations. The agreements 
governing the principal instruments entered into were approved by the Board.
The principal financing and treasury exposures faced by the Group arise from foreign currencies, working capital management, the financing of capital 
expenditure and acquisitions, the management of interest rates on the Group’s debt, the investment of surplus cash and the management of the Group’s 
debt facilities. The Group manages all of these exposures with an objective of remaining within covenant ratios agreed with the Group’s banks and the 
Group has been in compliance with its covenants during the year. These ratios are disclosed in note 19.
The capital structure of the Group is reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that the debt/equity ratio of funding remains appropriate for the Group.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Currency and interest rate profile
The currency and interest rate profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities is shown below:
 Financial assets Financial liabilities
 
Floating 
rate
£m
Non- 
interest 
bearing
£m
Total
£m
Floating 
rate
£m
Fixed 
rate
£m
Non-
interest 
bearing
£m 
Total
£m
Net financial 
(liabilities)/ 
assets
£m
At 30 September 2013
Currency:
Sterling - 13.6 13.6 (1.6) (5.0) (15.8) (22.4) (8.8)
US Dollar 0.1 6.2 6.3 (4.9) - (4.6) (9.5) (3.2)
Euro - 0.5 0.5 - - (0.2) (0.2) 0.3
Other - 2.4 2.4 - - (0.3) (0.3) 2.1
Total 0.1 22.7 22.8 (6.5) (5.0) (20.9) (32.4) (9.6)
At 30 September 2012
Currency:
Sterling - 15.8 15.8 (15.7) (5.0) (15.4) (36.1) (20.3)
US Dollar 0.2 5.2 5.4 (1.9) - (5.9) (7.8) (2.4)
Euro - 0.6 0.6 - - (0.4) (0.4) 0.2
Other 0.1 2.6 2.7 - - (0.1) (0.1) 2.6
Total 0.3 24.2 24.5 (17.6) (5.0) (21.8) (44.4) (19.9)
Financial 
statements
81 Future plc 23. Financial instruments (continued)
Interest rate risk
Details of the interest rates on borrowings as at 30 September 2013 are set out in note 19. 
The Group’s overall policy on hedging interest rate risk is as follows:
• To the extent that net debt is below £10m there is no requirement to hedge against interest rate fluctuations on the balance of the gross debt.
• To the extent that net debt is above £10m a minimum of 25% of the balance of the gross debt greater than £10m should be hedged.
In applying the above policy, management takes full consideration of cash flow projections to fix the period for which any hedging arrangements are 
entered into.
Details of the Group’s interest rate derivatives at 30 September 2013 are set out in note 20.
For 2013, if interest rates on net borrowings had been on average 0.5% higher/lower with all other variables held constant, the post-tax profit for the 
year would have decreased/increased by £nil (2012: £0.1m). 
There would be no impact on equity excluding retained earnings.
Foreign exchange risk
Some of the Group’s activities are carried out in countries outside the United Kingdom where transactions are carried out in that country’s own 
functional currency. Movements in exchange rates can therefore have a significant impact on the Group’s total cash flows, whilst the translation of  
the results, assets and liabilities of foreign operations into sterling can have a significant effect on the Group’s reported profits and balance sheet.  
The main exposures are to movements in the US Dollar and Australian Dollar against sterling, and Canadian Dollar against US Dollar.
 
The Group’s policy for managing exchange rate risk is summarised as follows:
•  Transaction exposure – the Group manages this by ensuring that transactions are denominated in the local functional currency of the operating 
units wherever possible. Where this is not possible the use of forward contracts to hedge exposure is considered. The use of forward contracts (or 
any other derivative financial instrument) is subject to authorisation by the Chief Financial Officer. Details of the Group’s forward foreign exchange 
contracts at 30 September 2013 are set out in note 20.
•  Translation exposure – the Group matches currency assets with currency liabilities wherever possible as evidenced by the fact that £4.9m of gross 
debt is denominated in US dollars.
The following table summarises the Group’s sensitivity to translational currency exposures at 30 September:
2013 currency risks expressed in 
Currency 1/Currency 2
£m GBP/USD GBP/AUD USD/CAD
Reasonable shift 10% 10% 10%
Impact on profit after tax if Currency 1 strengthens against Currency 2 (0.3) (0.1) -
Impact on profit after tax if Currency 1 weakens against Currency 2 0.3 0.1 -
Impact on equity excluding retained earnings if Currency 1 strengthens against Currency 2 0.3 0.1 -
Impact on equity excluding retained earnings if Currency 1 weakens against Currency 2 (0.3) (0.1) -
2012 currency risks expressed in 
Currency 1/Currency 2
£m GBP/USD GBP/AUD USD/CAD
Reasonable shift 10% 10% 10%
Impact on loss after tax if Currency 1 strengthens against Currency 2 (0.2) (0.1) -
Impact on loss after tax if Currency 1 weakens against Currency 2 0.2 0.1 -
Impact on equity excluding retained earnings if Currency 1 strengthens against Currency 2 0.2 0.1 - 
Impact on equity excluding retained earnings if Currency 1 weakens against Currency 2 (0.2) (0.1) - 
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
82 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23. Financial instruments (continued) 
Liquidity risk
For the past three years the Group has funded the business largely from cash flows generated from operations and long-term debt. Details of the 
Group’s borrowings are disclosed in note 19.
The Group monitors and manages the cash for the Group and has maintained committed banking facilities as noted above to mitigate any liquidity 
risk it may face. If necessary, inter-company loans within the Group meet short-term cash needs. The following table shows the Group’s remaining 
contractual maturity for financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments. The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows  
of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group is obliged to pay: 
  
30 September 2013
Less than 
one year
£m
Between one 
and two years
£m
Between two 
and five years
£m
Over five 
years
£m
Total
£m
Trade payables (11.1) - - - (11.1)
Other liabilities (8.4) (0.4) (0.6) (0.1) (9.5)
Borrowings (12.0) - - - (12.0)
Derivatives 0.2 - - - 0.2
Total financial liabilities (31.3) (0.4) (0.6) (0.1) (32.4)
30 September 2012
Less than 
one year
£m
Between one 
and two years
£m
Between two 
and five years
£m
Over five 
years
£m
Total
£m
Trade payables (10.6) - - - (10.6)
Other liabilities (8.3) (0.7) (1.7) (0.1) (10.8)
Borrowings (21.2) (1.7) - - (22.9)
Derivatives (0.2) (0.2) - - (0.4)
Total financial liabilities (40.3) (2.6) (1.7) (0.1) (44.7)
24. Issued share capital
2013 
£m
2012
£m
Authorised share capital 
600,000,000 Ordinary shares of 1p each 6.0 6.0
                           2013                        2012
 
 
Number of 
shares £m
Number of 
shares £m
Allotted, issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 1p each
At beginning of year 332,982,172 3.3 328,804,760 3.3
Share scheme exercises 416,655 - 4,177,412 -
At end of year 333,398,827 3.3 332,982,172 3.3
During the year 416,655 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of £4,167 were issued by the Company for a total cash commitment of £30,170 pursuant 
to share scheme exercises as detailed in note 25.
In 2012 4,177,412 Ordinary shares with a nominal value of £41,774 were issued by the Company for a total cash commitment of £298,368 pursuant to 
share scheme exercises as detailed in note 25.
Financial 
statements
83 Future plc 25.  Share-based payments
The income statement charge for the year for share-based payments was £0.3m (2012: £0.2m). This charge has been included within  
administration expenses.
These charges arise when employees are granted awards under the Group’s share option schemes, performance share plan (PSP), or deferred 
annual bonus scheme (DABS), and when employees are granted awards by the trustees of The Future Network plc 1999 Employee Benefit Trust 
(EBT). The charge equates to the fair value of the award and has been calculated using the Monte Carlo and Black-Scholes models, using the most 
appropriate model for each scheme. Assumptions have been made in these models for expected volatility, risk-free rates and dividend yields.
The Company has not applied IFRS 2, ‘Share-based Payment’, retrospectively and therefore it has only been applied to options granted after  
7 November 2002 which had not vested before 1 January 2005.
A reconciliation of movements in share options and other share incentive schemes is shown below:
 
2013 
Number of 
options/awards
2013
Weighted average 
exercise price
2012 
Number of 
options/awards 
2012
Weighted average 
exercise price
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 10,185,502 £0.025 22,313,657 £0.058
Granted 7,538,279 £0.080 7,096,009 £0.000
Share awards exercised – new share issues (282,255) £0.059 (4,177,412) £0.071
Share awards exercised – shares awaiting issue - - (134,400) £0.100
Lapsed (3,660,572) £0.023 (14,912,352) £0.049
Outstanding at 30 September 13,780,954 £0.055 10,185,502 £0.025
Exercisable at 30 September 482,297 £0.155 34,560 £0.100
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options and other share incentive awards during the year was £0.157 (2012: £0.114).
For options and other share incentive schemes outstanding at 30 September the weighted average exercise prices and remaining contractual lives are 
as follows:
Number of options/awards Weighted average exercise price
Weighted average remaining 
contractual life in years
 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Sharesave Plan
December 2008 - 34,560 - £0.100 - -
April 2010 481,254 675,628 £0.155 £0.155 - 1
December 2010 834,530 898,892 £0.165 £0.165 1 2
December 2012 3,906,197 - £0.140 - 3 -
PSP
November 2009 - 522,815 - - - -
December 2010 224,221 435,679 - - - 1
January 2012 4,944,444 6,100,000 - - 1 2
December 2012 1,583,333 - - - 2 -
DABS
November 2009 1,043 180,448 - - - -
December 2010 326,462 420,650 - - - 1
January 2012 876,726 916,830 - - 1 2
December 2012 602,744 - - - 2 -
Total outstanding at 30 September 13,780,954 10,185,502 £0.055 £0.025 2 2
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
84 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25. Share-based payments (continued) 
The fair value per share for grants made during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
2013                     2012
 DABS PSP Sharesave DABS PSP 
Grant date 17/12/12 17/12/12 20/12/12 18/01/12 18/01/12
Share price at grant date £0.180 £0.180 £0.183 £0.088 £0.088
Exercise price - - £0.140 - -
Vesting period (years) 3 3 3 3 3
Expected volatility 55% 55% 55% 57% 57%
Option life (years) 3 3 3 3 3
Expected life (years) 3 3 3 3 3
Risk-free rate 0% 0% 1% 1% 1%
Dividend yield 0% 0% 0% 13% 13%
TSR correlation - 6% - - 5%
Fair value £0.180 £0.159 £0.083 £0.060 £0.048
Fair value – EPS element - £0.180 - - £0.060
Fair value – TSR element  - £0.138 - - £0.037
Notes:
1. The expected volatility is based on Future’s historical volatility, averaged over a period equal to the expected life, where possible. 
2.   The Group has used the Black-Scholes model to value instruments with non-market-based performance criteria such as earnings per share. For instruments with market-based performance criteria, 
notably total shareholder return, the Group has used a Monte Carlo model to determine the fair value. The Black-Scholes model has been used to value all options with the exception of 50% of the PSP 
grants which have market-based performance criteria; the Monte Carlo model has been used to value these awards.
Future plc operates two share option schemes being:
- The Future Network plc UK Inland Revenue Approved Sharesave Plan 2000 (2000 Sharesave Plan)
- The Future plc 2010 Approved Sharesave Plan (2010 Sharesave Plan)
As at 30 September 2013, options or awards had been granted under both of the above schemes but were only outstanding under the 2010 Sharesave Plan.
The 2000 Sharesave Plan and the 2010 Sharesave Plan (the Sharesave Plans)
Under the Sharesave Plans the option entitlement granted to participating employees is linked to the monthly contributions which such employees 
have agreed to pay into the Sharesave Plans (up to a maximum amount of £250 per month). The options granted under the Sharesave Plans vest 
on the third anniversary of the grant of such options. Where legal and regulatory constraints permit, the Company uses its discretion to offer options 
granted under the Sharesave Plans at a discount to the market price in force at the date of the invitation being made.
The Board exercised its discretion in November 2012 to issue invitations to participate in the Company’s 2010 Sharesave Plan to eligible employees in 
the UK. The option price represented a 20% discount to the market price at the time of the invitation.
Other share-based payments
No further share options are to be granted. Instead, the Group has put into place a number of alternative share incentive schemes.
Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The PSP is a share-based incentive scheme open to the executive Directors, based on a percentage of the participant’s salary. Awards under this 
scheme are subject to stretching performance criteria measured against both earnings per share (EPS) and total shareholder return (TSR). Subject to 
the participant’s continued employment within the Group, awards will vest three years after the date of grant assuming that the following performance 
criteria are achieved:
•  A maximum of 50% of an award will vest if the Group’s growth in adjusted EPS is equal to RPI plus 8%, 0% will vest if the Group’s growth in adjusted 
EPS is equal to RPI plus 3%, and vesting will be on a pro rata straight-line basis between the two. If growth in the Group’s adjusted EPS is less than 
RPI plus 3%, none of that 50% of the award will vest.
•  The remaining 50% of the award will vest if the Company’s TSR performance, compared to a group of similar companies, places it in the top quintile 
as against the comparator companies. If the Company’s TSR performance is median, 12.5% of the award will vest, and vesting will be on a pro rata 
straight-line basis between the two points. If the Company’s performance is below median, none of that 50% of the award will vest. The comparator 
groups of companies are as disclosed on page 43 of this Annual Report.
Grants were made under the PSP in January 2012 and December 2012.
 
Financial 
statements
85 Future plc 25. Share-based payments (continued) 
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (DABS)
The DABS is a share-based incentive scheme, open to senior management across the Group. The maximum value of any shares granted under the 
DABS to any one participant will be an additional amount which is equal to a fixed percentage of that eligible participant’s annual cash bonus actually 
received or payable for the previous financial year. The number of shares over which an award is to be granted to each participant will be calculated 
by reference to the market value of an Ordinary share in the Company on the date of the award. The shares awarded under the DABS will be issued 
or transferred to the participant three years after the date of the award, subject only to the employee remaining in the employment of the Group 
throughout the three-year period.
Grants were made under the DABS in January 2012 and December 2012.
26. Other reserves
Treasury reserve
The treasury reserve represents the cost of shares in Future plc purchased in the market and held by the EBT to satisfy awards made by the trustees.
 
 
Group 
2013
£m
Group 
2012
£m
At beginning and end of year  (0.3) (0.3)
The 1,426,848 (2012: 1,426,848) shares held by the EBT represent 0.4% (2012: 0.4%) of the Company’s issued share capital. The treasury reserve is 
non-distributable.
Cash flow hedge reserve
The cash flow hedge reserve represents the net gains or losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments.
 
 
Group 
2013
£m
Company
2013
£m
Group 
2012
£m
Company
2012
£m
At 1 October - - (0.1) -
Net fair value gains 0.2 - 0.1 -
At 30 September 0.2 - - -
Merger reserve
The merger reserve of £109.0m (2012: £109.0m) arose following the 1999 Group reorganisation and is non-distributable.
27. Pensions
The Group operates a defined contribution scheme for employees resident in the United Kingdom.
In the US, the Group operates a section 401(K) profit sharing defined contribution plan in respect of pensions, which covers substantially all Future US 
employees. The section 401(K) plan allows employees to invest in 29 funds run by T. Rowe Price, but the employees, not the employer, have complete 
control over which funds they invest in, although they have no control over the stocks owned by the funds.
During the year, £1.2m (2012: £0.9m) contributions were made to these plans.
 
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
86 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 28. Commitments and contingent liabilities
(a) Operating lease commitments
At 30 September 2013, the Group had the following total future lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases:
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other
£m
Total
2013
£m
Land and 
buildings
£m
Other
£m
Total
2012
£m
Within one year 4.3 0.2 4.5 4.0 0.2 4.2
Between one and five years 9.9 0.1 10.0 12.0 0.2 12.2
After five years 8.1 - 8.1 9.3 - 9.3
Total 22.3 0.3 22.6 25.3 0.4 25.7
Future minimum sub-lease receipts expected under non-cancellable subleases at 30 September 2013 total £3.9m (2012: £3.0m).
During the year, £3.2m (2012: £4.1m) was recognised in the income statement in respect of operating lease rental payments and £0.7m (2012: £0.6m) 
was recognised in respect of sub-lease receipts.
The Group leases various offices under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal 
rights. The Group also leases other equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
(b) Contingent liabilities
There are no contingent liabilities expected to result in a material loss for the Group.
(c) Capital commitments
There were no material capital commitments as at 30 September 2013 (2012: £nil).
29. Related party transactions
The Group had no material transactions with related parties in 2013 or 2012 which might reasonably be expected to influence decisions made by users 
of these financial statements.
During the year, the Company had management charges receivable of £0.1m (2012: £nil) from subsidiary undertakings. The outstanding balance at  
30 September 2013 was £0.1m (2012: £nil).
30. Principal subsidiary undertakings
The principal subsidiary undertakings at 30 September 2013 are shown below. A full list of subsidiaries is available at the Company’s registered 
office. All subsidiaries are included in the consolidation. Shares of those companies marked with an * are indirectly owned by Future plc through an 
intermediate holding company.
Company name
Country of 
incorporation
Nature of 
business Holding % Class of shares
Subsidiaries
Future Publishing Limited* England and Wales Publishing 100 £1 Ordinary shares
Future US, Inc* USA (State of California) Publishing 100 Not applicable
Financial 
statements
87 Future plc 1. Normalised segmental reporting
a) Revenue by segment
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK 87.6 85.4
US 20.1 18.9
Revenue between segments (0.8) (0.7)
Total normalised revenue 106.9 103.6
b) EBITE by segment
2013
£m
2012
£m
UK 5.6 6.8
US (2.1) (2.8)          
Total normalised EBITE 3.5 4.0
Additional analysis of the Group’s normalised revenue by type is set 
out below:
c) Revenue by type
2013
£m
2012
£m
Circulation 61.1 60.1
Advertising 33.2 31.6
Customer publishing 7.0 7.2
Licensing, events and other 5.6 4.7
Total normalised revenue 106.9 103.6
 
2. Reconciliation of statutory results to normalised results
a) Reconciliation of statutory revenue to normalised revenue
2013
£m
2012
£m
Statutory revenue 112.3 123.5
Adjustment: UK closed and divested activities (4.6) (13.7)              
Adjustment: US closed and divested activities (0.8) (6.2)           
Normalised revenue 106.9 103.6
b)  Reconciliation of statutory operating profit before exceptional 
items (EBITE) to normalised EBITE
2013
£m
2012
£m
EBITE 4.7 6.8
Adjustment: UK closed and divested activities (0.9) (2.9)         
Adjustment: US closed and divested activities (0.3) 0.1
Normalised EBITE 3.5 4.0
c)  Reconciliation of statutory basic earnings per share to 
normalised adjusted basic earnings per share
2013
pence
2012
pence
Basic earnings per share 1.3 0.1
UK closed and divested activities (0.8) (1.0)          
US closed and divested activities (0.1) -
Exceptional items - 1.4             
Tax effect of the above adjustments (0.1) (0.1)          
Normalised adjusted basic earnings per share 0.3 0.4
Normalised results (unaudited)
Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Revenue 1,2 106.9 103.6
Operating profit before exceptional items (EBITE) 1,2 3.5 4.0
Adjusted earnings per 1p Ordinary share (normalised)
Note
2013
pence
2012
pence
Adjusted basic earnings per share 2 0.3 0.4
Normalised results are presented to better reflect the current size and structure of the business, and give a better indication of the performance of the 
ongoing business. The normalised results exclude revenues and costs of activities closed or divested between 1 October 2011 and 30 September 
2013, but include any new activities launched or acquired in that period.
Adjusted earnings per share are based on normalised results but exclude exceptional items and related tax effects.
Notes to the normalised results
Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
88 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ordinary resolutions
1.  To receive and adopt the audited financial 
statements of the Company for the financial 
year ended 30 September 2013 and the 
reports of the Directors and the auditors.
2.  To approve the Remuneration 
implementation report as set out in pages 
42 to 47 of the Annual Report of the 
Company for the financial year ended  
30 September 2013.
3.  To approve the Remuneration policy report 
as set out in pages 48 to 51 of the Annual 
Report of the Company for the three year 
period commencing on 1 October 2013.
4.  To declare a final dividend of 0.2 pence 
per Ordinary share.
5.  To elect as a Director Zillah  
 Byng-Maddick.
6. To re-elect as a Director Peter Allen.
7. To re-elect as a Director Mark Wood.
8. To re-elect as a Director Seb Bishop.
9. To re-elect as a Director Mark Whiteling.
10.  To re-elect as a Director Manjit 
Wolstenholme.
11.  To reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, 
Chartered Accountants and Registered 
Auditors, as auditors of the Company to 
hold office until the conclusion of the next 
General Meeting at which accounts are laid 
before the Company.
12.  To authorise the Directors to determine 
the remuneration of the auditors of  
the Company.
13.  That, in substitution for any existing 
authority, the Directors be and are hereby 
generally and unconditionally authorised 
in accordance with section 551 of the 
Companies Act 2006 (the ‘Act’) to exercise 
all the powers of the Company to allot 
shares in the Company and to grant rights 
to subscribe for, or to convert any security 
into, shares in the Company: 
 
13.1  in connection with an offer by way of a 
rights issue (comprising equity securities as 
defined by section 560 of the Act), up to an 
aggregate nominal amount of £2,222,000 
(such amount to be reduced by the nominal 
amount of any relevant securities allotted 
under paragraph 13.2 below):
(a)   to holders of Ordinary shares in proportion 
(as nearly as may be practicable) to their 
respective holdings; and
(b)   to holders of any other equity securities as 
required by the rights of those securities 
or as the Directors otherwise consider 
necessary, but subject to such exclusions 
or other arrangements as the Board may 
deem necessary or expedient in relation 
to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, 
record dates, legal or practical problems 
in or under the laws of any territory or the 
requirements of any regulatory body or 
stock exchange; and
Notice of Annual General 
Meeting
This Notice of Meeting is important and requires 
your immediate attention.
Notice of  
Annual General 
Meeting
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you should consult your 
stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent adviser 
authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in Future plc, please forward 
this notice, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible either to 
the purchaser or transferee or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so that 
they can pass these documents to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the fifteenth Annual General Meeting of Future plc will be held on 
Monday 3 February 2014 at Future’s Headquarters, 2 Balcombe Street, London NW1 6NW at 
12 noon at which the following resolutions numbered 1 to 14 will be proposed as ordinary 
resolutions, and resolutions numbered 15 to 17 will be proposed as special resolutions. 
89 Future plc Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
13.2   in any other case, up to an aggregate 
nominal amount of £1,111,000 (such 
amount to be reduced by the nominal 
amount of any equity securities allotted 
under paragraph 13.1 above in excess of 
£1,111,000), at any time or times during 
the period beginning on the date of the 
passing of this resolution and ending 
following the conclusion of the Company’s 
next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 
on 31 March 2015 (unless previously 
revoked or varied by the Company in 
General Meeting) save that the Company 
may before expiry of this authority make an 
offer or agreement which would or might 
require relevant securities to be allotted 
after its expiry and the Directors may 
allot relevant securities pursuant to such 
an offer or agreement as if the authority 
hereby conferred had not expired.
14.  That, following the broader definitions 
introduced by sections 363 to 365 of the 
Act of the terms used in (i), (ii) and (iii) 
below (which for the purposes of this 
resolution have the meanings given by the 
Act), the Company and its subsidiaries 
at any time during the period for which 
the resolution is effective be authorised 
together to:
(i)  make political donations to political parties 
and/or independent election candidates 
not exceeding £50,000 in total;
(ii)  make political donations to political 
organisations other than political parties 
not exceeding £50,000 in total; and
  
(iii)  incur political expenditure not exceeding 
£50,000 in total, during the period 
beginning with the date of the passing  
of this resolution and ending following  
the conclusion of the Company’s next 
Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, on 
31 March 2015.
Special resolutions
15.  That, subject to the passing of resolution 
13, the Directors be and are hereby  
authorised pursuant to Article 3.2 and 
section 570 of the Act to allot equity 
securities (within the meaning of section 
560 of the Act) for cash pursuant to 
the authority conferred upon it for the 
purposes of section 551 of the Act by 
resolution 13 provided that such authority 
shall be limited to:
(a)   the allotment of equity securities in 
connection with an offer by way of a 
rights issue, open offer or pre-emptive 
offer to holders of Ordinary shares on the 
register of members of the Company on 
a date fixed by the Directors where the 
equity securities to be allotted to existing 
shareholders shall be in proportion (as 
nearly as may be) to their respective 
holdings and, if the rights attaching to 
any other equity securities so provide, 
in favour of the holders of those equity 
securities in accordance with such rights, 
but subject to such exclusions or other 
arrangements as the Directors consider 
necessary or expedient in connection with 
Ordinary shares representing fractional 
entitlements or on account of either legal 
or practical problems arising in connection 
with the laws of any territory, or of the 
requirements of any generally recognised 
regulatory body or stock exchange in any 
territory; and 
 
(b)  the allotment (otherwise than pursuant 
to sub-paragraph (a) above) of equity 
securities up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £166,700 (representing just 
under 5% of the issued share capital of  
the Company as at 13 December 2013) 
 
  and such authority shall expire at the 
conclusion of the Company’s next Annual 
General Meeting or, if earlier, on 31 March 
2015 (save that the Company may before 
the expiry of such authority make an 
offer or agreement which would or might 
require equity securities to be allotted 
after its expiry and the Directors may 
allot equity securities pursuant to such an 
offer or agreement as if the power hereby 
conferred had not expired).
16.  That the Company be generally and 
unconditionally permitted to make market 
purchases (within the meaning of section 
693(4) of the Act) of Ordinary shares 
of one penny each in the capital of the 
Company on such terms and in such 
manner as the Directors may think fit 
provided that:
  
(a)  the maximum aggregate number of 
Ordinary shares which may be purchased 
be limited to 33,340,000 (representing just 
under 10% of the issued share capital of 
the Company as at 13 December 2013);
(b)  the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) 
payable per Ordinary share be one penny;
(c)  the maximum price (exclusive of 
expenses) which may be paid for such 
Ordinary shares shall not be more than 
the higher of:
(i)  an amount equal to 5% above the average 
of the middle market quotations for such 
Ordinary shares as derived from the 
London Stock Exchange’s Daily Official 
List for the five business days immediately 
preceding the date on which the Ordinary 
shares are purchased; and
(ii)  the amount stipulated by Article 5(1)  
of the Buy-back and Stabilisation  
Regulation 2003;
(d)  unless previously renewed, varied or 
revoked, this authority shall expire 
at the conclusion of the next Annual 
General Meeting following the date of this 
resolution or, if earlier, on 31 March 2015; 
(e)  the Company may make a contract to 
purchase shares under the authority 
conferred by this resolution prior to expiry 
of such authority, which may be executed 
wholly or partly after expiry of this 
authority; and
(f)  pursuant to the Articles to hold as treasury 
shares any Ordinary shares purchased 
under this resolution 16.
17.  That a general meeting, other than an 
Annual General Meeting, may be called on 
not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
On behalf of the Board
Zillah Byng-Maddick
Chief Financial Officer  
and Company Secretary
13 December 2013
90 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notice of  
Annual General 
Meeting
Further information about the AGM
1.  Information regarding the meeting, 
including the information required by 
section 311A of the Act, is available from: 
www.futureplc.com/investors.
Attendance at the AGM
2.   If you wish to attend the meeting in 
person, please bring the attendance card 
attached to your form of proxy and arrive at 
Future’s Headquarters in sufficient time for 
registration. Directions will be provided at 
reception and the venue is accessible for 
the disabled. Appointment of a proxy does 
not preclude a member from attending the 
meeting and voting in person. If a member 
has appointed a proxy and attends the 
meeting in person, the proxy appointment 
will automatically be terminated.
Appointment of proxies
3.   Any member entitled to attend and vote 
at the meeting may appoint one or more 
proxies to attend, speak and vote in their 
place. A member may appoint more than 
one proxy provided that each proxy is 
appointed to exercise the rights attached 
to a different share or shares held by 
that shareholder. If you appoint multiple 
proxies for a number of shares in excess 
of your holding, the proxy appointments 
may be treated as invalid. A proxy need 
not be a member of the Company. A 
proxy card is enclosed. To be effective, 
proxy cards should be completed in 
accordance with these notes and the 
notes to the proxy form, signed and 
returned so as to be received by the 
Company’s Registrars: 
  Computershare Investor Services plc, 
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road,  
Bristol BS99 6ZY 
  not later than 12 noon on Thursday 
30 January 2014 being two business 
days before the time appointed for the 
holding of the meeting. If you submit 
more than one valid proxy appointment, 
the appointment received last before the 
latest time for the receipt of proxies will 
take precedence.
Electronic appointment of proxies
4.   As an alternative to completing the  
printed proxy form, you may appoint a 
proxy electronically by visiting the  
following website:  
www.investorcentre.co.uk/eproxy 
   
  You will be asked to enter the Control 
Number, the Shareholder Reference 
Number (SRN) and PIN as printed on your 
proxy form and to agree to certain terms 
and conditions. To be effective, electronic 
appointments must have been received by 
the Company’s Registrars not later than  
12 noon on Thursday 30 January 2014.
Number of shares in issue
5.   As at the close of business on  
13 December 2013 (being the last 
business day prior to the publication of  
this notice) the Company’s issued share 
capital consisted of 333,476,541  
Ordinary shares of one penny each.  
Each Ordinary share carries one vote. 
There are no shares held in treasury. 
The total number of voting rights in the 
Company is therefore 333,476,541.
Documents available for inspection
6.   Printed copies of the service contracts of 
the Company’s Directors and the letters 
of appointment for the non-executive 
Directors will be available for inspection 
during usual business hours on any 
weekday (Saturdays, Sundays and public 
holidays excluded) at the headquarters of 
the Company at
 
 2 Balcombe Street, 
 London NW1 6NW, 
 and at the Company’s registered office at 
 
 30 Monmouth Street, 
 Bath BA1 2BW, 
  including on the day of the meeting from 
11.45am until its completion.
Eligible shareholders
7.   The Company, pursuant to Regulation 
41 of The Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001, specifies that only those 
members on the register of the Company 
as at 6pm on Thursday 30 January 2014 
or, if this meeting is adjourned, in the 
register of members 48 hours before the 
time of any adjourned meeting, shall be 
entitled to attend and vote at the meeting 
in respect of the number of shares 
registered in their name at that time. 
Changes to entries on the Register after 
6pm on Thursday 30 January 2014, or, if 
this meeting is adjourned, in the register of 
members 48 hours before the time of any 
adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded 
in determining the rights of any person to 
attend or vote at the meeting.
Indirect investors
8.   Any person to whom this notice is sent who 
is a person that has been nominated under 
section 146 of the Act to enjoy information 
rights (a ‘Nominated Person’) does not 
have a right to appoint a proxy. However, 
a Nominated Person may, under an 
agreement with the registered shareholder 
by whom they were nominated (a ‘Relevant 
Member’), have a right to be appointed (or to 
have someone else appointed) as a proxy 
for the meeting. Alternatively, if a Nominated 
Person does not have such a right, or does 
not wish to exercise it, they may have a 
right under any such agreement to give 
instructions to the Relevant Member as to 
the exercise of voting rights. A Nominated 
Person’s main point of contact in terms of 
their investment in the Company remains 
the Relevant Member (or, perhaps, the 
Nominated Person’s custodian or broker) 
and the Nominated Person should continue 
to contact them (and not the Company) 
regarding any changes or queries relating 
to the Nominated Person’s personal details 
and their interest in the Company (including 
any administrative matters). The only 
exception to this is where the Company 
expressly requests a response from the 
Nominated Person.
Notes
91 Future plc Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
Appointment of proxies  
through CREST
9.   CREST members who wish to appoint 
a proxy or proxies through the CREST 
electronic proxy appointment service 
may do so for the meeting and any 
adjournment(s) thereof by using the 
procedures described in the CREST 
Manual. CREST personal members or other 
CREST sponsored members, and those 
CREST members who have appointed a 
voting service provider(s), should refer to 
their CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s), who will be able to take the 
appropriate action on their behalf.
 
   In order for a proxy appointment or 
instruction made using the CREST service 
to be valid, the appropriate CREST 
message (a ‘CREST Proxy Instruction’) 
must be properly authenticated in 
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland 
Limited’s specifications and must 
contain the information required for such 
instructions, as described in the CREST 
Manual. The message, regardless of 
whether it constitutes the appointment 
of a proxy or to an amendment to the 
instruction given to a previously appointed 
proxy must, in order to be valid, be 
transmitted so as to be received by the 
issuer’s agent (ID 3RA50) by 12 noon 
on Thursday 30 January 2014, or, if 
the meeting is adjourned, not less than 
48 hours before the time fixed for the 
adjourned meeting. For this purpose, the 
time of receipt will be taken to be the time 
(as determined by the timestamp applied 
to the message by the CREST Applications 
Host) from which the issuer’s agent is 
able to retrieve the message by enquiry 
to CREST in the manner prescribed by 
CREST. After this time any change of 
instructions to proxies appointed through 
CREST should be communicated to the 
appointee through other means.
  CREST members and, where applicable, 
their CREST sponsors or voting service 
providers should note that Euroclear UK 
& Ireland Limited does not make available 
special procedures in CREST for any 
particular messages. Normal system 
timings and limitations will therefore apply 
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy 
Instructions. It is the responsibility of the 
CREST member concerned to take (or, if 
the CREST member is a CREST personal 
member or sponsored member or has 
appointed a voting service provider(s), to 
procure that his CREST sponsor or voting 
service provider(s) take(s)) such action 
as shall be necessary to ensure that a 
message is transmitted by means of the 
CREST system by any particular time. In 
this connection, CREST members and, 
where applicable, their CREST sponsors 
or voting service providers are referred, in 
particular, to those sections of the CREST 
Manual concerning practical limitations of 
the CREST system and timings.
  The Company may treat as invalid 
a CREST Proxy Instruction in the 
circumstances set out in Regulation 
35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001.
Amending a proxy
10.   To change a proxy instruction, a member 
needs to submit a new proxy appointment 
using the methods set out above. Note 
that the deadlines for receipt of proxy 
appointments (see above) also apply 
in relation to amended instructions; 
any amended proxy appointment 
received after the relevant deadline 
will be disregarded. Where a member 
has appointed a proxy using the paper 
proxy form and would like to change the 
instructions using another such form,  
that member should contact the 
Registrars on +44 (0)870 707 1443. 
  If more than one valid proxy appointment 
is submitted, the appointment received 
last before the deadline for the receipt of 
proxies will take precedence.
Revoking a proxy
11.   In order to revoke a proxy instruction, a 
signed letter clearly stating a member’s 
intention to revoke a proxy appointment 
must be sent by post or by hand to the 
Company’s Registrars:
 Computershare Investor Services plc,  
 The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, 
 Bristol BS99 6ZY. 
  Note that the deadlines for receipt of 
proxy appointments (see above) also 
apply in relation to revocations; any 
revocation received after the relevant 
deadline will be disregarded.
Corporate members
12.  In the case of a member which is a 
company, any proxy form, amendment 
or revocation must be executed under its 
common seal or signed on its behalf by an 
officer of the company or an attorney for 
the company. Any power of attorney or any 
other authority under which the documents 
are signed (or a duly certified copy of such 
power of authority) must be included. A 
corporate member can appoint one or 
more corporate representatives who may 
exercise, on its behalf, all its powers as a 
member provided that no more than one 
corporate representative exercises powers 
over the same share. 
Joint holders
13.   Where more than one of the joint holders 
purports to appoint a proxy, only the 
appointment submitted by the member 
whose name appears first on the register 
will be accepted.
Questions at the AGM
14.   Under section 319A of the Act, the 
Company must answer any question you 
ask relating to the business being dealt 
with at the meeting unless:
(a)  answering the question would interfere 
unduly with the preparation for the 
meeting or involve the disclosure of 
confidential information;
(b)   the answer has already been given on 
a website in the form of an answer to a 
question; or
(c)   it is undesirable in the interests of the 
Company or the good order of the meeting 
that the question be answered.
Members’ right to require circulation of 
a resolution to be proposed at the AGM
15.   Under section 338 of the Act, a member 
or members meeting the qualification 
criteria set out at note 18 below, may, 
subject to conditions set out at note 19, 
require the Company to give to members 
notice of a resolution which may properly 
be moved and is intended to be moved at 
that meeting.
92 Annual Report and Accounts 2013  Members’ right to have a matter of 
business dealt with at the AGM
16.   Under section 338A of the Act, a member 
or members meeting the qualification 
criteria set out at note 18 below, may, 
subject to the conditions set out at note 
19, require the Company to include in the 
business to be dealt with at the AGM a 
matter (other than a proposed resolution) 
which may properly be included in the 
business (a matter of business).
Website publication of any  
audit concerns
17.   Pursuant to Chapter 5 of Part 16 of the 
Act, where requested by a member or 
members meeting the qualification criteria 
set out at note 18 below, the Company 
must publish on its website a statement 
setting out any matter that such members 
propose to raise at the AGM relating to 
the audit of the Company’s accounts 
(including the auditors’ report and the 
conduct of the audit) that are to be laid 
before the AGM.
  Where the Company is required to publish 
such a statement on its website:
(a)   it may not require the members making 
the request to pay any expenses  
incurred by the Company in complying 
with the request;
(b)   it must forward the statement to the 
Company’s auditors no later than the time 
the statement is made available on the 
Company’s website; and
(c)   the statement may be dealt with as part of 
the business of the AGM.
 The request:
(d)  may be in hard copy form or in electronic 
form and must be authenticated by the 
person or persons making it (see note 
19(d) and (e) below);
(e)   should either set out the statement in 
full or, if supporting a statement sent 
by another member, clearly identify the 
statement which is being supported; and
(f)   must be received by the Company at least 
one week before the AGM.
Members’ qualification criteria
18.   In order to be able to exercise the 
members’ rights set out in notes 15 to  
17 above the relevant request must  
be made by:
(a)   a member or members having a right to 
vote at the AGM and holding at least 5%  
of total voting rights of the Company; or
(b)   at least 100 members having a right to vote 
at the AGM and holding, on average, at 
least £100 of paid up share capital.
Conditions
19.  The conditions are that:
(a)   any resolution must not, if passed, 
be ineffective (whether by reason of 
inconsistency with any enactment or the 
Company’s constitution or otherwise);
(b)   the resolution or matter of business must 
not be defamatory of any person, frivolous 
or vexatious;
 
(c)  the request:
(i)   may be in hard copy form or in  
electronic form;
(ii)   must identify the resolution or the matter of 
business of which notice is to be given by 
either setting it out in full or, if supporting 
a resolution/matter of business sent by 
another member, clearly identifying the 
resolution/matter of business which is 
being supported;
(iii)   in the case of a resolution, must be 
accompanied by a statement setting out 
the grounds for the request;
(iv)   must be authenticated by the person or 
persons making it; and
(v)   must be received by the Company not 
later than six weeks before the date of  
the AGM;
(d)   in the case of a request made in hard copy 
form, such request must be:
(i)   signed by you and state your full name and 
address; and
(ii)   sent either: by post to 
 Company Secretary, 
 Future plc, 
 Beauford Court,  
 30 Monmouth Street, 
 Bath BA1 2BW; 
 or by fax to +44(0)1225 732266  
 marked for the attention of the  
 Company Secretary; and
  
(e)   in the case of a request made in electronic 
form, such request must:
(i)  state your full name and address; and
(ii)   be sent to cosec@futurenet.com.  
Please state ‘AGM’ in the subject line of 
the email. You may not use this electronic 
address to communicate with the 
Company for any other purpose.
Notice of  
Annual General 
Meeting
93 Future plc Strategic Report Financial Review Financial Statements Corporate Governance
Registrar and transfer office
The Company’s share register is maintained by:
Computershare Investor Services plc
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS13 8AE
Tel: +44 (0)870 707 1443
Shareholders should contact the Registrar, 
Computershare, in connection with changes 
of address, lost share certificates, transfers 
of shares and bank mandate forms to enable 
automated payment of dividends.
Online information –  
www.investorcentre.co.uk
Our Registrar, Computershare, has a service 
to provide shareholders with online internet 
access to details of their shareholdings. 
The service is free, secure and easy to use.  
To register for the service, go to 
www.investorcentre.co.uk.
Unsolicited mail
The share register is by law a public document. 
To limit the receipt of mail from other 
organisations, please register with the Mailing 
Preference Service, by visiting 
www.mpsonline.org.uk/mpsr/.
Warning to shareholders –  
‘boiler room’ scams
In recent years, many companies have become 
aware that their shareholders have received 
unsolicited phone calls or correspondence 
concerning investment matters. These are 
typically from overseas-based ‘brokers’ who 
target UK shareholders, offering to sell them 
what often turn out to be worthless or high-
risk shares in US or UK investments. These 
operations are commonly known as ‘boiler 
rooms’. These ‘brokers’ can be very persistent 
and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey 
by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) 
reported that the average amount lost by 
investors is around £20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been 
duped in this way; many of the victims had 
been successfully investing for several years. 
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of 
any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares 
at a discount or offers of free company reports. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice:
•  Make sure you get the correct name of the 
person and organisation
•  Check that they are properly authorised by 
the FCA before getting involved by visiting 
 www.fca.org.uk/register
•  Report the matter to the FCA either by 
calling 0800 111 6768 or by completing the 
fraud reporting form on the FCA website at: 
  w w w . f c a . o r g . uk /c o n s um e r s / s c a m s /
investment-scams/share-fraud-and-
boiler-room-scams/reporting-form
• If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will 
not be eligible to receive payment under the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
Details of any share dealing facilities that 
the Company endorses will be included in 
company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar 
activity can be found at 
www.moneyadviceservice.org.uk.
Directors
Peter Allen 
Chairman 
Mark Wood
Chief Executive
Zillah Byng-Maddick
Chief Financial Officer 
and Company Secretary
Manjit Wolstenholme
Senior independent non-executive Director
Seb Bishop
Non-executive Director
Mark Whiteling
Non-executive Director
Offices
Headquarters
2 Balcombe Street
London NW1 6NW
Tel +44 (0)20 7042 4000
www.futureplc.com 
Registered office
Future plc
Beauford Court
30 Monmouth Street
Bath BA1 2BW
Tel +44 (0)1225 442244
Company registration number 3757874
Registered in England and Wales
Advisers
Independent auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered accountants and auditors
31 Great George Street
Bristol BS1 5QD  
Broker
Numis Securities Ltd
10 Paternoster Square
London EC4M 7LT
Principal bankers
Barclays Bank plc
1 Churchill Place
London E14 5HP
Solicitors
Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
3 More London Riverside
London SE1 2AQ
Registrars
Computershare Investor Services plc
The Pavilions
Bridgwater Road
Bristol BS13 8AE 
Financial calendar
Announcement of annual results 
22 November 2013
Annual General Meeting
3 February 2014
Half-year end
31 March 2014
Announcement of interim results
May 2014
Financial year-end
30 September 2014
For enquiries of a general nature regarding the Company and 
for investor relations enquiries please contact Zillah Byng-
Maddick at the Company’s Headquarters, or visit  
www.futureplc.com and select the investor relations section.
Investor information
94 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Future plc
Headquarters
2 Balcombe Street
London 
NW1 6NW
United Kingdom
Tel +44 (0)20 7042 4000
Registered office
Beauford Court
30 Monmouth Street
Bath 
BA1 2BW
United Kingdom
Tel +44 (0)1225 442244
www.futureplc.com
Future Publishing Ltd
Headquarters
2 Balcombe Street
London 
NW1 6NW
United Kingdom
Tel +44 (0)20 7042 4000
Registered office
Beauford Court
30 Monmouth Street
Bath 
BA1 2BW
United Kingdom
Tel +44 (0)1225 442244
Future US, Inc.
4000 Shoreline Court
Suite 400
South San Francisco
CA 94080
USA
Tel +1 650 872 1642
Future Publishing 
(Overseas) Ltd
Suite 3, Level 10
100 Walker Street
North Sydney
NSW 2060
Australia
Tel +61 2 9955 2677
Contacts 
