 Group 4 Securicor plc
The Manor, Manor Royal,
Crawley, West Sussex
RH10 9UN, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1293 554 400
Registered no. 4992207
www.g4s.com
Group 4 Securicor plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
A World of Security Solutions
2005
A World of Security Solutions
Group 4 Securicor plc Annual Report and Accounts Year ended 31 December 2005 01 Our Vision & Values
03 Business Highlights
04 Group at a Glance
06 Chairman’s Statement
08 Chief Executive’s Review
12 Our People
14 Operating Review
24 Financial Review
28 Corporate Citizenship
30 Board of Directors
32 Executive Management
34 Report of the Directors
37 Corporate Governance Statement
40 Directors’ Remuneration Report
48 Unaudited pro forma financial information
50 Statement of directors’ responsibilities
in respect of the annual report and financial statements
51 Independent auditor’s report to the
members of Group 4 Securicor plc
52 Consolidated income statement
53 Consolidated balance sheet
54 Consolidated cash flow statement
55 Consolidated statement of recognised
income and expense
56 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
104 Independent auditor’s report to the
members of Group 4 Securicor plc
105 Parent company balance sheet
106 Notes to the parent company balance sheet
110 Group financial record
111 Notice of Annual General Meeting
113 Financial calendar and corporate addresses
CONSTANT/CHANGE
In a world of constant change,
we strive to develop our position
as the global leader in the
provision of security services,
cash services and justice services
in more than 100 countries
across the world.
  OUR VISION
The group has a clear corporate vision and
a strong set of values which ensure that
everyone is clear about the strategy of the
organisation and their role in its delivery:
To be recognised as a global leader
in providing security solutions.
Recognised – our stakeholders know the
organisation well and respect its position
as a leader in its field.
Global Leader – the largest security
company in the world, which delivers the
highest quality services in the fields of
security services, cash services and justice
services, and achieves the best financial
returns in the industry.
Security Solutions – we take time 
to get close to our customers to ensure
that we understand their security needs –
our skill is in providing solutions to their
needs which deliver business benefits 
for them.
CHANGING NEEDS / CONSTANT VISION
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 J
Customer Focus – The organisation focuses on customers –
understanding the issues they face, the markets in which they
operate, and delivering the highest quality of service.
J
Expertise – We are experts in security solutions and know
what makes a difference to our customers.
J
Performance – Through understanding customers’
needs, applying our expertise and working together to 
always deliver on what we promise, we are able to drive
superior performance - service performance for customers
and financial performance for the organisation and 
its shareholders.
J
Best People – By attracting, employing and developing the
best people in the industry, we use our security expertise to
develop solutions to customers’ needs.
J
Integrity – Integrity is a fundamental principle of our
organisation – openness, honesty and operating to the 
group’s ethical standards underpins every element of 
the organisation.
J
Teamwork & Collaboration – Teamwork and collaboration
is the “glue” which binds the organisation together. Our
people strive to create the best organisation and to deliver 
on what we promise to our stakeholders.We will only achieve
our vision by working together. Sharing of knowledge and
resources brings continuous improvement and ongoing
development of the organisation.
OUR VALUES
  03
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
OUR PERFORMANCE
FOR 2005
Organic growth +7%
Group turnover of continuing businesses +8.2%
to £4.13 billion
*
PBITA
**
of continuing businesses +16%
to £254m
*
Operating cash flow of £198m
80% of PBITA
**
Continuing Turnover
Manned Security – 70%
Cash Services – 21%
Security Systems – 9%
2005
Whilst bringing the new
organisation together
and developing the
strategy for the future,
we have also continued
to drive growth,
improve profits and
develop a platform
from which the
company can continue
to move forward.
Continuing PBITA
**
Manned Security – 61%
Cash Services – 27%
Security Systems – 12%
2005
* at constant exchange rates, with 2004 comparatives being proforma for the combined businesses
** PBITA = Profit before interest, taxation, amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles and exceptional items 04
THE GLOBAL LEADER IN SECURITY SOLUTIONS
Group 4 Securicor is the global leader in the provision of security
services, cash services and justice services in more than 100
countries across the world.
NORTH AMERICA:
50,439 employees
Canada
United States
MIDDLE EAST:
15,787 employees
Bahrain 
Egypt
Israel 
Jordan 
Kuwait 
Lebanon
Oman 
Qatar 
Saudi Arabia
Syria 
United Arab Emirates 
Y emen 
ASIA PACIFIC:
138,098 employees
Australia
Azerbaijan 
Bangladesh 
Brunei 
China 
Guam 
Hong Kong 
India 
Indonesia 
Kazakhstan 
Korea 
Macau 
Malaysia 
Nepal 
Pakistan 
Philippines 
Singapore 
Taiwan 
Thailand 
Uzbekistan
AFRICA:
68,864 employees
Botswana 
Cameroon 
Central African Republic
Democratic Republic of Congo
Gambia 
Ghana 
Ivory Coast 
Kenya 
Lesotho 
Malawi 
Morocco 
Mozambique 
Namibia 
Nigeria 
Sierra Leone 
South Africa 
Tanzania 
Uganda 
Zambia
EUROPE:
114,492 employees
Austria Belgium Bulgaria Cyprus Czech
Republic Denmark Estonia Finland
France Germany Greece Guernsey
Hungary Ireland Isle of Man Jersey
Latvia Lithuania Luxembourg Malta
The Netherlands Norway Poland
Romania Russia Slovakia Slovenia
Sweden Turkey Ukraine United Kingdom
CENTRAL / SOUTH AMERICA:
27,371 employees
Argentina 
Barbados 
Bolivia 
Chile 
Colombia 
Costa Rica 
Dominican Republic 
Ecuador 
El Salvador 
Guatemala 
Honduras 
Jamaica
Mexico 
Nicaragua 
Panama 
Paraguay 
Peru 
Puerto Rico 
Trinidad & Tobago 
Uruguay 
Venezuela
Group at a Glance
Countries of Operation: Group 4 Securicor
is a global company operating in over 
100 countries across the world.
Employee numbers as at 31 December 2005
  05
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Continuing turnover by geography
(£m) 2005 / 2004
Europe – 2,395 (58%)
CHANGING MARKETS / CONSTANT OPPORTUNITIES
North America – 1,095 (26.5%)
New Markets – 640 (15.5%)
2005
Europe – 2,289 (60%)
North America – 1,030 (27%)
New Markets – 497 (13%)
2004
*
Continuing PBITA by geography
(£m) 2005 / 2004
Europe – 159.4 (57.2%)
North America – 64.2 (23%)
New Markets – 55.1 (19.8%)
2005
Europe – 145.6 (59.2%)
North America – 59.2 (24.1%)
New Markets – 41.0 (16.7%)
2004
*
* At 2005 exchange rates January 2005
Group 4 Securicor donates
£100,000 to Save the Children to
support countries affected by the
Asian tsunami
February 2005
Group 4 Securicor works with the
bid team for the 2012 Olympics in
London and the police to conduct
a risk audit of the proposed site
of the Olympic Park
April 2005
The Wackenhut Corporation
receives Safety Act Designation 
& Certification from the 
US Department of Homeland
Security
May 2005
Group 4 Securicor launches 
its striking new brand identity
across its global businesses
06
Results
The excellent results for 2005 reflect the first full year of trading
for Group 4 Securicor following completion of the merger
between Securicor and the security businesses of Group 4 Falck
in July 2004.
Profit before interest, taxation, amortisation and exceptional
items increased by 16% from £218.5m* to £254.0m, derived
as to £169.9m from manned security, £32.1m from security
systems and £76.7m from cash services, less head office costs
of £24.7m.The overall profit margin on sales from continuing
business improved from 5.7%* to 6.2%. Organic turnover
growth increased from 6.2%* to 7.0%.Adjusted earnings per
share increased from 9.5p to 11.1p.
* T o show a meaningful comparison, these prior year figures are
pro forma, and at constant exchange rates.
Dividend
In accordance with the board’s aim to reduce the company’s
target dividend cover from over three times to two and a half
times over the medium term, the directors recommend a final
dividend of 2.24p or DKK0.2435 per share, payable on 11 July
2006, which, taken with the interim dividend of 1.30p or
DKK0.143 per share paid on 16 December 2005, makes a total
dividend of 3.54p or DKK0.3865 per share for the year ended
31 December 2005.This compares with a total dividend of
2.71p per share for 2004 for those shareholders who formerly
held Securicor shares and 1.85p per share for those
shareholders who formerly held Group 4 Falck shares.
Chairman’s Statement
“IT GIVES ME GREAT PLEASURE TO PAY
TRIBUTE TO THE FOUR HUNDRED
THOUSAND GROUP EMPLOYEES
AROUND THE WORLD.
They uphold and enhance Group 4 Securicor’s
excellent reputation as the world leader in the
security industry.” Jørgen Philip-Sørensen
The first full year of trading for
Group 4 Securicor focused on
bringing together two organisations
to create one company which is
stronger and able to maximise the
opportunities available across a wide
range of markets. 07
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Board changes
I paid tribute in my statement last year to Lars Nørby Johansen
and Colin Sharman who left us, respectively, on 30 June and 
31 December 2005.
Grahame Gibson joined the board on 1 April 2005 and
became Chief Operating Officer in July.At the start of this year,
we welcomed Mark Seligman to the board as a non-executive
director. Mark has an impeccable City background and is already
proving a valuable addition to the board.
Last September,Waldemar Schmidt announced that he would
retire following the annual general meeting in June 2006.
I accepted his decision with regret as he is one of the most
experienced service sector industrialists in Europe.
As previously announced, I will retire following the Annual
General Meeting after 50 years of service in the industry.
It is service which I have thoroughly enjoyed. I am delighted
that Alf Duch-Pedersen will take over from me as chairman
of the board. I believe firmly that the board is well structured
to take on new challenges in the future. It has my full support
as a major shareholder.
Staff tributes
It gives me great pleasure to pay tribute to the four hundred
thousand group employees around the world.They uphold and
enhance Group 4 Securicor’s excellent reputation as the world
leader in the security industry. I thank all of them, for their
support both to the group and to me personally, and I send
them my very best wishes for the future.
Future prospects
The first full year of trading for Group 4 Securicor focused on
bringing together two organisations to create one company
which is stronger and able to maximise the opportunities
available across a wide range of markets.The integration of
the two companies has been a great success and is a credit
to everyone involved in the process.Whilst bringing the
organisation together and developing the strategy for the future,
we have also continued to drive growth, improve profits and
develop a platform from which the company can continue to
move forward.
Our decision to significantly increase the dividend for 2005 and
to aim to reduce dividend cover over the medium term reflects
the culmination of a successful merger and our confidence in
the strength of our business and the sustainability of its
performance into the future.
Jørgen Philip-Sørensen
Chairman
CHANGING DYNAMICS / CONSTANT PERFORMANCE
July 2005
G4S Justice Services acquires 
ADT Offender Monitoring and
consolidates its position as the
global leader in offender monitoring
services
August 2005
Group 4 Securicor sells the security
contracts and related assets of
Cognisa Security, Inc. to US Security
Associates, Inc.
October 2005
Group 4 Securicor announces a
26% Black Economic Empowerment
deal with Kagiso Ventures and a
newly established employee trust 
in South Africa
November 2005
G4S Cash Services (UK) agrees 
a landmark four-year pay deal 
for its employees
  08
We had some very strong
performances in 2005,
particularly from the 
cash services division,
the US security services 
business and New 
Markets overall.
2005 Performance
Having announced a substantial merger in 2004, the next
eighteen months were bound to be challenging for the
organisation as we focused on bringing two large international
companies together, achieving the cost savings that we had
promised to our investors and maintaining our focus on the
day-to-day business.
We were extremely pleased with the business performance
achieved in 2005 and it was a credit to everyone in the
organisation who worked so hard to ensure that the integration
went smoothly and that the focus on the business did not
waiver through an incredible time of change.
When we presented our full year results to the market in
March 2006 we were pleased to report that:
> Our strong growth record continued in 2005 with organic
growth at 7% and overall turnover growth up 8.2% to
£4.13 billion.
> PBITA was up 16% at constant exchange rates to
£254 million, representing a margin improvement of 0.5%
to 6.2% overall.
> We had generated £198 million as cash flow, representing
80% of PBITA – exactly in line with the group target.
> Adjusted earnings per share increased to 11.1p.
> We increased our final dividend by 21% to 2.24 pence
per share and announced a new dividend policy, with the
medium term aim of reducing our dividend cover to two
and a half times earnings.
We exited 2005 with some challenges remaining in a number
of European manned security markets and in the German cash
services market which was experiencing a certain amount of
turmoil following the difficulties caused by a major competitor.
We had some very strong performances in 2005, particularly
from the cash services division, the US security services business
and New Markets overall.
Chief Executive’s Review
“WE WERE EXTREMELY PLEASED WITH THE
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE ACHIEVED IN 2005
AND IT WAS A CREDIT TO EVERYONE IN THE
ORGANISATION WHO WORKED SO HARD
to ensure that the integration went smoothly and that the
focus on the business did not waiver through an incredible
time of change.” Nick Buckles 09
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Our strong growth record continued in 2005 with overall
organic growth of 7%, significantly stronger than the 6.2%
achieved in 2004.
The highlights in growth terms were North America manned
security which grew 8.5%, the cash services division which
achieved 6.2% and New Markets overall which continue to
grow strongly at more than 20%.
Future Growth Opportunities
We expect future growth to continue across all product areas
towards our medium-term targets. New Markets continue to
grow strongly overall and, as our cash services businesses in
different countries move through the phases of development
from pure cash-in-transit to cash management and ATM
outsourcing, there are further opportunities for the businesses
to grow.
We have a great deal of expertise in the cash services sector
within the group and will focus on spreading this further
throughout the organisation.
Our ability to service international accounts is a strong point of
differentiation for the organisation, made possible through our
global coverage.We expect demand for quality security services
across international boundaries to increase in the future as blue
chip organisations become more global and require high quality,
consistent services across their operations.
G4S Global Risks, our consulting and specialist security business,
has opportunities for future growth across a wide range of
services, from risk consultancy to investigative and government
security support services. By using the international footprint
of the group, the business is able to provide these specialist
services across a wide range of countries.
Opportunities for the development of Justice Services exist in
exporting our expertise into new markets as well as growing
our current contract base, particularly in electronic monitoring
of offenders.
We do not believe that there will be substantial opportunities
for combined security systems and manned security in the
short term, but we are confident that, by having a systems
capability closely aligned to our manned security businesses,
we will be able to take advantage of opportunities to provide
complete security solutions to our customers.
We have recently brought our manned security and security
systems businesses closer together as a single division, focused
on providing security solutions to our customers.
Our systems businesses remain key to our strategy, but we do
not intend to build up a large systems division to compete with
global systems competitors. Our focus will be on a few niche
areas which add value to our manned security business.
CHANGING BOUNDARIES / CONSTANT DELIVERY
ORGANIC GROWTH TARGETS
Manned Security
Developed Markets 5%+
Manned Security
Developing Markets 10%+
Security Systems 8%+
Cash Services 8%+
Justice Services 15%+
2005 Organic Growth
North New
Organic Growth 2005 Europe America Markets Total
Manned Security 2.5% 8.5% 19.3% 7.1%
Security Systems 4.0% 63.2% 48.7% 8.0%
Cash Services 5.8% (5.0%) 19.8% 6.2%
T otal 3.7% 7.7% 21.1% 7.0% 10
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
Future Margin Progression
We will achieve future margin progression through driving
growth in our traditional sectors, through product development
and market development, and as a result of our usual tight
control of costs and effective management of resources.There
are also a number of businesses which were operating below
our margin targets in 2005 and our focus in 2006 will be on
bringing these businesses back up to the expectations of the
group as quickly as possible.
Mergers & Acquisitions
Our acquisition strategy remains unchanged and focused on a
few key areas.We are constantly seeking bolt-on acquisitions
across all services which add scale or additional expertise to
our businesses or continue to consolidate fragmented markets.
Whilst the organisation currently operates in more than 100
countries, we will seek to fill any appropriate geographic gaps
in the security services businesses.This will enable further
development of our Global Risks customer base and increase
the opportunities for expanding international accounts.
In cash services, it is not essential to have wide international
coverage, but it is important to be the market leader in each
market and to choose markets carefully depending on the role
of the central bank, the sophistication of the cash cycle and the
competitive landscape.Therefore, we will be selective about
new country entries and target specific key markets.
Our acquisition strategy will remain focused on these key areas
and we will ensure that any acquisition opportunities meet our
internal criteria – the right businesses, in the right markets and
with the opportunity to deliver the appropriate level of return
on investment.
MARGIN TARGETS
Manned Security
Developed Markets 6%+
Manned Security
Developing Markets 6%+
Security Systems 10%+
Cash Services 10%+
Justice Services 10%+
2005 Margin Development
PBITA Margin by Business Line (%)
10.0
9.0
8.0
7.0
6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
0.0
Manned
Security
Security
Systems
Cash
Services
T otal
5.9 5.9
8.1
8.2
7.7
8.9
5.7
6.2
2004
2005
Note: At constant exchange rates and with prior year comparatives
being pro forma for the combined group
We achieved our targeted 0.5% margin growth in 2005 with
strong progression in Cash Services and Security Systems. 11
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Strategic Development
We believe that the group is uniquely positioned as a provider
of security solutions, focused on the needs of our customers
across a wide range of markets.
In New Markets, it is essential to offer the full range of security
services as customer buying decisions are co-ordinated in this
way. Once a strategic relationship is established, customers
require a single provider to take care of their every security need.
We believe that future demand will continue to focus on
combined security solutions, where security systems provide 
a support to the manned security offering.
We have seen significant improvements in the performance of
the cash services businesses as a result of spreading our cash
services expertise throughout businesses involved in providing
these services.
Whilst specific service delivery expertise differs between
various product ranges, we believe that there are shared
competencies amongst our management which provide us 
with competitive advantage. It also means that we have a 
broad talent pool from which we can develop our future
management expertise.
Due to our customer focus, we believe we are stronger as one
organisation providing a range of security solutions than we
would be if focused on a single product area.
Summary & Outlook
The key focus of 2005 was in bringing the two organisations
together, integrating our major businesses and delivering on the
targeted synergy benefits.At the same time we continued with
our organic growth and margin improvements and delivered a
very strong set of trading results.
Some businesses require added focus to get them back on
track, particularly some of the manned security businesses in
Europe. Issues in Germany which surfaced early in 2006 mean
that there is an opportunity for significantly improving the
market for, and the performance of, our cash services business.
Our confidence in our ability to continue to drive through
strong results is reflected in our decision to increase dividends
and our commitment to reducing dividend cover over time.
We are extremely pleased with the performance of the group
in its first full year of trading and are confident that we will be
able to continue this success into the future.
Nick Buckles
Chief Executive Officer
  12
GROUP 4 SECURICOR HAS A CLEAR STRATEGY
to ensure that the organisation derives the optimum performance
from its people in pursuit of the group’s vision and values.
We have adopted a performance management
culture which ensures our people remain close
to our customers, use their expertise to make
sound decisions and are fully accountable for
their actions.
The development of our culture and values is
an ongoing, evolving process. By living our values
every day and working together, our people will
ensure that we achieve our vision.
We understand what it means to be a leader in
Group 4 Securicor.We have identified the areas
of leadership competence which have relevance
across all our businesses, regardless of product
or geographic region.We invest in those
development activities which improve
performance for our customers and our
business as well as enabling people to realise
their potential for future roles.
Investing in our people and providing
opportunities for career development means
that high achievers are able to flourish. In 2005
we launched a Global Leadership Programme
which is designed to develop the leaders of the
future from high potential managers within the
business.Through this innovative programme,
our people are being encouraged to develop
their leadership capability and their business and
security expertise in line with the way our
business is developing as a whole.
Following an intensive selection process, a
number of high potential managers from across
the world were invited to join the two-year
Global Leadership Programme.This programme,
designed in conjunction with the world famous
Manchester Business School (MBS), allows the
candidates to attend a series of quarterly
seminars held in various G4S operating areas
on different continents. Here they receive the
latest business management tools from MBS
alongside tutorials from some of the group’s top
executives. Each year a new intake of such
managers will join the programme.
2005 has been a year of great change for 
every employee. In May 2005 we introduced
the new G4S brand and the businesses have
until December 2006 to fully implement it
across all our operations.While the physical
manifestation of the brand is complex in such a
large organisation, the real challenge is ensuring
that the values which support the brand are
lived by our people and become an everyday
part of doing business.
A culture and values programme has begun
within the business, led by the group’s Executive
Committee.The objective of the programme is
to ensure that the way we do business around
the world is aligned with our brand values. We
believe that this will be key to achieving our
vision.The programme aims to ensure that
every employee understands our values, what
they stand for and, more importantly, how to
live them.
We want our people to feel proud of the
organisation they work for – proud to wear
their uniform and to know that, when they 
see the G4S name, they are part of a global
organisation committed to delivering security
expertise to its customers and which invests
in the training and development of its people
at every level.
Through our brand values we will continue to
build a successful and sustainable business with
every employee understanding the importance
and value of their own contribution.
Our People
  13
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
CHANGING PROSPECTS / CONSTANT FOCUS
DRIVING THROUGH
THE BRAND VALUES
WILL ENABLE THE
BUSINESS TO DELIVER
ITS VISION AND
STRATEGY
WE HAVE ADOPTED
A PERFORMANCE
MANAGEMENT
CULTURE WHICH
ENSURES OUR
PEOPLE REMAIN
CLOSE TO OUR
CUSTOMERS
WE ARE AN
ORGANISATION
WHICH IS SERIOUS
ABOUT THE TRAINING
AND DEVELOPMENT
OF ITS PEOPLE AT
EVERY LEVEL.
OUR PEOPLE ARE
BEING ENCOURAGED
TO GROW AND
DEVELOP AT THE 
SAME TIME AS 
OUR BUSINESS 
WE WANT OUR
PEOPLE T O FEEL
PROUD OF THE
ORGANISATION 
THEY WORK FOR 
OUR PEOPLE HELP 
US TO ACHIEVE OUR
AIM TO BE THE BEST
SECURITY SOLUTIONS
PROVIDER IN THE
WORLD 
  14
WE ARE IN THE UNIQUE POSITION OF HAVING A
BROAD GEOGRAPHIC FOOTPRINT COVERING MORE
THAN 100 COUNTRIES WHICH IS UNRIVALLED IN THE
SECURITY INDUSTRY.
Operating Review
Security Services
This enables us to gain local expertise in a wide range
of markets which we can offer to local, regional and
international customers.
We provide security services to numerous sectors,
from commercial buildings and retailers, to sporting
events and high security government facilities.We 
also operate across a number of different cultures 
and phases of economic development – we have 
had operations in many developing markets for more
than 40 years.
In each country in which we operate, we use our
security expertise to understand the market conditions,
our customers’ business and the risks that they face.
This enables us to design security solutions which 
are both practical and effective.
Our security solutions can be tailored for individual sites,
regional, national and international customers.
Demand for consistent security standards across a wide
range of markets is growing as international companies
expand into new markets – we established a new
international accounts sales team in January 2006 
to take advantage of this development.
G4S Global Risks, our consulting and specialist security
business, provides a number of specialist services 
such as risk consultancy, investigative services and
government support services.We are also a major
provider of specialist security to the mining, oil and 
gas industries.
Our New Markets businesses are growing at a
phenomenal pace as economies continue to develop.
In these countries, buying decisions are made across 
a range of products and we work with our customers 
to ensure that we can offer manned security, security
systems, cash services and a range of other security-
related services to meet their needs.
We provide security services to
numerous sectors, from commercial
buildings and retailers, to sporting events
and high security government facilities.
Demand for consistent security standards
across a wide range of markets is growing
as international companies expand into
new markets.
Our New Markets businesses are growing
at a phenomenal pace as economies
continue to develop.
  CHANGING BOUNDARIES
/ CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT
The security services division includes
three main product areas:
Manned Security – Risk management and
the provision of skilled security personnel
for the protection of commercial premises,
aviation sites, retailers and special events.
Security Systems – Supply, installation,
maintenance and monitoring of electronic
security equipment such as intruder
alarms, closed circuit television and access
control systems.
Justice Services – Custody & rehabilitation
services, detention and escorting,
immigration services and electronic
monitoring of offenders.
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
  Case study – Security Services 
United Kingdom
THE G4S SECURITY SERVICES (UK) AEGIS Project (Automated Electronic Guarding Initiative)
was introduced two years ago as a means of achieving Land Securities Trillium’s requirement for
enhanced security throughout its estate, whilst providing a year-on-year cost saving by the reduction
in the manned security presence.
The number and varying sizes of buildings comprising the estate opened up an opportunity to
approach the security in a unique way.A number of areas were identified whereby electronic
security systems would either enhance security or carry out a task automatically, allowing manned
security resource to be reduced and/or utilised more effectively.
A combination of systems is used, comprising primarily G4S’ multiMAX Integrated Access Control
and Alarms Monitoring Systems, together with an Audio/Video Intercom System and the existing
Intruder Detection System.
The overall aim of the AEGIS solution was cost reduction and improved efficiency.A key target for
the customer was an overall reduction in security spend with improved “core hours” manned
guarding.This target was met by the AEGIS solution – with the additional benefit of a better use of
resources out of hours, due to a better deployment of officers.The same performance levels were
achieved, as measured against the customer’s KPIs, at a lower cost.
The customer has seen a reduction of 100,000 manned guarding hours per annum as a result of the
solution, whilst re-aligning remaining resources to better fit its business need.
SECURITY SERVICES KEY MARKETS
Region Market Position (by turnover)
Manned Security Justice Services
USA 2 3
UK 1 3
Netherlands 1 1
Canada 3 –
France 2 –
Denmark 1 –
Sweden 2 –
Germany 2 –
Belgium 1 –
Asia 1 –
Central & Eastern Europe 1 –
Middle East 1 –
Latin America 2 –
South Africa 1 –
Security Services
Key Markets
  In 2005, the manned security division achieved
overall organic growth of 7.1% and margins were
maintained at 5.9% in line with 2004.
Overall organic growth in Europe for the full year
was slightly less than the first half of the year at
2.5% overall, reflecting the challenges of
improving turnover growth in the UK and
Scandinavia.
In the UK organic growth was negative for the
full year, but good cost control and delivery of
the cost savings from integrating the two UK
security businesses meant that profitability was
ahead of target.The business focused on
integrating the two companies, as a result of the
merger in 2004, as well as implementing new
regulatory requirements for individual security
officers to obtain licences to operate in the
industry.This involved extra training, an
examination and criminal background checks
for 10,000 of its staff. Customer retention during
such a period of change was excellent at 85%.
In 2005, the manned security division
achieved overall organic growth of 7.1%
and margins were maintained at 5.9% in
line with 2004.
Justice Services in the UK started new
contracts in electronic monitoring of
offenders and immigration in 2005.
MANNED SECURITY TRADING IN 2005
Turnover PBITA Margins
* At constant £m £m
exchange rates 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Europe* 1,364.5 1,325.5 73.3 75.5 5.4% 5.7%
North America* 1,014.6 958.6 61.0 54.8 6.0% 5.7%
New Markets* 495.2 391.2 35.6 26.3 7.2% 6.7%
T otal* 2,874.3 2,675.3 169.9 156.6 5.9% 5.9%
Exchange differences (34.6) (1.9)
At actual exchange rates 2,640.7 154.7 18
Operating Review
Security Services (continued)
Justice Services in the UK started new contracts in
electronic monitoring of offenders and immigration 
and much of the year was focused on implementing
these contracts and on continuously improving service
levels. As we expected, profitability in Justice Services
was reduced in 2005 compared to prior years as a
result of the terms of the new electronic monitoring 
contract which included lower margins, but increased
geographical coverage and numbers of offenders 
being monitored.
In the Netherlands our manned security business
performed well and finished 2005 with strong organic
growth, mainly through higher volumes in aviation
security contracts.We concluded the divestment of
Falck Security in the Netherlands in November 2005,
which was a condition of the Securicor and Group 4
Falck merger.This meant that stability returned to the
Dutch security market.We expect further
improvements in the Netherlands in 2006.
France had a difficult year as the industry was unable
to recover government-mandated wage increases from
customers during the first half of the year.We have
installed a new management team and expect the
business to improve in 2006.
Elsewhere in Europe, there were strong performances
in Germany, Austria, Hungary, the Baltic States and
Luxembourg. Profitability in Greece returned to
normal levels in 2005, following the boost from the
Athens Olympics security contract in 2004.
Organic growth in North America was 8.5%,
representing a strong performance in the US, but a
difficult year in Canada, which was affected by the full
year impact of the loss of a major contract.
In the US Wackenhut continued its strong performance,
with organic growth of 9% overall.The government and
nuclear customer sectors were particularly strong, and
the commercial sector also performed ahead of
expectations, assisted by additional revenue relating to
services provided as a result of the hurricanes in 2005.
In New Markets organic growth overall was 19.3%,
continuing the strong performance of the first half into
the remainder of the year. India, the Middle East, Latin
America, South East Asia and Central Asia all
performed ahead of expectations.
The business in South Africa has settled down
following the completion of the merger integration
and the conclusion of Black Economic Empowerment
negotiations.
International Accounts are gaining momentum and we
are working hard to make the most of our international
footprint to service these customers.
In the Netherlands our manned security
business performed well and finished
2005 with strong organic growth, mainly
through higher volumes in aviation
security contracts.
In the US Wackenhut continued its
strong performance, with organic growth
of 9% overall.
In New Markets organic growth overall
was 19.3%, continuing the strong
performance of the first half into the
remainder of the year.
  Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
CHANGING BOUNDARIES 
/ CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT
Security Systems
Security systems are a key part of our overall security services proposition.Whilst we do not
compete directly on a global basis with major technology companies, we do have expertise across a
number of key markets.
This allows us to bring together our skilled security workforce with the latest technology to provide
security solutions for our customers.
Our security systems strategy focuses primarily on business customers although we do have
consumer customers in some markets.
We expect demand for combined technology and manpower solutions to grow slowly over time
and our business is well positioned to take advantage of these market developments.
We also have strong expertise in the specialist areas of CCTV and access control and are able to
build these products into our overall security solutions.
We expect demand for combined
technology and manpower solutions to
grow slowly over time and our business is
well positioned to take advantage of these
market developments.
The security systems division achieved
overall organic growth of 8.0% in 2005
and margins improved to 8.2%.
The security systems division achieved overall organic growth of 8.0% in 2005 and margins improved
to 8.2%.This shows strong progress over the previous year.
In Europe organic growth in the systems division was 4% overall, a good improvement on the first
half of the year.
Our largest systems business in Denmark had a very strong year with good margin improvements.
There was also a good result in Israel and improvements in France and Finland where the
businesses moved into profitability in 2005 having made small losses in 2004.
In New Markets systems organic growth was around 49%, continuing the trend of prior years,
albeit from a relatively small revenue base.We continue to introduce security systems capability 
into many new markets, with particularly positive developments in the Middle East, Latin America
and East Africa.
SECURITY SYSTEMS TRADING IN 2005
T urnover PBITA Margins
* At constant £m £m
exchange rates 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Europe * 342.0 323.7 27.7 25.4 8.1% 7.8%
North America * 3.1 1.9 0.4 0.2 12.9% 10.5%
New Markets * 44.5 29.6 4.0 3.0 9.0% 10.1%
Total * 389.6 355.2 32.1 28.6 8.2% 8.1%
Exchange differences (6.0) -
At actual exchange rates 349.2 28.6 20
Operating Review
Cash Services
The cash services division has developed rapidly in
recent years from being a supplier of cash transportation
services to a provider of a broad range of outsourced
cash management services.
In order to be successful in the cash services market,
it is important to have expertise not just in the logistics
and management of cash and valuables, but also the
cash cycle itself. By clearly understanding how cash
circulates throughout an economy, we can help
customers to maximise the efficiency of their cash
management.
We have experts in all aspects of cash services
throughout the group and we work hard to ensure
that this expertise is shared across the organisation.
This helps to drive growth and margin improvements.
We invest in technology to protect the cash and
valuables in our care, to continuously improve our
efficiency and to drive new product development.This
has enabled us to move into new product areas such as
the management of ATM networks,ATM engineering
services and cash centre management.We are currently
developing a retail cash management service which will
vastly improve the efficiency of how cash is managed in
the retail environment.
Countries throughout the world are at different stages
of development in terms of the market for cash
services.With our expertise, we can work with central
and commercial banks, retailers and other customers
to assist in this market development.
In order to be successful in the cash
services market, it is important to have
expertise not just in the logistics and
management of cash and valuables, but
also the cash cycle itself.
We invest in technology to protect the
cash and valuables in our care, to
continuously improve our efficiency and
to drive new product development.
We are currently developing a retail cash
management service which will vastly
improve the efficiency of how cash is
managed in the retail environment.
WE PROVIDE A RANGE OF CASH SERVICES INCLUDING
CASH TRANSPORTATION, COIN & CASH MANAGEMENT,
ATM MANAGEMENT AND REPLENISHMENT, AND FULLY -
OUTSOURCED CASH CENTRE MANAGEMENT.
  CHANGING BOUNDARIES 
/ CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT
The cash services division covers a
wide range of services, focused on the
transportation, storage and management
of cash and valuables on behalf of banks,
retailers and other customers.
Services provided to customers include:
J
Transport and storage of cash 
and valuables
J
Retail cash office management
J
Outsourced cash centre management
J
ATM cash replenishment
J
ATM maintenance
J
ATM engineering
J
ATM network management
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
  Case study – Cash Services
Finland
In Finland, the general public look for the sign 'Otto,' when they want to get cash from an ATM.
'Otto' actually means 'withdrawal' in Finnish.There are some 1700 cash-dispensing ATMs in the
country, all of which are operated under the single ownership of Automatia which is owned by a
number of banks in Finland.
Automatia subcontracts the majority of its cash centre services and transportation of notes and
coins to G4S Cash Services (Finland) which operates through a nationwide network of fourteen
branches. As well as basic cash management services, G4S provides ATM maintenance 
and cash forecasting services to Automatia. In Finland, 90% of cash is withdrawn through ATMs,
so ensuring they are in working order and fully replenished on a regular basis is an essential
service to the public.
G4S and Automatia have had a successful working partnership for many years. In 1999 Automatia
and G4S worked together to develop a currency circulation solution using bank branches and night
safes.This successful partnership continues, and in January 2006 the contract with Automatia was
extended for several years, providing an opportunity to develop further innovations in cash
management.
Such is the importance of the work undertaken by G4S Cash Services in Finland that, in December
2005, the Managing Director of the business was awarded The Knight of the Order of the White
Rose of Finland by the country’s president for his contribution to the cash-carrying and cash
processing sectors and the vital role he played in the smooth transition to the Euro.
CASH SERVICES KEY MARKETS
Region Market Position 
(by turnover)
Cash Services
UK 1
France 3
Germany 1
Sweden 2
Belgium 1
Netherlands 1
Poland 1
Finland 1
Canada 1
Central & Eastern Europe 1
Middle East 1
Asia 1
Cash Services
Key Markets
  The cash services division achieved overall organic
growth of 6.2% in 2005 and margins grew strongly
to 8.9%.
Overall organic growth in Europe was 5.8%, in line
with the first half of 2005 despite a significant reduction
in turnover in Germany caused by major price
reductions across the whole of the German market.
The UK cash services business performed
very strongly in 2005, achieving good growth
and improving profitability whilst absorbing a
significant pay award and maintaining very high
levels of customer service.
There were good growth and margin improvements
in the Netherlands due to excellent cost control
and new business wins in the banking sector.
The cash services division achieved
overall organic growth of 6.2% in 2005
and margins grew strongly to 8.9%.
The UK cash services business performed
very strongly in 2005, achieving good
growth and improving profitability whilst
absorbing a significant pay award.
CASH SERVICES TRADING IN 2005
Turnover PBITA Margins
* At constant £m £m
exchange rates 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004
Europe * 688.6 640.2 58.4 44.7 8.5% 7.0%
North America * 76.9 69.6 2.8 4.2 3.6% 6.0%
New Markets * 100.5 75.7 15.5 11.7 15.4% 15.5%
Total * 866.0 785.5 76.7 60.6 8.9% 7.7%
Exchange differences (11.5) (1.0)
At actual exchange rates 774.0 59.6
In New Markets there was strong organic
growth of around 20%.
The performance in Germany has greatly improved
compared to prior years, although the business remains
slightly loss-making overall. In France, increased security and
wage costs have proved difficult to pass on to customers.
Finland, Ireland, and Belgium are all performing well and
Sweden showed signs of improvement in the last quarter
of 2005, with a new management team driving the
business forward.
In North America, the business in Canada is recovering
from a substantial robbery, leading to additional security
costs. New management have been appointed and we
expect the business to be back on track during the first
half of 2006.
In New Markets, there was strong organic growth of
around 20%.Whilst all markets saw further developments
in bank and ATM outsourcing, growth was particularly
strong in South East Asia, the Middle East and East Africa. 24
Financial Review
“IN JUNE 2005 THE GROUP
CONCLUDED THE REFINANCING OF 
A 5-7 YEAR £1bn MULTICURRENCY
REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY AT 
A REDUCED MARGIN.”
Trevor Dighton
The total dividend of 
3.54p per share represents 
an increase of 31% for a 
former Securicor shareholder 
and 91% for a former 
Group 4 Falck shareholder.
Basis of accounting
The financial statements are presented in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), with the
2004 comparatives being restated from those previously
presented under UK GAAP . Details of the impact of this
restatement were published with the interim announcement
in September 2005 and are summarised in note 43 on
pages 100 to 103.
Comparative information
On 19 July 2004, the security businesses of the former Group 4
Falck A/S (“Group 4”) combined with Securicor plc (“Securicor”)
to become Group 4 Securicor plc.As explained in note 1 to
the financial statements on page 56, the combination between
Group 4 and Securicor is accounted for as an acquisition of the
latter by the former. The reported statutory comparative results
of the group for the year ended 31 December 2004 therefore
include the full year of trading of Group 4 and the trading of
Securicor from the date of acquisition.
Also presented, on pages 48 and 49, is pro forma financial
information in respect of turnover, profit before interest,
taxation, amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets and
exceptional items (PBITA) and operating cash flow information
for which the comparatives shown are those for the combined
businesses now comprising the group for the full year to 
31 December 2004.This pro forma comparative financial
information, which is unaudited, has been compiled to provide
guidance for investors and analysts.
Operating results
The overall results are commented upon by the Chairman
in his statement and operational trading is discussed in the
operating review on pages 14 to 23.
Exceptional item
The exceptional item in the year, excluded from the group’s
calculation of adjusted earnings per share, amounted to £22.2m
and related to post-acquisition restructuring costs. Included
within this is a cost of £4.0m incurred in the reorganisation of
the cash services business in Germany.
  25
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Acquisitions and acquisition-related intangible assets
Cash outflow on acquisitions amounted to £69.7m, including
£51.9m on acquisitions made during the year, which generated
goodwill of £32.6m and other acquisition-related intangible
assets of £11.9m.The contribution made by acquisitions to
the results of the group during the year is shown in note 16
on page 73.
The charge for the year for the amortisation of acquisition-
related intangible assets other than goodwill amounted to
£33.8m. Goodwill is not amortised.Acquisition-related
intangible assets included in the balance sheet at 31 December
2005 amounted to £1,172.7m goodwill and £241.4m other.
Disposals and discontinued operations
Disposals in the year generated a net cash inflow of £42.1m
and a net loss of £6.9m.
The European Commission required the disposal of three
businesses as a condition for their approval of the combination
between Group 4 and Securicor.The disposals of Group 4’s
cash services operation in Scotland and Securicor’s operations
in Luxembourg were completed in March 2005.The disposal 
of Group 4’s manned security operations in the Netherlands
(with the exception of aviation security activities, which have
been retained) was completed in November 2005. During the
disposal process the group only had restricted control over
these operations and in consequence their results have not
been consolidated from 20 July 2004.
The other principal disposal during the year was the sale of the
manned security business of Cognisa in the US in August 2005.
The contribution to the turnover and operating profit of the
group from discontinued operations is shown in note 5 on
pages 64 to 66 and their contribution to net profit, including
the net loss on disposal, is detailed in note 6 on page 68.
IFRS
As a group operating across the world, we welcome moves
towards the harmonisation of accounting standards, including
the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) by the European Union.These are our first financial
statements to be prepared in accordance with IFRS.The
restatement of the 2004 comparatives under IFRS, including
a reconciliation to the financial statements for 2004 prepared
according to UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
(GAAP) as in force at the time, was published in September
2005 and the disclosures required by IFRS 1are represented
in note 43 on pages 100 to 103.
An explanation of the differences between UK GAAP
applicable in 2004 and IFRS applicable in 2005 that impact the
group is given within note 43. The most significant of these
differences are the cessation of goodwill amortisation; the
recognition of a wider range of acquisition-related intangible
assets, other than goodwill, which are subject to amortisation;
the recognition of pension funding balances; the recognition of
an expense in respect of the fair value of share-based payments;
the proportionate consolidation of joint ventures; the
recognition of certain financial instruments at fair value; the
recognition of deferred tax on certain temporary differences,
in particular the intangible assets recognised upon acquisitions,
which would not generate deferred tax under UK GAAP; and
the recognition of proposed dividends as liabilities only when
they have been declared.
The restatement under IFRS of the previously reported results
for 2004 resulted in a reduction of £2.4m in PBITA on the pro
forma basis for the combined group, a reduction of £1.7m in
PBITA on the statutory basis, a reduction in the loss for the year
of £29.5m and a reduction in net assets of £8.1m.
Taxation
The taxation charge of £67.1m provided upon profit from
operations before exceptional items and amortisation of
acquisition-related intangible assets represents a tax rate of
31.4%.Tax relief has been provided against exceptional items
and acquisition-related intangible assets totalling £9.1m. In
addition, a tax charge of £1.8m has been included within the
results from discontinued operations. Potential tax assets in
respect of losses of £123.0m have not been recognised as their
utilisation is uncertain and/or long-term.
  26
Financial Review (continued)
Cash flow
Cash flow in the year to 31 December 2005 was in line
with the group's target following two years of strong cash
generation. Operating cash flow, after capital expenditure,
as disclosed on page 48 was £198.0m (2004: £213.1m),
representing a PBITA cash conversion rate of 63% for the
first half, 93% for the second half and 80% for the full year
(2004: 100%).The increase in working capital during the year
of £45.0m was mainly due to the growth in turnover.
The net cash from operating activities of £174.5m disclosed
in accordance with IAS7 Cash Flow Statements on page 54 is
before capital expenditure of £89.8m, and after cash spend on
one-off items of £38.0m, tax paid of £53.0m and a cash outflow
on other items not included in the operating cash flow
disclosed on page 48 amounting to £22.3m.
Net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals of businesses
amounted to £24.6m.
Increase in net debt in the year resulting from cash flows was
£21.4m and the total increase in net debt, after allowing for
finance leases, borrowings acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries
and translation adjustments, was £70.9m.
Financing and treasury activities
The group’s treasury function is responsible for ensuring the
availability of cost-effective finance and for managing the group’s
financial risk arising from currency and interest rate volatility and
counterparty credit.Treasury is not a profit centre and is not
permitted to speculate in financial instruments.The treasury
department's policies are set by the board.Treasury is subject
to the controls appropriate to the risks it manages.
Financing
On 28 June 2005 the group concluded the refinancing of a
£1bn multicurrency revolving credit facility with a new margin
of 0.225% which is a reduction of 0.15%. Maturity was also
extended as the facility is for five years with options, exercisable
by the lending banks, to potentially extend the term to seven
years.The group has other available facilities of £347m.
At 31 December 2005 net debt of £657.3m represented a
gearing of 68%.The group has sufficient capacity to finance
growth, which will be enhanced by future cash generation.
Interest rates
The group’s investments and borrowings, including those
negotiated after 31 December 2005, are at variable rates of
interest linked to LIBOR and Euribor.The group predominantly
has exposure to interest rate risk in US Dollar and Euro.The
interest risk policy requires treasury to fix a proportion of net
debt on a sliding scale, with a maximum of 80% short term
debt held at fixed rates, reducing to a maximum of 20% of
medium term debt held at fixed rates.The maturity of interest
rate swaps is limited to five years.The market value of swaps
outstanding at 31 December 2005 was £0.3m.
Foreign currency
The group has many overseas subsidiaries and associates
denominated in various different currencies.Treasury policy is
to manage significant translation risks in respect of net operating
assets and income denominated in foreign currencies.The
methods adopted are to use borrowings denominated in
foreign currency supplemented by forward foreign exchange
contracts.The market value of forward contracts outstanding
at 31 December 2005 was a £6.2m liability.
Cash management
T o increase the efficient management of the group’s interest
costs and its short term deposits, overdrafts and revolving
credit facility drawings, the group introduced a global cash
management system in December 2005, full implementation
of which was completed by the end of March 2006.
Dividends
The directors recommend a final dividend of 2.24p per share.
This represents an increase of 21% upon the final dividend for
the year to 31 December 2004.The final dividend, taken with
the interim dividend of 1.30p per share, makes a total dividend
of 3.54p per share for 2005, representing an increase of 31%
over the total dividend for 2004 to former shareholders of
Securicor plc.T o former shareholders of Group 4 Falck A/S, the
total dividend for 2005 represents an increase of 91% over the
dividend for 2004.
In proposing this final dividend, the board considered both the
appropriate level of dividend cover and the future strategy and
prospective earnings of the group. Dividend cover on adjusted
profit in the current year is 3.1 times.The group intends to
increase dividends so as to reduce dividend cover to around
2.5 times over the medium term.
  27
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Corporate governance
The group’s policies regarding risk management and corporate
governance are set out in the Corporate Governance
Statement on pages 37 to 39.
Pensions
The group's primary funded defined benefit pension schemes
are those operated in the UK, but it also operates such
schemes in the Netherlands, Ireland and Canada.The latest full
triennial actuarial assessments of the UK schemes were carried
out at 31 March 2005 in respect of the Group 4 scheme and
at 31 March 2003 in respect of the Securicor scheme.These
assessments and those of the group's other schemes have been
updated to 31 December 2005, including the review of
longevity assumptions.The group's funding shortfall on the
valuation basis specified in IAS19 Employee Benefits was £217m
before tax or £152m after tax (2004: £220m and £154m
respectively).
Although the value of the assets in the funds has increased by
£166m since 2004, this was counteracted by a reduction in
bond rates, which are used to discount liabilities for IAS19
purposes, and by the impact of an increase in projected
longevity.We believe that, over the very long term in which
pension liabilities become payable, improved investment returns
should eliminate the deficit in the schemes in respect of past
service liabilities. However, in recognition of the currently
reported deficits, an additional cash contribution of £23.5m
before tax is being made to the UK schemes in the year
commencing 1 January 2006.
Going concern
The directors are confident that, after making enquiries and on
the basis of current financial projections and available facilities,
they have a reasonable expectation that the group has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future. For this reason they continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Trevor Dighton
Chief Financial Officer
“THE DIRECTORS RECOMMEND
A FINAL DIVIDEND OF 2.24p PER SHARE.
THIS REPRESENTS AN INCREASE OF 21%
UPON THE FINAL DIVIDEND FOR THE
YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER 2004.”
  28
Corporate Citizenship
GROUP 4 SECURICOR IS COMMITTED TO BEING A GOOD
CORPORATE CITIZEN. With operations in more than 100 countries
representing diverse cultures, we believe that there is no single solution
which suits every market.
The group has therefore developed an approach which sets minimum
standards which our various business units can develop further in line
with local regulation and the economic and social environments in
which they operate.
Policies
The group has a number of important policies which clarify
the way that the group and its subsidiaries interact with their
various stakeholders.These policies allow some geographical
variation due to local legislation and business practice, but they
set minimum standards to which all Group 4 Securicor business
units should operate.
The areas covered by these policies include:
> Business Ethics
> Whistle-blowing
> Human Rights
> Health & Safety
> Equal Opportunities & Diversity
> Employee Rights
> Employee Relations & Involvement
> Harassment & Dignity
These policies are issued to all senior managers within the
group, published on the global intranet and incorporated into
new senior management employment contracts. Compliance
with these policies is monitored as part of the group’s overall
internal audit programme. Group policies are reviewed annually.
Human Rights
Group 4 Securicor supports the principles of the United
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is
committed to upholding them in its policies, procedures and
practices. Respect for human rights is and will remain integral 
to the group’s operations.The group treats its employees in
accordance with accepted international human rights conventions.
We take measures to ensure that the work of our employees
does not compromise internationally accepted human rights
conventions, whilst recognising and respecting the diversity in
values and cultures across the different continents in which
we operate.
We endeavour to ensure that we work with business partners
who conduct their business in a way which is compatible with
our policies of respect for human rights and ethical conduct.
We work with customers to ensure that contractual
requirements do not infringe human rights.
Equal Opportunities & Diversity
Group 4 Securicor values all employees for their contribution to
the business and opportunities for advancement are equal and
not influenced by considerations other than performance, ability
and aptitude.The group respects diversity and cultural
differences and understands that these differences are a
strength within the organisation.The group does not tolerate
discrimination on the basis of gender, ethnicity, colour, culture,
religion, sexual orientation or disability.
Employee Relations
With such a large and diverse workforce, maintaining good
employee relations is an extremely important part of the 
group’s strategy.
Employers’ obligations to employees under labour or social
security laws and regulations are respected throughout the
group. Business units and their employees work towards
creating long-term relationships and a working environment in
which team spirit and commitment to our goals is maintained.
The group ensures that individual employees are treated fairly
and with dignity and respect and are provided with the
opportunity to develop to their full potential and to further
their careers with the group.
In order to protect the interests of customers and employees,
and because of the nature of our business, we apply rigorous
pre-employment screening and selection techniques.
Our employment policies comply with relevant national
regulatory requirements throughout our markets and we
respect our obligations under labour and social security laws
and regulations. Employment within the group is freely chosen
with no use of forced, bonded or child labour.
  29
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
CHANGING ENVIRONMENT / CONSTANT COMMITMENT
Employee Participation & Representation
Group 4 Securicor and its subsidiaries respect freedom
of association and the right to collective bargaining and
representation in accordance with local legislation and practice.
The group and its business units work with employees and their
representatives on various issues with the aim of continuously
improving standards, developing operational practices and
training initiatives and making representations on behalf of the
industry and its workers to key influencing groups.We foster
strong, long-term relationships with employees and their
representatives.
Globally we have agreements with over 60 trades unions and
over half of the global workforce is covered by collective
bargaining agreements – a number which grows annually.
Environmental Impact
The main business activity of the group involves the provision 
of skilled security personnel to our customers and therefore the
organisation does not have a significant direct impact on the
environment. However, there are a number of areas in which
the group focuses on reducing its environmental impact.
Energy Usage – We aim to maximise our energy conservation
through adoption of best practices.Where practicable,
computerised heating, lighting and ventilation controls are
installed in buildings.
Recycling & Waste Management – We are committed to
recycling of materials where possible and where the means
to recycle materials exist, for example:
> We use a significant number of containers for the purpose 
of carrying cash each year.Where it is possible (countries
such as the UK, the Netherlands and Germany) these
containers are recycled on behalf of our customers 
and re-used to make new cash carrying containers.
> The group has an international fleet of 35,000 vehicles.
Cash carrying vehicles are unique to the industry and are
equipped with a variety of security measures.They are not,
therefore, appropriate for re-use in other areas once their
life cycle has expired. However, G4S Cash Services (UK)
donates expired vehicles to an organisation which makes
use of any spare parts and then recycles the remaining shell
of the vehicle for future industrial use.
Use of environmentally friendly products – We comply with
the relevant standards on vehicle emissions and encourage
business units to use diesel or unleaded petrol to fuel vehicles.
Fuel conservation is achieved through enhanced vehicle design
and regular maintenance to minimise any impact on the
environment through inefficient fuel management and emissions.
Paper Products – Where possible, the group makes use of
environmentally friendly products and services. At the group
level, any major printing projects such as the annual report
and accounts, interim reports and customer magazines are
all printed on paper which is produced in accordance with
ISO1400 environmental certification and is elementary
chlorine free. Business units throughout the organisation are
encouraged to consider the use of environmentally friendly
products where possible.
Community Support
Employees are encouraged to get involved with their local
community by offering their own time to projects and issues
in the local area in which they work. Examples of this include
becoming a governor of a local school and providing mentoring
for children in the local community.
Sponsorship & Charitable Donations
Employee T rust Fund – The group operates an employee trust
which makes awards, at the discretion of the trustees, to
employees and former employees of the group who are in
particular need of financial assistance, for example for urgent
medical treatment.
Sponsorship Matching Programme – We have introduced 
a sponsorship matching programme for local projects in
which business units are involved around the world.
The programme allows any business unit providing funds
(either corporately or raised by employees) for local
community projects to seek matching funding from Group 4
Securicor plc.The scheme is subject to some simple criteria
which ensure that the programme is focused on local
community projects.
Recognising Community Spirit
A community award was launched during 2005 which
recognises those businesses and individuals which have made
a contribution to the community in which their company
operates.This encourages further involvement from other
employees and businesses and provides examples of best
practice ideas for those businesses which have not yet
developed a community programme.
Other Business Unit Initiatives
Business units throughout the organisation are encouraged to
become involved in other local projects, which are not linked to
the group schemes, in order to contribute to the communities
in which they operate.
  30
Board of Directors
Jørgen Philip-Sørensen (67)
Chairman
He was chairman and chief executive of Group 4 Securitas
(International) BV between 1964 and 2000, and was then chairman of
the board of Group 4 Falck A/S from 2000 until 2004. He holds a
number of directorships for commercial and charitable entities. He is
chairman of the Nomination Committee. He will retire from the board
after the AGM in June 2006.
Alf Duch-Pedersen (59) 
Deputy Chairman
He was a member of the board of Group 4 Falck A/S from 2000 until 2004.
He joined the board of Falck A/S in 1992 and was its chairman when it merged with
Group 4 A/S in 2000. He is CEO of Danisco A/S, chairman of the board of Danske
Bank Aktieselskab, chairman of the British Import Union, a director of the Danisco
Foundation and a member of the executive committee and the general council of the
Confederation of Danish Industries. He is chairman of the Remuneration
Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee. He will retire from his
positions with Danisco this summer and will become the company’s chairman after the
AGM in June 2006, at which time he will step down from the Remuneration Committee.
Nick Buckles (45) 
Chief Executive
He joined Securicor in 1985 as a projects accountant. In 1996 he was
appointed managing director of Securicor Cash Services and he became
chief executive of the security division of Securicor in 1999. He was
appointed to the board of Securicor plc in 2000 and became its chief
executive in January 2002. He was appointed deputy chief executive and
chief operating officer of the company on completion of the merger in
2004, becoming chief executive in July 2005.
Trevor Dighton (56)
Chief Financial Officer
An accountant, he joined Securicor in 1995 after a previous career which
included posts in both the accountancy profession and in industry,
including five years in Papua New Guinea, three years in Zambia and
seven years with BET plc. He was appointed finance director of the
security division of Securicor in 1997 and deputy group finance director
in 2001. He was appointed to the board of Securicor plc as group
finance director in June 2002.
Grahame Gibson (53) 
Executive director and chief operating officer
He was appointed to the board in April 2005. He joined Group 4 in
1983, starting as finance director (UK) and followed by a number of
senior roles, including deputy managing director (UK), vice president
(corporate strategy), vice president (finance and administration), vice
president operations (Central & South Eastern Europe and UK) and
chief operating officer of Group 4 Falck. Following the merger in 2004,
he became divisional president for Americas & New Markets. He was
appointed chief operating officer in July 2005. 31
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Lord Condon (59) 
Non-executive director
He was appointed to the board of Securicor plc in 2000. He joined 
the Metropolitan Police in 1967 and, after holding various senior
appointments in the police force, including a period as Chief Constable
of Kent, served as Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police between
1993 and 2000. He was created a life peer in 2001. He is a member 
of the Remuneration Committee and of the Nomination Committee.
He will assume the chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee after
the AGM in June 2006.
Thorleif Krarup (53) 
Non-executive director
He was appointed to the board of Group 4 Falck A/S in 2003. He is
deputy chairman of Lundbeck A/S, the Lundbeck Foundation LFI A/S and
ALK-Abello A/S, and a director of Bang & Olufsen A/S, Lundbeckfonden
and Scion DTU A/S. He is a former chairman of TDC (Tele Danmark
Corporation) and former group chief executive of Nykredit A/S, Unibank
A/S and Nordea AB. He is chairman of the Audit Committee.
Waldemar Schmidt (65) 
Non-executive director
He was appointed to the board of Group 4 Falck A/S in 2000. He is
chairman of Thrane & Thrane A/S and a non-executive director of Alfa
Laval International AB, Enodis plc and Cicor SA. He was formerly chief
executive of ISS, where he began his career in 1973. He is a member of
the Remuneration Committee. He will retire from the board after the
AGM in June 2006.
Malcolm Williamson (67) 
Senior independent director
He was appointed to the board of Securicor plc in April 2004. After a 28-year
career with Barclays Bank, he became managing director of Girobank in 1985.
In 1989 he joined Standard Chartered plc, being group chief executive from
1993 to 1998. Between 1999 and 2004 he was president and chief executive of
Visa International, Inc., based in San Francisco. He is chairman of CDC Group plc
and National Australia Group Europe Limited, deputy chairman of Resolution plc
and a non-executive director of JP Morgan Cazenove Holdings, National Australia
Bank Limited and Signet Group plc. He has been the senior independent director
since January 2006 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
Bo Lerenius (59) 
Non-executive director 
He was appointed to the board of Securicor plc in April 2004.
After a diverse early business career, he served as chief executive of
Ernstromgruppen, a Swedish building materials operation, between 1985
and 1992 when he joined Stena Line where he was chief executive and
vice chairman. In 1999 he became group chief executive of Associated
British Ports Holdings plc. He is a non-executive director of Land
Securities Group plc and is deputy chairman of the Swedish Chamber 
of Commerce for the United Kingdom. He is a member of the Audit
Committee and of the Remuneration Committee.
Mark Seligman (50) 
Non-executive director
He was appointed to the board in January 2006. An accountant, he
spent 12 years with SG Warburg before joining BZW in 1995 and then,
following the takeover of BZW, becoming head of UK Investment
Banking at CSFB and subsequently deputy chairman of CSFB Europe.
In 2003 he became chairman of UK Investment Banking for CSFB, stepping
down in 2005 to become a senior adviser to the bank. He is a former
member of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and is a director of the
Industrial Development Advisory Board. He is a member of the Audit
Committee and of the Remuneration Committee. 32
Executive Management
  33
Group 4 Securicor 
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
CHANGING CHALLENGES / CONSTANT LEADERSHIP
Nick Buckles Chief Executive Officer
Nick has worked in the security industry for 21 years, focusing
throughout this time on the commercial and strategic aspects of all 
areas of security services.
After a variety of commercial roles throughout the group, he was
responsible for driving significant profit improvements in many Securicor
businesses throughout the 1990's as a business unit managing director
and divisional chief executive of the security division. He was also
instrumental in the development of Securicor’s security sector focus and
in bringing together Group 4 Falck and Securicor to create the new
combined group. Nick became Chief Executive Officer of Group 4
Securicor in July 2005.
Nick is President of ESTA, the European cash services association.
Grahame Gibson COO & Divisional President – Security Services
Grahame has been involved in the security industry for 23 years, having
joined Group 4’s UK operating company in 1983 as Finance Director.
Since that time, Grahame has held a number of operational, management
and board positions in the UK, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria.
His broad experience of the security industry and management of
businesses across a diverse range of cultures has been invaluable to the
group throughout its development. Grahame joined the board of Group
4 Securicor in April 2005.
Grahame is a board member of the Ligue de Sécurité de Surveillance,
the international association of leading security companies.
Søren Lundsberg-Nielsen Group General Counsel
Søren began his career as a lawyer in Denmark and since 1984 he 
has had a wide range of legal experience as General Counsel for
international groups in Denmark, Belgium and the US before joining
Group 4 Falck in 2001 as General Counsel. Søren has been involved 
in a wide range of successful mergers and acquisitions during his career,
including the acquisition of Wackenhut and the merger of Group 4 Falck
and Securicor. Søren now has overall responsibility for all internal and
external legal services for Group 4 Securicor as well as the group’s
insurance programme.
Søren is a Member of The Danish Bar and Law Society, a board member
of the Danish Blood Donation Society and author of the book “Executive
Management Contracts”, published in Denmark.
Trevor Dighton Chief Financial Officer
Trevor has worked in the security industry for 20 years. After several
years in both the accountancy profession and commerce working in the
finance function and general management, he joined BET in 1986 as
Finance Director of their Security and Communications Division.
Trevor joined Securicor in 1995 and, following a number of years as
Finance Director of the security division, he was elected to the board of
Securicor in June 2002 as Group Finance Director. He became Chief
Financial Officer of Group 4 Securicor in July 2004.
Trevor is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants.
Ken Niven Divisional President – Cash Services
Ken has 10 years’ experience in the security industry, having joined
Securicor in 1996 as Operations Director of the UK Cash Services
business where he was later promoted to Managing Director and was
instrumental in the development of new product areas, including cash
centre outsourcing and establishing Securicor’s independent ATM network.
Ken was appointed to his current role in July 2004 and is now responsible
for the cash services division, which includes all of the major cash services
business units, and sharing cash services best practice throughout the
entire organisation. Ken joined the security industry following a successful
career within the logistics management industry where he held senior
roles at Express Foods, Excel Logistics and Coca Cola.
Ken is a member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Irene Cowden Group HR Director
Irene has spent her career in HR management, specialising in employee
relations, organisational development, talent management and
compensation issues. She has been involved in major change projects
including the cultural and integration aspects of mergers and acquisitions
as well as large scale organisational change involving workforce
restructuring, working in partnership with major trades unions.
Irene has worked in the security industry for over 25 years and has held
director level positions at business unit, divisional and corporate level.
Irene is a Member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and
Development (MCIPD). 34
The directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report together with the audited financial statements of Group 4 Securicor plc and the
consolidated financial statements of that company and its subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures (“the group”) for the year ended
31 December 2005.
Group 4 Securicor plc has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and a secondary listing on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange.
1 Principal activities of the group
Group 4 Securicor plc is a parent company with subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures.
The principal activities of the group comprise the provision of manned security services (including justice services), security systems and the
management and transportation of cash and valuables.
2 Group results
The consolidated result for the year and the appropriation thereof are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 52.
Details of major business activities during the year, future developments and prospects of the group are contained on pages 8 to 23.
3 Dividends
The directors propose the following net dividend for the year:
> Interim dividend of 1.30p (DKK 0.143) per share paid on 16 December 2005.
> Final dividend of 2.24p (DKK 0.2435) per share payable on 11 July 2006.
Shareholders on the Danish VP register will receive their dividends in Danish Kroner. Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST or in
certificated form will receive their dividends in sterling unless they prefer to receive Danish Kroner, in which case they should apply in writing to the
Registrars by no later than 7 June 2006.
4 Significant business acquisitions, disposals and developments
In February 2005 OneService, a California-based shipper of diamonds and jewellery, was acquired.
In March 2005 Securicor Luxembourg and Group 4 Falck Cash Services UK were sold.
In March 2005 Universal ATM Services, an Ontario-based provider of cash logistics and ATM services, was acquired.
In August 2005 Cognisa Security sold its security business in the USA.
In September 2005 a further 21% of the shares of Hashmira, the Israeli security company, were acquired, increasing the group’s total shareholding 
to 71%.
In October 2005 the company completed the redemption of the remaining Group 4 A/S shares which it did not already own.
In November 2005 the Dutch manned security business of Falck Security was sold.
Report of the Directors
For the year ended 31 December 2005 Report of the Directors (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2005
35
5 Capital
The authorised and issued share capital of Group 4 Securicor plc at 31 December 2005 is set out on page 93 (note 35 to the consolidated 
financial statements).
Resolution 7 set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 111 is an ordinary resolution granting the directors power to enable them to allot shares up
to an aggregate nominal value of £105,000,000, representing approximately 33% of the issued share capital.The company does not hold any treasury
shares as such. However the 4,206,332 shares held within the employee benefit trust and referred to on page 95 (note 36 to the consolidated financial
statements) are accounted for as treasury shares.The intention of the directors is to allot shares upon the exercise of options granted over Securicor
plc shares and rolled over into options over the company’s shares.The directors do not have any other present intention of exercising this authority.
Resolution 8 is a special resolution granting the directors power to enable them to allot shares for cash (a) in connection with a rights or similar issue
or (b) other than to existing shareholders, in the latter case such allotment being limited to an aggregate nominal value of £15,880,000, representing
approximately 5% of the issued share capital.
Resolution 9 is a special resolution seeking authority to make market purchases of the company’s shares.The maximum number of shares which could
be purchased under this authority is 127,000,000, being a little less than 10% of the number of shares currently in issue.The directors have no present
intention of utilising this authority but believe it appropriate to obtain this flexibility in accordance with common business practice.
Information concerning the company’s shares held under option is set out on pages 93 and 94 (note 35 to the consolidated financial statements).
6 Research and development expenditure
Research in connection with the development of new services and products and the improvement of those currently provided by the group is carried
out continuously. Research and development written off to the income statement during the year amounted to £1.4m (2004: £4.1m).
7 Payment of suppliers
It is the company’s and the group’s policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the payment terms negotiated with them.Thus, prompt payment
is normally made to those suppliers meeting their obligations.The company and the group do not follow any formal code or standard on
payment practice.
At 31 December 2005 the trade creditors of the company represented 30 days (2004: 33 days) of annual purchases.
At 31 December 2005 the consolidated trade creditors of the group represented 46 days (2004: 37.5 days) of annual purchases.
8 Employee involvement
The group keeps employees informed about current activities, progress and general matters of interest by various methods including the group
intranet, staff meetings, newsletters, bulletins and similar items produced by various individual companies.
The group’s policy and practice is to encourage the recruitment and subsequent training, career development and promotion of disabled persons
according to their aptitudes and abilities, and the retention and retraining of employees who become disabled.
9 Political and charitable contributions
The group remains committed to the support of charities, the community, job creation and training. Charitable contributions by the group during the
year amounted to £300,000 (2004: £328,000).
There were no political contributions requiring disclosure under the Companies Act.
  36
10 Substantial holdings
The directors have been notified of the following substantial shareholdings at 29 March 2006 in the ordinary capital of Group 4 Securicor plc:
Skagen Alpha Limited (beneficial ownership of Jørgen Philip-Sørensen) 171,939,961 (13.5%)
Barclays 47,192,159 (3.7%)
Legal & General 41,865,571 (3.3%)
Prudential 41,300,633 (3.2%)
11 Auditor
A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc, chartered accountants, as auditor to the company and for their remuneration to be fixed by the directors
will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
12 Directors
The directors, biographical details of whom are contained on pages 30 and 31, held office throughout the year, with the exception of Grahame
Gibson who was appointed on 1 April 2005 and Mark Seligman who was appointed on 1 January 2006.
Lars Nørby-Johansen left the board on 30 June 2005 and Lord Sharman retired on 31 December 2005. Jørgen Philip-Sørensen and Waldemar
Schmidt will retire from the board on 30 June 2006. Alf Duch-Pedersen will succeed Mr Philip-Sørensen as chairman.
The directors retiring by rotation are Trevor Dighton,Thorleif Krarup and Bo Lerenius who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.The board
believes that they possess experience and expertise relevant to the company’s operations, that they continue to be effective, that they are committed
to the success of the company and that they should be re-elected at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Seligman retires in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offers himself for election.The board believes that Mr Seligman’s
excellent City credentials and experience in investment banking will add significant value to the board and therefore recommends that he be elected
at the Annual General Meeting.
The contracts of service of the executive directors are terminable at 12 months’ notice. None of the non-executive directors has a contract 
of service.
Details of directors’ interests in the share capital of Group 4 Securicor plc and of the directors’ remuneration are set out on pages 40 to 47.
None of the directors had a material interest in any contract significant to the business of the group during the financial year.
By order of the board
Nigel Griffiths The Manor
Secretary Manor Royal
11 April 2006 Crawley
West Sussex RH10 9UN
Report of the Directors (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2005 Corporate Governance Statement
37
The board’s statement on the company’s corporate governance performance is based on the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in
July 2003 (“the Combined Code”).
The Combined Code requires companies to disclose how they apply the code’s principles, and to confirm that they comply with the code’s provisions or,
where they do not comply, to provide an explanation.
(a) Application of Combined Code principles
The board comprises the non-executive chairman (Jørgen Philip-Sørensen), a non-executive deputy chairman (Alf Duch-Pedersen), six other
non-executive directors, the chief executive (Nick Buckles), the chief financial officer (Trevor Dighton) and the chief operating officer (Grahame
Gibson).The board considers all the non-executive directors, with the exception of Mr Philip-Sørensen, to be independent.The senior independent
director is Malcolm Williamson.
All continuing directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and will submit
themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Membership of the three board committees is as follows:
Audit Committee
Thorleif Krarup (chairman)
Bo Lerenius (joined March 2006)
Mark Seligman (joined January 2006) 
Malcolm Williamson
Remuneration Committee
Alf Duch-Pedersen (chairman)
Lord Condon
Bo Lerenius
Waldemar Schmidt
Mark Seligman (joined March 2006)
Nomination Committee
Jørgen Philip-Sørensen (chairman) 
Lord Condon
Alf Duch-Pedersen
Mr Krarup joined the Audit Committee on 1 July 2005 having previously been on the Remuneration Committee, whilst Mr Schmidt joined the
Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2005 having previously been on the Audit Committee. Lord Sharman was chairman of the Audit Committee and
a member of the Nomination Committee until his retirement from the board on 31 December 2005. Mr Seligman has replaced Lord Sharman as the
member of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
The terms of reference of each of the above committees are available on the company’s website.
It is intended that the chairmen of the three committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The board met on eight occasions during the year ended 31 December 2005.There were seven board meetings and one two-day strategy session, at
which presentations on the group’s principal businesses were made to the board by senior executives and at which the group’s acquisition and growth
strategy was discussed. Alf Duch-Pedersen and Lord Sharman were each absent for two board meetings and Thorleif Krarup and Bo Lerenius were
each absent for one board meeting. At each meeting, the board receives reports from the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the company
secretary and an investor relations report which includes a summary of comments received from major shareholders since the previous board
meeting. In addition, the board receives monthly management accounts.
There are ten board meetings scheduled for the current year, together with a two-day strategy session.
There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board which are set out under five separate categories: (1) Board and management;
(2) Operations; (3) Finance; (4) Business control; and (5) Secretarial. By way of example, board approval is required for (a) acquisitions, disposals,
investments and capital projects exceeding £4m; (b) any changes to the group’s business strategy; and (c) the annual trading, capital expenditure and
cash flow budgets. 38
In the year under review, the Audit Committee met four times and the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee each met three
times. All members attended each of the meetings except for Lord Sharman who was absent for one meeting of the Audit Committee and Bo
Lerenius who was absent for one meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Having the previous year used an external consultancy to conduct an evaluation of the performance of the board as a whole, the directors have
this year carried out a questionnaire-based self-assessment of board performance, the findings of which will be discussed by the board at its strategy
session in the summer. Based on feedback from the previous year’s evaluation, several measures have been implemented to help enhance board
performance, including regular provision to the board of more detailed financial information and more site visits and management presentations
focusing on the group’s major businesses.
The non-executive directors met to assess the performance of the chairman but, with the board relatively new and a number of changes to its
membership being made during the period, it was still felt too soon to carry out individual assessments of other board members. It is intended that
this will be done later in the current year.
Questionnaire-based self-assessments have also been carried out for the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. For the first Audit
Committee evaluation, questionnaires were completed both by members of the committee and by the other attendees of committee meetings.
Several areas for improvement were identified, particularly in relation to ongoing training of the committee members.
The chief executive and the chief financial officer hold regular meetings with individual institutional shareholders to discuss the group’s strategy and
financial performance, although price sensitive information is never divulged at these meetings. It is intended that all the directors will attend the
Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer questions from shareholders.
Mark Seligman was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2006 on the advice of the Nomination Committee which had
received recommendations on a number of potential candidates from an external search consultancy.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by representatives of the group auditor, the chief financial officer, the head of internal audit and the
company secretary.The committee considers the group’s annual and interim financial statements and any questions raised by the auditor on the
financial statements and financial systems. It also reviews, amongst other matters, whistleblowing arrangements, risk management procedures and
internal controls and it meets with the group’s auditor in the absence of management.
The Audit Committee has established a policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services, so as to ensure that the independence
of the audit is not compromised. Besides the formal audit function, the auditor is permitted to provide consultancy and due diligence services related
to mergers and acquisitions, audits of employee benefit plans, reviews of internal accounting and control policies, general advice on financial reporting
standards and corporate tax services.The auditor is prohibited from providing other services without specific permission from the Audit Committee.
The value of non-audit services provided by the auditor must not exceed the fees charged for the statutory audit, save in the event of a major
transformation deal.The auditor has written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
(b) Compliance with provisions of Combined Code
Save as set out below, the company complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Non-compliance with Combined Code
Provision B1.6 of the Combined Code recommends that notice or contract periods should be set at 12 months or less.The service contract of Lars
Nørby Johansen, who was the company’s chief executive, entitled him to a period of notice from the company of 24 months for a two year
transitional period with effect from 19 July 2004, after which his employment could have been terminated on 12 months’ notice. Mr Nørby Johansen
stepped down as chief executive and left the board after the Annual General Meeting on 30 June 2005.
Corporate Governance Statement (continued)
  39
(c) Risk Management and Internal Control
The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the group’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.The system is designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The risks associated with the group’s activities are reviewed regularly by the board, which considers major risks and evaluates their impact on the
group. Policies and procedures, which are reviewed and monitored by the head of internal audit, are in place to deal with any matters which may
be considered by the board to present significant exposure.
The key features of the group’s risk management process are:
> A common risk management framework is used to provide a profile of those risks which may have an impact on the achievement of
business objectives.
> Each significant risk is documented, showing an overview of the risk, how the risk is managed, and any improvement actions.The risk profiles
ensure that internal audit reviews of the adequacy, application and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls are targeted on
the key risks.
> Risk and control self-evaluation exercises are undertaken at least twice a year and updated risk profiles are prepared. Similar exercises are
undertaken as part of the integration process for all major acquisitions.
The process, which is reviewed regularly by the board and accords with the internal control guidance for directors on the Combined Code, is carried
out under the supervision of divisional risk management committees, which meet quarterly and report to the group risk management committee.
This latter committee, which also meets quarterly and which reports to the Audit Committee, includes both the chief executive and the chief financial
officer. Divisional and group risk profiles are reviewed and updated at each meeting.
A project to implement company-level risk and control self-evaluation exercises throughout the group was commenced and largely completed during
2005, with full implementation to be achieved during the current year.The results of the company-level risk evaluations are assessed by the respective
divisional risk management committees and are incorporated into their risk profiles. In addition, a regional risk management committee structure is
being established for the security services division because of its very wide geographic spread.
The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk management and internal control. Both the divisional risk management committees and
the group risk management committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks.They monitor the actions taken to manage risks.
The internal control system includes clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting
system, and written policies and procedures. In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, senior management also receive assurance from
other sources including security inspections, third party reviews, company financial control reviews, external audit reports, summaries of whistleblowing
activity, and risk and control self-evaluations.
The board has reviewed the group’s risk management and internal control system for the year to 31 December 2005 by considering reports from
the Audit Committee and has taken account of events since 31 December 2005.
Nigel Griffiths
Secretary
11 April 2006
Corporate Governance Statement (continued)
  40
This report provides details of the remuneration of each of the directors and sets out the company’s remuneration policies for the current financial year
and, subject to ongoing review, for subsequent financial years.The report will be put to the Annual General Meeting for approval by the shareholders.
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION HAS NOT BEEN AUDITED
The Remuneration Committee met three times during the period under review.The members of the committee, all of whom are considered to be
independent, are Alf Duch Pedersen (Chairman), Lord Condon, Bo Lerenius,Waldemar Schmidt and Mark Seligman. (Mr Schmidt joined the committee on
1 July 2005 in succession to Thorleif Krarup who on the same date assumed Mr Schmidt’s previous position on the Audit Committee. Mr Seligman joined
the committee in March 2006.) When Mr Duch-Pedersen succeeds to the chairmanship of the company in July 2006 he will leave the committee and
Lord Condon will become its chairman.The committee is responsible for setting all aspects of the remuneration of the chairman, the executive directors,
the three other members of the group executive committee and the company secretary. It is also responsible for the operation of the company’s share
plans. Its terms of reference are available on the company’s website.
Advice was provided to the committee by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP , compensation consultants, who were appointed by the committee.The
terms of their appointment are available on the company’s website. New Bridge Street Consultants did not provide any other services to the company
during the period under review.
Nick Buckles, chief executive, provided guidance to the committee on remuneration packages for senior executives within the group. Further guidance was
received from the group’s HR director, Irene Cowden. Neither Mr Buckles nor Mrs Cowden participated in discussions regarding their own pay.
Remuneration policy
The policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the executive management team aims to achieve:
> the ability to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives;
> a strong link between executive reward and the group’s performance;
> alignment of the interests of the executives and the shareholders;
> provision of incentive arrangements which focus on both annual and longer-term performance.
A significant proportion of total remuneration is related to performance, through participation in both short-term and long-term incentive schemes.
For base target performance, the performance-related element amounts to around 40% of the total package. For stretch target performance, the
performance-related element amounts to around 60% of the total package.The committee believes that the current balance is appropriate, although
it is kept under review.
Bonus payments do not form part of salary for pension purposes.
Elements of remuneration
(a) Base salary and benefits
The salaries of the executive directors were set at 19 July 2004, on completion of the merger between Securicor and the security businesses of
Group 4 Falck and, except as explained below, were reviewed for the first time with effect from 1 January 2006. Subsequent reviews will take place
with effect from 1 January in each year. Interim salary reviews may be carried out following significant changes in responsibility.The salaries take
account of a benchmarking exercise based on similarly sized companies with a significant part of their business overseas and also reflect responsibility,
individual performance, internal relativities and salary and other market information supplied by New Bridge Street Consultants.The overall objective
is to achieve salary levels which provide a market competitive base salary, with the opportunity to earn above median remuneration, on the delivery
of superior performance, through the company’s incentive schemes. Benefits include pension arrangements and the provision of a company car, health
insurance and life assurance.
Directors’ Remuneration Report
At 31 December 2005 41
Elements of remuneration (continued)
(b) Performance-related bonus scheme
For the year under review, the executive directors participated in an annual performance-related bonus scheme, payments under which were
dependent on the attainment of defined PBTA (profit before tax and amortisation) targets of the group, adjusted for the effect of any exceptional
items and discontinued operations and using constant exchange rates.The committee believes that PBTA best reflects the various key drivers of
business success within the group. For achievement of a threshold level of profits which is slightly below the budgeted profit target, a bonus payment
of 25% of base salary was due. For achievement of the budgeted target, a bonus payment of 50% of base salary was due, increasing on a straight-line
basis up to a bonus payment of 100% of salary for achievement of a stretch profit target. Any such bonus up to the value of 50% of the executive
director’s salary was payable in cash with any excess balance being awarded in the form of deferred shares. Any deferred shares will normally only be
transferred to the executive director if he remains in employment (otherwise than where he leaves in certain specified circumstances) for a period of
three years from the date of the award of the shares.
A similar scheme operates for the current year, save that no payment will be due for achievement below the budgeted target.
The PBTA budgeted targets used for the above scheme are the same as the company’s budgeted PBTA for the corresponding period.
As, due to the level of the company’s profit performance, the stretch target for PBTA was exceeded, payment was at the maximum, 100%, level.
(c) Synergy bonus 
For transitional periods running from 1 July 2004 until 31 December 2004 and from 1 January 2005 until 31 December 2005, the executive directors
participated in an additional bonus scheme, payment under which was dependent upon achievement of specified merger synergy savings. For the
12 months to 31 December 2005, achievement of a specified target amount of savings entitled the executive directors to an award of deferred shares
in the company equal in value to 25% of base salary, rising to 50% for achievement of a specified stretch target. Any deferred shares will normally only
be transferred to the executive director if he remains in employment (otherwise than where he leaves in certain specified circumstances) for a period
of three years from the date of the award of the shares.
As the stretch target for synergy savings was exceeded, payment was at the maximum, 50%, level.
No further awards will be made under this plan.
(d) Performance Share Plan (long-term incentive plan)
The performance share plan was introduced in July 2004. Under the plan, the executive directors and certain other senior executives receive
conditional allocations of the company’s shares which are released to them only on the achievement of demanding performance targets.
The maximum annual award of shares under the plan is one times base salary, save that, in exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee
may determine that an award of up to one and a half times salary may be made.The extent to which allocations of shares under the plan vest will be
determined, as to half of the award, by the company’s normalised earnings per share growth relative to the RPI over a single three-year period and, as
to the second half of the award, by the company’s ranking by reference to TSR (total shareholder return, being share price growth plus dividends paid)
using the FTSE 100 constituent companies as at the date of the award as a comparator group, again over a single three-year period.There is no
provision for retesting.
The following targets apply to the first half of awards granted in the year under review, with the three-year adjusted earnings per share (EPS) period
ending on 31 December 2007:
Average annual growth in EPS Proportion of allocation vesting
RPI + 10% per annum (30% over three years) 25%
RPI + 20% per annum (60% over three years) 100%
RPI + 10-20% per annum Pro rata between 25% and 100%
Less than RPI + 10% per annum Nil
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
At 31 December 2005 42
Elements of remuneration (continued)
(d) Performance Share Plan (long-term incentive plan) (continued)
The following targets apply to the second half of each such award:
Ranking of the company against the FTSE-100 
constituent companies by reference to TSR Proportion of allocation vesting
Median 25%
Upper quartile 100%
Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100%
Below median Nil
In addition, there will only be a transfer of shares if (a) the growth in EPS of the company has exceeded the growth in RPI by 10% over a
performance period of three financial years, and (b) the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the company’s TSR performance is reflective of
the company’s underlying performance.
Awards will not normally vest where an employee ceases to be employed within the group unless cessation of employment is due to death, injury,
disability, redundancy, retirement or following a change of control of, or sale outside the group of, his or her employing company. In these situations,
vesting will occur in the normal course and the performance targets will need to be satisfied pro rata to the time the allocation has been held.
However, only a proportion of the award, based on the time which has elapsed from the award date to the last day of the month in which
employment ceased, may vest in these circumstances.
In respect of awards made in 2006, the RPI + 10% and RPI + 20% EPS average annual growth targets have been replaced by RPI + 6% and RPI
+ 11% respectively, reflecting the fact that the original EPS targets anticipated various merger synergy benefits which had all been realised by
31 December 2005 and that the new targets are more appropriate for the company going forward.
The company’s current policy is to use market purchased shares to satisfy performance share plan awards.
The Remuneration Committee believes that a combination of earnings per share growth and total shareholder return targets is the most appropriate
performance measure for the performance share plan, as it provides a transparent method of assessing the company’s performance, both in terms of
underlying financial performance and returns to shareholders.The company calculates whether the EPS performance targets have been achieved by
reference to the company’s audited accounts which provide an accessible and objective measure of the company’s earnings per share, whilst TSR
comparative data will be supplied by New Bridge Street Consultants.The committee will also ensure that the EPS targets are measured on a
consistent basis and are not artificially impacted, either to the benefit or to the detriment of participants, by the change in accounting standards to
International Financial Reporting Standards.
The committee also believes that continued shareholding by senior executives will strengthen the alignment of their interests with shareholders’
interests. Accordingly, executive directors of the company will be expected to retain shares to the value of 30% of the after-tax gains made on the
vesting of performance share plan awards until they have built up a shareholding equivalent to one times base salary.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
At 31 December 2005 Fees, service contracts and letters of appointment
The chairman’s annual fee is £180,000.The annual fee for the non-executive directors, which is set by the chairman and the executive directors, is £45,000,
with a further £40,000 for the role of deputy chairman, £12,500 for the chairmanship of each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and £15,000
for the role of senior independent director. No other fees are paid for membership of the board committees.These fees are subject to periodic review
which takes into account comparative fee levels in other groups of a similar size and the anticipated time commitment for the non-executive directors.
The service contracts of those who served as executive directors during the period are dated as follows:
Nick Buckles 2 June 2004
Trevor Dighton 2 June 2004
Grahame Gibson 4 August 2000 as amended 
by letter of 14 April 2005
Lars Nørby Johansen (left 30 June 2005) 3 June 2004
The contracts of Messrs Buckles, Dighton and Gibson are terminable by the company on 12 months’ notice.The contract of Mr Nørby Johansen was
terminable by the company on 24 months’ notice until 19 July 2006 after which it would have been terminable on 12 months’ notice.The contracts are
terminable by the executive directors on 12 months’ notice.There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation payable upon early termination,
but the company reserves the right to pay salary in lieu of notice. It is the company’s policy that it should be able to terminate service contracts of
executive directors on no more than 12 months’ notice and that payments for termination of contract are restricted to the value of salary and other
contractual entitlements for the notice period.
The chairman and the other non-executive directors do not have service contracts but letters of appointment which provide for initial three-year terms
which began on 19 May 2004 and, in the case of Mr Seligman, on 1 January 2006. All directors are required to stand for re-election by the shareholders at
least once every three years.
It is the company’s policy that executive directors may each hold not more than one external non-executive appointment and may retain any associated
fees. Mr Buckles is a non-executive director of Arriva plc for which he received fees of £15,166 in the year ended 31 December 2005. Neither of the
other executive directors currently holds an external non-executive appointment.
Performance graph
The performance graph below shows the total cumulative shareholder return of the company from its first day of listing, 20 July 2004, until 31 December
2005, based on a hypothetical shareholding worth £100, compared with the return achieved by the FTSE 100 constituent companies over the same
period.The directors believe this to be a more appropriate form of broad equity market index against which to base a comparison than the support
services sector, where there are no companies directly comparable to Group 4 Securicor.The FTSE 100 index has also been selected for comparative
total shareholder return purposes in the company’s performance share plan.
T otal Shareholder Return
Source: Datastream
43
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
At 31 December 2005
90
100
110
120
130
140
Group 4 Securicor PLC
FTSE 100 Index
20 July 2004 31 December 2005
Value (£)
31 December 2004
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2005, of £100 invested in Group 4 Securicor plc on 20 July 2004 compared with the value of £100
invested in the FTSE 100 Index. The other point plotted is the value at the intervening financial year-end. 44
THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION HAS BEEN AUDITED
Base Salaries and Bonuses
For those directors marked with an asterisk who were previously directors of Securicor plc, the 2004 comparisons are in two columns.The first 2004
column (a) shows comparative pay information for the period 20 July 2004 (first day of trading of Group 4 Securicor plc) to 31 December 2004 only.
The second 2004 column (b) shows comparative pay information for the full year to 31 December 2004.
Performance
Salary RelatedSynergy 20052004 (a)2004(b)
and fees Benefits Bonus Bonus Total Total Total
££££££ £
Chairman
(non-executive)
Jørgen Philip-Sørensen 170,000 – – – 170,000 108,628
Executive directors
Nick Buckles*
(see notes 1 and 2 below) 578,125 19,000 625,000 312,500 1,534,625 565,125 915,558
Trevor Dighton*
(see notes 1 and 2 below) 350,000 19,386 350,000 175,000 894,386 425,800 660,222
Grahame Gibson
(appointed 1 April 2005)
(see notes 1, 2 and 4 below) 329,164 22,044 329,164 164,582 844,954 –
Lars Nørby Johansen 375,000
(see note 3 below) + 2,451,470 10,000 – – 2,836,470 1,043,157
Other non-executive directors
Lord Condon*
(see note 5 below) 42,500 – – – 42,500 17,856 37,957
Alf Duch-Pedersen 93,750 – – – 93,750 67,542
Sir David Gore-Booth 
(died 31 October 2004) – – – – – 29,617
Thorlief Krarup 42,500 – – – 42,500 36,103
Bo Lerenius*
(appointed 1 April 2004) 42,500 – – – 42,500 17,694 27,167
Waldemar Schmidt 42,500 – – – 42,500 36,284
Lord Sharman* (retired 31 December 2005) 106,250 – – – 106,250 46,362 125,666
Malcolm Williamson*
(appointed 1 April 2004) 42,500 – – – 42,500 17,694 27,167
T otal before compensation for loss of office 2,214,789 4,241,465
Compensation for loss of office 2,451,470 2,451,470
T otal 4,666,259 70,430 1,304,164 652,082 6,692,935 2,411,862
Notes:
1. The performance-related bonuses derived from the company’s bonus scheme were paid as to 50% in cash and 50% through the award of deferred
Group 4 Securicor shares, based on a share price of 192.5p, being the average middle market closing price of the company’s ordinary shares over the
three days immediately following the date of the company’s preliminary results announcement, 13 March 2006.The awards were:
Nick Buckles 162,337 shares
Trevor Dighton 90,909 shares
Grahame Gibson 118,768 shares (of which 89,076 shares form part of the £329,164 referred to under Performance Related Bonus above)
2. The synergy bonus payments were made through the award of deferred Group 4 Securicor shares. For Messrs Buckles and Dighton, the award was
based on a share price of 192.5p, being the average middle market closing price of the company’s ordinary shares over the three days immediately
following the date of the company’s preliminary results announcement, 13 March 2006. For Mr Gibson, the award was based on a share price of 161p,
being the middle market closing price of the company’s ordinary shares at 31 December 2004, and includes a bonus payment covering the period 
1 July 2004 to 31 December 2004.The awards were:
Nick Buckles 162,337 shares
Trevor Dighton 90,909 shares
Grahame Gibson 217,073 shares (of which 108,536 shares represent the £164,582 referred to under Synergy Bonus above)
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
At 31 December 2005 45
3. Mr Nørby Johansen’s salary included a 20% supplement in lieu of pension.
Mr Nørby Johansen received £2,451,470 as compensation for loss of office when he left the company on 30 June 2005. In addition, the company paid
Mr Nørby Johansen’s legal costs of £10,500 associated with his termination agreement.
The sum of £2,451,470 was made up as follows:
> £1,357,720, representing 21 months of base salary, pension contribution, car allowance and private medical insurance.
> £625,000, representing two years’ payments under the 2005 and 2006 annual performance-related bonus schemes and based on the assumption
that the budgeted target would have been achieved in each year, with entitlement to 50% of base salary.
> £156,250, representing six months’ bonus earned for 2004 and being in place of the deferred shares which had previously been awarded.
> £312,500, representing (a) £156,250 for the six months’ synergy bonus earned for 2004 and being in place of the deferred shares which had
previously been awarded, (b) £156,250 for the synergy bonus for 2005, based on the assumption that the target amount of savings would have
been achieved.
When Mr Nørby Johansen left the company at the end of June 2005, the number of shares to which he was potentially entitled under the
Performance Share Plan was, in accordance with the plan rules, reduced by two-thirds to 164,365.This reduced number of shares will only vest to the
extent that the performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the normal three-year performance period.
Mr Nørby Johansen’s total remuneration for 2004 was shown in the previous year’s report as £1,355,657. In the 2004(a) comparative column above,
that sum has been reduced by £312,500 to £1,043,157 as it included the two amounts of £156,250 awarded as deferred shares and included in the
compensation of £2,451,720 referred to above.
4. Grahame Gibson was reimbursed £81,507 for expenses associated with his relocation from the West Midlands to Surrey. The company also paid air
fares amounting to £16,012 for flights between the UK and the USA for Mr Gibson’s wife and infant children between 1 April and 31 December 2005.
5. Lord Condon was paid an additional £5,000 in the period for his duties as a director of G4S Global Risks Limited, a subsidiary of the company.
The annual base salaries of the executive directors and the annual fees of the non-executive directors at 31 December 2005 were:
Executive directors £
Nick Buckles 625,000*
Trevor Dighton 350,000
Grahame Gibson 465,983
* Mr Buckles’ salary was increased from £467,500 to £595,000 on 1 April 2005 on his appointment as chief executive designate and from £595,000
to £625,000 on 1 July on his appointment as chief executive.This is the same salary as that awarded to his predecessor in 2004.
Non-executive directors £
Jørgen Philip-Sørensen (chairman) 180,000
Lord Condon 45,000
Alf Duch-Pedersen 97,500
Thorleif Krarup 57,500
Bo Lerenius 45,000
Waldemar Schmidt 45,000
Lord Sharman (retired 31 December 2005) 112,500
Malcolm Williamson 60,000
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
At 31 December 2005 46
Directors’ Share Options
Granted Outstanding Option 
Option At 31.12.04 during 2005 at 31.12.05 price (p)
Nick Buckles A 72,901 – 72,901 107.98
B 95,000 – 95,000 164.00
C 75,000 – 75,000 133.75
D 55,000 – 55,000 153.00
E 700,000 – 700,000 108.00
F 14,453 – 14,453 64.00
Trevor Dighton B 55,000 – 55,000 164.00
C 40,000 – 40,000 133.75
D 30,000 – 30,000 153.00
E 350,000 – 350,000 108.00
F 14,453 – 14,453 64.00
Option A = 1996 Securicor Executive Share Option Scheme, exercisable until June 2008.
Option B = Securicor Executive Share Option Scheme, exercisable until December 2009.
Option C = Securicor Executive Share Option Scheme, exercisable until June 2010.
Option D = Securicor Executive Share Option Scheme, exercisable until December 2010.
Option E = Securicor Executive Share Option Scheme, exercisable until December 2011.
Option F = Securicor Sharesave Scheme, exercisable between October 2006 and March 2007.
The above options, which had been granted over Securicor plc shares, were rolled over into options over Group 4 Securicor shares.
Neither of the above directors exercised options under the above schemes during the year.
As a result of implementation of the Scheme of Arrangement of Securicor plc in July 2004, the performance conditions for the executive share options
referred to above ceased to apply.This would not occur under the current Performance Share Plan.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2004 was 140p. At 31 December 2005 it was 161p.
The highest and lowest market prices of an ordinary share during the year to 31 December 2005 were 166.25p and 129.75p respectively.
Directors’ interests in Performance Share Plan
Shares 
conditionally
awarded Market price at
At 31.12.04 during year Date of award date of award Vesting date At 31.12.05
Nick Buckles 368,830 352,160 17.03.05 132.75p 17.03.08 720,990
Trevor Dighton 276,130 263,650 17.03.05 132.75p 17.03.08 539,780
Grahame Gibson 252,460 241,050 17.03.05 132.75p 17.03.08 493,510
The conditions subject to which allocations of shares vest under this plan are described under (d) Performance Share Plan on pages 41 and 42.
Directors’ interests in shares of Group 4 Securicor plc (unaudited)
(including awards of deferred shares but excluding shares under option and shares conditionally awarded under the performance share plan, both as
shown above)
At 31.12.05 At 31.12.04
Nick Buckles 871,563 546,889
Lord Condon 2,000 2,000
Trevor Dighton 582,555 400,737
Alf Duch-Pedersen 56,560 36,560
Grahame Gibson 335,841 –
Thorleif Krarup 3,206 3,206
Bo Lerenius 16,000 16,000
Jørgen Philip-Sørensen 171,939,961 171,939,961
Waldemar Schmidt 3,181 3,181
Mark Seligman ––
Malcolm Williamson 2,000 2,000 
All interests shown above are beneficial.
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
At 31 December 2005 47
Mr Duch-Pedersen acquired 20,000 shares and Mr Seligman acquired 10,000 shares on 13 March 2006. No other changes in these holdings have taken
place since 31 December 2005.
Each of Nick Buckles,Trevor Dighton and Grahame Gibson also has a deemed interest in 4,206,332 ordinary shares held in the Group 4 Securicor
Employee Benefit Trust.
Directors’ Pension Entitlements 
For the period under review, the executive directors participated in non-contributory categories of the group’s defined benefit pension schemes with a
normal retirement age of 60.Trevor Dighton accrued pension at a rate of 1/30ths of the statutory earnings cap. Nick Buckles and Grahame Gibson
accrued pension at a rate of 1/52ths of their final pensionable salary. An actuarial reduction is applied to pensions payable before normal retirement age
and an increase is applied where retirement is deferred beyond normal retirement age.
Between 6 April 2002 and 5 April 2003, Mr Dighton received a salary supplement of 30% of base salary in excess of the earnings cap in lieu of pension
provision in respect of his base salary in excess of the cap. Following the Government’s announcement of proposed changes to the tax rules for pensions,
these payments were suspended with effect from 6 April 2003, pending a review of Mr Dighton’s pension arrangement. In September 2005, it was agreed
that Mr Dighton should be granted an Unfunded Lump Sum Retirement Benefit (ULSRB) to be calculated as the accumulation of notional contributions of
30% of his base salary in excess of the earnings cap, deemed to be invested in the FTSE All Share Total Return Index.This amounted to £229,568.The
ULSRB is money-purchase in nature and will be consolidated with Mr Dighton’s benefits from the Securicor Group Pension Scheme under the transitional
arrangements following 6 April 2006. Going forward, Mr Dighton will participate in the pension at the current accrual rate of 1/30ths on an uncapped
basis, which is considered to be consistent with the terms of his original appointment given that the tax legislation no longer imposes a bar on 
such accruals.
For death before retirement a capital sum equal to four times pensionable salary is payable, together with a spouse’s pension of 50% of the member’s
prospective pension at the age of 60 plus a return of any contributions paid prior to the admission to the non-contributory category.
For death in retirement, a spouse’s pension of 50% of the member’s pre-commutation pension is payable.
Post retirement pensions increase in line with the increase in the Retail Prices Index subject to a maximum of 5% per annum.
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values increased as follows during the 12 months ended 31 December 2005 (all figures are in £’000s).
Increase Total Value of Total Transfer value Transfer value
Gross in accrued accrued net increase change in of accrued of accrued 
increase in pension net pension in accrual transfer value pension pension 
accrued pension of inflation at 31/12/05 over period during period at 31/12/05 at 31/12/04
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Nick Buckles 72 69 225 832 1,218 2,793 1,575
Trevor Dighton 5 4 34 66 145 576 431
Grahame Gibson 69 66 186 875 879 1,887 1,008
Notes 
(i) Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
(ii) Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
(iii) The value of net increase (4) represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service
terminated at the year-end. It is based on the increase in accrued pension (2).
(iv) The change in transfer value (5) includes the effect of fluctuations in such value due to factors beyond the control of the company and the directors,
such as stock market movements.
(v) The accumulated value of the ULSRB for Mr Dighton as at 1 September 2005 is £157,220.The salary supplement of 30% of salary in excess of the
earnings cap from 1 September 2005 to 31 December 2005 is £24,440.
(vi) All figures relate to the twelve month period from 31 December 2004 to 31 December 2005. However, Mr Gibson was not appointed a director
until 1 April 2005.
Alf Duch-Pedersen
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
11 April 2006
Directors’ Remuneration Report (continued)
At 31 December 2005 48
Basis of preparation
The pro forma financial information is consistent with the results for Group 4 Securicor plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. However, as explained
in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 56, the statutory results for Group 4 Securicor plc for the year ended 31 December 2004
shown as comparatives therein include the full year of trading of the security businesses of the former Group 4 Falck A/S and the trading of the businesses
of Securicor plc for the period from 20 July 2004 to 31 December 2004.Therefore, the directors consider that it is of assistance to shareholders to show
pro forma financial information for the combined entities for the full year comparative period.This information is shown below. Similarly presented is pro
forma operating cash flow information.
Pro forma revenue and PBITA
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Actual Pro forma
2005 2004
£m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 4,129.9 3,763.9
Profit before interest, taxation, amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles and exceptional items (PBITA)
Group PBITA 248.7 213.3
Share of profit from associates 5.3 2.4
Total PBITA 254.0 215.7
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 11.1p
Operating cash flow information
For the year ended 31 December 2005
Actual Pro forma
2005 2004
£m £m
Group PBITA 248.7 213.3
Depreciation and amortisation of intangible assets other than acquisition-related intangibles 82.2 79.7
Equity-settled transactions 2.7 1.5
Profit on sale of fixed assets (0.8) (1.1)
(Increase)/decrease in working capital and provisions before exceptional items (45.0) 7.6
Net cash flow from capital expenditure (89.8) (87.9)
Operating cash flow 198.0 213.1
Reconciliation of operating cash flows for 2005
Actual
2005
£m
Net cash flow from operating activities (per the consolidated cash flow statement) 174.5
Net cash flow from capital expenditure (89.8)
Cash outflow on exceptional items 38.0
Additional pension contributions 15.0
Operating loss from discontinued operations 1.7
Adjustment for unwinding of sundry debt factoring arrangements 5.6
Tax paid 53.0
Operating cash flow 198.0
The group has not presented a comparative reconciliation of operating cash flows to net cash flow from operating activities for 2004 because the
statutory consolidated cash flow statement for that year does not include the cash flows of the combined entities for the full year.
Unaudited pro forma financial information
For the year ended 31 December 2005 49
Pro forma business sector and geographical analysis
Actual Pro forma
2005 2004
£m £m
Revenue
Manned Security
Europe 1,364.5 1,315.9
North America 1,014.6 943.7
New Markets 495.2 381.1
Total Manned Security 2,874.3 2,640.7
Security Systems
Europe 342.0 317.9
North America 3.1 1.8
New Markets 44.5 29.5
Total Security Systems 389.6 349.2
Cash Services
Europe 688.6 635.1
North America 76.9 64.3
New Markets 100.5 74.6
Total Cash Services 866.0 774.0
Total revenue
Europe 2,395.1 2,268.9
North America 1,094.6 1,009.8
New Markets 640.2 485.2
Total revenue 4,129.9 3,763.9
PBITA
Manned Security
Europe 73.3 74.0
North America 61.0 54.7
New Markets 35.6 26.0
Total Manned Security 169.9 154.7
Security Systems
Europe 27.7 25.5
North America 0.4 0.2
New Markets 4.0 2.9
Total Security Systems 32.1 28.6
Cash Services
Europe 58.4 44.7
North America 2.8 3.9
New Markets 15.5 11.0
Total Cash Services 76.7 59.6
Total PBITA
Europe 159.4 144.2
North America 64.2 58.8
New Markets 55.1 39.9
PBITA before head office costs 278.7 242.9
Head office costs (24.7) (27.2)
Total PBITA 254.0 215.7
The 2005 results presented above are consistent with those presented in the business and geographical segments in note 5 on pages 64 to 67.
Unaudited pro forma financial information (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2005 50
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law
and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are
required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company
financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the group.
The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a
true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to:
> select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
> make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
> for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
> for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements; and
> prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue
in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent
company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.They have general responsibility for taking such
steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and Corporate
Governance Statement which comply with that law and those regulations.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the
annual report and the financial statements
  51
We have audited the group financial statements of Group 4 Securicor plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Consolidated
Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and
Expense and the related notes.These group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Group 4 Securicor plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been
undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other
purpose.To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 50.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on
Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.We also report to you if, in our opinion, the
Directors’ Report is not consistent with the group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.We are not required to consider whether the
board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.We consider
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements. Our
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements. It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
> the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended; and
> the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants 8 Salisbury Square
Registered Auditor London
11 April 2006 EC4Y 8BB
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Group 4 Securicor plc
  52
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 4, 5 4,129.9 3,093.6
Profit from operations before amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles, exceptional items and share 
of profit from associates 248.7 163.1
Share of profit from associates 5.3 2.4
Profit from operations before amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles and 
exceptional items (PBITA) 5 254.0 165.5
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets (33.8) (13.4)
Exceptional items:
– Restructuring costs consequential upon acquisitions (22.2) (37.2)
– Impairment of goodwill – (55.9)
– Change in of accounting estimates – (57.9)
8 (22.2) (151.0)
Profit from operations before interest and taxation 5, 7 198.0 1.1
Investment income 11 72.8 39.6
Finance costs 12 (113.3) (58.9)
Profit/(loss) from operations before taxation 157.5 (18.2)
Taxation:
– Before amortisation and exceptional items (67.1) (48.0)
– On amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 10.0 4.0
– On exceptional items (0.9) 36.5
13 (58.0) (7.5)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations after taxation 99.5 (25.7)
Loss from discontinued operations 6 (8.8) (39.7)
Profit/(loss) for the period 90.7 (65.4)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 80.8 (72.3)
Minority interests 9.9 6.9
Profit/(loss) for the period 90.7 (65.4)
Earnings per share attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of the parent 15
For profit/(loss) from continuing operations:
Basic 7.1p (3.4)p
Diluted 7.0p (3.4)p
For profit/(loss) from continuing and discontinued operations
Basic 6.4p (7.5)p
Diluted 6.4p (7.5)p
Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005 53
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 18 1,172.7 1,096.3
Other acquisition-related intangible assets 18 241.4 253.3
Other intangible assets 18 27.3 25.3
Property, plant and equipment 19 355.4 339.5
Investment in associates 21 3.9 10.1
Trade and other receivables 24 50.3 40.5
Deferred tax assets 34 112.9 111.0
1,963.9 1,876.0
Current assets
Inventories 22 35.3 34.2
Trading investments 23 61.4 60.7
Trade and other receivables 24 830.7 702.6
Cash and cash equivalents 26 263.8 191.6
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 27 – 29.9
1,191.2 1,019.0
Total assets 3,155.1 2,895.0
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts 26, 28 (58.7) (13.9)
Bank loans 28 (87.7) (92.3)
Obligations under finance leases 29 (12.1) (15.4)
Trade and other payables 30 (756.5) (700.7)
Current tax liabilities (27.6) (23.8)
Retirement benefit obligations 32 (30.0) (30.8)
Provisions 33 (44.5) (44.4)
(1,017.1) (921.3)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans 28 (790.1) (695.1)
Obligations under finance leases 29 (33.9) (22.0)
Trade and other payables 30 (1.0) (16.0)
Retirement benefit obligations 32 (211.0) (204.8)
Provisions 33 (47.3) (36.7)
Deferred tax liabilities 34 (84.8) (89.2)
(1,168.1) (1,063.8)
Total liabilities (2,185.2) (1,985.1)
Net assets 969.9 909.9
EQUITY
Share capital 35 317.2 316.1
Share premium and reserves 36 625.0 563.3
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 942.2 879.4
Minority interests 27.7 30.5
Total equity 969.9 909.9
The parent company balance sheet and notes are on pages 105 to 109.The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised
for issue on 11 April 2006.
They were signed on its behalf by:
Nick Buckles Trevor Dighton
Director Director
Consolidated balance sheet
At 31 December 2005 54
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations before taxation 157.5 (18.2)
(Loss)/profit from discontinued operations before taxation (1.7) 0.5
Adjustments for:
Investment income (72.8) (39.6)
Finance costs 113.3 58.9
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 75.4 57.6
Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than acquisition-related – 8.2
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 33.8 13.4
Amortisation of other intangible assets 6.8 5.8
Impairment of goodwill – 55.9
Share of profit from associates (5.3) (2.4)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than acquisition-related 2.8 1.3
Equity-settled transactions:
– Performance share plan 1.2 0.8
– Share options 1.5 0.7
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital 312.5 142.9
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (6.3) 1.6
(Increase)/decrease in receivables (67.9) 5.2
Increase in payables 0.1 32.3
Decrease in provisions (10.9) (15.3)
Cash generated by operations 227.5 166.7
Tax paid (53.0) (30.0)
Net cash flow from operating activities 174.5 136.7
Investing activities
Interest received 9.8 4.5
Dividends received from associates 12.3 –
Purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than acquisition-related (108.0) (99.3)
Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than acquisition-related 18.2 16.2
Acquisition of subsidiaries and separately acquired customer-related intangibles (69.7) (93.3)
Acquisition of investments in associates – (5.9)
Net cash balances acquired 3.0 64.0
Cash movement relating to the Group 4 Falck A/S demerger – (48.9)
Disposal of subsidiaries 42.1 (0.8)
Disposal/(purchase) of trading investments 4.8 (11.6)
Purchase of own shares (6.1) –
Acquisition of minority shareholders of the former Group 4 Falck A/S (9.5) –
Net cash used in investing activities (103.1) (175.1)
Financing activities
Share issues 4.9 0.3
Net sale of own shares – 5.4
Dividends paid to minority interests (5.1) (2.4)
Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the parent (39.9) (3.3)
Net increase in borrowings 47.3 209.9
Interest paid (47.9) (25.6)
Repayment of obligations under finance leases (7.6) (5.9)
Net cash flow from financing activities (48.3) 178.4
Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 23.1 140.0
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the beginning of the period 177.7 37.4
Effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 4.3 0.3
Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the period 26 205.1 177.7
Consolidated cash flow statement
For the year ended 31 December 2005 55
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 23.1 140.0
(Decrease)/increase in liquid resources (4.8) 11.6
Increase in debt and lease financing (39.7) (204.0)
Change in net debt resulting from cash flows (21.4) (52.4)
Borrowings acquired with subsidiaries (1.3) (212.2)
New finance leases (20.7) (5.9)
Movement in net debt in the period (43.4) (270.5)
Translation adjustments (27.5) 23.9
Net debt at the beginning of the period (586.4) (339.8)
Net debt at the end of the period 37 (657.3) (586.4)
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
For the year ended 31 December 2005
2005 2004
£m £m
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 36.5 8.8
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes (22.6) (16.5)
Change in value of hedging derivatives (5.8) –
Tax on items taken directly to equity 12.3 3.8
Net income/(expense) recognised directly in equity 20.4 (3.9)
Profit/(loss) for the period 90.7 (65.4)
Total recognised income/(expense) 111.1 (69.3)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 101.2 (76.2)
Minority interests 9.9 6.9
Total recognised income/(expense) 111.1 (69.3)
Consolidated cash flow statement (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2005 56
1 General information
Group 4 Securicor plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. As a result of a Scheme of Arrangement
of Securicor plc, which became effective on 19 July 2004, Group 4 Securicor plc became the ultimate holding company of the Securicor plc group of
companies and, on the same date, and as a result of a recommended offer for its shares, acquired Group 4 A/S, the holding company of the former
security businesses of Group 4 Falck A/S. On the basis that the transaction was effected by using a new parent, Group 4 A/S was identified as the
acquirer.The comparative results for the year to 31 December 2004 are therefore those of the full year of trading of the security businesses of the
former Group 4 Falck A/S and the trading of the businesses of Securicor plc for the period from 20 July 2004 to 31 December 2004.
The comparative balance sheet at 31 December 2004 has been adjusted to reflect the completion during 2005 of the initial accounting in respect of
acquisitions made during 2004. Adjustments made to the provisional calculation of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired amount to £18.4m,
with an equivalent increase in the reported value of goodwill.The impact of these adjustments on the net assets acquired is presented in note 16.
The nature of the group’s operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5 and in the operating review on pages 14 to 23.The group
operates throughout the world and in a wide range of functional currencies, the most significant being the euro, the US dollar and sterling.The group’s
financial statements are presented in sterling, as the group’s primary listing is in the UK. Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies
set out in note 3.The address of the registered office is given on page 113.
2 Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared for the first time in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards adopted
for use in the European Union (EU) and its interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS”).With certain
mandatory or optional exceptions detailed in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the comparatives for 2004
have been restated under IFRS and the group’s date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2004, other than in respect of IAS 32 Financial Instruments:
Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, for which it is 1 January 2005.
The disclosures required by IFRS 1 concerning the transition from UK GAAP to IFRS were included in the IFRS financial information published on 
5 September 2005 and are represented in note 43.
The effect of the group’s election to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1 January 2005 is that the 2004 comparative income statement, statement of
recognised income and expense and balance sheet are, in respect of these standards alone, presented in accordance with UK GAAP applicable in
2004 and do not include any charge or credit in respect of changes in the fair values of financial instruments.
3 Significant accounting policies
(a) Basis of preparation
The financial statements have been prepared under the going concern basis and using the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of
certain financial instruments in 2005.The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect
the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.These estimates and associated assumptions are
based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ
from these estimates.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions which are of most significance to the group are those relating to the valuation of the assets of acquired
businesses, the assessment of the recoverable amounts in respect of assets tested for impairment and the valuation of retirement benefit obligations.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which
the estimate is revised.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
  57
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
3 Significant accounting policies (continued)
(b) Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities (its subsidiaries) controlled by the
company (collectively comprising the group) made up to 31 December each year. Control is achieved where the group has the power to govern
the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities, determined either by the group’s ownership
percentage, adjusted for any options or convertible instruments, or by the terms of any shareholder agreement.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.Any excess of the cost of
acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.Any deficiency in the cost of acquisition below the fair
values of the identifiable net assets acquired (i.e. discount on acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.The interest
of minority shareholders is stated at the minority’s proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised. Subsequently, any losses
applicable to the minority interest in excess of the carrying value of the minority interest are allocated against the interest of the parent, except to
the extent that the minority has both a binding obligation and the ability to make an additional investment to cover the losses.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of
control or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Joint ventures
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control, in that
strategic financial and operating decisions require the unanimous consent of the parties.
The group’s interest in joint ventures is accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method, whereby the group’s share of the results
and assets and liabilities of a jointly-controlled entity is combined line by line with similar items in the group’s consolidated financial statements.
Associates
An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through
participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the group’s consolidated financial statements using the equity method of
accounting except when classified as held for sale (see note 3t). Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by
post-acquisition changes in the group’s share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. Losses
of the associates in excess of the group’s interest in those associates are not recognised.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.Where a group company transacts with a joint venture
or associate of the group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the group’s interest in the relevant joint venture or associate.
(c) Foreign currencies
Transactions in currencies other than sterling are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions. At each balance
sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-
monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when
the fair value was determined. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for the period, except for exchange
differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities, on monetary items that are in substance a part of the group’s net investment in foreign
operations and on monetary liabilities that are designated as hedging that net investment, all of which are recognised directly in equity.
In order to further hedge its translation exposure to certain foreign currencies in which more than 1% of the group’s consolidated net operating
assets are denominated, the group utilises derivative financial instruments (see note 3d for details of the group’s accounting policies in respect of
such instruments).
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the group’s overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on their acquisition,
are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Income and expense items are translated into sterling at the
average exchange rates for the period. Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity and subsequently recycled to the income statement in
the period in which the operation is disposed of. In accordance with the optional exemption under IFRS 1, cumulative translation differences on
overseas operations are deemed to be zero as at the date of transition.
  58
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
3 Significant accounting policies (continued)
(c) Foreign currencies (continued)
The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities that report in the currency of a hyperinflationary
economy are restated in terms of the measuring unit (the hyperinflationary currency) current at the balance sheet date before they are
translated into sterling.
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
In accordance with its treasury policy, the group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes but to reduce the
group’s exposure to financial risk. Such financial risk includes the interest risk on the group’s variable-rate borrowings and foreign exchange risk on
transactions, on the translation of the group’s results and on the translation of the group’s net assets measured in foreign currencies, to the extent
that these are not matched by foreign currency borrowings.The group manages these risks through a range of derivative financial instruments,
including interest rate swaps, fixed rate agreements, forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet as financial assets or liabilities at fair value.The gain or loss on remeasurement
to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any
resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged as described below. As explained in note 2, the comparatives for 2004 have
not been restated in respect of financial instruments which are stated at cost, less impairment.
Fair value hedge
The change in the fair value of both the hedging instrument and the related portion of the hedged item is recognised immediately in the income
statement.
Cash flow hedge
The change in the fair value of the portion of the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity and
subsequently recycled to the income statement when the hedged cash flow impacts the income statement.The ineffective portion of the fair
value of the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Net investment hedge
The change in the fair value of the portion of the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity and
subsequently recycled to the income statement when the hedged net investment impacts the income statement.The ineffective portion of the
fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income statement.
(e) Intangible assets
Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by the application of the purchase method. Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess
of the cost of acquisition over the group’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary,
associate or jointly-controlled entity at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is stated at cost, less any accumulated impairment losses, and is tested
annually for impairment. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included within the net investment in associates. On disposal
of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss
on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being
tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included
in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Acquisition-related intangible assets
Intangible assets on acquisitions that are either separable or arising from contractual rights are recognised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Such acquisition-related intangible assets include trademarks, technology, customer contracts and customer relationships.The fair value of
acquisition-related intangible assets is determined by reference to market prices of similar assets, where such information is available, or by the
use of appropriate valuation techniques, including the royalty relief method and the excess earnings method.
Acquisition-related intangible assets are amortised by equal annual instalments over their expected economic life, up to a maximum of ten years.
The directors review acquisition-related intangible assets on an ongoing basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
  59
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
3 Significant accounting policies (continued)
(e) Intangible assets (continued)
Other intangible assets – development expenditure
Development expenditure represents expenditure incurred in establishing new services and products of the group. Such expenditure is usually
of a revenue nature. However, if such expenditure creates an identifiable asset, its cost can be measured reliably, it is probable that it will generate
future economic benefits, it is technically and commercially feasible and the group has sufficient resources to complete development, it is
recognised as an intangible asset. Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over the period during which the expenditure is expected
to be revenue-producing, up to a maximum of ten years.The directors review the capitalised development expenditure on an ongoing basis and,
where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Other intangible assets – software
Computer software is capitalised as an intangible asset if such expenditure (both internally generated and externally purchased) creates an
identifiable asset, if its cost can be measured reliably and if it is probable that it will generate future economic benefits. Capitalised computer
software is stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.Amortisation is charged on software so as to write off the cost of
the assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives up to a maximum of five years.
(f) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is provided on all property,
plant and equipment other than freehold land. Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the assets to their estimated residual
values by equal annual instalments over their expected useful economic lives as follows:
Freehold and long leasehold buildings up to 2%
Short leasehold buildings (under 50 years) over the life of the lease
Equipment and motor vehicles 10% – 33.3%
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful economic lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter,
over the term of the relevant lease.
Where significant, the residual values and the useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment are re-assessed annually.The directors
review the carrying value of property, plant and equipment on an ongoing basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
(g) Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables do not carry interest and are stated at their fair value.
PFI assets
Under the terms of a Private Finance Initiative (PFI) or similar project, where the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset remain largely with
the purchaser of the associated services, the group’s interest in the asset is classified as a financial asset and included at its discounted value within
trade receivables.
Current asset investments
Current asset investments comprise investments in securities, which are classified as held-for-trading.They are initially recognised at cost, including
transaction costs, and subsequently measured at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recognised at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including
premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are recognised in the income statement on an accrual basis using the
effective interest method.
Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at fair value.
  60
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
3 Significant accounting policies (continued)
(g) Financial Instruments (continued)
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the group are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
(h) Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost represents expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business
in bringing inventories to their present condition and location and includes appropriate overheads. Cost is calculated using either the weighted
average or the first-in-first-out method. Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to
completion and disposal. Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
(i) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part
of the group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
(j) Impairment
The carrying value of the group’s assets, apart from inventories and deferred tax assets, is reviewed on an ongoing basis for any indication
of impairment, and if any such indication exists, the assets’ recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised in the income
statement whenever the carrying value of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its net selling price and its value in use, where value in use is assessed as the estimated
future cash flows deriving from the asset discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows,
the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset attaches.
The recoverable amount of goodwill is tested annually through assessing the carrying values of the cash generating units to which the goodwill
attaches. An impairment loss recognised in respect of a cash-generating unit is allocated first so as to reduce the carrying value of any goodwill
allocated to the cash-generating unit, and then to reduce the carrying value of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of any other asset, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change
in the estimates used to determine its recoverable amount.The amount of the reversal is limited such that the asset’s carrying amount does not
exceed that which would have been determined (after depreciation and amortisation) if no impairment loss had been recognised.
(k) Repurchase of share capital
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised
as a change in equity.Where repurchased shares are held by an employee benefit trust, they are classified as treasury shares and presented as
a deduction from equity.
(l) Employee benefits
Retirement benefit costs
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due. Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit
schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the group’s obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those
arising in a defined contribution retirement benefits scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being
carried out at each balance sheet date.The discount rate used is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated corporate bonds that have
maturity dates approximating to the terms of the group’s obligations.The expected investment income on assets and the finance cost on liabilities are
recognised in the income statement as components of investment income and finance cost respectively.Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in
full in the period in which they occur and presented outside the income statement in the statement of recognised income and expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested. Otherwise it is amortised on a straight-line basis
over the average period until the benefits vest.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for
unrecognised past service cost, reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to unrecognised past
service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
  61
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
3 Significant accounting policies (continued)
(l) Employee benefits (continued)
Long-term service benefits
The group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits other than retirement benefits represents the present value of the future
benefit that employees have earned as at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of associated assets.
Share-based payments
The group has applied the optional transitional exemptions in IFRS 2 Share-based Payment and implemented its requirements for grants of equity
instruments made after 7 November 2002 which had not vested by 1 January 2005.
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.The fair value of share-based payments is determined at the date of
grant and expensed, with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the group’s estimate of the
shares that will eventually vest.The amount expensed is adjusted over the vesting period for changes in the estimate of the number of shares that
will eventually vest, save for changes resulting from any market-related performance conditions.
The fair value of share-based payments granted in the form of options is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes valuation technique, adjusted
for future dividend receipts and for any market-related performance conditions.
(m)Provisions
Provisions are recognised when a present legal or constructive obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the
amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated. Items within provisions include claims against the group’s captive insurance businesses, costs of
meeting lease requirements on unoccupied properties and restructuring provisions for the costs of a business reorganisation where the plans are
sufficiently detailed and where the appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken at the balance sheet date.
Where the time value of money is material, provisions are stated at the present value of the expected expenditure using an appropriate discount rate.
(n) Revenue recognition
Revenue
Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business and is measured at the fair value of
the consideration received or receivable, net of discounts,VAT and other sales related taxes. Revenue for the manned security and cash services
products and for recurring services in the security systems products is recognised over the period in which the service is provided. Revenue on
security systems installations is recognised either on completion in respect of product sales, or in accordance with the percentage of completion
method in respect of construction contracts.
Construction contracts
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of
completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work
to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.Variations in
contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is likely that they will be agreed with the customer.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs
incurred that are deemed likely to be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses as they are incurred.Where it is likely that total
contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Construction contracts are recognised on the balance sheet at cost plus profit recognised to date, less provision for foreseeable losses and less
progress billings. Balances are not offset.
Government grants
Government grants in respect of items expensed in the income statement are recognised as deductions from the associated expenditure.
Government grants in respect of property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the
lives of the related assets.
  62
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
3 Significant accounting policies (continued)
(n) Revenue recognition (continued)
Interest
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.This is the rate
that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
Dividends
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders’ rights to receive payment have been established.
(o) Borrowing costs
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement.
(p) Profit from operations
Profit from operations is stated after the share of results of associates but before investment income and finance costs. Exceptional items of
particular significance, including restructuring costs, are included within profit from operations but are separately disclosed.
(q) Income taxes
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity, in which case it is recognised in
equity.The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes
items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the
consolidated financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the
balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill in a business combination
or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax
profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures,
except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred
tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity in which case the
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
(r) Leasing
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the inception of the lease at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum
lease payments.The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Amounts due from lessees
under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the amount of the group’s net investment in the leases. Lease payments made or received are
apportioned between finance charges or income and the reduction of the lease liability or asset so as to produce a constant rate of interest on
the outstanding balance of the liability or asset.
Rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to income on a straight-line basis over the lease terms, as are
incentives to enter into operating leases.
  63
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
3 Significant accounting policies (continued)
(s) Segment reporting
A segment is a significant component of the group which is subject to risks and rewards distinguishable from those of other segments either by
the nature of the services provided (business segment) or by the economic environment in which it transacts business (geographical segment).
(t) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather
than through continuing use.This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset (or disposal group) is available
for immediate sale in its present condition.The group must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a
completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
A discontinued operation is a component of the group’s business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of
operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale, that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or that meets the criteria
to be classified as held for sale.
(u) Dividends
Dividends are recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period in which they are declared. Dividends proposed but not declared are
not recognised but are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
(v) Accounting standards and interpretations issued but not yet mandatory and not adopted
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures was issued in August 2005 and will apply to the group from 1 January 2007.This standard supersedes 
IAS 32 and requires further quantitative and qualitative disclosures in respect of financial instruments.
IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease was issued in December 2004 and will apply to the group from 1 January 2006.
This interpretation requires that arrangements that have the nature, if not the legal form, of a lease are accounted for in accordance with IAS 17
Leases. Its adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the group.
4 Revenue
An analysis of the group’s revenue is as follows:
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Continuing operations
Sale of goods 143.8 116.9
Rendering of services 3,945.9 2,936.3
Revenue from construction contracts 40.2 40.4
Revenue from continuing operations as presented in the consolidated income statement 5 4,129.9 3,093.6
Discontinued operations
Rendering of services 39.8 89.5
Revenue from discontinued operations 6 39.8 89.5
Other operating income
Interest receivable 12.0 4.6
Expected return on pension plan assets 60.8 35.0
Total other operating income 72.8 39.6 64
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
5 Business and geographical segments
The group operates in three core product areas: manned security, security systems and cash services.The group operates on a worldwide basis and
derives a substantial proportion of its revenue and operating profit from each of the following geographic regions: the United Kingdom, the rest of
Europe, North America, and New Markets (comprising Latin America and the Caribbean, Africa, the Middle East and Gulf States, and Asia Pacific).
The current management structure of the group is a combination of product area and geography, within which the larger businesses generally report
by product area.The group’s primary segmentation is therefore by business segment and its secondary segmentation is by geography. Segment
information is presented below.
Segment revenue
Revenue by business segment Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
operations operations T otal operations operations T otal
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Manned Security
Europe 1,364.5 3.9 1,368.4 1,055.1 60.9 1,116.0
North America 1,014.6 35.9 1,050.5 921.4 24.7 946.1
New Markets 495.2 – 495.2 292.9 0.9 293.8
Total Manned Security 2,874.3 39.8 2,914.1 2,269.4 86.5 2,355.9
Security Systems
Europe 342.0 – 342.0 315.9 – 315.9
North America 3.1 – 3.1 1.8 – 1.8
New Markets 44.5 – 44.5 26.6 – 26.6
Total Security Systems 389.6 – 389.6 344.3 – 344.3
Cash Services
Europe 688.6 – 688.6 402.9 2.7 405.6
North America 76.9 – 76.9 29.8 – 29.8
New Markets 100.5 – 100.5 47.2 0.3 47.5
Total Cash Services 866.0 – 866.0 479.9 3.0 482.9
Total revenue 4,129.9 39.8 4,169.7 3,093.6 89.5 3,183.1
Revenue by geographic market T otal T otal
2005 2004
£m £m
Europe
United Kingdom 821.0 481.8
Rest of Europe 1,578.0 1,355.7
North America 1,130.5 977.7
New Markets
Latin America and Caribbean 97.4 90.0
Africa 137.0 94.5
Middle East and Gulf States 154.5 39.9
Asia Pacific 251.3 143.5
Total revenue 4,169.7 3,183.1 65
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
5 Business and geographical segments (continued)
Segment revenue (continued)
Revenue from internal and external Total gross Total gross
customers by business segment segment Inter-segment External segment Inter-segment External
revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Manned Security 2,935.6 (21.5) 2,914.1 2,374.6 (18.7) 2,355.9
Security Systems 400.2 (10.6) 389.6 352.6 (8.3) 344.3
Cash Services 868.2 (2.2) 866.0 485.0 (2.1) 482.9
Total revenue 4,204.0 (34.3) 4,169.7 3,212.2 (29.1) 3,183.1
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
Segment result
PBITA by business segment Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
operations operations T otal operations operations T otal
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Manned Security
Europe 73.3 (0.9) 72.4 51.6 1.6 53.2
North America 61.0 (0.8) 60.2 53.0 (0.8) 52.2
New Markets 35.6 – 35.6 19.1 – 19.1
Total Manned Security 169.9 (1.7) 168.2 123.7 0.8 124.5
Security Systems
Europe 27.7 – 27.7 25.0 – 25.0
North America 0.4 – 0.4 0.2 – 0.2
New Markets 4.0 – 4.0 3.0 – 3.0
Total Security Systems 32.1 – 32.1 28.2 – 28.2
Cash Services
Europe 58.4 – 58.4 23.5 (0.3) 23.2
North America 2.8 – 2.8 2.1 – 2.1
New Markets 15.5 – 15.5 8.8 – 8.8
Total Cash Services 76.7 – 76.7 34.4 (0.3) 34.1
PBITA before head office costs 278.7 (1.7) 277.0 186.3 0.5 186.8
Head office costs (24.7) – (24.7) (20.8) – (20.8)
Total PBITA 254.0 (1.7) 252.3 165.5 0.5 166.0
PBITA by geographic market
Europe 159.4 (0.9) 158.5 100.1 1.3 101.4
North America 64.2 (0.8) 63.4 55.3 (0.8) 54.5
New Markets 55.1 – 55.1 30.9 – 30.9
PBITA before head office costs 278.7 (1.7) 277.0 186.3 0.5 186.8
Head office costs (24.7) – (24.7) (20.8) – (20.8)
Total PBITA 254.0 (1.7) 252.3 165.5 0.5 166.0
  66
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
5 Business and geographical segments (continued)
Segment result (continued)
Result by business segment Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
operations operations T otal operations operations T otal
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Total PBITA 254.0 (1.7) 252.3 165.5 0.5 166.0
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles (33.8) – (33.8) (13.4) – (13.4)
Exceptional items (22.2) (5.3) (27.5) (151.0) (39.8) (190.8)
Profit from operations before interest
and taxation (PBIT) 198.0 (7.0) 191.0 1.1 (39.3) (38.2)
By business segment
Manned Security 145.9 (8.2) 137.7 56.8 (39.0) 17.8
Security Systems 27.7 – 27.7 (13.9) – (13.9)
Cash Services 50.5 1.2 51.7 (6.4) (0.3) (6.7)
Head office costs (26.1) – (26.1) (35.4) – (35.4)
Total PBIT 198.0 (7.0) 191.0 1.1 (39.3) (38.2)
The profit from continuing operations before interest and taxation stated above is equal to the profit from operations before interest and taxation
disclosed in the income statement.The loss from discontinued operations before interest and taxation stated above is equal to the loss before interest
and tax from discontinued operations as analysed in note 6 which provides a reconciliation to the net loss from discontinued operations.
Segment assets and liabilities
The following information is analysed by business segment and by the geographical area in which the assets are located:
Total assets 2005 2004
£m £m
By business segment
Manned Security 1,512.7 1,378.2
Security Systems 292.6 271.4
Cash Services 862.6 809.1
Head office 54.8 49.1
Inter-segment trading balances (5.7) (6.0)
Total segment assets attributable to continuing operations 2,717.0 2,501.8
By geographical segment
Europe
United Kingdom 811.0 798.8
Rest of Europe 839.1 824.5
North America 674.6 566.6
New Markets
Latin America and Caribbean 63.8 51.4
Africa 65.5 53.4
Middle East and Gulf States 29.7 19.5
Asia Pacific 178.5 138.5
Head office 54.8 49.1
Total segment assets attributable to continuing operations 2,717.0 2,501.8
Non-current assets held for resale – 29.9
Total segment assets 2,717.0 2,531.7
Non-operating assets 438.1 363.3
Total assets 3,155.1 2,895.0 67
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
5 Business and geographical segments (continued)
Segment assets and liabilities (continued)
Total liabilities 2005 2004
£m £m
By business segment
Manned Security (495.9) (478.5)
Security Systems (101.0) (95.0)
Cash Services (183.3) (148.4)
Head office (74.8) (81.9)
Inter-segment trading balances 5.7 6.0
Total segment liabilities attributable to continuing operations (849.3) (797.8)
Non-operating liabilities (1,335.9) (1,187.3)
Total liabilities (2,185.2) (1,985.1)
Non-operating assets and liabilities comprise financial assets and liabilities, taxation assets and liabilities and retirement benefit obligations.
Other information by geographical location
By business segment Impairment Impairment
losses Depreciation losses Depreciation
recognised and Capital recognised and Capital
in income amortisation additions in income amortisation additions
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Manned Security – 34.7 63.2 35.8 25.0 499.8
Security Systems – 16.5 30.1 17.3 18.1 70.5
Cash Services – 62.4 84.0 11.0 31.4 644.4
Head office – 2.4 5.0 – 2.3 18.4
T otal – 116.0 182.3 64.1 76.8 1,233.1
By geographical segment Capital Capital
additions additions
2005 2004
£m £m
Europe
United Kingdom 37.9 677.1
Rest of Europe 58.0 268.5
North America 32.7 96.6
New Markets
Latin America and Caribbean 9.1 40.8
Africa 5.9 25.8
Middle East and Gulf States 12.9 6.7
Asia Pacific 20.8 99.2
Head office 5.0 18.4
T otal 182.3 1,233.1 68
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
6 Discontinued operations
Discontinued operations represent operations disposed of during 2004 and 2005.They include the manned security business of Falck Security
Nederland and its subsidiaries (with the exception of aviation security activities) and of Group 4 Falck Cash Services UK.The disposal of these
businesses was required by the European Commission as a condition for their approval of the combination between the security businesses of the
former Group 4 Falck A/S and Securicor plc on 19 July 2004. During the disposal process the group did not have control over these operations and
in consequence their results have not been consolidated from 20 July 2004. Group 4 Falck Cash Services UK was sold on 7 March 2005 and the
manned security business of Falck Security Nederland on 2 November 2005. Also included within discontinued operations are the security operations
of Cognisa Security in the US, which were sold on 31 August 2005.
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the consolidated income statement were as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Revenue 39.8 89.5
Expenses (41.5) (89.0)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (1.7) 0.5
Attributable tax expense (0.2) (0.4)
Total (loss)/profit for the year (1.9) 0.1
Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (5.3) (39.8)
Attributable tax expense (1.6) –
Total loss on disposal (6.9) (39.8)
Net loss attributable to discontinued operations (8.8) (39.7)
Included within net loss attributable to discontinued operations is £5.5m (2004: £37.0m) attributable to the loss on disposal of Falck Security Nederland.
During the year, discontinued operations contributed £(1.6)m (2004: £1.6m) to the group’s net cash flows from operating activities, contributed £(0.3)m
(2004: £0.1m) in respect of net cash used in investing activities and contributed £(0.2)m (2004: £(0.2)m) in respect of net cash flows from financing activities.
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in note 5.
7 Profit from operations before interest and taxation
The income statement can be analysed as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Continuing operations
Revenue 4,129.9 3,093.6
Cost of sales (3,232.4) (2,444.0)
Gross profit 897.5 649.6
Administration expenses (704.8) (650.9)
Share of profit from associates 5.3 2.4
Profit from operations before interest and taxation 198.0 1.1
Included within administration expenses is £33.8m (2004: £13.4m) of amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets and £22.2m 
(2004: £151.0m) of exceptional items.
Revenue and expenses relating to discontinued operations are disclosed in note 6.
  69
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
8 Exceptional items
2005 2004
£m £m
Restructuring costs consequential upon acquisitions (22.2) (37.2)
Impairment of goodwill in respect of businesses in Finland, Germany, Poland, South Africa and Austria – (55.9)
Change in accounting estimates – (57.9)
Total exceptional items (22.2) (151.0)
The exceptional item in 2005 relates to post-acquisition restructuring costs including £4.0m incurred in the reorganisation of the cash services
business in Germany.
9 Profit from operations
Profit from operations has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):
2005 2004
£m £m
Impairment of goodwill – 55.9
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets included within administration expenses 33.8 13.4
Amortisation of other intangible assets included within administration expenses 6.8 5.8
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 75.4 57.6
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than acquisition-related – 8.2
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than acquisition-related 2.8 1.3
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales 69.6 62.3
Write-down of inventories to net realisable value included within cost of sales 1.0 1.6
Reversal of inventories previously written down to net realisable value included within 
cost of sales because subsequently sold (0.6) (0.8)
Impairment of trade receivables 4.7 5.9
Litigation settlements 1.2 –
Staff costs 2,920.4 2,282.2
Research and development expenditure 1.4 4.1
Operating lease rentals payable 64.7 62.8
Operating sub-lease rentals receivable (1.9) (2.0)
Cost of performance share plan awards and share options 2.7 1.5
Government grants received as a contribution towards wage costs – 0.3
Net foreign translation adjustments 0.2 0.5
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services:
Group auditor:
– parent company 0.6 0.6
– other 2.1 0.3
Other auditors 0.7 2.6
Total auditors’ remuneration 3.4 3.5
KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as the group auditor in respect of 2005.The group auditor in the prior year was Baker Tilly.
The group auditor’s remuneration for other services provided to the parent company and its UK subsidiaries was £nil (2004: £12,000 in respect of
services provided by Baker Tilly).
Additionally, in 2004, Baker Tilly received fees of £1.9m in connection with the acquisition of Securicor plc during that year which are included as part
of the cost of acquisition. 70
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
10 Staff costs and employees
The average monthly number of employees (including directors) was:
2005 2004
Number Number
By business segment
Manned Security 350,735 277,288
Security Systems 9,254 9,397
Cash Services 35,645 19,534
Not allocated, including shared administration and head office 137 94
Total average number of employees 395,771 306,313
By geographical segment
Europe 112,647 96,274
North America 53,045 49,173
New Markets 229,942 160,772
Not allocated, including shared administration and head office 137 94
Total average number of employees 395,771 306,313
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2005 2004
£m £m
Wages and salaries 2,493.0 1,920.5
Social security costs 365.5 312.8
Employee benefits (see note 32) 61.9 48.9
Total staff costs 2,920.4 2,282.2
Information on directors’ remuneration, share options, long-term incentive plans, and pension contributions and entitlements is set out in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 47.
11 Investment income
2005 2004
£m £m
Interest receivable 12.0 4.6
Expected return on pension plan assets 60.8 35.0
Total investment income 72.8 39.6
12 Finance costs
2005 2004
£m £m
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 44.8 20.2
Interest on other loans 0.5 0.3
Interest on obligations under finance leases 1.8 2.1
Total group borrowing costs 47.1 22.6
Finance costs on pension liabilities 65.7 36.3
Decrease in fair value of trading investments 0.5 –
Total finance costs 113.3 58.9 71
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
13 T axation
Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued
operations operations T otal operations operations T otal
2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Current taxation 
UK corporation tax 11.1 – 11.1 3.8 0.4 4.2
UK corporation tax – adjustments 
in respect of prior years (3.6) – (3.6) (4.7) – (4.7)
Overseas tax 51.8 1.8 53.6 42.9 – 42.9
Overseas tax – adjustments in respect of prior years (5.6) – (5.6) – ––
Total current taxation expense 53.7 1.8 55.5 42.0 0.4 42.4
Deferred taxation (see note 34)
Current year (1.4) – (1.4) (11.4) – (11.4)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 5.7 – 5.7 (23.1) – (23.1)
Total deferred taxation expense 4.3 – 4.3 (34.5) – (34.5)
Total income tax expense for the year 58.0 1.8 59.8 7.5 0.4 7.9
UK corporation tax is calculated at 30.0% (2004: 30.0%) of the estimated assessable profits for the period.Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated
at the corporation tax rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit/(loss) per the income statement as follows:
2005 2005 2004 2004
£m % £m %
Profit/(loss) before taxation
Continuing operations 157.5 (18.2)
Discontinued operations (7.0) (39.3)
150.5 (57.5)
Tax at UK corporation tax rate of 30% (2004: 30%) 45.1 30.0% (17.2) 30.0%
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 13.0 45.1
Tax effect of tax losses not recognised in the current year 3.1 4.8
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in non-UK jurisdictions 2.0 2.2
Adjustments for previous years (3.4) (27.0)
Total tax charge 59.8 39.7% 7.9 (13.7)%
In 2004, the expenses which were treated as non-deductible for tax purposes included impairment charges relating to goodwill, certain accounting
adjustments arising from the harmonisation of accounting estimates, certain restructuring costs on the acquisition of Securicor plc and provisions made
against investments.The prior year adjustment for 2004 of £27.0 million primarily relates to the release of deferred tax provisions within group companies.
In addition to the income tax expense charged to the income statement, a current tax credit of £12.3m (2004: £3.8m) has been recognised in equity.
14 Dividends
2005 2004
£m £m
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders of the parent in the period
Final dividend of DKK 0.049 per share for the year ended 31 December 2003 – 3.6
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 1.85p (DKK 0.1981) per share 23.5 –
Interim dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2005 of 1.30p (DKK 0.143) per share 16.4 –
39.9 3.6
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 2.24p (DKK 0.2435)
(2004: 1.85p, DKK 0.1981 per share) 28.3 23.5
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. If so approved, it will be paid on 11 July 2006 to
shareholders who are on the register on 9 June 2006.The exchange rate used to translate it into Danish Kroner is that at 9 March 2006. 72
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
15 Earnings/(loss) per share
2005 2004
£m £m
From continuing and discontinued operations
Earnings/(loss)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 80.8 (72.3)
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares (net of tax) – –
Profit/(loss) for the purposes of diluted earnings/(loss) per share 80.8 (72.3)
Number of shares (m)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,265.0 966.9
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares 6.0 –
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings/(loss) per share 1,271.0 966.9
Earnings/(loss) per share from continuing and discontinued operations (pence)
Basic 6.4p (7.5)p
Diluted 6.4p (7.5)p
From continuing operations
Earnings/(loss)
Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 80.8 (72.3)
Adjustment to exclude loss for the period from discontinued operations 8.8 39.7
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 89.6 (32.6)
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares (net of tax) – –
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations for the purpose of diluted earnings/(loss) per share 89.6 (32.6)
Earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations (pence)
Basic 7.1p (3.4)p
Diluted 7.0p (3.4)p
From discontinued operations
Loss per share from discontinued operations (pence)
Basic (0.7)p (4.1)p
Diluted (0.7)p (4.1)p
From adjusted earnings
Earnings/(loss)
Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 89.6 (32.6)
Adjustment to exclude net pension finance costs and fair value adjustments to financial instruments (net of tax) 3.8 0.9
Adjustment to exclude amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets (net of tax) 23.8 9.4
Adjustment to exclude exceptional items (net of tax) 23.1 114.5
Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 140.3 92.2
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 11.1p 9.5p
In the opinion of the directors the earnings per share figure of most use to shareholders is that which is adjusted.This figure better allows the
assessment of operational performance, the analysis of trends over time, the comparison of different businesses and the projection of future earnings.
The denominators used in all earnings/(loss) per share calculations are those disclosed in respect of continuing and discontinued operations.
  73
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
16 Acquisitions
Current year acquisitions
The group undertook a number of acquisitions in the year, none of which were individually material. Principal acquisitions in subsidiary undertakings
include the purchase of 100% interests in OneService, a valuables transportation business in the US, and in Universal ATM Services, a cash-in-transit
business in Canada. In addition, a further 21% of the shares of Hashmira, the Israeli security company, were acquired.
The following table sets out the book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their provisional fair value to the group in respect 
of all acquisitions made in the period:
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
Notes £m £m £m
Acquisition-related intangible assets (i) – 11.9 11.9
Other intangible assets (ii) 0.2 (0.1) 0.1
Property, plant and equipment (ii) 5.3 (1.4) 3.9
Inventories 0.1 – 0.1
Trade and other receivables (iii) 16.5 (0.3) 16.2
Cash and cash equivalents 3.0 – 3.0
Trade and other payables (iv) (16.4) (0.5) (16.9)
Provisions (iv) (0.9) (1.4) (2.3)
Borrowings (1.3) – (1.3)
Deferred tax liabilities (v) – (4.0) (4.0)
Net assets acquired of subsidiary undertakings 6.5 4.2 10.7
Acquisition of minority interests (vi) 7.1 1.5 8.6
Goodwill 32.6
Total purchase consideration 51.9
Satisfied by:
Cash 49.1
Transaction costs 1.6
Contingent consideration 1.2
Total purchase consideration 51.9
Details of fair value adjustments are as follows:
(i) to recognise customer-related intangible assets identified on acquisition.
(ii) to reflect their fair value in use.
(iii) to reflect their fair value.
(iv) to measure certain liabilities at fair value.
(v) to recognise deferred tax on the acquisition-related intangible assets identified on acquisition.
(vi) to recognise £2.1m acquisition-related intangible assets identified on acquisition, net of £0.6m of associated deferred tax liabilities.
The fair values of net assets acquired are provisional and represent estimates following a preliminary valuation exercise.These estimates may be
adjusted to reflect any development in the issues to which they relate. Final fair value adjustments will, if required, be reflected in the comparative to
the 2006 consolidated financial statements.
The goodwill arising on acquisitions can be ascribed to the existence of a skilled, active workforce and the opportunities to obtain new contracts and
develop the business. Neither of these meet the criteria for recognition as intangible assets.
In aggregate, the acquired businesses contributed £71.8m to revenues, £8.5m to profit before interest, taxation, amortisation of acquisition-related
intangibles and exceptional items and £3.5m to net profit for the part year they were under Group 4 Securicor plc ownership. If all acquisitions had
occurred on 1 January 2005, group revenue would have been £4,141.9m, profit before interest, taxation, amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles
and exceptional items would have been £254.9m and profit for the year would have been £91.0m.
  74
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
16 Acquisitions (continued)
Prior year acquisitions – Securicor plc
On 19 July 2004, Group 4 Securicor plc acquired the Securicor plc group of companies in a share for share exchange.The provisional assessment 
of fair value adjustments which was made for the financial period ended 31 December 2004 has been finalised in the 12 months following the date of
acquisition and the comparatives adjusted accordingly.The following table sets out the book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and
their fair value to the group:
Net assets Provisional
acquired fair value 
under adjustments,
UK GAAP including Provisional Final
applicable adjustment fair value fair value
as at from of assets Final of assets 
19 July UK GAAP acquired fair value acquired
2004 to IFRS 2004 adjustments 2005
£m £m Notes £m £m Notes £m
Acquisition-related intangible assets – 256.3 (a) 256.3 – 256.3
Other intangible assets – 10.3 (b) 10.3 (3.5) (m) 6.8
Property, plant and equipment 159.7 10.2 (c) 169.9 (0.7) (n) 169.2
Investments in associates 15.9 (15.9) (d) –– –
Other non-current assets 14.8 58.4 (e) 73.2 3.0 (o) 76.2
Inventories 6.7 (1.4) (f) 5.3 – 5.3
Other current assets 220.9 1.9 (e) 222.8 (1.7) (p) 221.1
Current asset investments
held for sale 6.9 12.3 (g) 19.2 – 19.2
Cash and cash equivalents 60.1 3.9 (h) 64.0 – 64.0
Borrowings included within 
current liabilities (23.9) (3.4) (27.3) – (27.3)
Other current liabilities (228.2) (7.7) (i) (235.9) (10.7) (q) (246.6)
Borrowings included within
non-current liabilities (138.8) (45.6) (j) (184.4) – (184.4)
Other non-current liabilities (4.5) (216.8) (k) (221.3) (4.8) (q) (226.1)
Net assets acquired 89.6 62.5 152.1 (18.4) 133.7
Minority interests (7.3) 2.4 (4.9) - (4.9)
Goodwill 689.2 (64.9) (l) 624.3 18.4 642.7
Total purchase consideration 771.5 – 771.5 – 771.5
Satisfied by:
Purchase consideration from 
issue of shares 710.4
Transaction costs 61.1
Total purchase consideration 771.5
The book value of the net assets acquired has, for consistency with the presentation in the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2004,
been presented in accordance with the then UK GAAP.The book value of net assets acquired stated in accordance with IFRS would have been £0.7m
rather than £89.6m due to the recognition of pension fund balances net of related deferred taxation.
  75
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
16 Acquisitions (continued)
Prior year acquisitions – Securicor plc (continued)
Details of the provisional fair value adjustments to the assets and liabilities of Securicor plc made in 2004, including the transitional adjustments 
to state the assets and liabilities in accordance with IFRS, are as follows:
(a) to recognise technology and trademark-based assets and customer-related intangible assets identified on acquisition.
(b) to reclassify software previously classified within property, plant and equipment.
(c) to reflect the market value of properties, the fair value in use of other assets as at the date of acquisition, the reclassification of software
previously classified within property, plant and equipment and the proportionate consolidation of joint ventures.
(d) to reflect the proportionate consolidation of joint ventures.
(e) to reflect their fair value and the proportionate consolidation of joint ventures.
(f) to reflect their fair value.
(g) to reflect the estimated recoverable amount of investments held exclusively for resale.
(h) to reflect the proportionate consolidation of joint ventures.
(i) to reflect the recognition of corporation tax and other liabilities in existence at the date of acquisition and the proportionate consolidation
of joint ventures.
(j) to reflect the proportionate consolidation of joint ventures.
(k) to reflect the recognition of pension fund balances, the recognition of deferred tax in respect of acquisition-related intangible assets, the
proportionate consolidation of joint ventures and the recognition of liabilities in existence at the date of acquisition.
(l) to reflect the minority share of the other fair value adjustments.
Details of the final fair value adjustments to the assets and liabilities of Securicor made in the 12 months following the date of acquisition and adjusted
in the comparatives are as follows:
(m) to reflect the fair value in use of assets acquired as at the date of acquisition.
(n) to reflect the fair value in use of assets acquired excluding properties.
(o) to reflect the deferred tax impact of the other final fair values adjustments.
(p) to reflect their fair values.
(q) to reflect the recognition of liabilities in existence at the date of acquisition.
The fair value of a contingent liability of Securicor plc at the date of acquisition cannot be measured reliably and is therefore not recognised separately
as part of the allocation of the cost of the business combination. Full disclosure of the contingent liability acquired is provided in note 38.
The goodwill arising upon the acquisition of Securicor plc can be ascribed to the cost synergy opportunities available through the integration of the
business, the existence of a skilled, active workforce in the acquired businesses and the opportunities to obtain new contracts and develop the
businesses. None of these meet the criteria for recognition as intangible assets.
  76
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
16 Acquisitions (continued)
Prior year acquisitions – other acquisitions
The group undertook a number of other acquisitions in 2004, none of which are individually material. A summary of the book values of the
identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the group is provided below:
Book value and
fair value 
of assets
acquired
£m
Acquisition-related intangible assets 10.2
Intangible assets other than acquisition-related 0.5
Property plant and equipment 8.8
Inventories 0.8
Trade and other receivables 4.6
Borrowings (0.5)
Other current and non-current liabilities (14.6)
Net assets acquired 9.8
Minority interests (2.6)
Goodwill 33.4
Total purchase consideration 40.6
Satisfied by:
Cash consideration 24.6
Deferred consideration payments 16.0
Total purchase consideration 40.6
It is considered that the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired is represented by the book value apart from the recognition of
acquisition-related intangible assets identified on acquisition. Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration over the net assets acquired.
In aggregate, the businesses acquired in 2004 contributed £587.0m to revenues, £43.9m to profit before interest, taxation, recognition of acquisition-
related intangibles and exceptional items and £(7.5)m net loss for the part year they were under Group 4 Securicor plc ownership. If all acquisitions
had occurred on 1 January 2004, group revenue would have been £3,780.6m, profit before interest, taxation, amortisation of acquisition-related
intangibles and exceptional items would have been £218.2m and the loss for the year would have been £(41.6)m.
17 Disposal of a subsidiary
As referred to in note 6, the group disposed of the manned security business of Falck Security Nederland and its subsidiaries (with the exception of
aviation security activities) on 2 November 2005, and of Group 4 Falck Cash Services UK and Securicor Luxembourg on 7 March 2005 as required
by the European Commission. In addition, the security operations of Cognisa Security in the US were sold on 31 August 2005.
The net assets of operations disposed during 2005 at the date of disposal and at 31 December 2004 were:
At date 31 December
of disposal 2004
Property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3
Trade and other receivables 7.6 8.6
Investments 32.3 30.5
Net assets of operations disposed 40.2 39.4
Provisions 7.2
Loss on disposal (5.3)
Total consideration 42.1
Satisfied by:
Cash 42.1
The impact of the disposals on the group’s results and cash flows in the current and prior periods is disclosed in note 6.
  77
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
18 Intangible assets
Customer Development
Goodwill Trademarks related T echnology expenditure Software T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 531.2 – – – – 24.3 555.5
Acquisition of Securicor plc 642.7 15.9 230.2 10.2 – 6.8 905.8
Acquisitions through other
business combinations 33.4 0.7 8.6 0.9 – 0.5 44.1
Additions – – – – – 12.7 12.7
Reclassified as held for sale (47.0) – – – – – (47.0)
Translation adjustments (9.6) – 0.1 – – 2.4 (7.1)
At 31 December 2004 1,150.7 16.6 238.9 11.1 – 46.7 1,464.0
At 1 January 2005 1,150.7 16.6 238.9 11.1 – 46.7 1,464.0
Acquisitions through
business combinations 32.6 – 14.0 – – 0.1 46.7
Separately acquired assets – – 3.0 – – – 3.0
Additions – – – – 2.8 9.6 12.4
Disposals – – – – – (9.5) (9.5)
Translation adjustments 42.1 0.3 3.8 1.2 – 0.3 47.7
At 31 December 2005 1,225.4 16.9 259.7 12.3 2.8 47.2 1,564.3
Amortisation and accumulated
impairment losses
At 1 January 2004 – – – – – (10.0) (10.0)
Amortisation charge – (1.4) (11.1) (0.9) – (5.8) (19.2)
Impairment losses for the year (55.9) – – – – (4.7) (60.6)
Translation adjustments 1.5 – 0.1 – – (0.9) 0.7
At 31 December 2004 (54.4) (1.4) (11.0) (0.9) – (21.4) (89.1)
At 1 January 2005 (54.4) (1.4) (11.0) (0.9) – (21.4) (89.1)
Amortisation charge – (3.3) (28.0) (2.5) (0.1) (6.7) (40.6)
Disposals – – – – – 5.4 5.4
Translation adjustments 1.7 – (0.3) (0.1) – 0.1 1.4
At 31 December 2005 (52.7) (4.7) (39.3) (3.5) (0.1) (22.6) (122.9)
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2004 531.2 – – – – 14.3 545.5
At 31 December 2004 1,096.3 15.2 227.9 10.2 – 25.3 1,374.9
At 31 December 2005 1,172.7 12.2 220.4 8.8 2.7 24.6 1,441.4
Included within software is internally generated software with a gross carrying value of £1.1m (2004: £0.6m), and accumulated depreciation of £0.1m
(2004: £nil), giving a net book value of £1.0m (2004: £0.6m). During 2004, additions arising on the acquisition of Securicor plc amounted to £0.6m.
Other additions amounted to £0.6m (2004: £nil) and the amortisation charge associated to these assets was £0.1m (2004: £nil).
Customer-related intangibles comprise the contractual relationship with customers and the customer relationships which meet the criteria for
identification as intangible assets in accordance with IFRS.
The carrying amount at 31 December 2005 of the customer contracts and relationships recognised upon the acquisition of Securicor plc was
£200.0m, and the amortisation period remaining in respect of these assets is 8.5 years.
  78
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
18 Intangible assets (continued)
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to the cash generating units (CGUs) which are expected to benefit from that business
combination.The following CGUs have significant carrying amounts of goodwill:
2005 2004
£m £m
US Manned Security 285.5 255.3
United Kingdom Cash Services 226.1 219.1
UK Justice 92.6 92.6
Netherlands Manned Security 87.1 90.3
United Kingdom Manned Security 60.9 60.9
Other (all allocated) 420.5 378.1
Total goodwill 1,172.7 1,096.3
The group tests tangible and intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment on an annual basis.The impairment test is performed just prior
to the year end when the budgeting process is finalised.The group’s impairment test compares the carrying value of each CGU to its recoverable
amount. Under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, an impairment is deemed to have occurred where the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than
its carrying value.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined by its value in use which is derived from discounted cash flow calculations.These calculations
include forecast cash flows for a period of five years.The five year cash flow forecasts are based on the budget for the following year (year one),
the business plans for years two and three, and projections for years four and five. Cash flows at the end of the five year forecast period are projected
into perpetuity at the lower of the planned growth rate in year three and the forecast underlying economic growth rate for the economies in which
the CGU operates.Where the planned growth rate in year three exceeds the forecast underlying economic growth rate, the excess is progressively
reduced in the projections for years four and five. Future cash flows are discounted at a pre-tax, weighted average cost of capital which for the
group is 10.4% (2004: 10.7%).This rate is adjusted where appropriate to reflect the different financial risks in each country or region in which the
CGUs operate.
In applying the group’s model, no goodwill impairment has been identified in any of the group’s CGUs for the year ended 31 December 2005.
An impairment of £55.9m was identified and recognised for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The key assumptions used in the discounted cash flow calculations relate to the discount rate and underlying economic growth rate.With all 
other variables being equal, if the group discount rate were to be increased by 1% to 11.4%, with an equivalent increase in the discount rate for
all countries or regions, an impairment of approximately £5m would arise.With all other variables being equal, if the underlying growth rate in all
countries were to be reduced by 1%, an impairment of approximately £4m would arise.These approximations indicate the sensitivity of the
impairment test to changes in the underlying assumptions. However, it is highly unlikely that any variations in the assumptions would impact on
all CGUs at the same time.
  79
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
19 Property, plant and equipment
Land and Equipment
buildings and vehicles Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 60.8 265.0 325.8
Additions 13.5 79.0 92.5
Acquisition of Securicor plc 82.8 86.4 169.2
Acquisitions through other business combinations 1.3 7.5 8.8
Disposals (13.0) (27.2) (40.2)
Reclassified as held for sale – (9.6) (9.6)
Translation adjustment 2.1 6.0 8.1
At 31 December 2004 147.5 407.1 554.6
At 1 January 2005 147.5 407.1 554.6
Additions 14.1 102.2 116.3
Acquisitions through business combinations 0.6 3.3 3.9
Disposal of a subsidiary – 0.3 0.3
Disposals (9.3) (23.4) (32.7)
Transferred to amounts receivable on PFI contracts (9.7) – (9.7)
Translation adjustment (0.8) 1.2 0.4
At 31 December 2005 142.4 490.7 633.1
Depreciation and accumulated impairment losses
At 1 January 2004 (21.7) (154.6) (176.3)
Depreciation charge (7.3) (50.3) (57.6)
Impairment loss – (3.5) (3.5)
Disposals 4.7 18.0 22.7
Reclassified as held for sale – 6.0 6.0
Translation adjustment (0.7) (5.7) (6.4)
At 31 December 2004 (25.0) (190.1) (215.1)
At 1 January 2005 (25.0) (190.1) (215.1)
Depreciation charge (7.9) (67.5) (75.4)
Disposals 4.4 11.4 15.8
Translation adjustment 0.3 (3.3) (3.0)
At 31 December 2005 (28.2) (249.5) (277.7)
Carrying amount
At 1 January 2004 39.1 110.4 149.5
At 31 December 2004 122.5 217.0 339.5
At 31 December 2005 114.2 241.2 355.4
Included in land and buildings at 31 December 2004 is £9.7m of assets in the course of construction, acquired with Securicor plc.This relates to the
group’s proportion of assets held in respect of the Private Finance Initiative (PFI) projects undertaken by the group’s joint ventures, which on
completion in 2005 were transferred to amounts receivable under PFI contracts. Further details are provided in note 24.
The carrying amount of equipment and vehicles includes the following in respect of assets held under finance leases:
2005 2004
£m £m
Net book value 44.3 34.1
Accumulated depreciation 25.6 15.1
Provision for the year 10.5 7.4
The rights over leased assets are effectively security for lease liabilities.These rights revert to the lessor in the event of default.
  80
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
19 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
The category of equipment and vehicles includes assets leased by the group to third parties under operating leases with the following carrying
amounts:
2005 2004
£m £m
Net book value 23.9 18.5
Accumulated depreciation 35.2 33.4
Provision for the year 4.5 3.9
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
2005 2004
£m £m
Freeholds 45.8 45.9
Long leaseholds (50 years and over) 14.6 12.9
Short leasehold buildings (under 50 years) 53.8 63.7
At 31 December 2005 the group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to
£1.8m (2004: £9.0m).
20 Investment in joint ventures
The group has the following significant interests in joint ventures:
(a) The group owns 100% of the equity of Wackenhut Services, Inc. (“WSI”) under US Foreign Ownership Controlling Interest provisions, governed
through a proxy agreement.WSI provides security services to US Government agencies including security services on sites deemed to be
strategically sensitive.Whilst the group is represented on the WSI board through shareholder proxies, day to day management of business
remains with an independent board reporting directly to the US government.The group, through the proxy agreement, has the power to veto
certain operational and strategic decisions. Control of the operation is therefore shared between the parties and WSI is accounted for as a joint
venture.This means that the group proportionately consolidates the results of WSI at 100%, giving rise to an accounting result identical to that
which would be the case if WSI were accounted for as a subsidiary.
(b) At the year end the group owned 50% of the equity of Bridgend Custodial Services Limited, 50% of the equity in STC (Milton Keynes) Limited
and a 49% equity shareholding in Safeguards Securicor Sdn Bhd, in Malaysia. In all cases, the group jointly shares operational and financial control
over the operations and is therefore entitled to a proportionate share of the results of each, which are consolidated on the basis of the equity
shares held.
The results of each of the jointly controlled operations are prepared in accordance with group accounting policies. Amounts proportionately
consolidated into the group’s financial statements are as follows:
Results 2005 2004
£m £m
Income 328.7 246.3
Expenses (312.7) (234.2)
Profit after tax 16.0 12.1 81
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
20 Investment in joint ventures (continued)
Balance sheet 2005 2004
£m £m
Assets
Non-current assets 49.6 56.2
Current assets 88.6 79.0
138.2 135.2
Liabilities
Current liabilities (57.4) (47.0)
Non-current liabilities (44.9) (45.3)
(102.3) (92.3)
Net assets 35.9 42.9
21 Investment in associates
The group’s share of associates’ profit and net assets and the reconciliation to the net investment are as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Total assets 11.5 26.3
Total liabilities (7.6) (16.2)
Net investment in associates 3.9 10.1
Revenue 88.1 65.2
Profit for the period 5.3 2.4
The results presented above primarily relate to the associated undertaking in Space Gateway Support LLC, in the USA, in which the group holds an
investment of 46%.
22 Inventories
2005 2004
£m £m
Raw materials 7.0 5.3
Work in progress 1.8 1.1
Finished goods including consumables 26.5 27.8
Total inventories 35.3 34.2
23 Trading investments
Trading investments primarily comprise listed securities of £58.3m (2004: £55.7m) held by the group’s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries
stated at their fair values based on quoted market prices. Use of these investments is restricted to the settlement of claims against the group’s captive
insurance subsidiaries.
  82
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
24 Trade and other receivables
2005 2004
£m £m
Within current assets
Trade debtors 703.4 568.0
Amounts owed by associated undertakings 1.9 3.9
Other debtors 54.5 73.7
Prepayments and accrued income 55.3 47.0
Amounts due in respect of construction contracts (see note 25) 13.9 10.0
Derivative financial instruments at fair value 1.7 –
Total trade and other receivables included within current assets 830.7 702.6
Within non-current assets
Other debtors 8.6 9.1
Prepayments and accrued income – 0.4
Amounts receivable under PFI contracts 41.7 31.0
Total trade and other receivables included within non-current assets 50.3 40.5
The directors believe the fair value of trade and other receivables, being the present value of future cash flows, approximates to their book value.
There is no concentration risk with respect to trade receivables, as the group’s customers are both large in number and geographically dispersed.
Included within trade and other receivables is £40.8m (2004: £64.0m) pledged as security against borrowings of the group.
Amounts receivable under PFI contracts comprise the group’s proportion of amounts receivable in respect of the Private Finance Initiative (PFI)
projects undertaken by the group’s joint ventures.There were no changes in these arrangements during the year.The projects are the design,
construction, financing and management of HM Prison and Young Offenders Institution Parc in Bridgend, South Wales, for the Home Office; and the
Oakhill Secure Training Centre for young people in Milton Keynes for the Youth Justices Board.The Bridgend contract commenced in January 1996
and expires in December 2022.The Milton Keynes contract commenced in June 2003 and expires in June 2028. Both contracts can be terminated by
the customer either in the event of a severe failure to comply with the contract or voluntarily with six months notice and the payment of appropriate
compensation.The specified assets remain the property of the customers.The group’s joint ventures have the right to provide services using the
specified assets during the life of the contracts.There is currently no obligation to acquire or build further assets and any such obligation would be
agreed with the customers as variations to the contracts.The pricing basis is inflation-indexed.
25 Construction contracts
Contracts in place at the balance sheet date are as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Amounts due from contract customers included in trade and other receivables 13.9 10.0
Amounts due to contract customers included in trade and other payables (1.9) (1.3)
Net balances relating to construction contracts 12.0 8.7
Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 26.4 20.3
Less: Progress billings (14.4) (11.6)
Net balances relating to construction contracts 12.0 8.7
At 31 December 2005, advances received from customers for contract work amounted to £4.0m (2004: £3.2m).There were no retentions held by
customers for contract work at either balance sheet date. All trade and other receivables arising from construction contracts are due for settlement
within one year.
The directors believe the fair value of amounts due from and to contract customers, being the present value of future cash flows, approximates to
their book value.
  83
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
26 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts
A reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents reported within the cash flow statement to amounts reported within the balance sheet is presented below:
2005 2004
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 263.8 191.6
Short-term bank deposits (58.7) (13.9)
Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 205.1 177.7
Cash and cash equivalents principally comprise short-term money market deposits, current account balances and cash held in ATM machines and in
2005 bore interest at a weighted average rate of 2.2% (2004: 1.5%).The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties
are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Cash and cash equivalents of £15.9m (2004: £9.8m) are held by the group’s wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries.Their use is restricted to the
settlement of claims against the group’s captive insurance subsidiaries.
27 Non-current assets classified as held for sale
Non-current assets classified as held for sale at 31 December 2004 included the operations of Falck Security Nederland and Group 4 Falck Cash
Services UK Limited, which were owned by the group prior to the acquisition of Securicor plc.They are shown within current assets as held for sale,
at their carrying value as at 19 July 2004 (see note 6), less an impairment charge in respect of the net realisable value of Falck Security Nederland.
In addition, the investment in Securicor Luxembourg SA, which was acquired as part of the acquisition of Securicor plc, was also held exclusively for
resale as an investment at fair value at the date of acquisition, 19 July 2004.
28 Bank overdrafts and loans
2005 2004
£m £m
Bank overdrafts 58.7 13.9
Bank loans 877.8 787.4
Total bank overdrafts and loans 936.5 801.3
The borrowings are repayable as follows:
On demand or within one year 146.4 106.2
In the second year 17.5 221.0
In the third to fifth years inclusive 747.1 446.7
After five years 25.5 27.4
Total bank overdrafts and loans 936.5 801.3
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities):
– Bank overdrafts (58.7) (13.9)
– Bank loans (87.7) (92.3)
(146.4) (106.2)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 790.1 695.1
Analysis of bank overdrafts and loans by currency:
Sterling Euros US Dollars Others Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts 29.6 10.6 0.6 17.9 58.7
Bank loans 36.7 320.1 481.8 39.2 877.8
At 31 December 2005 66.3 330.7 482.4 57.1 936.5
Bank overdrafts – 2.9 2.2 8.8 13.9
Bank loans 79.1 205.4 461.1 41.8 787.4
At 31 December 2004 79.1 208.3 463.3 50.6 801.3 84
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
28 Bank overdrafts and loans (continued)
The weighted average interest rates on bank overdrafts and loans were as follows:
2005 2004
% %
Bank overdrafts 4.8 4.6
Bank loans 3.9 3.0
The directors believe the fair value of the group’s bank borrowings approximates to their book value.
The group’s bank borrowings comprise a £1bn multicurrency revolving credit facility with a maturity date of June 2010, other committed facilities of
£58.2m and uncommitted facilities of £289.0m. At 31 December 2005, undrawn committed available facilities amounted to £268.8m (2004: £366.5m).
Interest on all borrowing facilities is at prevailing LIBOR or Euribor rates, dependent upon the period of drawdown, plus an agreed margin and
repriced within one year or less.The committed bank facilities are subject to financial covenants and any non-compliance with covenants may lead to
an acceleration of maturity.The group was fully in compliance with its financial covenants throughout the year to 31 December 2005 and the year to 
31 December 2004.
Borrowing at floating rates exposes the group to cash flow interest rate risk.The management of this risk is discussed in note 31.
29 Obligations under finance leases
Present Present
value of value of
Minimum Minimum minimum minimum
lease lease lease lease
payments payments payments payments
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Amounts payable under finance leases:
Within one year 14.7 17.5 12.1 15.4
In the second to fifth years inclusive 32.1 20.3 27.8 18.0
After five years 6.8 4.3 6.1 4.0
53.6 42.1 46.0 37.4
Less: Future finance charges on finance leases (7.6) (4.7)
Present value of lease obligations 46.0 37.4
Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months (shown under current liabilities) (12.1) (15.4)
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 33.9 22.0
It is the group’s policy to lease certain of its fixtures and equipment under finance leases.The weighted average lease term is eight years (2004: 7.6 years).
For the year ended 31 December 2005, the weighted average effective borrowing rate was 5.4% (2004: 5.7%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract
date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The directors believe the fair value of the group’s finance lease obligations, being the present value of future cash flows, approximates to their 
book value.
The group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ charges over the leased assets.
  85
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
30 Trade and other payables
2005 2004
£m £m
Within current liabilities:
Trade creditors 122.1 106.1
Amounts due to contract customers 1.9 1.3
Amounts owed to associated undertakings 1.4 0.2
Other taxation and social security costs 129.3 105.8
Other creditors 346.7 322.3
Accruals and deferred income 147.5 165.0
Derivative financial instruments at fair value 7.6 –
Total trade and other payables included within current liabilities 756.5 700.7
Within non-current liabilities:
Other creditors 1.0 16.0
Total trade and other payables included within non-current liabilities 1.0 16.0
Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.The average credit period taken for trade
purchases is 43 days.
The directors believe the fair value of trade and other payables, being the present value of future cash flows, approximates to their book value.
31 Derivative financial instruments
Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities
2005 2004 2005 2004
£m £m £m £m
Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.0 – 7.2 0.1
Interest rate swaps 0.7 – 0.4 1.8
1.7 – 7.6 1.9
Less: Non-current portion – – – –
Current portion 1.7 – 7.6 1.9
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value, based upon market prices where available or otherwise on discounted cash flow valuations.
Currency risk and forward foreign exchange contracts
The group conducts business in many currencies.Transaction risk is limited since wherever possible each business operates in local currency, including
financing activities. However, the group presents its consolidated financial statements in sterling and it is in consequence subject to foreign exchange
risk due to the translation of the results and net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.The group hedges a substantial portion of its exposure to fluctuations
in the translation into sterling of its overseas net assets by holding borrowings in foreign currencies.Translation adjustments arising on the translation
of foreign currency net borrowings are recognised in equity to match translation adjustments on foreign currency equity investments. At 
31 December 2005, the group’s US dollar (including dollar-related) and euro (including euro-related) net assets before net borrowings respectively
were approximately 93.2% and 97.0% hedged by net borrowings.
The group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts so as to hedge translation risk not hedged by way of borrowings. Gains and losses on such
forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised in equity.The notional value of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December
2005 was £312.0m. All these contracts had matured by 31 January 2006. All the foreign exchange hedging instruments are designated and fully
effective as net investment hedges and movements in their fair value have been deferred in equity.
Interest rate risk and interest rate swaps
Borrowing at floating rates as described in note 28 exposes the group to cash flow interest rate risk, which the group manages within policy limits
approved by the directors. Interest rate swaps and, where appropriate, forward rate agreements are utilised to fix the interest rate on a proportion 
of borrowings on a reducing scale over forward periods up to a maximum period of five years. At 31 December 2005 the nominal value of such
contracts was £166.0m (in respect of US dollar) and £130.5m (in respect of euro), their weighted average interest rate was 4.8% (US dollar) 2.9%
(euro) and their weighted average period to maturity was 3.5 years. All the interest rate hedging instruments are designated and fully effective as cash
flow hedges and movements in their fair value have been deferred in equity.
  86
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
31 Derivative financial instruments (continued)
Counterparty credit risk
The group’s strategy for credit risk management is to set minimum credit ratings for counterparties and monitor these on a regular basis.
For treasury-related transactions, the policy limits the aggregate credit risk assigned to a counterparty.The utilisation of a credit limit is calculated by
applying a weighting to the notional value of each transaction outstanding with each counterparty based on the type and duration of the transaction.
For short-term transactions (under one year), the financial counterparty must be investment grade rated by either the Standard & Poors or Moodys
rating agencies. For long-term transactions, the financial counterparty must have a minimum rating of A+/A1 rating from Standard & Poors or Moodys.
At an operating level the minimum investment grade rating criteria applies. Exceptionally, where required by local country circumstances,
counterparties with no or non investment grade rating can be approved as counterparties for a period of up to twelve months. Due to the group’s
global geographical footprint and exposure to multiple industries, there is minimal concentration risk.
32 Retirement benefit obligations
2005 2004
£m £m
Net liability on funded defined retirement benefit schemes 216.6 220.2
Unfunded defined retirement benefit obligations 24.4 15.4
241.0 235.6
Less: Amounts included within current liabilities (30.0) (30.8)
Included within non-current liabilities 211.0 204.8
The group operates a wide range of retirement benefit arrangements which are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within
the countries concerned.The majority of schemes are of a defined contribution structure, including the contracted-in defined contribution schemes
which are the main schemes for new UK employees. In the Netherlands, most employees are members of an industry-wide defined benefit scheme,
but as it is not possible to separately identify the group’s share of the assets and liabilities of the scheme it is accounted for as a defined contribution
scheme. Contributions made to defined contribution schemes and charged to the income statement totalled £46.3m (2004: £32.6m).
The group operates a number of unfunded defined benefit retirement arrangements. Liabilities under these arrangements are stated at the discounted
value of benefits accrued to date, based upon actuarial advice. Benefits accruing during the year charged to the income statement in respect of these
arrangements totalled £1.5m (2004: £1.2m).
The group’s primary funded defined retirement schemes are in the UK, but it also operates such schemes in the Netherlands, Ireland and Canada.
The assets of defined benefit schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds.The pension costs are assessed on the advice of qualified
independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
In the UK, the membership of the pension scheme demerged from the former Group 4 Falck A/S is about 5,000.The membership of the Securicor
scheme, responsibility for which the group assumed on 20 July 2004 with the acquisition of Securicor plc, is about 21,000.Regular actuarial
assessments of the schemes are carried out, the latest being at 31 March 2005 in respect of the Group 4 scheme and at 5 April 2003 in respect of
the Securicor scheme.The Securicor scheme was certified by an independent actuary as meeting the Minimum Funding Requirement solvency level,
in that the market value of assets exceeded the assessment of the schemes’ liabilities on a current funding level basis.The Group 4 scheme was 94%
funded on this basis. Pension obligations stated in the balance sheet take account of future service and earnings increases, have been updated to 
31 December 2005 and use the valuation methodologies specified in IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
  87
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
32 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
UK Netherlands Ireland Canada
Key assumptions used 2005
Discount rate 5.3% 4.0% 4.3% 5.0%
Expected return on scheme assets 7.0% 4.8% 6.4% 6.0%
Expected rate of salary increases 3.8%-4.8% 3.0% 4.0%-4.3% 3.5%
Future pension increases 2.8% 2.0% 2.3% 2.3%
Inflation 2.8% 2.0% 2.3% 2.3%
Key assumptions used 2004
Discount rate 5.9% 4.8%-5.3% 4.3% 6.0%
Expected return on scheme assets 7.4% 6.2% 6.7% 7.0%
Expected rate of salary increases 3.8%-4.8% 3.0% 4.3% 3.5%-4.0%
Future pension increases 2.8% 2.0% 2.3% 2.3%
Inflation 2.8% 2.0% 2.3% 2.3%
UK Netherlands Ireland Canada T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts recognised in income 2005
Current service cost (11.9) (2.1) (1.0) (0.8) (15.8)
Interest cost (61.3) (2.4) (1.1) (0.9) (65.7)
Expected return on scheme assets 57.2 1.8 1.0 0.8 60.8
Changes arising on curtailments/settlement – 17.0 – 0.7 17.7
Total amounts recognised in income (16.0) 14.3 (1.1) (0.2) (3.0)
Amounts recognised in income 2004
Current service cost (8.4) (3.1) (0.6) (0.4) (12.5)
Interest cost (35.1) (1.7) (0.6) (0.4) (37.8)
Expected return on scheme assets 33.9 1.3 0.6 0.3 36.1
Changes arising on curtailments/settlement – 9.2 – – 9.2
Total amounts recognised in income (9.6) 5.7 (0.6) (0.5) (5.0)
The amounts recognised in income are included within the following categories in the income statement:
2005 2004
£m £m
Cost of sales (11.4) (7.5)
Administration expenses (3.7) (2.2)
Restructuring costs consequential upon acquisitions 17.0 –
Investment income 60.8 35.0
Finance costs (65.7) (36.3)
Loss from discontinued operations – 6.0
T otal (3.0) (5.0)
An actuarial loss of £22.6m (2004: £16.5m) has been reported in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The curtailment gains arising in both 2004 and 2005 are in respect of the transfer of members out of group pension schemes into defined
contribution schemes. A charge from the defined contribution schemes of £11.0m in respect of these transfers has also been recognised in income
within restructuring costs consequential upon acquisitions in 2005.
The actual return on scheme assets was £160.5m (2004: £70.0m).
  88
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
32 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the group’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes is as follows:
UK Netherlands Ireland Canada T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
2005
Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,199.3 17.2 26.4 17.5 1,260.4
Fair value of scheme assets (1,004.5) (8.0) (18.0) (13.3) (1,043.8)
Deficit in scheme recognised in the balance sheet 194.8 9.2 8.4 4.2 216.6
2004
Present value of defined benefit obligations 1,038.6 50.6 22.7 13.7 1,125.6
Fair value of scheme assets (845.8) (34.3) (15.2) (10.1) (905.4)
Deficit in scheme recognised in the balance sheet 192.8 16.3 7.5 3.6 220.2
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the current period and the fair value of scheme assets during the year were as follows:
2005 UK Netherlands Ireland Canada T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Obligations
At 1 January 2005 1,038.6 50.6 22.7 13.7 1,125.6
Service cost 11.9 2.1 1.0 0.8 15.8
Interest cost 61.3 2.4 1.1 0.9 65.7
Contributions from scheme members 4.1 1.1 0.3 – 5.5
Actuarial gains and losses 111.3 8.9 2.6 1.2 124.0
Translation adjustment – (1.5) (0.8) 2.1 (0.2)
Benefits paid (27.9) (0.4) (0.5) (0.5) (29.3)
Curtailments – (46.0) – (0.7) (46.7)
At 31 December 2005 1,199.3 17.2 26.4 17.5 1,260.4
Assets
At 1 January 2005 845.8 34.3 15.2 10.1 905.4
Expected return on scheme assets 57.2 1.8 1.0 0.8 60.8
Actuarial gains and losses 99.0 0.2 2.0 0.2 101.4
Translation adjustment – (1.3) (0.6) 1.7 (0.2)
Contributions from the sponsoring companies 26.3 1.3 0.6 1.0 29.2
Contributions from scheme members 4.1 1.1 0.3 – 5.5
Benefits paid (27.9) (0.4) (0.5) (0.5) (29.3)
Curtailments – (29.0) – – (29.0)
At 31 December 2005 1,004.5 8.0 18.0 13.3 1,043.8
  89
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
32 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
2004 UK Netherlands Ireland Canada T otal
£m £m £m £m £m
Obligations
At 1 January 2004 144.2 60.6 3.3 – 208.1
Opening adjustment in respect of Global Solutions Limited demerger 46.2 – – – 46.2
Service cost 8.4 3.1 0.6 0.4 12.5
Interest cost 35.1 1.7 0.6 0.4 37.8
Contributions from scheme members 3.5 1.4 0.1 – 5.0
Actuarial gains and losses 38.9 8.4 1.7 1.4 50.4
Translation adjustment – (3.0) 0.6 0.4 (2.0)
Benefits paid (13.9) (0.2) (0.1) (0.2) (14.4)
Acquisition of subsidiary 776.2 6.7 15.9 11.3 810.1
Curtailments – (28.1) – – (28.1)
At 31 December 2004 1,038.6 50.6 22.7 13.7 1,125.6
Assets
At 1 January 2004 97.0 43.0 2.8 – 142.8
Opening adjustment in respect of Global Solutions Limited demerger 39.3 – – – 39.3
Expected return on scheme assets 33.9 1.3 0.6 0.3 36.1
Actuarial gains and losses 30.2 2.9 0.6 0.2 33.9
Translation adjustment – (2.0) 0.2 0.3 (1.5)
Contributions from the sponsoring companies 6.6 2.1 0.4 0.5 9.6
Contributions from scheme members 3.5 1.4 0.1 – 5.0
Benefits paid (13.9) (0.2) (0.1) (0.2) (14.4)
Acquisition of subsidiary 649.2 4.7 10.6 9.0 673.5
Curtailments – (18.9) – – (18.9)
At 31 December 2004 845.8 34.3 15.2 10.1 905.4
The contribution from sponsoring companies in 2005 included £15.0m of additional contributions in respect of the deficit in the schemes.
The Group 4 pension scheme also included the employees of Global Solutions Limited, which was one of the businesses demerged from the security
businesses of the former Group 4 Falck A/S on 19 July 2004.The pension disclosures are presented as if that demerger had always been effective.
An adjustment of £6.9m has been made to the 1 January 2004 position as reported in the Listing Particulars on 4 June 2004 in respect of the effect
of the demerger.
The analysis of the scheme assets and the expected rate of return at the balance sheet date is as follows:
Analysis of scheme assets UK Netherlands Ireland Canada T otal
% % % % %
2005
Equity instruments 70 40 78 57 70
Debt instruments 28 50 12 35 28
Property – 106––
Other assets 2 – 4 8 2
100 100 100 100 100
2004
Equity instruments 70 21 67 51 68
Debt instruments 25 67 13 43 27
Other assets 5 12 2065
100 100 100 100 100
  90
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
32 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)
The expected weighted average rates of return on scheme assets for the following year at the balance sheet date is as follows:
UK Netherlands Ireland Canada T otal
% %%%%
2005 6.5 5.0 5.9 6.2 6.4
2004 7.0 4.8 6.4 6.0 6.9
2003 7.4 6.2 6.7 7.0 7.4
The expected rates of return on individual categories of plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices of the historical return relative 
to inflation in respect of assets of a similar nature.The overall expected rate of return is the weighted average of the rates on the individual 
asset categories.
The history of experience adjustments is as follows:
2005 UK Netherlands Ireland Canada T otal
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities
Amount (£m) (17.5) 2.0 (2.1) 1.2 (16.4)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) (1) 12 (8) 7 (1)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets
Amounts (£m) 99.0 0.2 2.0 0.2 101.4
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 10 3 11 210
2004
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities
Amount (£m) (2.7) – – – (2.7)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) (1) ––– (1)
Experience adjustments on scheme assets
Amounts (£m) 30.2 2.9 0.6 0.2 33.9
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 484 24
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the scheme during the current financial year commencing 1 January 2006 in respect
of the current service cost is £14.0m. Additional contributions of £23.5m will also be made in respect of the deficit in the schemes.
IAS 19 specifies that pension liabilities should be discounted at appropriate high quality corporate bond rates.The directors consider that it is
appropriate to apply the AA corporate bond rate which most closely approximates to the timescale of the liability profile of the schemes and have
therefore used such a rate, being 5.3%, in respect of the UK schemes at 31 December 2005 (5.9% at 31 December 2004).The effect of a 0.1%
movement in the discount rate applicable in the UK is to alter reported liabilities (before associated deferred tax) by approximately £24.0m.
Liability calculations are also heavily impacted by the mortality projections included in the actuarial assumptions.The average life expectancy at 65
of a male member of the UK schemes currently aged 50 has been assumed as 21 years, which the directors consider, on actuarial advice, to be
appropriate to the profile of the membership of the schemes.The effect of a one year change in this UK life expectancy assumption is to alter
reported liabilities by approximately £26.0m.
  91
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
33 Provisions
Employee Claims Onerous
benefits Restructuring reserves contracts Other T otal
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 5.3 10.7 54.0 5.0 6.1 81.1
Additional provision in the year 4.9 8.4 25.4 5.6 12.0 56.3
On acquisition of subsidiary 0.7 0.2 – 0.2 1.2 2.3
Utilisation of provision (1.0) (10.6) (34.9) (1.4) (4.1) (52.0)
Unused amounts reversed – (0.9) – – – (0.9)
Translation adjustment – – 4.2 – 0.8 5.0
At 31 December 2005 9.9 7.8 48.7 9.4 16.0 91.8
Included in current liabilities 44.5
Included in non-current liabilities 47.3
91.8
Employee benefits
The provision for employee benefits is in respect of any employee benefits which accrue over the working lives of the employees, typically including
items such as long service awards and termination indemnity schemes.
Restructuring
Restructuring provisions include amounts for redundancy payments, and the costs of closure of activities in acquired businesses and discontinued
operations. Settlement of restructuring provisions is highly probable.The timing is uncertain but is generally likely to be short term.
Claims reserves
The claims reserves are held by the wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries in Guernsey, Luxembourg and the US which underwrite part of the
group’s cash services, general liability, workers’ compensation and auto liability policies.The provisions are subject to regular actuarial review and are
adjusted as appropriate. Settlement of these provisions is highly probable but both the value of the final settlements and their timing is uncertain,
dependent upon the outcome of ongoing processes to determine both liability and quantum in respect of a wide range of claims or possible claims.
Onerous contracts
The onerous contract provision mainly comprises the provision against future liabilities for all properties sub-let at a shortfall and for long-term idle,
leased properties.The provision is based on the value of future net cash outflows relating to rent, rates, service charges and costs of marketing the
properties.Whilst the likelihood of settlement of these obligations is considered probable, there is uncertainty over their value and duration.
Other provisions
The company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of
business. Provision is made for the estimated value of settlements likely to be made, but both this value and the timing of any payments are uncertain.
The directors do not anticipate, taking account of legal and other professional advice as appropriate, that the outcome of these proceedings and
claims will have a material adverse effect on the group’s financial position or on the results of its operations.
  92
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
34 Deferred tax
The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the group and movements thereon during the current and prior 
reporting periods:
Retirement Other 
benefit Intangible temporary
obligations assets Tax losses differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 21.7 – 7.1 (12.8) 16.0
Credit to the income statement 0.9 4.0 7.9 21.7 34.5
Acquisition of subsidiaries 41.0 (80.0) – 9.4 (29.6)
Disposal of a subsidiaries (2.8) – – – (2.8)
Charge to equity 3.8 – – – 3.8
Translation adjustments 1.5 – – (1.6) (0.1)
At 31 December 2004 66.1 (76.0) 15.0 16.7 21.8
At 1 January 2005 66.1 (76.0) 15.0 16.7 21.8
Credit/(charge) to the income statement 1.2 10.0 (6.8) (8.7) (4.3)
Acquisition of subsidiaries – (4.6) – – (4.6)
Charge to equity 6.8 – – – 6.8
Reallocation of current tax – – – 7.6 7.6
Translation adjustments – (0.3) – 1.1 0.8
At 31 December 2005 74.1 (70.9) 8.2 16.7 28.1
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset where permitted.The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for
financial reporting purposes:
2005 2004
£m £m
Deferred tax liabilities (84.8) (89.2)
Deferred tax assets 112.9 111.0
Total deferred tax position 28.1 21.8
At the balance sheet date, the group has unutilised tax losses of approximately £145.0m (2004: £146.0m) potentially available for offset against future
profits. A deferred tax asset of £8.2m (2004: £15.0m) has been recognised in respect of approximately £22.0m (2004: £49.0m) of gross losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining £123.0m (2004: £97.0m) of gross losses due to the unpredictability of future
profit streams in the relevant jurisdictions and the fact that a significant proportion of such losses remains unaudited by the relevant tax authorities.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are gross losses at £3.5m and £1.0m which will expire in 2008 and 2010 respectively. Other losses may be carried
forward indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of non-UK subsidiaries for which
deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is £1,043.0m (2004: £933.0m). No liability has been recognised in respect of these gross differences
on the basis that the group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are insignificant.
At the balance sheet date, the group has total unprovided contingent tax liabilities of approximately £57.0m relating to unresolved tax issues in
various jurisdictions. No provision has been made for these amounts on the basis that the group considers that the likelihood of the liabilities
crystallising is improbable. It is not possible to estimate the timing or resolution of these issues. 93
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
35 Share capital
At 31 December 2005 At 31 December 2004
Issued and Issued and
Authorised fully paid Authorised fully paid
Group 4 Securicor plc ££ £ £
Ordinary shares of 25p each (2004: 25p each) 500,000,000 317,178,870 499,950,002 316,082,060
Redeemable preference shares of £1 each –– 49,998 49,998
T otal 500,000,000 317,178,870 500,000,000 316,132,058
Number Nominal value
£m
Ordinary Shares in issue
At 1 January 2004 – parent company balance sheet 2–
Shares issued to shareholders of the former Group 4 Falck A/S 721,804,989 180.4
At 1 January 2004 – consolidated balance sheet 721,804,991 180.4
Shares issued in consideration for the acquisition of Securicor plc 542,222,079 135.6
Shares issued on exercise of options:
Executive Scheme 263,648 0.1
Sharesave Scheme 37,523 –
At 1 January 2005 1,264,328,241 316.1
Shares issued on exercise of options:
Executive Scheme 3,182,470 0.8
Sharesave Scheme 1,204,769 0.3
At 31 December 2005 1,268,715,480 317.2
The preference shares were redeemed in July 2005.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings
of the company.
Options over Group 4 Securicor plc shares outstanding at 31 December 2005, rolled over at 19 July 2004 from options previously held over
Securicor plc shares, were as follows:
(a) Executive share option scheme
Number of options outstanding Number of ordinary shares under option Exercise price per share (pence) Exercise dates
2 98,332 107.98p 2006-2008
30 1,135,000 164p 2006-2009
32 715,000 133.75p 2006-2010
35 577,500 153p 2006-2010
23 3,537,770 108p 2006-2011
4 218,070 130p 2006-2012
11 400,000 85p 2006-2013
5 175,000 82.75p 2006-2013
1 25,000 79.75p 2006-2013
9 360,000 91p 2006-2013
The proceeds from shares allotted under this scheme during the year amounted to £3,711,505 (2004: £268,576). 94
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
35 Share capital (continued)
(b) Sharesave scheme
Number of options outstanding Number of ordinary shares under option Exercise price per share (pence) Exercise dates
103 192,860 104p 2006
1,470 7,942,911 64p 2006-2007
The proceeds from shares allotted under this scheme during the year amounted to £1,121,509 (2004: £24,323).
All of the above options are inclusive of those held by directors as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 46.
4,206,332 shares are held by an employee benefit trust as detailed in note 36.
36 Share premium and reserves
Share Retained Hedging Translation Merger Reserve for Total 
premium earnings reserve reserve reserve own shares reserves
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 – 224.4 – – (138.4) (14.5) 71.5
Total recognised expense attributable to 
equity shareholders of the parent – (83.9) – 7.7 – – (76.2)
Shares issued 0.2 – – – – – 0.2
Fair vale of shares issued on acquisition 
of Securicor plc – – – – 574.7 (0.2) 574.5
Dividends declared – (3.6) – – – – (3.6)
Equity-settled transactions
– Performance share plan – 0.8 – – – – 0.8
– Share options – 0.7 – – – – 0.7
Consideration received on sale 
of own shares – (9.1) – – – 14.5 5.4
Movement arising from the acquisition 
of minority shareholders of the former 
Group 4 Falck A/S – – – – (10.0) – (10.0)
At 31 December 2004 0.2 129.3 – 7.7 426.3 (0.2) 563.3
At 1 January 2005 0.2 129.3 – 7.7 426.3 (0.2) 563.3
Total recognised income attributable to 
equity shareholders of the parent – 64.9 (5.8) 42.1 – – 101.2
Shares issued 3.8 – – – – – 3.8
Dividends declared – (39.9) – – – – (39.9)
Own shares purchased – – – – – (6.1) (6.1)
Equity-settled transactions
– Performance share plan – 1.2 – – – – 1.2
– Share options – 1.5 – – – – 1.5
At 31 December 2005 4.0 157.0 (5.8) 49.8 426.3 (6.3) 625.0
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow instruments related to the hedged
transactions that have not yet occurred.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well
as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the company’s net investment in foreign operations.
  95
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
36 Share premium and reserves (continued)
Merger reserve
The merger reserve comprises reserves arising upon the merger between the former Group 4 Falck A/S and the former Group 4 Securitas BV
in 2000 and the acquisition of Securicor plc by the group in 2004.
Reserve for own shares
An employee benefit trust established by the group holds 4,206,332 shares, to satisfy the vesting of awards under the performance share plan and
performance-related and synergy bonus schemes, which cost £6,337,625. At 31 December 2005, the market value of these shares was £6,772,194.
Shares held by the trust are treated as treasury shares, are deducted from equity, do not bear dividends and are excluded from the calculations of
earnings per share.
37 Analysis of net debt
A reconciliation of net debt at 31 December 2005 to amounts in the balance sheet is presented below:
2005 2004
£m £m
Cash in hand and at bank 263.8 191.6
Trading investments 61.4 60.7
Current liabilities
Bank overdrafts and loans (146.4) (106.2)
Obligations under finance leases (12.1) (15.4)
Non-current liabilities
Bank loans (790.1) (695.1)
Obligations under finance leases (33.9) (22.0)
Total net debt (657.3) (586.4)
38 Contingent liabilities
The company’s wholly-owned US subsidiary, Argenbright Security, Inc. (‘Argenbright’) was responsible for passenger checkpoint security screening for
two of the flights involved in the terrorist atrocities of 11 September 2001, being the United Airlines flight from Newark to San Francisco and the
American Airlines flight from Washington to Los Angeles.The hijacked planes performing these flights crashed respectively in rural Pennsylvania and
into the Pentagon,Washington.
The directors believe that, in respect of those two flights, Argenbright carried out its security screening services properly and in accordance with its
contractual and regulatory duties and that it should have no liability for the losses that occurred subsequently. However, the events of 11 September
were so extraordinary that it is impossible at this stage to state with certainty that no findings against Argenbright will be made.
Argenbright is being sued and a number of lawsuits have been served upon it. Securicor plc (now known as Securicor Limited) has also been named
in some of the lawsuits.
At 11 September 2001, Argenbright, which is a stand-alone limited liability corporation, had in place aviation liability insurance which included cover for
acts of terrorism and which, the directors believe, provided insurance cover of US$1billion for each of the two flights referred to above.
Additionally, contingent liabilities exist in respect of agreements entered into in the normal course of business, none of which are individually or
collectively significant.
Details of unprovided contingent tax liabilities are presented in note 34.
  96
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
39 Operating lease arrangements
The group as lessee
At the balance sheet date, the group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Within one year 60.6 57.0
In the second to fifth years inclusive 97.5 90.9
After five years 126.5 128.7
Total operating lease commitments 284.6 276.6
The group leases a number of its office properties, vehicles and other operating equipment under operating leases. Leased properties are negotiated
over an average term of ten years, at rates reflective of market rentals. Periodic rent reviews take place to bring lease rentals in line with prevailing
market conditions. Some but not all lease agreements have an option to renew the lease at the end of the lease term. Leased vehicles and other
operating equipment are negotiated over an average lease term of 3.5 years.
Certain leased properties have been sub-let by the group. Sub-leases are negotiated on terms consistent with those of the associated property.
The total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received by the group from sub-let properties amount to £15.2m (2004: £16.1m).
40 Share-based payments
The group has two types of equity-settled share-based payment scheme in place: (1) share options previously held by employees over Securicor plc
shares and rolled over with the acquisition of that business on 19 July 2004, and (2) conditional allocations of shares made to employees following 
the acquisition.
Share options
Share options rolled over from Securicor plc fall under either the Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) or the Sharesave Scheme. Options under
the ESOS were granted at market value, vest three or four years following the date of grant (provided that certain non-market performance
conditions are met and that the recipients continue to be employed by the group during the vesting period) and are exercisable up to ten years
following the date of grant. Options under the Inland Revenue-approved Sharesave scheme were granted at a discount of 20% to market value, vest
after three years following the date of grant and remain exercisable for a period of six months following vesting.
2005 2004
2005 Weighted 2004 Weighted
Number of average Number of average
shares under exercise shares under exercise
option price (pence) option price (pence)
Outstanding at 1 January 23,700,596 101.33 ––
Rolled over from Securicor plc –– 24,001,767 101.27
Forfeited during period (1,054,873) 69.78 ––
Exercised during period (4,387,239) 110.16 (301,171) 96.16
Expired during period (2,881,041) 153.36 ––
Outstanding at 31 December 15,377,443 91.23 23,700,596 101.33
Exercisable at 31 December 6,474,532 125.30 10,524,877 129.87
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 148.19p.The options outstanding at
31 December 2005 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of five months.
  97
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
40 Share-based payments (continued)
Share options (continued)
The rollover of share options from Securicor plc on 19 July 2004 has been accounted for as a modification to the original option.The weighted
average fair value of the modified options that were originally granted after 7 November 2002 was 50.61p.The inputs into the Black-Scholes options
valuation model at the date of rollover in respect of the modified options are as follows:
Weighted average share price at date of grant 80.95p
Weighted average share price at date of rollover 122.00p
Weighted average exercise price 67.31p
Expected volatility at date of grant 45%
Expected volatility at date of rollover 30%
Weighted average expected contractual life at date of grant 4 years, 5 months
Weighted average expected contractual life at date of rollover 2 years, 2 months
Risk free rate 4.5%
Expected annual dividend growth 5%
Expected volatility was determined at the date of grant by reference to the volatility of Securicor’s share price during the previous year and at the date of
rollover by reference to the volatility of the prices of shares comparable to those of the company at that date.T otal expenses of £1.5m were recognised
in the income statement in the period (2004: £0.7m) in respect of share options, the calculation of which included an estimate of the number which
would vest based upon the probable achievement against the performance conditions and the historic experience of forfeitures within Securicor.
Shares conditionally allocated
Shares conditionally allocated under the group’s Performance Share Plan vest after three years, to the extent that (a) certain non-market performance
conditions are met as to 50% of the allocation and (b) certain market performance conditions are met as to the remaining 50% of the allocation.The
number of shares conditionally allocated is as follows:
2005 2004
Number Number
Outstanding at beginning of period 3,521,866 –
Allocated during the period 4,686,950 3,521,866
Forfeited during the period (445,397) –
Outstanding at the end of the period 7,763,419 3,521,866
The weighted average remaining contractual life of conditional share allocations outstanding at 31 December 2005 was 23 months.The weighted
average share price at the date of allocation of shares conditionally allocated during the period was 132.75p (2004: 123.00p) and the contractual
life of all conditional allocations was three years.The vesting of 50% of the shares conditionally allocated depends upon Total Shareholder Return
(a market performance condition) over the vesting period measured against a comparator group. 25% of the allocation vests upon the group’s Total
Shareholder Return equalling median performance amongst the comparator group.The fair value of the shares allocated subject to this market
performance condition has therefore been reduced by 75%.Total expenses of £1.2m were recognised in the income statement in the period
(2004: £0.8m) in respect of conditional share allocations, the calculation of which included an estimate of the number of those shares allocated
subject to non-market performance conditions that would vest based upon the probable achievement against the performance conditions.
  98
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
41 Related party transactions
Transactions between the company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Details of
transactions between the group and other related parties are disclosed below. All transactions with related parties are entered into in the normal
course of business.
Transactions and balances with joint ventures Joint ventures Joint ventures
2005 2004
£m £m
Transactions
Revenue 13.6 12.6
Balances
Amounts owed by related parties
Debtors 1.5 0.1
Loans 3.6 3.7
Revenue relates to fees of £9.3m (2004: £8.4m) charged to Bridgend Custodial Services Limited and fees of £4.3m (2004: £4.2m) charged to STC
(Milton Keynes) Limited.The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No expense has been recognised in the period for bad
and doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties. Details of principal joint ventures are shown in note 42.
Transactions with Mr Jørgen Philip-Sørensen, the chairman
The group purchased air transport services of £44,600 (2004: £13,950) and leased office facilities for £91,997 (2004: £108,076) from Mr Jørgen
Philip-Sørensen at cost price.
Transactions with post-employment benefit plans
Details of transactions with the group’s post-employment benefit plans are provided in note 32. Unpaid contributions owed to plans amounted to
£1.5m at 31 December 2005 (2004: £1.6m).
Remuneration of key management personnel
The group’s key management personnel are deemed to be the non-executive directors and those individuals whose remuneration is determined by
the Remuneration Committee.Their remuneration is set out below. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors included
within key management personnel is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 47.
2005 2004
£ £
Short-term employee benefits 6,946,490 5,894,479
Post-employment benefits 500,902 866,096
Other long-term benefits 22,162 14,550
Termination benefits 2,451,470 1,094,192
Share-based payment 1,697,589 642,878
T otal 11,618,613 8,512,195 99
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
42 Significant investments
The companies listed below are those which were part of the group at 31 December 2005 which in the opinion of the directors significantly affected
the group’s results and net assets during the year.The directors consider that those companies not listed are not significant in relation to the group 
as a whole.
The principal activities of the companies listed below are indicated according to the following key:
Manned security M
Security systems S
Cash services C
These businesses operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated.
Product segment Country of Incorporation Ultimate ownership
Subsidiary undertakings
Group 4 Falck AG M+S Austria 100%
G4S Security Services SA/NV M Belgium 100%
Group 4 Securitas SA/NV C Belgium 100%
G4S Cash Services (Canada) Limited C Canada 100%
G4S Security Services (Canada) Limited M+S Canada 100%
Wackenhut de Colombia SA M+S+C Colombia 100%
Group 4 Falck AS M+S+C Czech Rep 100%
Falck Securitas Sikring A/S S Denmark 100%
G4S Cash Centres (UK) Limited C England 100%
G4S Cash Services (UK) Limited C England 100%
G4S International UK Limited C England 100%
G4S Justice Services Limited M England 100%
G4S Security Services (UK) Limited M England 100%
Group 4 Technology Limited S England 100%
Group 4 Total Security Limited M England 100%
G4S Cash Services (France) s.a.r.l. C France 100%
Group 4 Securicor SAS M France 100%
G4S Sicherheitsdienste GmbH M Germany 100%
Group 4 Falck Geld-und-Wertdienste GmbH C Germany 100%
G4S Cash Services Kft M+C Hungary 100%
G4S Security Services (India) Pvt. Limited 1 M India 40%
G4S Security Services (Ireland) Limited M+S Ireland 100%
Hashmira Company Limited M Israel 71%
Geldnet BV C Netherlands 100%
Securicor Beheer BV M Netherlands 100%
Falck Norge AS S Norway 100%
G4S Security Services (SA) (Pty) Limited M+S South Africa 74%
G4S Security Services AB M Sweden 100%
Argenbright Security, Inc. M USA 100%
The Wackenhut Corporation M USA 100%
Joint ventures (see note 20)
Bridgend Custodial Services Limited 2 M England 50%
STC (Milton Keynes) Limited M England 50%
Safeguards Securicor Sdn Bhd M+C+S Malaysia 49%
Wackenhut Services , Inc. M USA 100%
Associated undertakings (see note 21)
Space Gateway Support LLC M USA 46%
1 G4S Security Services (India) Pvt. Limited has a year end of 31 March. By virtue of a shareholder agreement, the group has the power to govern
the financial and operating policies of G4 Security Services (India) Pvt. Limited so as to obtain the benefits from its activities. It is therefore
consolidated as a full subsidiary.
2 Bridgend Custodial Services Limited has a year end of 30 September.
  100
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
43 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards 
As stated in note 2, the financial year ended 31 December 2005 is the first year that the group’s consolidated financial statements have been
presented in accordance with IFRS.
The accounting policies as set out in note 3 have been applied in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December
2005, in the comparative information presented in these financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 and in the preparation of an
opening IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004, being the group’s date of transition to IFRS.
The previous consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 were prepared in accordance with the then UK GAAP .
On transition, in preparing its opening balance sheet and comparative financial statements, the group has adjusted amounts previously reported.
Reconciliations of 2004 comparative numbers between those previously presented under the then UK GAAP and those now presented under IFRS,
together with an explanation of the changes, were published with the group’s interim statement in September 2005 and are available on the group’s
website. However, the group has represented reconciliations in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International
Financial Reporting Standards below:
(i) Reconciliation of equity from the then UK GAAP to IFRS
At 1 January 2004 (the date of transition) and 31 December 2004
At At
1 January 31 December
Notes 2004 2004
Equity under UK GAAP 323.6 918.0
Adjustments to conform to IFRS:
Goodwill amortisation b – 49.8
Goodwill impairment b – (7.2)
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles c – (9.4)
Employee benefits d (72.2) (130.7)
Tax effect of above adjustments d 21.7 65.9
Dividends i 3.6 23.5
Total adjustment to equity (46.9) (8.1)
Equity under IFRS 276.7 909.9
(ii) Reconciliation of profit or loss reported under the then UK GAAP to IFRS
Operating
profit before
amortisation
and exceptional Loss before Loss for
items taxation the year
Notes £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) under the then UK GAAP 
for the year ended 31 December 2004 166.4 (46.1) (94.9)
Adjustments to conform to IFRS:
Goodwill amortisation b – 48.8 49.8
Goodwill impairment b – (4.7) (7.2)
Amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles c – (13.4) (9.4)
Employee benefits d (1.6) (2.9) (3.0)
Share-based payment e (0.7) (0.7) (0.7)
Reclassification of leases k 0.6 – –
Total adjustment to profit/(loss) (1.7) 27.1 29.5
Profit/(loss) under IFRS for the year ended 31 December 2004 164.7 (19.0) (65.4)
(iii)Cash flow statement
Following the transition to IFRS, the net adjustment to cash flows of the group for the year ended 31 December 2004 was £7.5m due to the
proportionate consolidation of joint ventures.
  101
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
43 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
(iv)First time adoption
IFRS 1 establishes the transitional requirements for the first time preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS. In general, a
company is required to determine its IFRS accounting policies effective at the reporting date and apply these retrospectively to the balance sheet
at the date of transition, and to all financial statements for the comparative period and the reporting period.
To assist in the transition process, there are a number of exemptions to this retrospective application.The following significant exemptions have
been adopted by the group:
> Business combinations:The group has elected not to account for business combinations retrospectively in accordance with IFRS 3 Business
Combinations.Those combinations recognised prior to the date of transition have not been restated.
> Employee benefits:The group has elected to adopt the proposed amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits which provide the group with
the option of recognising all cumulative actuarial gains and losses in equity at the date of transition, with subsequent actuarial gains and losses
being taken directly to equity via the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.This is consistent with the treatment under UK GAAP ,
required by FRS 17 Retirement benefits.
> Cumulative translation differences: In accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, on translation of a foreign
operation certain exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity, which must be disclosed, and on subsequent
disposal accumulated differences form part of the calculation of profit or loss on disposal.The group has elected not to calculate these
translation differences retrospectively. Cumulative translation differences recognised separately in equity under IFRS are taken to be nil at the
date of transition.
> Share-based payment: In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, the group is recognising a charge to income representing the fair
value of outstanding employee share options over the relevant option vesting periods, adjusted to reflect the actual and expected levels of
vesting. However, the group has elected not to apply IFRS 2 retrospectively to equity instruments either granted on or before 7 November
2002 and/or vesting prior to 1 January 2005.
> Financial instruments:The group has elected to apply the requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and Presentation and 
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement prospectively from 1 January 2005 and consequently the restated figures for
2004 do not reflect the impact of these standards.
(v) Explanation of adjustments to conform to IFRS
The analysis below sets out the most significant adjustments to the financial results for Group 4 Securicor plc for the year ended 31 December 2004
arising from the transition to IFRS.
(a) Presentation of financial statements
The format of the group’s primary financial statements has been presented in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The resultant changes have a significant impact on the presentation of the group’s share of results of associated undertakings and
discontinued operations in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Under UK GAAP , the group’s share of associated undertakings was disclosed separately in the profit and loss account, by operating profit,
interest and taxation. Under IFRS, the results of associated undertakings are presented in the income statement as a single line item net of
tax, as a component of profit before tax. Discontinued operations have been presented in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held
for Sale and Discontinued Operations as a single line item, being the total of the post tax profit or loss of discontinued operations and the
post tax gain or loss on disposal of those businesses constituting discontinued operations.
IFRS does not follow UK GAAP requirements of specific presentation of ‘exceptional’ items on the face of the Income Statement, but does
require additional items to be disclosed when such presentation is relevant to an understanding of an entity’s financial performance.The
group therefore continues to separately identify items similar to those previously treated as exceptional under UK GAAP , with the exception
of profit/loss on disposal on sale or termination of operations, which is included in the result for discontinued operations, as described above.
(b) Non-amortisation of goodwill
Under UK GAAP , goodwill arising on acquisition was capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life. In accordance with IFRS 3 Business
Combinations, goodwill is not amortised, but is tested for impairment at least annually, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
In the restatement to IFRS, the amortisation charge has been reversed from the date of transition and added back to profit for the year.
The revised goodwill figure has been tested for impairment at 31 December 2004 and, as a result, the impairment of goodwill under
UK GAAP increases by the 2004 amortisation charge associated with those businesses. In addition, the provision for loss on disposal
of discontinued operations increases.
  102
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
43 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
(v) Explanation of adjustments to conform to IFRS (continued)
(c) Business combinations
IFRS 3 introduces significant changes to accounting for business combinations compared to UK GAAP , the most significant being the
recognition of separable or contractual intangible assets on an acquisition.The group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to
business combinations prior to 1 January 2004.
The application of IFRS 3 and IAS 38 Intangible Assets has resulted in the recognition of separable or contractual intangibles comprising
trademarks, technology and customer-related intangibles, on the acquisition of Securicor and other acquisitions during 2004. A deferred tax
liability is provided in respect of these intangible assets in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
These intangibles are amortised over their useful economic lives, applicable to the individual characteristics of the respective asset. Amortisation
has been charged to the consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition, together with a related deferred tax credit.
(d) Employee benefits
Under UK GAAP , the group accounted for post-retirement benefits in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting for pension costs and provided
detailed disclosures under FRS 17 Retirement benefits. Under SSAP 24, the regular cost of providing benefits is charged to operating profit
on a systematic basis over the service lives of member employees with any variation from the regular cost being allocated over the expected
remaining service lives of members. Pension fund liabilities are valued on a best estimate basis.
The approach under IFRS falls under the scope of IAS 19 Employee Benefits, as amended by the International Accounting Standards Board,
which is consistent with the approach under FRS 17.The standard requires recognition on the balance sheet of employee benefit (largely
pension) liabilities. As a result, the full surplus or deficit for each retirement benefit scheme, representing the difference between the market
value of the scheme’s assets and the present value of the accrued liabilities, is recognised as an asset or liability on the balance sheet.The
group has elected to adopt the amendment to IAS 19, which permits actuarial gains and losses to be charged or credited immediately to
equity through the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.The current cost of benefits accrued in the period is calculated according
to the IAS 19 methodology and the charge to the income statement is therefore higher than under SSAP 24.
(e) Share-based payment
Under UK GAAP , the group recognised a charge to the profit and loss account for share-based compensation based on the intrinsic value
of the share benefits at the date of the award expensed over the period of performance.The group’s principal schemes comprise savings-
related and discretionary share option schemes. Under UK GAAP , there is no charge for these share-based compensation schemes because
they either have an intrinsic value of nil, resulting from the option price being set at the market value at the date of grant, or because they
are an Inland Revenue approved scheme, and therefore excluded from the requirement to record a charge.
The requirements for accounting for employee share options under IFRS are set out in IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.This requires an entity
to recognise a charge to income in respect of share options based on the fair value of the awarded options at the date of grant.This
expense is recognised over the relevant vesting periods, adjusted to reflect the actual and expected levels of vesting.The group has adopted
the Black-Scholes valuation technique for the purpose of computing fair values under IFRS 2.
IFRS 2 has not been applied to options either granted on or before 7 November 2002 and/or vesting prior to 1 January 2005, in accordance
with the exemption permitted in IFRS 1.
(f) Joint ventures
Under UK GAAP , joint ventures are accounted for in accordance with FRS 9 Associates and joint ventures, whereby the results of joint
venture operations are recognised under the gross equity method. Under this method of accounting, the group’s share of joint venture
turnover is recognised as part of total turnover, and operating profit, interest and taxation from joint ventures is shown separately from the
rest of the group’s results.
The accounting treatment for joint ventures under IFRS is governed by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures. In accordance with IAS 31, the
group has elected to account for joint ventures using proportionate consolidation, whereby the group recognises its share of their results,
assets and liabilities on a line-by-line basis, included within the group’s results.There is no separate recognition.
Following a review of the classification of investments, the group has concluded that its interests in Safeguards Securicor Sdn Bhd, in Malaysia,
previously classified as an associate undertaking and in Wackenhut Services, Inc., previously classified as a subsidiary, should both be accounted
for as joint ventures under IFRS.The group’s share of their results is therefore proportionately consolidated in line with the group’s other
joint venture operations, as described above.
  103
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
43 Explanation of transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (continued)
(v) Explanation of adjustments to conform to IFRS (continued)
(g) Financial instruments
For the year ended 31 December 2004, in the UK, there was no accounting standard which comprehensively addressed accounting for
financial instruments, although the disclosure was dealt with in FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures. IFRS provides
detailed guidance on financial instrument recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure within IAS 32 Financial Instruments:
Disclosures and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS requires that all derivative financial instruments must be recognised in the balance sheet as financial assets or financial liabilities at 
fair value.The change in the fair value of a derivative instrument is taken immediately to the income statement, resulting in profit and loss
volatility, unless it can be demonstrated on inception that it fulfils a specified hedge function and can be demonstrated to be effective in 
this function.
If fair value hedge accounting is applied, the fair value of the derivative will be offset by a change in the fair value of the hedged item, which
will also be recognised in the income statement.When cash flow hedging is applied, the change in the fair value of the derivative is taken to
equity, subsequently being recycled to the income statement when the hedged cash flow impacts the income statement.The change in the
fair value of any ineffective portion of a derivative is taken to the income statement.
In accordance with the exemption in IFRS 1, the group has applied IAS 32 and IAS 39 prospectively from 1 January 2005.
(h) Deferred taxation
Under UK GAAP , deferred tax is accounted for under FRS 19 Deferred Taxation and was provided in full on timing differences between the
recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations. Provision was made for deferred tax that
would arise upon the remittances received from overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that the dividends had been accrued as received.
In accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred tax must be recognised on all taxable temporary timing differences between the
accounting base and tax base of assets and liabilities. As a result, under IFRS deferred tax is recognised on certain temporary differences that
would not generate deferred tax under UK GAAP .
(i) Dividends
Under UK GAAP , the final proposed dividend was provided for in the year-end results. Under IFRS, however, this is not permitted because it
does not represent a present obligation as defined by IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. Dividends are provided
for in the year they are declared.The amount provided for in the 2004 financial statements is therefore reversed. Similarly an adjustment is
made in the transition balance sheet.
(j) Capitalisation of software
Under UK GAAP , capitalised computer software is included within tangible fixed assets on the balance sheet. Under IFRS, all separately
identifiable capitalised computer software should be shown as an intangible asset, except where it is integral to a related item of hardware.
In this instance it remains classified within property, plant and equipment. Any charge to profit in respect of separately identified computer
software is classified as amortisation of intangible assets under IFRS as opposed to depreciation under UK GAAP .
Accordingly, software has been reclassified in the balance sheets as at 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 from property, plant and
equipment to intangible assets.This reclassification has no impact on the income statement.
(k) Leases
The criteria applied to the classification of leases as between operating leases and finance leases are broadly the same under IFRS as under
UK GAAP . However, the application to the group’s leasing contracts of the series of qualitative tests laid out in IAS 17 Leases has required
a reclassification of certain contracts as finance leases rather than operating leases. In consequence, both the value of the asset and the
associated financing obligation have been recognised on the balance sheet and costs classified as lease rentals under UK GAAP have been
reclassified to depreciation and financing costs under IFRS.
(l) Securities
Under UK GAAP , securities held as investments by the group’s captive insurance companies were not included within net debt.There is no
definition of net debt within IFRS. However, in the opinion of the directors, net debt includes such securities.
  104
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Group 4 Securicor plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Group 4 Securicor plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 which comprise the Parent
Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out
therein.We have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Group 4 Securicor plc for the year ended 31 December 2005.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has been
undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other
purpose.To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’
Responsibilities on page 50.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ Report is not consistent with the parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law
regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company
financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of
the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with
sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
> the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2005; and 
> the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc 
Chartered Accountants 8 Salisbury Square 
Registered Auditor London
11 April 2006 EC4Y 8BB 105
2005 2004
(restated)
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets (c) 3.8 4.5
Investments (d) 437.5 337.1
441.3 341.6
Current assets
Debtors – amounts falling due within one year (e) 1,497.0 1,339.4
Cash at bank and in hand 14.0 19.4
1,511.0 1,358.8
Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
Bank overdraft (unsecured) (30.0) –
Other (f) (757.2) (740.8)
(787.2) (740.8)
Net current assets 723.8 618.0
Total assets less current liabilities 1,165.1 959.6
Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
Borrowings (unsecured) (g) (731.2) (633.5)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (h) (5.1) (4.6)
Net assets 428.8 321.5
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 35 317.2 316.1
Share premium and reserves (i) 111.6 5.4
Equity shareholders’ funds 428.8 321.5
The balance sheet was approved by the board of directors on 11 April 2006 and signed on its behalf by:
Nick Buckles Trevor Dighton
Director Director
Parent company balance sheet
At 31 December 2005 106
(a) Incorporation
Group 4 Securicor plc was incorporated on 11 December 2003 as Precis (2395) Limited, on 19 February 2004 changed its name to Group 4
Securicor Limited and on 14 May 2004 re-registered as Group 4 Securicor plc. On 19 July 2004 the company acquired a 42.5% shareholding in
Group 4 Securicor Holdings Limited and 90% of Group 4 A/S. In October 2004 it acquired a further 8% of Group 4 A/S. Group 4 A/S owns 57.5%
of Group 4 Securicor Holdings Limited, which owns the security businesses of the former Group 4 Falck A/S and the businesses of Securicor plc.
In 2005, the group completed the compulsory redemption of the remaining Group 4 A/S shares which it did not already own.
(b) Accounting policies
The parent company balance sheet is prepared in accordance with UK GAAP which is progressively converging towards IFRS.The following Financial
Reporting Standards which became applicable for the first time in 2005 are identical in all essential respects to their IFRS equivalents: FRS 20 Share-
based Payment, FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date, FRS 22 Earnings per share, FRS 23 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates,
FRS 24 Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economies, FRS 25 Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation and FRS 26 Financial instruments:
measurement (which only incorporates the measurement aspects of IAS 39). Also applicable for the first time in 2005 is FRS 17 Retirement benefits,
the requirements of which are, in respect of pension obligations, similar to those contained within IAS 19 Employee Benefits which have been adopted
by the group.Therefore, the accounting policies used in the preparation of the parent company balance sheet are consistent with those detailed in
note 3 to the consolidated accounts which are relevant to the parent company.
The balance sheet at 31 December 2004 has been restated in respect of the retrospective implementation of the new accounting standards, other
than in respect of FRS 25 and FRS 26. Proposed dividends receivable of £30.0m and payable of £23.5m, previously recognised in advance of being
declared, are now, in accordance with FRS 21, not recognised.
(c) Tangible fixed assets
Land and Equipment
buildings and vehicles Total
£m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2005 3.0 3.9 6.9
Additions at cost – 2.6 2.6
Transfer to subsidiary undertakings – (3.8) (3.8)
Disposals – (0.5) (0.5)
At 31 December 2005 3.0 2.2 5.2
Depreciation
At 1 January 2005 (0.4) (2.0) (2.4)
Transfer to subsidiary undertakings – 1.2 1.2
Charge for the year (0.2) (0.5) (0.7)
Disposals – 0.5 0.5
At 31December 2005 (0.6) (0.8) (1.4)
Net book value
At 31 December 2005 2.4 1.4 3.8
At 31 December 2004 2.6 1.9 4.5
The net book value of land and buildings comprises short leasehold buildings (under 50 years).
Notes to the parent company balance sheet
  107
Notes to the parent company balance sheet (continued)
(d) Fixed asset investments
The following are included in the net book value of fixed asset investments:
Subsidiary undertakings Total
£m
Shares at cost:
At 1 January 2005 337.1
Additions 100.4
At 31 December 2005 437.5
Full details of significant investments held by the parent company and the group are detailed in note 42 to the consolidated financial statements.
(e) Debtors
2005 2004
£m £m
Amounts owed by group undertakings 1,472.2 1,323.0
Other debtors 15.7 8.9
Prepayments and accrued income 7.4 7.5
Derivative financial instruments at fair value 1.7 –
Total debtors 1,497.0 1,339.4
Included in other debtors is £1.3m (2004: £0.6m) with regard to deferred tax comprised as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Accelerated capital allowances 0.8 0.6
Other 0.5 –
Total 1.3 0.6
(f) Creditors
2005 2004
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade creditors 1.1 1.9
Amounts owed to group undertakings 736.4 717.6
Corporation tax – 5.3
Other taxation and social security costs 0.5 0.6
Other creditors 2.9 10.8
Accruals and deferred income 8.7 4.6
Derivative financial instruments at fair value 7.6 –
Total creditors – amounts falling due within one year 757.2 740.8
(g) Unsecured borrowings
The unsecured borrowings are at floating rates and in the following currencies:
2005 2004
£m £m
Sterling – 40.0
Euro 314.7 199.7
US dollar 416.5 393.8
Total unsecured borrowings 731.2 633.5 108
Notes to the parent company balance sheet (continued)
(g) Unsecured borrowings (continued)
The payment profile of the unsecured borrowings is as follows :
2005 2004
£m £m
Repayable within one to two years – 193.3
Repayable within two to five years 731.2 440.2
T otal 731.2 633.5
There were no fixed rate financial liabilities and no financial liabilities upon which no interest is paid.
Undrawn committed facilities are as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Repayable within one to two years – 6.7
Repayable within two to five years 268.8 359.8
T otal 268.8 366.5
The fair value of the company’s financial instruments equates to their book values. Fair values are determined by reference to market values, where
available, or calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
Borrowing at floating rates exposes the company to cash flow interest rate risk.The management of this risk is detailed in note 31 to the consolidated
financial statements.
(h) Provisions for liabilities and charges
Onerous
contracts
£m
At 1 January 2005 4.6
Additional provisions in the year 1.9
Utilisation of provisions (1.4)
At 31 December 2005 5.1
The onerous contracts provision comprises a provision against future liabilities for all properties sub-let at a shortfall and for long-term idle properties.
The provision is based on the value of future net cash outflows relating to rent, rates, service charges and costs of marketing the properties.
(i) Share premium and reserves
Employee
Share Profit and Benefit T rust
premium loss account Own shares reserve Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 as previously stated 0.2 11.1 (0.2) 0.8 11.9
Prior year adjustments (see note (b)):
Proposed dividends receivable and payable – (6.5) – – (6.5)
At 1 January 2005 as restated 0.2 4.6 (0.2) 0.8 5.4
Retained profit – 151.4 – – 151.4
Changes in fair value of hedging derivatives – (5.8) – – (5.8)
Dividends declared – (39.8) – – (39.8)
Share issues 3.8 – – – 3.8
Own shares purchased – – (6.1) – (6.1)
Equity settled transactions:
– Performance share plans – – – 1.2 1.2
– Share options – 1.5 – – 1.5
At 31 December 2005 4.0 111.9 (6.3) 2.0 111.6
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the company has not presented its own profit and loss account.The profit for the year to
31 December 2005 attributable to shareholders was £151.4m (financial period from 11 December 2003 to 31 December 2004: £3.9m).
  109
Notes to the parent company balance sheet (continued)
(j) Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds for the year ended 31 December 2005
2005 2004
£m £m
Retained profit for the year 151.4 3.9
Changes in fair value of hedging derivatives (5.8) –
Dividends paid (39.8) –
Equity settled transactions:
– Performance share plans 1.2 0.8
– Share options 1.5 0.7
Own shares purchased (6.1) (0.2)
Issue of share capital 4.9 316.3
Net increase in shareholders’ funds 107.3 321.5
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 321.5 –
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 428.8 321.5
(k) Operating lease commitments
At the balance sheet date, the company had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, which expire as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Within one year 0.2 0.1
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.2 0.3
After more than five years 1.2 0.5
Total operating lease commitments 1.6 0.9
(l) Staff costs and employees
2005 2004
Number Number
The average monthly number of employees of the company during the year was: 122 47
Total staff costs, including directors’ emoluments, were as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Wages and salaries 20.6 8.2
Social security costs 1.6 0.8
Pension costs 0.9 0.4
Total staff costs 23.1 9.4
(m)Pension obligations
The company participates in both the Securicor and the Group 4 multi-employer pension schemes in the UK, which provide benefits based on final
pensionable pay.The company is unable to identify its share of the schemes’ assets and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis.The schemes
are therefore accounted for by the company as defined contribution schemes. Details of the schemes are included in note 32 of the consolidated
financial statements. 110
Presented under IFRS Presented under the then UK GAAP
£m 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Turnover 4,129.9 3,093.6 2,569.5 2,152.6 1,273.3
Profit before interest, taxation, amortisation of acquisition-related 
intangibles and exceptional items 254.0 165.5 118.4 93.7 57.5
Profit/(loss) after taxation 90.7 (65.4) (3.2) 12.5 19.8
Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders 80.8 (72.3) (9.7) 7.6 17.5
Non-current assets 1,963.9 1,876.0 693.6 658.5 290.3
Net assets 969.9 909.9 323.6 290.8 138.4
Net debt 657.3 586.4 382.4 487.0 142.5
Net debt/equity (%) 68 64 118 167 103
Return on net assets (%) (profit/(loss) after taxation/net assets) 9 (7) (1) 4 14
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share (pence) 11.1p 9.5p 8.0p 6.1p 4.5p
Dividends for the year per ordinary share (pence) 3.54p 1.85p 0.46p 0.43p 0.40p
Average headcount (number) 395,771 306,313 230,472 218,278 136,081
As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 56, the five year record comprises only the results of the security businesses
of the former Group 4 Falck A/S up to the acquisition of Securicor plc on 19 July 2004. After that date, the record reflects the results of the
combined businesses.
The figures presented for 2001 to 2003 are in accordance with the then UK GAAP .The main adjustments that would be required to make them
consistent with the 2005 financial statements which have been prepared under IFRS relate to:
(i) the non-amortisation of goodwill
(ii) the recognition of separable or contractual intangible assets on a business combination
(iii) the recognition of the funding balances for each retirement benefit scheme
(iv) the recognition of a charge to income in respect of share options granted
(v) the accounting treatment of joint ventures under either the proportionate consolidation method or equity method rather than the gross equity
method of accounting
(vi) the recognition of all derivative financial instruments at fair value
(vii) the recognition of all taxable temporary timing differences between the accounting base and tax base of assets and liabilities
(viii)dividends being provided for in the year in which they are declared
(ix) the reclassification of certain contracts as finance leases rather than operating leases
(x) the reclassification of securities held by the group’s captive insurance companies as a component of net debt
Further information on the adoption of IFRS is provided in note 43 to the consolidated financial statements.
Group financial record
  111
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Group 4 Securicor plc will be held at Ironmongers’ Hall, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA on
Thursday, 29 June 2006 at 2.00 pm.
Resolutions 1 to 7 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions. Resolutions 8 and 9 will be proposed as special resolutions.
1. To receive the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2005 and the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
2. To receive and approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report contained in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
3. To confirm and declare dividends.
4. To elect Mark Seligman as a director (member of Remuneration Committee).
5. To re-elect the directors who retire by rotation:
(a) Trevor Dighton
(b) Thorleif Krarup
(c) Bo Lerenius (member of Remuneration Committee)
6. To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at
which accounts are laid before the shareholders, and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
7. That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 (“the Act”)
to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities (as defined in section 80(2) of the Act) up to an aggregate nominal amount
of £105,000,000 provided that the authority hereby given shall expire on 1 June 2011, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or
agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors
shall be entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired; and all unexpired authorities
previously granted to the directors to allot relevant securities be and are hereby revoked.
8. That the directors be and are hereby granted, pursuant to section 95 of the Act, power to allot equity securities (as defined in section 94(2) of the
Act) for cash as if section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to:
(i) the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary
shares on the register of members at such record dates as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to
the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed
to be held by them on any such record date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or
expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or
the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter
whatever; and
(ii) the allotment (otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) above) to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal
value of £15,880,000
and shall expire on 1 June 2011 save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would
or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such
offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
  112
9. That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning of Section 163(3) of the Act) of
ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company provided that:
(i) the maximum number of shares which may be purchased is 127,000,000;
(ii) the minimum price which may be paid for each share is 25p;
(iii) the maximum price which may be paid for each share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an
ordinary share in the Company as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding
the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased; and
(iv) this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2007 (except in relation to the
purchase of shares the contract for which was entered into before the expiry of this authority and which might be executed wholly or partly
after such expiry).
By order of the board
Nigel Griffiths The Manor
Secretary Manor Royal
11 April 2006 Crawley
West Sussex RH10 9UN
Notes
(a) Every member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint another person as his proxy to attend and, on a poll, to vote thereat instead of
him and such proxy need not be a member. Forms appointing proxies must be deposited at the office of the Company’s registrar by 2.00pm on 27 June
2006.The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting should he decide to do so.
(b) To have the right to attend and vote at the meeting (and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a person may cast), a person must have
his name entered on the register of ordinary shares by no later than 2.00 pm on 27 June 2006. Changes to entries on the register after this time shall
be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
(c) By attending the meeting, a member expressly agrees that he is requesting and willing to receive any communications made at the meeting.
Notice of Annual General Meeting (continued)
  113
Financial calendar and corporate addresses
Results announcements
Interim results – September
Final results – March
Dividend payment
Interim paid – 16 December 2005
Final payable – 11 July 2006
Annual General Meeting
29 June 2006
Registered office
The Manor
Manor Royal
Crawley
West Sussex RH10 9UN, UK
Telephone +44 (0) 1293 554 400
Registered number
4992207
Registrars and transfer office
Capita Registrars
The Registry
34 Beckenham Road
Beckenham
Kent BR3 4TU
Telephone +44 (0) 870 162 3100
Fax: +44 (0) 20 8639 2342
Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
Stockbrokers
Deutsche Bank AG London
Winchester House
Great Winchester Street
London EC2N 2DB
Financial advisors
Morgan Stanley & Co. Limited
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QA
Greenhill & Co. International
Regent Gate
56-58 Conduit Street
London W1S 2YZ
Group 4 Securicor website
www.g4s.com
Designed and produced by MAGEE
Printed by St Ives Westerham Press
  Group 4 Securicor plc
The Manor, Manor Royal,
Crawley, West Sussex
RH10 9UN, UK
Telephone: +44 (0)1293 554 400
Registered no. 4992207
www.g4s.com
Group 4 Securicor plc
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
A World of Security Solutions
2005
A World of Security Solutions
Group 4 Securicor plc Annual Report and Accounts Year ended 31 December 2005
