 STRENGTH
IN DIVERSITY
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 performance 01 Highlights
02 The Group at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
05 Chief Executive’s review
06 Business review
      14 Housebuilding  
      22 Construction
      29 PPP Investments
 30 Finance
 33 Principal risks
 35 Corporate responsibility  
directors and governance
40 Directors and Executive Board
42 Directors’ report
45 Corporate Governance 
50 Remuneration report 
financials 55 Independent Auditors’ Report to 
 the Members of Galliford Try plc
 – Group 
56 Consolidated Income Statement 
56 Consolidated Statement of 
 Comprehensive Income 
57 Consolidated Balance Sheet
58 Consolidated Statement of Changes 
 in Shareholders’ Equity
59 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
60 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
97 Independent Auditors’ Report to the  
 Members of Galliford Try plc – Company 
98 Company Balance Sheet 
99 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 
111 Five Year Record 
112 Shareholder Information 
Galliford Try is a housebuilder and affordable housing 
developer across the South of England and the Eastern 
counties, and a provider of construction services 
throughout the UK. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 01
Highlights – year ended 30 June 2010
£1,222m
Group revenue
£76.5m
Net cash
12.5p
Dividend per share
£26.1m
Profit before tax*
24.6p
Earnings per share*
PERFORMANCE
PROGRESSING 
TO PLAN
Operational highlights
> Execution of housebuilding expansion plan on track.
> 58% of current 9,700 plot landbank acquired at current market values.
> 100% of plots for planned production in 2011 now secured, with 93% for 2012.
> 30% increase in sales currently reserved, contracted or completed at £263 million  
 (2009: £202 million).
> 2.4% construction margin (2009: 2.4%) and year end cash balance of £207 million  
 (2009: £237 million).
> 6% increase in contracting order book to £1.8 billion. All five year water frameworks renewed.
1
 Group revenue excludes joint ventures. ‘Revenue’ where stated throughout the business review includes share of joint ventures.
2
 Stated after net exceptional charges of £6.9 million (2009: £51.4 million) comprising a fine imposed by the Office of Fair Trading of £8.3 million and a net credit on reassessment of the  
 carrying value of housing related assets of £1.4 million.
3
 2009 restated following the 1 for 10 share consolidation and subsequent 7 for 6 rights issue in October 2009.
Financial highlights
2010
£m
2009
£m
Group revenue
1
1,222 1,461
Profit before tax  – pre exceptional 26.1 24.5
 – post exceptional/(loss)
2
19.2 (26.9)
Net cash at year end 76.5 34.1
pence pence
Earnings per share  – pre exceptional 24.6
3
35.8
 – post exceptional/(loss)
2
14.7 (34.4)
Dividend per share 12.5
3
10.9
* Pre exceptional. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 02
The Group at a glance 
Our credentials
Galliford Try’s award winning housebuilding companies  
have a long track record of building individually designed 
developments, concentrating on brownfield developments 
and based on an imaginative use of local architecture 
without using standard house types. 
Market position
We are the seventh largest housebuilder in the UK, with 
strong regional brands. Across the South and Eastern 
counties of England we operate as Linden Homes, Midas 
Homes, Stamford Homes, Gerald Wood Homes and 
Rosemullion Homes. We are also one of only six developers 
working on all of the Homes and Communities Agency’s 
developer partner panels together with housing associations 
to deliver affordable homes throughout our areas of operation. 
Our strategy
Our strategy is to build significant growth in the business 
over the next two financial years as the housing market 
moves out of recession. We are making good progress 
in growing our landbank, using the resources raised by  
the Group’s rights issue in 2009, and are putting the 
infrastructure in place to increase the number of homes  
sold to around 3,500 in 2012.
 
Sustainability
We build sustainable communities through innovation and 
transformation. During the year we built almost 500 homes 
to Level 3 of the Sustainable Code for Homes and just under 
600 to Level 4. 80% of all development sites are registered 
with the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Galliford Try’s strength is the diversity of its operations, spanning markets  
in both the housebuilding and construction industries. We provide whole  
life solutions to projects for the built environment, vital for delivering housing  
and complex regeneration schemes and giving us the ability to carry out a 
sustainable, quality workload for major construction projects.
HOUSEBUILDING
£316m
Revenue
£17.6m
Profit from operations*
1,705
Home completions
Revenue
1 PRivATe HouSinG £274m
2 AFFoRdAble 
 HouSinG £42m
UK coverage
For more detailed 
information go to: 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
For more information 
about Housebuilding 
see pages 14-21.
1
2 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 03
CONSTRUCTION
Our credentials 
Galliford Try’s record has been built on collaborative working 
with clients to deliver best value construction projects. A 
significant proportion of our work is in long term frameworks, 
particularly on programmes for improving the country’s 
infrastructure. We also have long term relationships with 
clients across the public and private sectors for whom  
we carry out series of projects, benefiting from an in depth 
understanding of clients’ objectives to get the best out of  
the construction process.
Market position 
We are a contractor in the UK top twelve. Our activities 
cover the building markets which range from commercial 
buildings, leisure facilities, education, health and affordable 
housing through to major infrastructure projects 
encompassing water, rail and general civil engineering, 
alongside renewable energy and land remediation.
Our strategy 
Our strategy is to maintain a spread of workload across the 
regulated industries and both private and public sectors. 
This ensures that in a period where expenditure on capital 
projects is under pressure, we focus on those markets where 
investment is continuing, concentrating on projects with an 
acceptable return and risk profile.
Sustainability
We develop long term relationships with clients and our 
supply chain, aiming for early involvement on projects to 
understand our clients’ sustainability drivers and innovate  
to help them achieve their goals. We are currently working 
on 37 projects that are BRE Environmental Assessment 
Method rated ‘Excellent’ or ‘Very Good’.
£937m
Revenue
£22.8m
Profit from operations*
£1.8bn
Order book
UK coverage
For more detailed 
information go to: 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
For more information 
about Construction 
see pages 22-28.
* Profit from operations is stated before finance costs, amortisation,  
 share of joint ventures’ tax, exceptional items and tax.
Revenue
1 buildinG £445m
2 PARTneRSHiPS £94m
3 inFRASTRuCTuRe £398m
2
1
3 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 04
Chairman’s statement
We have a clear strategy to grow  
our housebuilding business in more 
sustainable markets and manage  
our construction activities through 
more challenging times.
A STRATEGY
FOR VALUE
Introduction 
We laid the foundations during the year for significant growth in  
our housebuilding business and set our strategy for managing 
construction through more challenging times. I am delighted to have 
this opportunity to explain the thinking behind our strategy and to 
report on the decisive actions taken by our management to seize  
the opportunities presented as we emerged from the most severe 
downturn the housing market has seen for a generation and entered  
a period in which economic constraints continued to tighten on 
construction markets.
Overview 
As we entered the new financial year in the summer of 2009, it 
became clear that the housing market was showing early signs of 
recovery from the levels to which it had fallen during 2008/09. With 
many housebuilders’ ability to acquire new land constrained, our 
management saw the early signs of a revived land market. The board 
took the decision to secure additional funding through a rights issue, 
completed in October last year and raising £119.3 million, to invest 
in the land opportunities that were becoming available. The aim  
was to approximately double the size of the housebuilding business 
over a three year period with the objective of delivering a significant 
enhancement to earnings per share from 2012. To date, excellent 
progress has been made in implementing the plan.
As the UK emerged from the depths of the financial crisis it was clear 
that there would be increasing pressure on finance, both in the public 
and private sectors, which would impact the demand for construction 
projects. Accordingly, we took action to maintain the size of our 
order book as market conditions became more challenging, and 
were particularly successful in maintaining our industry leading 
position in the five year infrastructure frameworks for the water 
utilities, which last until 2015. With a diverse workload, and with 
good opportunities in growth markets such as renewable energy  
and waste, we are in a good position to work through a period 
during which the effect of public sector spending cuts will be felt, 
with a business that can take advantage of the opportunities for 
growth that will undoubtedly return thereafter.  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 05
Highlights 
Group revenue was £1,222 million (2009: £1,461 million). The  
pre exceptional profit before tax was £26.1 million (2009 profit:  
£24.5 million) and the post exceptional profit before tax was  
£19.2 million (2009 loss: £26.9 million).
Basic pre exceptional earnings per share are 24.6 pence (2009 
restated: 35.8 pence) with post exceptional earnings per share  
of 14.7 pence (2009 loss: 34.4 pence). Shareholders’ funds at  
30 June 2010 stood at £423.2 million compared to £294.6 million  
at the end of the previous year.
Dividend 
On announcing the rights issue in September 2009, the directors 
stated they would take into account the effect of the rights issue in 
implementing a progressive dividend policy over the medium term. 
Having carefully considered the Group’s performance during the  
past year and the progress it has made towards delivering the 
objectives outlined at the time of the rights issue, the directors  
are recommending a final dividend of 9.2 pence per share which, 
subject to approval at the AGM, will be payable on 12 November  
to shareholders on the register on 8 October 2010. With the interim 
dividend of 3.3 pence per ordinary share paid in April, this will result 
in a total dividend of 12.5 pence per 50 pence ordinary share. This  
is a 15% increase on the total dividend of 10.9 pence declared last 
year, which has been restated to take account of the share 
consolidation and rights issue.
People 
The working lives of our employees have not been easy during the 
past year and they have faced many challenges, wherever in our 
businesses they work. The board is immensely grateful for the way  
in which they have responded and continued to demonstrate the 
excellence of our teamwork. Thank you to all of them.
Looking forward
The board has set out a clear strategy. We have recognised changes 
in our markets and implemented a plan to deliver growth in shareholder 
value. Despite current economic uncertainties, we remain on target 
with our transformational housebuilding expansion plan, and are 
maintaining an industry leading construction business, able to grow 
again when markets improve.
David Calverley, Chairman
Dividend per share
Pence
Shareholders’ funds
£m
06
120
07 08
325
09 10
423
307
295
06 07 08
21.7
09 10
12.5
21.7
18.1
10.9 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 06
Chief executive’s review
We have made excellent progress  
in implementing our housebuilding 
expansion strategy and secured 
a strong order book to underpin 
construction.
IMPLEMENTATION
OF STRATEGY 
ON TARGET
Results
Group revenue was £1,222 million (2009: £1,461 million). The Group 
achieved a profit from operations (stated before finance costs, share 
of joint ventures interest and tax, exceptional items and tax) of 
£35.2 million (2009: £43.4 million). The pre exceptional profit before 
tax was £26.1 million (2009: £24.5 million).
Housebuilding profit from operations was up 56% to £17.6 million  
on revenue, including joint ventures, of £316 million, representing  
a margin of 5.6% (2009: £11.3 million on £306.7 million, 
representing 3.7%).
As the downturn in the construction market started to affect the 
business, total construction revenue fell to £936.5 million, including 
joint ventures, compared to £1,175.7 million the previous year. The 
profit from operations of £22.8 million represented a maintained 
margin of 2.4% (2009: £27.9 million).
Strategy
The Group’s strategy is to grow profits by delivering a transformational 
housebuilding expansion plan while maintaining a profitable market 
position in construction. At the beginning of the financial year the 
housing market was starting to stabilise. With housing sales and 
prices showing an element of recovery and mortgage lending 
increasing from a very low base, we also saw the early signs of  
a reviving land market with a number of attractive land acquisition 
opportunities developing. 
Accordingly, we took the decision to secure additional funding 
through a rights issue, which was completed in October last year 
and raised a net £119.3 million, to invest in a plan to approximately 
double the size of the housebuilding business over a three year 
period, with the objective of delivering a significant enhancement  
to earnings per share from 2012. 
Progress to date has been excellent, with our strong market 
position across the South of England in particular, and our industry 
leading expertise in affordable housing and on regeneration schemes,  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 07
generating the land opportunities. This has resulted in our landbank 
increasing from 7,850 a year ago to a current total of 9,700, 58% of 
which has been acquired at current market, as compared to higher 
historic, values. We are opening new offices on schedule and our 
management team is up to full strength. We are therefore on track 
with the delivery of our plan.
As the UK emerged from the financial crisis of 2008/09, it was clear 
that there would be increasing pressure on capital investment, both 
initially by private clients and then in the public sector, which would 
impact the demand for construction projects. We determined that 
our strategy would be to maintain the quality of our order book in 
more challenging markets by taking advantage of our long term 
client relationships and framework agreements, which give visibility 
of future work, and controlling the level of work secured by 
straightforward competitive tender.
This strategy will lead to a reduction in overall construction revenues 
in the short term; however by securing work in those market sectors 
that continue to have an acceptable profit and risk profile during this 
period, we will maintain a level of business that will enable us to take 
advantage of the opportunities that will ultimately arise when markets 
improve. During the year we succeeded in increasing our order book 
by 6% to £1.8 billion and have maintained this position, with a diverse 
spread encompassing 40% in the regulated sector, 51% in the public 
and 9% in the private sector.
Sustainability
We are a business that understands the challenges of sustainability 
and are working hard to improve our performance. In housebuilding, 
an increasing number of our homes are built to the higher codes for 
sustainable homes. In construction we have improved our performance 
to meet our clients’ increasing requirements. We participate in the 
carbon disclosure project, have significantly improved our position 
in the housebuilding Next Generation rankings and are implementing  
a range of key performance indicators across the Group covering 
key areas of corporate responsibility, detailed in the CR section of 
this report.
People 
I see the dedication of our people to their work wherever I go in our 
business. They produce the spectacular projects, and whether on 
site or in one of our support roles, produce first class work. They are 
the ones who deliver the services and the homes to our clients and 
customers, which is the essential ingredient to a successful 
business. I thank them all.
Outlook
We are on track to deliver the housebuilding expansion plan we set 
out at the time of the rights issue in September 2009. Our results 
have been achieved against a backdrop of an improving market in 
the early months of 2010, and we have been encouraged by the level 
of sales and prices achieved since the start of our new financial year, 
when set against the backdrop of the effect on consumer confidence 
of the current economic uncertainty. We adopt an appropriate level  
of prudence in our land buying and continue to manage closely the 
increased investment in housebuilding required to deliver our plan. 
Our presence across the more resilient markets in the South, and  
the opportunities we continue to generate from our leading position 
in affordable housing and on regeneration schemes underpin  
our progress.
We have maintained a quality construction order book in increasingly 
challenging market conditions and anticipated reductions in public 
sector work, although uncertainty over the extent and focus remains 
as we await the outcome of the Government’s autumn spending 
review. Construction continues to generate profits and cash balances, 
albeit we have anticipated absolute levels will reduce due to the effect 
of a more competitive market. 
The strength of the Group’s finances and the spread of its activities 
leaves us, subject to economic uncertainties, well positioned to 
deliver our planned progress.
Greg Fitzgerald, Chief Executive
2009 rights issue – key facts
> Housing market showed early signs of stabilising 
> Limited competition for land, giving good buying opportunities 
> Strategy decided to double size of housebuilding business 
 over three years
> Rights issue to finance land buying launched September 2009 
> Every ten 5p shares consolidated into one 50p share 
> 7 new shares then offered at £2.85 each for every 6 held
> 91.5% of shareholders accepted offer
> £119.3 million raised (net) in October 2009 
> Increase in landbank on target  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 08
business review
In this business review, we aim to explain our activities and the 
markets that we serve, our strategy, and our performance during  
the financial year. Further detail is then provided on our two main 
areas of operation, housebuilding and construction, together with  
an analysis of our financial results and the elements of sustainability 
and governance that underpin how we do business. 
The Galliford Try Group 
Galliford Try is a housebuilder and contractor in construction 
markets. It is a UK based business, with construction activities 
carried out across the whole of the country, and housebuilding 
focused across the South and the Eastern counties. The number  
of homes completed in the year makes us the UK’s seventh largest 
housebuilder, and our construction revenues put us in the country’s 
top twelve contractors.
our business model 
The diversity of our businesses puts us in the almost unique  
position of being able to offer whole life solutions to major projects. 
Construction schemes may require design, infrastructure, finance, 
building and maintenance service while large and complex 
regeneration projects will need all of these skills as well as our 
ability to develop properties for sale or supply to the affordable 
housing market. This spread of diverse activities, combined with our 
reputation for quality in everything we do and our strong partnership 
ethos, gives us a competitive advantage. This is why we can carry 
out building works ranging from under £0.5 million up to well over  
£100 million, undertake multi-project long term frameworks totalling 
several hundred million pounds, and carry out housing developments 
from a few homes to the country’s first major net zero carbon 
development of over 800 homes over a 10 year period. Our 
A DIVERSE
SPREAD OF 
ACTIVITIES
GROUP SERVICES
Health, Safety & 
Environment
Human Resources
Finance & Corporate
BUILDING
Galliford Try 
Construction
Morrison 
Construction
AFFORDABLE HOUSING 
Galliford Try 
Affordable Homes
PRIVATE HOUSING
AND REGENERATION
Linden Homes
Stamford Homes
Midas Homes
PARTNERSHIPS
Galliford Try 
Partnerships
INFRASTRUCTURE
Galliford Try 
Infrastructure
Morrison 
Construction
HOUSEBUILDING CONSTRUCTION
GALLIFORD TRY plc
PPP INVESTMENTS
Galliford Try 
Investments
Outline structure and major operating businesses Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 09
housebuilding activities require cash for investment with the objective 
of earning attractive profit margins, together with a return on capital 
of over 20% whilst contracting margins will be low, dependent on  
the stage of the market cycle, but should provide significant cash 
balances which can be used for investment in housebuilding. The 
business therefore minimises its requirement for debt finance.
The operational benefit of tracking in two sectors that are in different 
economic cycles was illustrated during the recession. Construction 
continued to generate profits and cash during the early part of  
the downturn when the housing market collapsed. The housing 
market has become more sustainable in the latter stages, whereas 
the construction market has become more challenging.
Housebuilding activities – Housebuilding is a regional activity and we 
operate with local brands across our areas of operation. We have a 
long track record in developing brownfield sites, often incorporating 
refurbishments and conversions and building a mix of houses and 
apartments, geared to local market demand. Developments today 
require a mix of private and affordable housing, we work in partnership 
with the Homes and Communities Agency and many of the country’s 
housing associations undertaking developments and regeneration 
schemes to provide them with homes for rent or mixed tenure.
Construction activities – We operate in the infrastructure and 
building markets. We serve the national civil engineering markets in 
water, land remediation, highways, rail and environmental protection, 
Key performance indicators, together with a number of other measures, are used by the board to measure the progress of the Group 
against its objectives.
Key Performance Indicators
Objective Measure 2010 Performance Comment
Health and safety
To ensure our operations are 
carried out safely and without 
causing injury.
Total number of reportable 
injuries in the year divided  
by the average number of 
direct employees and sub 
contractors expressed as 
incidents per 1,000 people.
7% improvement. 
5.3
(2009: 5.7)
We implemented the second 
phase of our behavioural safety 
programme as well as one off 
cross Group events to keep 
safety at the forefront of our 
business.
Profit before tax
To achieve consistent increases 
in profit before tax each year.
Profit on ordinary activities, 
excluding exceptional items,  
stated before tax.
Up 7%. 
£26.1m
(2009: £24.5m)
Housebuilding profits rose as 
performance improved following 
the low point of the market in 
the previous year. Construction 
profits fell with lower revenue  
as the recession took effect, 
although the profit margin was 
maintained.
Earnings per share
To provide long term growth in 
earnings per share, accepting  
a dilution post the 2009 results 
issue, prior to a material 
enhancement in 2012.
Earnings per share based  
upon profit attributable to 
ordinary shareholders before 
exceptional items, divided by 
the average number of shares 
in issue during the year.
Reduced by 31%. 
24.6p
(2009: 35.8p*)
The reduction is in line with the 
strategy outlined at the time  
of the rights issue, with the 
housebuilding expansion plan 
dilutive for two years and on 
track to deliver a material 
enhancement in 2012.
Dividend per share
To pay a progressive dividend 
each year.
The sum of the interim 
dividend and the final 
proposed dividend per 
share.
Increased by 15%. 
12.5p
(2009: 10.9p*)
The directors have decided that 
the progress made in delivering 
the housebuilding expansion 
plan justifies a dividend at the 
recommended level.
Cash and capital 
management
For our construction activities 
to generate optimum levels of 
cash and for our housebuilding 
businesses to maximise their 
return on capital employed.
Net cash/debt and capital  
turn (the number of times in  
the year we turn our capital, 
calculated as housebuilding 
revenue divided by average  
capital employed).
Increased by 124%. 
£76.5m
(2009: £34.1m)
We turned our capital 
0.7 times in the year compared 
to 0.6 times in 2009.
We received £119.3 million  
from the rights issue in October 
2009, and started to invest the 
proceeds in housing land. We 
have achieved excellent cash 
balances in construction.
Staff churn
To attract and retain the  
highest calibre of employees  
by being an employer of 
choice.
The number of employees 
within the Group who 
voluntarily leave during the 
year divided by the average 
number of employees 
expressed as a percentage.
A 40% reduction. 
7.4%
(2009: 12.3%)
The general economic situation 
and employment prospects in 
the UK have curtailed employee 
movement to a level that is now 
below an optimum level.
* Restated following the share consolidation and rights issue. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 10
business review continued
ranging from local pumping stations for the water utilities to the 
major land remediation and infrastructure works carried out at 
Olympic Park in East London. 
Our building business works across the private and public sectors, 
providing buildings for the commercial property, leisure, retail, health, 
education and custodial sectors in particular. Partnerships provides 
affordable housing contracting. Our projects tend to be of a size 
where selection is based upon both non financial as well as price 
criteria, with the proportion of work acquired solely on competitive 
price tendering across our construction businesses representing  
only 20% of our order book.
The housebuilding market 
From the depths of the housing market collapse in late 2008 there 
has been a limited recovery in consumer confidence which, together 
with a gradual improvement in the availability of mortgage finance 
from that time, has led to a market that continued to stabilise 
UK market data, 2009
The extent of the changes to the markets in which the Group operates, compared to the previous year, were as follows:
From the highpoint of 185,000 private homes completed in 2007, 
new homes started in 2009 were 60% down. During the same period 
public sector housing was significantly less affected. From the market 
low point in late 2008 and early 2009, UK housing starts have 
increased steadily to 30,600 in the quarter to June 2010. 
Monthly sales for the first four months of 2010 averaged 44,100 per 
month compared to 32,000 per month for the same period in 2009, 
showing the extent of the recovery since the low point. Mortgage 
lending in 2009 was £142.6 billion, down from £362.6 billion at the 
2007 peak. In 2010 gross lending was £62.7 billion in the six months 
to June; up 17% compared to the previous year.
Housebuilding
The statistics show the extent of the downturn in private industrial 
and commercial work carried out during 2009 as well as the fall in 
the volume of new orders.
Infrastructure spend was maintained during the year, with the increase 
in new orders placed encompassing the renewal of most of the five 
year water frameworks in the UK. The statistics all cover the period 
prior to the Government’s June 2010 budget and autumn spending 
review which will also have a direct impact on public sector capital 
works budgets going forward.
Construction
Market size Completions
New home 
starts
Sector £bn
%
change 000’s
%
change 000’s
%
change
Private Housing 10.8 -34% 110 -22% 75 -23%
Public Housing 3.8 -4% 32 +3% 26 -13%
Total 14.6 -28% 142 -21% 101 -20%
Market size New orders
Sector £bn
%
change £bn
%
change
Infrastructure 8.1 +5.4% 11.1 +44%
Public 13.9 +13.2% 14.2 +9%
Industrial & Commercial 18.9 -31% 15.6 -41%
Total 40.9 -14% 40.9 -1.5%
Source: ONS, Land Registry, CML Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 11
The construction market 
In construction our markets are driven by the investment 
programmes for the regulated utilities to meet the requirements  
of their respective regulators, by the public expenditure plans of both 
local and national Government and by the confidence of private sector 
organisations to invest in capital projects for future growth. Having  
a spread of work across these three categories enables Galliford Try  
to devote resources to sectors with the best opportunities for work 
and to mitigate over-reliance on any one source.
The regulated utilities will continue to invest and provide opportunities 
both through frameworks and individual projects. While Government 
expenditure in recent years increased significantly from the early 
2000’s we anticipated and have planned for a reduction in the work 
we carry out for the public sector. The volume of private sector work 
available depends both on the confidence of organisations to invest, 
and the price and availability of finance. This has been severely 
constrained since the financial crisis of late 2008, although in recent 
months we have seen signs of some improvements in projects being 
brought back to the planning stage and of the ability and willingness, 
particularly by the blue chip clients for whom we carry out much of 
our work, to recommence some development activity. This has been 
more pronounced in London and the South East, areas in which 
Galliford Try is strong, than in other parts of the country. 
Key influences on the market are therefore:
Continuing expenditure by the regulated utilities  >
Maintenance and improvement of existing public facilities >
Upgrading the transport infrastructure  >
Remediation and development of brownfield land >
Replacement or refurbishment of public assets in education,   >
 health and custodial 
Increased demand for leisure facilities, both private and in   >
 local authorities
The availability of finance for our clients >
throughout the financial year. Although overall UK mortgage lending 
and housing transactions remain substantially down on pre financial 
crisis levels, the return of both individual purchasers and a limited 
number of investors to the market enabled sales volumes to 
improve and prices to firm again, particularly in the South East  
of England. 
As the housing associations reorganised their finances following  
the market downturn activity levels increased and, supported by 
Government initiatives such as the availability of Kickstart funding 
and HomeBuy Direct mortgages, opportunities started to grow again. 
However, overall UK housing completions are running at around half 
of the pre market collapse levels and there remains a substantial 
deficit between the anticipated demand for homes in the UK and  
the projected supply.
Key market influences are therefore:
Availability of development land >
Planning constraints  >
Demographic demand  >
Access to mortgage finance  >
Increased longevity  >
Fewer multi person households >
Social housing policy  >
Local and national regeneration need >
Markets in the short term will be driven by consumer confidence,  
the availability of mortgage finance and the ability of affordable 
housing providers to finance projects. However, all of the above 
factors underpin the long term value of land and property, particularly 
in those areas of the country in which Galliford Try operates, that  
are least exposed to economic downturn. Galliford Try’s financial 
strength, its ability to deal with every aspect of a development and  
its reputation for quality and delivery generates opportunities to 
acquire land, to work with housing associations on their plans, to 
generate value for all involved and contribute to improvement in 
sustainable development.
Award winning acquisition
As one of a number of housebuilding acquisitions made during the 
year, Galliford Try acquired Rosemullion Homes, winner of a ‘What 
House’ housebuilder of the year award in 2008, to boost its market 
coverage in Cornwall. 
Nine sites under development  >
132 plots in landbank  >
The Trinity Watch development of 15 character homes in St Ives,  
11 for private sale and four affordable, was completed during the year.
Building for Life – Silver Standard Award  >
Best Regional Housing Development – Building Excellence Awards  >
NHBC ‘Pride in the Job’ regional award winner for the site manager > Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 12
business review continued
Strategic objectives
The Group’s strategic objectives are:
To grow profits – and thereby materially increase earnings per  
share in 2012 and deliver an attractive return on capital employed. 
The Group’s plan is for growth to come from the expansion of the 
housebuilding business:
To double the size of housebuilding – To deliver significant increases 
in profits and return on capital employed:
Increasing investment in land  >
Strengthening resources across our existing business  >
Opening new regional offices  >
Continuing to deliver our quality product and industry leading   >
 customer satisfaction
To maintain construction as cash positive and profitable – 
Acknowledging that in the short term revenues and margins will  
be impacted by the current harder market conditions, ensuring the 
structure and resources are in place to benefit the business when 
markets improve:
Focus on profit, not revenue  >
Capitalising on existing long term client relationships  >
Focus on emerging private commercial market opportunities  >
Leveraging cross Group capability  >
Tighter management of risk >
The key elements for delivery of the Group’s strategy are as follows:
Financial strength – Improved by the rights issue in 2009, the 
Group’s financial strength gives it the ability to invest in land and 
work in progress to expand the housing business, and gives clients 
in the construction business the security of covenant that qualifies 
Galliford Try for quality projects.
A strong client focus – We build long term relationships with  
clients across our markets – from local authorities and housing 
associations through to infrastructure utilities and blue chip private 
sector clients. These are organisations that look for best value 
services and appreciate the role we play working with them to deliver 
the best outcomes for their projects, which are rarely delivered 
through lowest cost competitive tendering alone.
effective supply chain management – As a project based business 
the relationships we have with consultants, sub contractors and 
suppliers are crucial to delivering a spectrum of quality services to 
our clients. Many of our supply chain relationships are long term  
and diverse.
innovation and sustainability – We aim to bring an extra dimension 
to solving clients’ construction challenges and delivering innovative 
elements to our homes for sale. This increasingly involves delivering 
sustainable solutions that help our clients and customers meet their 
own objectives. 
Our divisional management teams implement Group strategy  
by applying the principles to their own sector specific strategies. 
Construction and housebuilding boards direct their activities,  
which are implemented through sector boards in our construction 
businesses and regional boards in housebuilding.
Performance 
Group performance in the year reflected the return of a more 
sustainable housing market from the downturn of the previous  
year, and started to show the effect of the expected harder market 
conditions in construction. 
Profit before tax and exceptional items after taking account of joint 
venture interests, tax and amortisation, was up 7% to £26.1 million.
Long term relationships – 
tennis at Wimbledon
Galliford Try has carried out the All England Lawn Tennis Club’s 
construction work at Wimbledon for over 35 years, since 1994 
delivering the Club’s master plan for tennis in the 21st century.
 
New No.1 court and Aorangi Park >
The Broadcast centre >
The Millennium building >
Tennis museum and Club offices >
Centre court redevelopment with retractable roof >
New courts 2 and 3 >
 
Galliford Try is currently carrying our further works for 
completion prior to the 2012 Olympics. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 13
The Group’s profit from operations of £35.2 million showed a 
reduction from £43.4 million last year. The net effect of a reduction in 
construction, resulting from the reduced revenue levels, was offset 
by a smaller increase in housebuilding as the market improved. The 
construction profit margin was maintained at 2.4%, reflecting work 
carried out that had been acquired prior to the market downturn. 
Construction margins will reduce as a greater proportion of work is 
carried out that has been secured under the recent more competitive 
market conditions. We anticipate housebuilding profits to increase 
going forward as the business grows and a greater proportion of 
profits arise from developing new land which has been acquired at 
current market values, as we work through more historic land that 
was bought prior to the market downturn. 
Group revenue fell by 16%. In construction there was a decline  
in short term private sector commercial projects following the 
significant cutting back of capital investment by clients following  
the financial crisis the year before, and we were also in the transition 
period for most of the year between the end of the water sector’s 
five year AMP4 frameworks, where projects awarded during the last 
five years were coming to an end, and the commencement of AMP5. 
This will last until 2015, and with contractors now having gone through 
the selection process, planning and specific project programmes will 
start to build up. Housebuilding revenue, including joint ventures, 
was marginally up.
With the increase in share capital following the rights issue in 2009, 
earnings per share has fallen in line with the expectations outlined  
at that time, with the investment in land made using the proceeds  
of the rights issue targeted to generate significantly increased profits 
and therefore a material increase to earnings per share from 2012. 
Notwithstanding this, the board has decided to pay an increased 
dividend this year, recognising the Group’s trading position, prospects 
and progress in delivering the expansion plan. 
In September 2009 the Company announced that it, along with  
102 other companies in the industry, had been found by the Office  
of Fair Trading to be in breach of the 1998 Competition Act through 
three instances of “cover pricing” that had taken place between the 
years 2001 and 2004, and that it was being fined £8.3 million. The 
Group does not condone any form of anti competitive activity and, 
after it was first made aware of the allegations in 2007, it reviewed 
and updated its competition law policies and procedures and 
instigated an employee training programme and compliance regime. 
The Group has submitted an appeal to the Competition Appeal 
Tribunal in respect of the size of the penalty imposed; however the 
outcome is not expected until late in 2010.
The Group’s cash performance has exceeded expectations with 
construction holding significant cash balances; these are expected 
to reduce as the effect of the more competitive market conditions 
impact the construction business and the investment in housebuilding 
land and work in progress grows in line with the expansion plan.
More detail on the health, safety and environmental performance  
can be found in the corporate responsibility section of this report.
Forward looking statements 
The annual report has been prepared to assist shareholders to 
assess the board’s strategies and their potential to succeed. It 
should not be relied on by any other party for other purposes. 
Forward looking statements have been made by the directors in 
good faith using information up until the date on which they approved 
this report. Forward looking statements should be regarded with 
caution due to the uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
The Group’s businesses are generally not affected by seasonality. business review Housebuilding
We embarked on an expansion plan in late 2009 to approximately double the 
size of our housebuilding business over a three year time span. We are well on 
track, with our landbank now standing at 9,700 plots, up 24% from a year ago, 
of which 58% has been secured at current market values.
HOUSEBUILDING
EXPANSION PLAN 
ON TRACK
Galliford Try’s growth will continue to be based on its 
reputation as an award winning housebuilder, using 
local architecture, designing our homes to meet the 
differing lifestyles of our purchasers, avoiding the  
use of standard house types and delivering industry 
leading customer satisfaction.
Ian Baker
Group Managing Director,
Housebuilding
Revenue
£m
Profit from 
operations
£m
14 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
06 07
340
08
486
09
307
10
316
06 07
49
08
53
09
11
10
18
224
32 Individually designed homes on 
award winning developments
Twilight is the latest phase of our long term development in 
Redhill, Surrey which will ultimately provide 500 homes. We 
restored the old gravel pits on the site into a 25 acre nature 
reserve, being managed by Surrey Wildlife Trust, and there are 
a further 7.5 acres of open space with canals, reed beds and 
communal gardens set around the homes.
73%
Percentage 
of landbank 
held across 
the South of 
England
£190,000
The average price of one of 
our homes. Private housing 
averaged £207,000 and 
affordable housing £124,000
15 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 16
business review Housebuilding continued
Housebuilding overview
Galliford Try develops homes across the South and East of the UK. 
Our development activities encompass private housing for direct  
sale to the public as well as for affordable housing providers, who 
require homes for sale, to rent or for intermediate forms of ownership. 
We also carry out large scale regeneration projects, many in 
partnership with the Homes and Communities Agency and other 
statutory authorities.
Housebuilding is a local business, and Galliford Try operates through 
regionally based businesses with local management teams that have 
an in depth knowledge of their markets and the factors that drive the 
requirement for homes within them. We therefore have the advantages 
of a regionally based developer with the resources and skill base 
spread throughout our areas of operation and, in a central affordable 
housing and regeneration team, the specialist national expertise on 
affordable housing requirements and the multitude of skills required 
to undertake complex regeneration projects wherever in our area  
of operation they are required.
Market 
The market for private housing is primarily driven by the right home 
in the right location, priced correctly, general consumer confidence 
and the availability of mortgage finance. The market varies regionally, 
with the South East generally proving stronger due to the level of 
economic activity whilst specific sectors of the market will also vary. 
Examples are increased mortgage deposits that have particularly 
affected first time buyers, or the willingness of discretionary existing 
home owners to move house. Our incentive packages, that could 
include part exchange or limited shared equity are geared to helping 
sales where required.
Our work for housing associations will depend on their development 
plans and their access to finance to deliver their social objectives. We 
work with a significant range of affordable housing providers, from 
the large national organisations to regional associations that enable 
us to develop homes appropriate to their specific requirements.
Housebuilding 2010 2009
Revenue  £316.0 million £306.7 million
Profit from operations £17.6 million £11.3 million
Operating profit margin 5.6% 3.7%
Landbank plots 9,600 7,850
Completions* 1,705 1,825
Average selling price £190,000 £172,000
*including 100% of joint ventures (1,624 and 1,769 with proportionate share)
Private Housing 2010 2009
Revenue  £273.8 million £250.2 million
Profit from operations £14.3 million £7.7 million
Operating profit margin 5.2% 3.1%
Completions 1,287 1,285
Average selling price £207,000 £193,000
Affordable Housing  2010 2009
Revenue  £42.2 million £56.5 million
Profit from operations £3.3 million £3.6 million
Operating profit margin 7.8% 6.4%
Completions 337 484
Average selling price £124,000 £115,000
HOUSEBUILDING Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 17
The affordable housing market improved during the year as 
Government investment continued to be made available through the 
Homes and Communities Agency to affordable housing providers. As 
housing associations’ confidence in the market recovered, and their 
financial programmes were reassessed, development programmes 
recommenced. There is a historic supply side deficit for affordable 
homes and, although the amount and form of subsidy into the 
market through Government has and will continue to change, the 
political imperative to continue to provide homes will remain.
Strategy 
As the market showed early signs of recovery in the late summer  
of 2009, we set out a strategic plan for our housebuilding activities, 
backed by the receipt of the rights issue proceeds, to double the 
size of the business. We are planning to increase the number of 
home completions from the current level of around 1,700 to around 
3,500 in 2012. We aim to maintain an overwhelmingly southern bias, 
taking advantage of our existing strong market position in this area, 
where we continue to see the economy being at its most resilient. 
Our plan is to achieve growth and thereby increase our profitability 
both from maximising returns from our existing landbank and, by 
using the proceeds of the rights issue, from new land bought at 
current market values that will enable us to increase both our profit 
margin and the absolute level of profit.
We will focus on the middle market of traditional family housing, 
which will remain a mixture of houses as well as apartments in 
appropriate urban areas, particularly in the South East of England. 
We have an enviable reputation for developing non-standard house 
types to maximise the attractiveness of our developments for both 
purchasers and the planning authorities and we aim to maintain this 
market leading position. Our industry leading expertise in brownfield 
sites as well as in refurbishments will also continue to assist in 
generating opportunities. We will concentrate on prime sites in prime 
Key Performance Indicators
Objective Measure 2010 Performance Comment
Completions
To increase the number 
of completions to around 
3,500 in 2012.
Total number of homes that 
have been legally completed, 
including the equivalent number 
of completions from joint ventures 
represented by our share of 
ownership.
Total reduced by 7%. 
1,705
(2009: 1,825) 
1,624 net of our joint 
venture partners’ shares. 
Completions fell significantly 
in the first half of the year due 
to the low number of homes 
available for sale resulting from 
the action taken in the previous 
year to minimise work in 
progress following the financial 
crisis. As production rose during 
the year, completions increased.
Profit from operations
To significantly increase profit 
from operations under the three 
year expansion plan to 2012.
Profit on ordinary activities stated 
before finance costs, exceptional 
items, amortisation and share 
of joint ventures’ interest and tax.
Up by 56%. 
£17.6m 
(2009: £11.3m)
As the market started to recover, 
profitability improved, both from 
prices and stronger sales in the 
South East in particular.
Operating margin
To deliver upper quartile 
operating margin for 
our sector.
Profit from operations divided 
by revenue, expressed as a 
percentage.
Up 51%. 
5.6%
(2009: 3.7%) 
Profitability rose as a greater 
proportion of sites acquired 
at current market values were 
developed.
Net debt
To control the capital 
invested in the business.
The Group sets specific monthly 
debt targets for each region, and 
targets an appropriate return on 
capital employed for each site.
Up 7.8%.
£468m
(2009: £434m)
As the business started to invest 
the proceeds of the rights issue 
in land, the capital invested grew. 
This process will continue.
Landbank
To acquire the increased 
landbank required to meet 
the expansion plan.
The total number of owned and 
controlled plots in the landbank.
Up 24%. 
9,700 plots
(2009: 7,850 plots) 
From 7,850 in September 2009 
the landbank was 9,600 at  
30 June 2010 and 9,700 at the 
date of this Report. The chart  
on page 20 shows estimated 
future growth.
Customer satisfaction
To maintain and improve 
customer satisfaction scores.
The percentage of our house 
buyers who would recommend 
the Company to their best friend, 
calculated using responses 
to research carried out by an 
independent external research 
company that contacts every 
customer after they have 
purchased one of our homes.
Up 8%.
>97%
(2009: 90%) 
We continue to achieve top 
industry ratings, also winning the 
top ‘five star’ accreditation from 
the Home Builders Federation 
annual customer satisfaction 
survey. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 18
business review Housebuilding continued
locations, keeping to a minimum our involvement in multi developer 
consortium sites where similar homes are offered in adjacent 
locations by a number of housebuilders.
We will develop our leading position in affordable housing and 
regeneration, where we see a key factor being our appointment on 
the Homes and Communities Agency’s delivery partner panel across 
all three regions of the country, for public land releases. We aim to 
carry out more joint ventures with housing associations, and use  
our access to development opportunities to carry out more mixed 
developments through the long term frameworks we have with 42 of 
the RSL’s (registered social landlords). We are already developing on 
seven Homes and Communities Agency sites and, with the delivery 
partner panel opportunities we are now seeing, our plan is to increase 
our market share of these opportunities.
Performance
Profit from operations was up 56% to £17.6 million on revenue, 
including joint ventures, of £316 million, representing a margin of 
5.6% (2009: £11.3 million on £306.7 million, representing 3.7%).
 
As the market stabilised during the year, prices firmed and we 
achieved better than anticipated sales. As we anticipated, completions 
were higher in the second half of the year bringing the total to 
1,705, 1,624 net of the proportionate share of our partners in joint 
venture developments (2009: 1,825 and 1,769). Average sales prices 
were up 10% on last year at £190,000 (2009: £172,000) reflecting 
both prices achieved and a change in sales mix.
 
Private housing completions, including those on regeneration projects, 
accounted for 1,287 of the total, generating a profit from operations 
of £14.3 million, representing a margin of 5.2% on revenue of 
£273.8 million. The average selling price was £207,000 (2009: 
£193,000). Affordable housing completions were 337 generating  
a profit from operations of £3.3 million, representing a margin of  
7.8% on revenue of £42.2 million. The average selling price was 
£124,000 (2009: £115,000).
 
We entered our new financial year with £201 million of sales carried 
forward, 25% up on last year. We have been encouraged by both 
the level and value of sales achieved since the start of the year,  
with sales reserved, contracted or completed now standing at  
£263 million, up 30% compared to last year, with £168 million for  
the current financial year. During the second half of the year sales 
rates averaged 27 a week, although consumer confidence has been 
affected following the political and economic uncertainty surrounding 
both the general election in May and the Government’s autumn 
spending review, and there has been the expected slowdown in 
visitor levels and reservations. Since the start of the year sales have 
averaged 21 per week and the cancellation rate has increased from 
historically low levels to around the long term average at 16%.
 
Our industry leading position in affordable housing and regeneration 
was significantly strengthened during the year by our selection as one 
of only six delivery partners on all three Homes and Communities 
Agency’s development partner panels. Established to develop new 
affordable and private housing on public sector sites across England 
we are seeing a number of significant opportunities, both through  
the HCA and other public sector bodies that are using the panel. We 
06
1,054
07
1,526
08
2,524
09
1,825
10
1,705
Completions unit numbers
•
 
•
 Private Housing
•
 
•
 Affordable Housing
Extra London plots secured
Four sites at good locations in and around London  >
Galliford Try’s original 50% joint venture comprised    >
 370 plots
Acquired Bank of Scotland’s 50% share of the   >
 equity, and all the debt, for £42.5m
Acquisition risk minimal as known sites >
Result was 742 plots in landbank at cost to development   >
 value of 18%
Galliford Try boosted its landbank in the resilient South East 
market with 742 plots at an attractive cost, including the 
Northfields site pictured below, winner of the 2009 Evening 
Standard ‘Best Starter Home’ award. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 19
Established track record 
in brownfield development
We remediate land, refurbish and convert redundant 
buildings to residential use, changing derelict sites into 
attractive locations. Two Coves at duporth was built 
on the site of a redundant holiday camp – part of the 
development involved creating a new safe access to  
the adjacent beach for use by the entire community.
80%
80% of plots 
in landbank 
on brownfield 
sites
64 homes
The average size of one 
of our developments Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 20
business review Housebuilding continued
have participated in Government housing stimulus packages, with 
contracted awards totalling £39 million. We anticipated reduced 
public investment in the sector at an early stage and, although  
the extent of future support will remain uncertain until after the 
Government’s autumn spending review, our site acquisition strategy 
and planning negotiations have taken this into account.
Land acquisition 
Key to achieving our strategic objective of doubling the size of the 
business by 2012 is building up our landbank. We are acquiring land:
At good margins >
In prime locations  >
Predominantly for houses  >
Mainly southern based  >
Avoiding large consortium sites  >
That will deliver a return on capital employed of over 20% >
Significant progress has been made towards delivery of our three 
year expansion plan. The first stage was to expand our southern 
biased landbank, based on strict criteria on margin, return on capital 
and achievable selling prices. Our landbank currently stands at  
9,700 plots (2009: 7,850 plots) with 58% of our landbank now 
having been secured at current market values, in line with our plan 
forecast. During the year we acquired 147 plots by purchasing the 
residential assets of Wrights of Hull, 156 plots with the acquisition  
of award winning Cornish housebuilder, Rosemullion Homes and 
146 plots for buying out our partners share in the joint venture at the 
SS Great Britain site on Bristol docks. In addition, we acquired the 
Bank of Scotland’s share in our London based joint ventures. With our 
original share comprising 370 plots, we concluded the transaction 
with 742 plots in our landbank at an attractive land cost to gross 
development value ratio of 18% at minimal acquisition risk due to 
our in-depth knowledge of the sites. We have also acquired land in 
joint venture with housing associations such as the two sites in  
Kent and Sussex for 111 and 185 plots respectively, purchased in 
partnership with leading affordable housing provider, Affinity Sutton. 
We have also now opened a new regional office in Oxford.
The availability of opportunities to acquire land continues to improve, 
and there has been an increase in disposals by administrative 
receivers. However the new Government’s localist policies have 
caused confusion in planning authorities, with the results already  
of additional delays in obtaining consents for development and 
uncertainty over the long term effect on the number of homes that 
will be built. In this context, our access to public land for regeneration 
projects and our market position will mitigate the effect. We have 
over 1,300 acres of strategic land holdings which could generate  
up to 8,000 plots.
Landbank
Plots % by location
73%
% at current market value 
 Actual Estimated
Plots June 2010 June 2011  June 2012
Acquired at 
current market value  5,400 7,000  9,400
Historic land 4,200 3,000  1,600
Total 9,600 10,000  11,000
% at current market value 56% 70%  85%
27%
06
4,100
07
11,200
08
8,900
09
7,850
10
9,600 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 21
Customer satisfaction 
During the year 97% of our customers said that, as part of our 
regular independently conducted survey, they would recommend  
us to their family and friends when asked.
In the Home Builders Federation annual Customer Satisfaction 
Survey 2010 over 90% of our buyers gave us the highest score for 
the quality of their new homes. This customer feedback has awarded 
us a top score of 5 stars, up from the 4 star position we have held 
for the past two years.
We also won 12 of the industry’s top awards for the quality of our 
developments and homes in the year, including silver for best large 
housebuilder and gold for best exterior design in the ‘What House?’ 
awards, best design in the Housebuilding Innovation awards and a 
Civic Trust award for sustainable housing.
Outlook
We have £168 million of our projected sales for the 2010/11 financial 
year secured and are well on target to secure the plots we need for 
the next two years. The mortgage market has also eased, although 
remains a constraint on purchasers. With build costs anticipated to 
remain stable we are well positioned to maintain our strategy through 
a market that may fluctuate in the short term but, with overall housing 
supply expected to remain significantly below the underlying demand, 
we anticipate an ultimate return to long term market stability.
Also visit our website at 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
40%
of the 
homes will 
be affordable 
housing
The UK’s largest net zero 
carbon development
800 homes and creation of mixed use neighbourhood at    >
 Graylingwell, Chichester
Being carried out in joint venture with leading affordable   >
 housing provider, the Affinity Sutton Group, under a Homes  
 and Communities Agency development agreement
Development includes offices, community buildings, a care   >
 home, restaurant and pub
It is the largest net zero carbon scheme being developed in the   >
 UK, using a combination of green features including a district  
 heating biomass boiler system to deliver leading sustainability  
 credentials
Galliford Try is carrying out the development of the site, 
construction, maintenance and, through a 25 year energy services 
company contract, provides renewable energy for the buildings. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 22
CONSTRUCTION
PERFORMING 
ACROSS DIVERSE 
MARKETS
We have successfully renewed frameworks for all of 
our water industry clients until 2015, underlining our 
position as the leading contractor to the sector. We 
anticipated early the reductions in publicly financed 
projects going forward, and have secured a balanced 
order book across our markets to deliver during more 
challenging times.
Ken Gillespie
Group Managing Director,
Construction
Revenue
£bn
06
13
07
22
08
27
09
28
10
23
Profit from 
operations
£m
our strengths encompass the full range of construction services for  
major and long term projects across the regulated, private commercial  
and public sectors. our order book rose 6% to £1.8 billion in the year,  
and we delivered a strong financial result.
business review Construction
07 08 09
1.2
1.1
1.1
10
0.9
06
0.6 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 23
National coverage with specific 
sector expertise 
We deliver major infrastructure projects on a national basis  
across the UK, backed up by a regional civil engineering 
business. The Spen Valley waste water treatment plant is  
an example of the work carried out for Yorkshire Water, one  
of our seven major water utility clients.
42%
Construction 
revenue from 
infrastructure 
projects
£471 million
Water projects in the 
order book Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 24
business review Construction continued
Construction overview
Galliford Try’s Construction activities cover the full spectrum of the 
building and infrastructure markets with the Group able to deliver 
whole life solutions to projects for the built environment. The business 
is organised into building, partnerships and infrastructure divisions. 
The Building division carries out building projects across the UK, with 
its main bases being in London and the South East, the Midlands, 
the North of England and Scotland. It is therefore able to deliver  
a national service to clients across the market sectors in which it 
operates. Partnerships, our specialist affordable housing contractor, 
has strong businesses in the South East and North East, with a 
growing presence across the rest of the country. The Infrastructure 
division carries out civil engineering projects primarily in the water, 
highways, rail, remediation and renewable energy markets through 
sector focused businesses operating across the UK. The division 
also has a small international business operating in the South Atlantic 
territories, and has established an embryonic business in Qatar.
Market
The business works for the public, regulated and private commercial 
sectors. In the public sector, building projects are carried out 
primarily in the health, education and custodial sectors with the 
infrastructure division working on highways for both central and 
local government, as well as agencies such as the Olympic Delivery 
Authority and Network Rail. Partnerships has long term frameworks 
with affordable housing providers. The Infrastructure division’s work 
with the regulated sector encompasses its industry leading position 
for the water industry and frameworks for the Environment Agency 
and the National Grid together with one-off projects across these 
sectors. Private sector work primarily comprises building projects  
in the commercial property, leisure, retail and hospitality sectors, 
with long term relationships in place with many clients for whom 
the Group can deliver value added services. Galliford Try has 
significant experience in collaborative contracting, with much of  
its work secured through forms of relationship contracting under 
which meeting a client’s quality parameters and key performance 
indicators across a range of measures, in addition to demonstrating 
price competitiveness, secures our workload.
Construction 2010 2009
Revenue  £936.5 million £1,176 million
Profit from operations £22.8 million £27.9 million
Operating profit margin 2.4% 2.4%
Order book £1.8 billion £1.7 billion
Building 2010 2009
Revenue  £445.3 million £528.7 million
Profit from operations £10.8 million £11.9 million
Operating profit margin 2.4% 2.3%
Order book £638 million £730 million
Partnerships 2010 2009
Revenue  £93.8 million £130.4 million
Profit from operations £1.3 million £2.1 million
Operating profit margin 1.4% 1.6%
Order book £198 million £137 million
Infrastructure 2010 2009
Revenue  £397.4 million £516.6 million
Profit from operations £10.7 million £13.9 million
Operating profit margin 2.7% 2.7%
Order book £922 million £844 million
CONSTRUCTION Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 25
Strategy
The long term strategic objective for construction is to grow the 
business when the economic and market conditions improve. 
Following the financial crisis in late 2008, the private sector market 
fell significantly, reducing opportunities and increasing competiveness 
across all sectors for the work available. During this period, the 
Group’s spread of work across the public and regulated sectors,  
as well as quality clients in the private sector, mitigated the effect  
on the business. With the anticipated reductions in public sector 
expenditure expected to affect the industry in the shorter term, the 
business reset its strategy during the year to play to its strengths 
during the downturn.
The strong reputation built upon our foundation in long term 
framework contracting and repeat business client relationships  
is continuing to demonstrate its worth as the market in one-off 
projects has fallen. We have worked hard at maintaining the size and 
increasing the strength of our order book. The £1.8 billion of future 
work secured is spread across our key sectors with 40% in the 
regulated sector, 51% in the public sector and 9% in the private 
sector, a defensive split that ensures the effect of the downturn is 
mitigated. We will not pursue work at any cost, and will focus on 
the ability to return a profit, not on maintaining past revenue levels. 
We therefore expect the business to continue at lower levels of 
revenue than before, with the objective to maintain our expertise and 
resources in all our key sectors so that we are able to respond again 
when market opportunities allow. 
With increased competiveness across our markets we have taken 
additional steps to manage our risk profile, with revised processes  
to ensure our project selection remains vigorous, reviewing our 
tender submissions at a higher level, carrying out intergroup peer 
reviews and systems checking. We are also concentrating on cost 
and overhead reduction where appropriate, and have a number  
of projects in place to optimise procurement processes and the 
management of our supply chain. The eventual recovery from the 
economic downturn is expected to be led by the private sector, and 
we are already seeing some signs of emerging private commercial 
market opportunities as we commence the new financial year, and 
we aim to maintain our profile with all our client base. The range of 
services that the Galliford Try Group is able to deliver to clients is 
extensive, and we are also seeing more opportunities from using 
cross division and cross Group capability.
06
2.3
07
2.2
08
1.9
09
1.7
10
1.8
Order book
£bn
•
 
•
 building
•
 
•	
Partnerships
•
 
•
 infrastructure
Key Performance Indicators
Objective Measure 2010 Performance Comment
Profit from operations
To achieve optimum profit 
levels at each stage of an 
economic cycle.
Profit stated before finance 
costs, exceptional items, 
amortisation and share 
of joint ventures’ interest 
and tax.
Reduced by 18%. 
£22.8m
(2009: £27.9m) 
Revenue has reduced as we 
adjusted to the market downturn, 
resulting in a lower absolute level 
of profit.
Operating profit margin
To deliver a sustainable 
operating margin for the 
relevant stage of the 
economic cycle.
Profit from operations divided 
by revenue, expressed as a 
percentage.
Maintained. 
2.4%
(2009: 2.4%) 
Profits generated are primarily from 
contracts secured prior to the 
market downturn, and we anticipate 
that as the more competitive work 
more recently secured is carried 
out the margin will reduce.
Cash
To maintain optimum positive 
cash balances throughout 
the year.
Specific monthly cash targets 
are set for each construction 
business.
£206.8m
Net cash at 30 June.
(2009: £237.1m)
The business delivered substantial 
cash balances throughout the year. 
The ratio of cash held to revenue is 
expected to reduce to reflect market 
conditions going forward.
Order book
To secure a balanced visible 
stream of future profitable 
workload.
The size of the order book 
which is the total revenue 
expected to be generated 
from orders received.
Increased by 6%. 
£1.8bn
(2009: £1.7bn) 
We reviewed our long term water 
frameworks until 2015 during the 
year, and maintained a diverse 
spread of work across our market 
sectors, with 51% in the public 
sector, 40% in the regulated sector 
and 9% in private commercial work. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 26
business review  Construction continued
Performance
Total construction revenue was £936.5 million, including joint ventures, 
compared to £1,175.7 million the previous year, and the division 
achieved a strong trading performance with excellent cash balances 
that stood at £206.8 million at 30 June (2009: £237.1 million). The 
profit from operations of £22.8 million represented a margin of 2.4% 
(2009: £27.9 million representing 2.4%).
 
Our order book rose 6% in the year to £1.8 billion which we have 
maintained during the first two months of the year. The spread of 
work, with 40% in the regulated, 51% in the public and 9% in the 
private sectors represents a defensive and diverse portfolio. Our 
strong track record in collaborative frameworks, significantly boosted 
in the period with the renewal of our five year frameworks with all our 
water industry clients, underlines the resilience of our market position 
in the regulated sector. Public sector work is more uncertain and 
dependent on the Government’s autumn spending review; however  
we are seeing some limited signs of increased activity amongst our 
blue-chip private sector clients. We have 88% of our projected 
revenue for the new financial year secured.
 
Building
The division delivered a consistently good profit and cash performance 
during the year. Profit from operations was £10.8 million on revenue of 
£445.3 million, representing a margin of 2.4% (2009: £11.9 million 
on £528.7 million, 2.3%).
 
We continued to secure a steady flow of projects from the public 
sector, particularly in our health frameworks, for the Ministry of Justice 
and for the education market. We recently completed agreements to 
undertake a 10 year framework for £300 million of community facilities 
for the Scottish South East Hub territory partnering board which 
includes the Scottish Futures Trust, local Councils, NHS Health 
Boards and the emergency services. We are also on the shortlist for 
the North East hub. In education we have a significant presence in 
the market through direct contracting for primary, secondary and 
tertiary facilities with limited involvement in Building Schools for the 
Future. Projects awarded during the period included work for 
Lancaster University and the Cambridge Education Authority.
 
We have a strong presence in the resilient London commercial 
market and are making good progress towards completion of our 
major project at St Pancras Chambers where we are converting  
the listed Victorian building into 68 apartments and a 244 bedroom 
luxury hotel under a £103 million contract. In leisure, we completed 
the contract to rebuild the Leicester Tigers Rugby Stadium, were 
appointed to substantially redevelop the Edgbaston International 
Cricket Stadium in Warwickshire and negotiated further work for the 
All England Lawn Tennis Club at Wimbledon to follow on from the 
construction of new courts 2 and 3. With an order book currently 
standing at £638 million the building division has secured 97% of  
the new financial year’s planned workload.
 
Partnerships
A profit from operations of £1.3 million on revenue of £93.8 million 
represented a margin of 1.4% (2009: £2.1 million on £130.4 million 
representing 1.6%).
 
We launched an expansion plan for our affordable housing contracting 
business as our major housing association clients restarted their 
redevelopment programmes during the year. With a strong presence 
and track record in the South East and North East of England, our 
objective is to extend our services in this sector across other areas 
of the country in which the Group has a presence.
 
Partnerships works in framework agreements for many of its housing 
association clients including Swan, Family Mosaic and Circle Anglia 
and has an order book of £198 million with 61% of the new financial 
year’s planned workload secured.
 
Infrastructure
The division maintained its operating margin, delivering a strong profit 
and cash performance. The profit from operations of £10.7 million  
on revenues of £397.4 million represented a margin of 2.7% (2009: 
£13.9 million on £516.6 million representing 2.7%).
 
1  Health  98
2  education  100
3  Custodial  27
4  Commercial  160
5  interiors  38
6  Facilities management  128
7  other public sector  87
8 Partnerships 198
2
3
1
4
5
6
7
8
1  Water  491
2  Highways  149
3  Remediation  19
4  Flood alleviation  67
5  Renewable energy  36
6  Rail  71
7  Communications  48
8 others 41
Building and Partnerships
£836 million
Infrastructure
£922 million
Construction order book
7
6
3
5
8
4
1
2 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 27
Proven expertise in 
complex projects
The national Museum of liverpool, a £41 million building contract 
completed during 2010, is an iconic design set adjacent to the 
classical liver building on the Mersey river front. Galliford Try has the 
expertise to deliver substantial refurbishment and conversion projects, 
such as the £103 million apartment and hotel project at St Pancras 
Chambers in london, through to this stunning modern design.
35%
building 
projects in 
order book
£1.2 billion
The total of long 
term framework 
agreements 
in a £1.8 billion 
order book Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 28
business review Construction continued
The benefit of our strong presence in the regulated sector stood us 
in good stead in a more competitive market. Predominant amongst 
these is water, where we have maintained our position as the sector’s 
leading contractor, having renewed framework agreements until 
2015 with all of our clients. We also carry out one off projects outside 
the asset management frameworks, such as a £28 million project  
for Thames Water at Longreach won during the year. We completed 
the £58 million clean water plant for Anglian Water at Wing during 
the year.
 
Major contracts performed well during the year. Our projects for  
the Olympic Delivery Authority, comprising infrastructure works at 
Olympic Park, the white water canoeing centre at Broxbourne and 
the rowing lake at Eton Dorney are nearing completion. The M74 
highways project in Glasgow, a £450 million contract being 
undertaken in four party consortium, is progressing well as is the 
£31.5 million A96 highways contract in Fochabers, Scotland. We 
secured a number of contracts under our Environment Agency 
framework, including the second phase of flood alleviation works in 
Wigan and improvements to the Thames Barrier in London. Based 
on our track record in water, we are developing civil engineering 
services for the waste industry and are carrying out our first energy 
from waste project, a £20 million contract in Cannock. We are on 
Network Rail’s multi asset framework, in addition to which we 
undertook the redevelopment of Rotherham Station for the South 
Yorkshire PTE and, for Network Rail and are completing a £13 million 
regeneration project at Newport Station in South Wales in preparation 
for the 2010 Ryder Cup.
 
We have a growing business in renewable energy, with a 25 year 
energy services contract secured in the last month to provide 
energy to the 800 home net carbon neutral Affinity Sutton and 
Linden Homes joint venture at Graylingwell Park near Chichester.
 
With a total infrastructure order book of £922 million, of which  
62% is in the regulated sector, 79% of the current year’s planned 
workload has been secured.
Outlook
The construction market remains both price and contract condition 
competitive. However, the latter part of the financial year saw a good 
volume of opportunities available across all sectors with distinct 
early signs of a recovery in work for the private sector. We have  
88% of our projected workload for the new financial year secured.  
The outcome of the Government’s autumn spending review will 
determine absolute levels of public investment over the foreseeable 
future, but with our significant workload in the more resilient regulated 
sector, and a spread of work across all our markets, we anticipate 
we can mitigate the effects of the downturn without comprising our 
ability to grow again when conditions improve.
Also visit our website at 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
Partnerships expansion 
launched 
During the year the Group embarked on an expansion of its 
affordable housing contracting business to establish a nationwide 
division. Galliford Try Partnerships provides partnership housing 
solutions that fill the gap that neither pure contractors nor 
traditional developers can bridge, bringing solutions to affordable 
housing providers that encompass contracting, speculative mixed 
tenure development and property support services.
The Gardens, in Clapton, London, is a £5.2 million project for  
26 homes, and is one of a number of contracts carried out for  
the Agudas Israel Housing Association.
The Group has long term frameworks with over 40 housing 
associations and works with more than 60 across its current 
operating areas.
63%
Total 
construction 
order book in 
frameworks Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 29
PPP INVESTMENTS
Our Investments division delivers major building and infrastructure 
projects through Public Private Partnerships (PPP’s). We arrange 
project finance, take direct equity investment and manage 
construction through to operations.
Market
Public Private Partnerships cover all forms of public sector and 
private sector partnering relationships. The private finance initiative 
funds and delivers public sector assets and services. During the 
financial year, public sector support for continuing to procure public 
assets and services by using private finance routes was maintained, 
albeit with changes in focus to meet different Government priorities. 
Strategy
Galliford Try’s strategy is to bid for PPP projects that create both 
investment opportunities and the ability to secure construction and 
operating contracts for the Group. Due to the significant timescales 
and costs of bidding for projects, we are focused on those sectors 
where there is an acceptable balance between risk and reward, and 
where the resources of the Group can be deployed most effectively 
with the highest opportunities for success. Affordable housing, 
waste and renewable energy are key sectors with opportunities in 
highways and other infrastructure projects under consideration.
We aim to take significant equity investments in projects, managing 
the risk during the bidding phase, and making disposals when they 
can realise best value, including where we remain equity holders in 
the operational phase.
Performance
Total revenue, including joint ventures, was £3.5 million (2009: 
£27.4 million). The profit from operations was £2.4 million (2009: 
£10.2 million). The profit from joint ventures was £1.1 million on 
revenue of £2.1 million. In 2009 joint venture profit was £7.9 million  
on £25.8 million of revenue, which included a profit of £7.1 million 
from the Highland Schools joint venture, the investment in which was 
sold in July 2009. The directors’ valuation of the Group’s PFI/PPP 
portfolio as at 30 June 2010 was carried out, as in previous years,  
on a discounted cash flow basis. The result showed a valuation of 
£6.9 million, which compares to the value invested of £2.8 million 
(2009: valuation of £19.2 million and value invested of £10.2 million).
At the start of the financial year the Group sold its remaining 
investment in the Highland Schools project to an investment 
company managed by HSBC Infrastructure Fund. We achieved 
financial close on the £60 million Worcester Library and History 
Centre project, in which we own 100% of the equity. We are the 
largest equity holder in Space Consortium which was selected as 
preferred private sector partner for the development of £300 million  
of community facilities across South East Scotland over the next  
10 years for the South East hub initiative, and are on a shortlist for 
the North Hub which has a potential capital expenditure of around 
£400 million. We are on a shortlist of two for Kent’s affordable 
housing project and, in partnership with United Utilities, have 
reached the final two bidders for the South Tyne & Wear Waste 
Management scheme.
Outlook
Looking forward, there are a number of affordable housing schemes 
being promoted by the Homes and Communities Agency which, 
albeit dependent on some Government commitment, could deliver 
projects each with a capital value of around £100 million. There are 
also a series of waste schemes which are expected to come to  
the market in the relatively short term, with a number of highways 
projects, particularly in Scotland, that are being closely followed.
Changing Government policy will affect the range of projects and 
sectors in which private partnerships will continue to be promoted by 
Government. However, we expect that private finance will continue  
to be fundamental to delivering Government investment in the 
country’s infrastructure. We remain in a good position to take 
advantage of the opportunities in the sectors where the Group has 
the track record and resources to deliver.
PPP Investments 2010 2009
Revenue  £3.5 million £27.4 million
Profit from operations £2.4 million £10.2 million
Directors’ valuation £6.9 million £19.2 million Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 30
The Group has maintained its 
rigorous focus on cash management 
throughout the year. We have a strong 
balance sheet, with shareholders’ 
funds of £423 million.
Group results 
Group revenue for the year to 30 June 2010 was £1,222 million 
(2009: £1,461 million) down 16%. The pre exceptional profit before 
tax was up 6.5% to £26.1 million (2009: £24.5 million), and the  
post exceptional profit before tax was £19.2 million (2009: loss of 
£26.9 million). The Group has recorded a net exceptional cost  
of £6.9 million (2009: £51.4 million), as explained on page 31.
Housebuilding profit from operations (stated before finance costs, 
amortisation, share of joint ventures interest and tax, exceptional 
items and taxation) was up by 56% to £17.6 million representing a 
margin of 5.6%. Construction profit from operations of £22.8 million 
represented a margin of 2.4% (2009: £27.9 million, representing a 
margin of 2.4%). Within this the profit from operations of our building 
division was £10.8 million, representing a margin of 2.4%, of our 
partnerships division was £1.3 million representing a margin of 1.4% 
and of our infrastructure division was £10.7 million, representing a 
margin of 2.7%. PPP Investments made a profit from operations of 
£2.4 million (2009: £10.2 million). This included profit from joint 
ventures of £1.1 million on revenues of £2.1 million. In 2009 joint 
venture profit was £7.9 million on £25.8 million of revenue which 
included a profit of £7.1 million from the Highland Schools joint 
venture, the investment in which was sold in July 2009. 
Rights issue
On 10 September 2009 the Group announced a share consolidation 
of one new ordinary share of 50p for every 10 ordinary shares of 5p 
previously held, and a rights issue of 7 new ordinary shares for each 
6 held (taking into account the share consolidation) at a subscription 
price of £2.85 per new ordinary share. On 22 October 2009, 
£119.3 million (net of expenses) was raised, enabling the Group to 
commence its housebuilding expansion plan. Ordinarily the excess 
of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital 
would be credited to a non-distributable share premium account. 
However, the rights issue was effected through a structure which 
resulted in the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of 
the share capital being recognised within retained earnings as 
distributable reserves.
INCREASED
FINANCIAL 
STRENGTH
business review Finance Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 31
Acquisitions
On 14 October 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 50% 
shareholding in its joint venture, Linden Properties Western Limited, 
which is undertaking a development in Bristol, taking the Group’s 
ownership to 100%. With effect from this date, Linden Properties 
Western Limited is treated as a subsidiary undertaking. The total 
consideration payable was £1. At completion, the development 
loans provided to the joint venture by Bank of Scotland were settled 
for a cash payment of £8.5 million. In addition loan notes with a 
nominal value of £1.2 million were acquired for £0.5 million. 
On 1 December 2009, the Group acquired the entire share capital of 
Rosemullion Property Company Limited and its subsidiary companies 
(Rosemullion), a housing developer based in the South West of 
England. The acquisition added nine sites to the Group’s existing 
business in the South West, comprising 24 units under development 
and a landbank of 132 units. The total consideration payable was 
£0.1 million which was settled in cash. 
On 12 February 2010, the Group acquired the remaining 50% 
shareholding held by Bank of Scotland in its joint ventures undertaking 
residential development in the South East area, taking Group’s 
ownership to 100%. The joint ventures were Sentient Ventures LLP , 
Linden London LLP , Linden London (Hammersmith) Limited, Linden 
Homes Eastern Newhall Limited and Linden St Albans LLP . With 
effect from this date, these companies are treated as subsidiary 
undertakings. The companies are developing residential sites in 
Colchester, Harlow, Hammersmith and St Albans. They have a total 
estimated gross future development value of £154 million, comprising 
742 plots with the present value of work in progress on site of  
£15 million. The effect of the transaction on the Group was to provide 
a significant additional boost to its landbank of plots for development, 
at current market values, in line with the Company’s strategy of 
expanding its housebuilding business following its rights issue. The 
consideration, which was settled in cash from the Group’s existing 
resources, totals a nominal £4. The development loans provided to 
the joint ventures by Bank of Scotland were settled by a cash payment 
of £42.5 million, financed from the Group’s existing facilities. 
Exceptional items
A net exceptional cost of £6.9 million (2009: £51.4 million) has been 
accounted for in the income statement for the year. On 22 September 
2009 the Company announced that it, along with 102 other 
companies in the industry, had been found by the Office of Fair 
Trading to be in breach of the 1998 Competition Act through three 
instances of “cover pricing” that had taken place between the years 
2001 and 2004, and that it was being fined £8.3 million. The Group 
does not condone any form of anti competitive activity and, after  
it was first made aware of the allegations in 2007, it reviewed and 
updated its competition law policies and procedures and instigated 
an employee training programme and compliance regime. The Group 
has submitted an appeal to the Competition Appeal Tribunal in 
respect of the size of the penalty imposed; however the outcome  
is not expected until after the end of the current financial year. 
Accordingly, an exceptional provision for the full amount has been 
made in the financial statements. 
We have reviewed the carrying value of housing related assets in 
light of the limited recovery in the housing market since the downturn 
in our previous financial year. This has resulted in adjustments to the 
carrying value of a number of our development sites in circumstances 
where the original estimates have been changed, resulting in a net 
exceptional credit in respect of market movements of £1.4 million at 
30 June 2010.
Taxation
The total tax charge of £8 million on the pre-exceptional profit of 
£26.1 million represents an effective rate of 30.7%. This is higher 
than the standard rate of taxation of 28%. The tax charge associated 
with the exceptional items of £0.4 million arises because the exceptional 
loss relating to the OFT fine is not tax deductible. 
Financing
The Group has maintained its strong focus on cash management 
throughout the year. Our construction businesses continue to hold 
significant cash balances which, although reduced from previous 
highs, exceeded our forecast and stood at £206.8 million (2009: 
£237.1 million). The increase in investment in land and work in 
progress during the year from implementing the first stage of our 
housebuilding expansion was £81.3 million. At the year end net cash 
was £76.5 million compared to £34.1 million at the previous year end.
Net finance costs in the year amounted to £3.3 million (2009:  
£7.4 million). The credit associated with the re-measurement of  
the fair value of financial derivatives was £0.7 million (2009: cost 
£3.5 million). The net interest payable, excluding the financing cost  
of financial derivatives, was covered seven times (2009: eight times) 
by the pre-exceptional profit before interest and tax. 
The Group entered into a five year bank facility for an aggregate total 
amount of £450 million in February 2007 with HSBC Bank plc, Royal 
Bank of Scotland and Bank of Scotland. The facility provides working 
capital, development finance and bonding. £150 million was on an 
amortising basis with bi-annual repayments of £6 million until maturity 
of the facility on 12 February 2012. During the year the amortisation 
until the end of the facility was repaid early reducing the total available 
facility to £390 million at 30 June 2010 and will remain at this level 
until the end of the facility. The facility is subject to covenants on 
interest cover, minimum net assets, gearing and security over 
housebuilding development sites. Overall debt levels do fluctuate 
throughout the year, but the Group has substantial headroom within 
its banking facilities and continues to operate within the covenants  
of those facilities. The facilities bear interest at floating rates, subject 
to the interest rate swap arrangements referred to below.
Treasury management
The Group operates within polices and procedures approved by the 
board. The Group’s financial instruments principally comprise bank 
borrowings, cash and liquid resources that arise directly from its 
operations. It is, and has been throughout the period under review, 
the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be 
undertaken.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained 
profits and bank borrowings. The contracting operations of the 
Group generally generate cash and are budgeted to be cash positive. 
The housebuilding operations, however, require cash to invest in land 
and work in progress. In light of current market conditions rigorous 
controls are in place to ensure borrowings are maintained at an 
acceptable level. On a daily basis throughout the year, the bank 
balances or borrowings in all the Group’s operating companies are 
aggregated into a total cash or borrowing figure in order that the 
Group can obtain the most advantageous interest rate.
All material activities of the Group take place within the United 
Kingdom and consequently there is little direct exchange risk other 
than payments to overseas suppliers who require settlement in their 
currency. If there is any material foreign exchange exposure, the 
Group’s policy is to enter into forward foreign currency contracts.  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 32
The Group has no material currency exposure at 30 June 2010. The 
main risk arising from the Group’s financial instruments is interest 
rate risk and this is reviewed by the Board on a regular basis. The 
Group policy is to accept a degree of interest rate risk as long as the 
effect of various changes in rates remains within prescribed ranges. 
The Group has entered into a swap agreement which has the effect 
that £45 million (2009: £57 million) of borrowings are fixed at 5.7%  
for the period of the existing bank facility. The difference between the 
swap rate and the existing borrowing rate has been fully expensed in 
the income statement.
Pension costs
The total cost of pensions charged to the profit and loss account  
in the financial year amounted to £12.8 million (2009: £7.7 million). 
The level of contribution has increased as, since 1 April 2009, the 
Group has operated a pension salary sacrifice scheme which means 
that all employee contributions are now paid as employer 
contributions on their behalf.
Under IAS19 “Employee Benefits” the defined benefit deficit of the 
Group’s final salary pension schemes was calculated as at 30 June 
2010 by an independent qualified actuary and the gross deficit 
recognised on the balance sheet as £17.3 million (2009: deficit 
£27.5 million). This has an overall impact net of deferred tax, of 
£12.4 million (2009: £19.8 million). Further detail on pensions is 
given in note 31 on page 90.
A new actuarial valuation of the main Galliford Try Final Salary pension 
scheme is currently being carried out by Mercer, the scheme actuary, 
with an effective date of 1 July 2009. The valuation is due to be 
completed by October 2010. It is expected that deficit funding of the 
scheme will continue at similar levels to previous years amounting to 
employer contributions of £7 million.
Goodwill and intangibles
The carrying value of goodwill and intangibles is £115 million and 
£6.9 million respectively. The Group carries out annual impairment 
tests in relation to these amounts. These calculations use pre tax 
cash flow projections based on three year financial budgets approved 
by management based on past performance and its expectation of 
market developments. The key assumptions within these budgets 
relate to revenue growth and the future profit margins achievable. 
Further details of the impairment tests performed are set out in note 
10. The calculations were carried out following the year end on  
30 June 2010 and do not indicate that there is an impairment of 
these assets.
Frank Nelson, Finance Director
Profit from operations
£35.2m*
1 HouSebuildinG 17.6
2 buildinG 10.8
3 PARTneRSHiPS 1.3
4 inFRASTRuCTuRe 10.7
5  PPP inveSTMenTS 2.4
1
3
2
4
5
* Stated after Group costs of £7.6 million
business review Finance continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 33
business review Principal risks
Identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and 
uncertainties facing the Group is an integral part of the way we  
do business. We have policies and procedures in place throughout 
our operations that enable us to do so, embedded within our 
management structure and part of our normal operating processes.
The Group keeps a register detailing the identified risks, relating 
them to the Group’s objectives and rating them based on their 
likelihood and their potential impact should they materialise. This  
is then linked to how the risk is managed, the responsibility for its 
management and the way in which this is monitored through the 
checks and balances in place. 
PROACTIVE
RISK 
MANAGEMENT
Type of risk Possible impact Mitigation
Health, safety and 
environmental
Incidents that occur in construction operations 
can affect our employees, all others who work on 
our sites and members of the public. Secondarily, 
they affect our reputation and have a direct cost 
on the business and management resources.
We recognise the need to provide a safe working 
environment and promote health, safety and 
environmental issues with a comprehensive policy 
and framework in place to manage the risks.
Changes to the UK 
housing market and 
the economic cycle
Consumer confidence and the state of the 
housing market impacts the ultimate price that  
our purchasers are prepared to pay for their 
homes and, by deducting the building and all 
other costs of development, the price and terms 
under which the Group purchases land for 
development.
We monitor Government and industry data on 
housing prices, sales volumes and construction 
commencement data, enabling us to anticipate 
market changes and adjust our land acquisition 
plans, build programmes, sales releases and 
purchaser incentives accordingly.
Availability of 
mortgage finance
The availability, cost and terms under which  
our purchasers can secure mortgage finance 
impacts both their ability to purchase and the 
price they are able to pay.
We monitor published statistics on mortgage 
approvals and lending statistics, analysing the 
impact on potential customers across the different 
market sectors and the prices of the properties 
we sell. We then adjust our development plans 
and our purchaser incentives, such as part 
exchange facilities and shared equity.
This table is continued on page 34
As well as regular updating as risks change, the Group carries  
out an annual review where management stands back and looks  
at general market developments, Group strategy and projects  
being secured in the context of its risk management processes to 
ensure they are adapted to meet changing requirements and new 
measures can be put in place if required. Carrying out this exercise in 
co-ordination with the Board’s annual review of internal controls and 
their effectiveness helps to ensure the management of risk remains 
up to date and relevant. Details of the work undertaken in this area 
during the year are given in the Corporate Governance report on 
page 48. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 34
Type of risk Possible impact Mitigation
Availability of 
developable land
A healthy land market provides us with the raw 
material on which to build. A general market 
downturn, reducing the value of land, affects 
land owners’ willingness to sell. Delays and 
uncertainty in the planning system reduces  
our ability to obtain the required supply of 
developable land.
We aim to maintain a landbank comprising  
a balance of plots with full planning consent, 
with outline consent and zoned for residential 
development. We also have strategic land 
holdings held primarily under options to 
purchase in the future. Public sector planning 
strategies are monitored both nationally and 
locally in the regions where we operate and  
our plans for future development adjusted 
accordingly.
Land acquisition Acquiring land at the wrong price, or 
underestimating development costs, could  
affect the Group’s return on development 
projects.
We have a rigorous pre acquisition site appraisal 
process with tight authority levels covering 
purchase, construction and sales, enabling  
us to alter plans and adapt to changes where 
necessary.
Availability of financing Funding not available to finance the Group’s 
strategy to expand its housebuilding activities.
Funding is provided by shareholders’ equity  
and bank borrowings. We constantly monitor 
levels of available funding and compliance  
with our bank covenants. We have established 
longstanding relationships with all our bankers 
and will commence discussions to renew  
our facilities well ahead of their expiry in  
February 2012.
The level of public 
sector spending
Public sector spending in the investment 
programmes of the regulated infrastructure 
sectors affects the amount of work available  
and the degree of competition for that work, 
potentially affecting both the absolute level  
of revenues and profit margins achievable.
We gather published and informal intelligence  
on our markets, monitoring closely our order 
book and pipeline of potential opportunities.  
Our business planning process forecasts future 
market trends, enabling us to match resources 
to projected workloads.
Confidence and the 
availability of project 
finance
Confidence in the economy, combined with  
our private sector clients’ ability to secure 
development finance, affects their level of  
spend on construction projects.
Our business planning and annual budgeting 
process analyses data on forthcoming projects 
and we monitor the spending programmes of 
our major clients, adapting our marketing and 
allocation of resources to those clients and 
markets where we see the best opportunities.
Contract acquisition Securing construction contracts at a price  
and under terms that deliver an acceptable 
return for the risk undertaken.
As a project based business, we take 
commercial risk on each construction contract 
which includes credit and counterparty risk, 
pricing and the technical ability to deliver. We 
have a rigorous approach to contract selection 
covering our capabilities and resources, the 
terms under which we carry out the work, and 
that the responsibility for delivery and approval  
to enter into the contract is given by the right 
level of management.
Project delivery Failure to deliver projects to time, quality or 
budget, or contractual disputes that can arise 
over the scope and/or valuation of contracts, 
make the ultimate outcome of contracts 
uncertain.
We have business information systems providing 
profit margin and cash forecasting by contract. 
We monitor construction progress against 
programme in order to re-plan and reassess 
resources where applicable.
People Attracting, developing and retaining talented 
individuals in the business at all levels is crucial 
to our success.
Our human resources policies are based on  
the Investors in People principles under which  
all of our businesses are accredited. We carry 
out annual succession planning, and have a 
training and development programme designed 
to ensure that individuals receive the support 
they require to contribute to the needs of  
the business.
business review Principal risks continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 35
business review Corporate responsibility
CONSISTENT 
FOCUS ON A 
SUSTAINABLE 
FUTURE
Managing CR 
The Chief Executive is ultimately responsible for CR and signs the 
policy statement, which is reviewed annually and includes a set of 
strategic objectives. The Company Secretary is the executive board 
member designated with responsibility for CR. The CR manager is 
responsible for day-to-day affairs and the coordination of initiatives 
across the Group, reporting progress to the executive board monthly. 
A Group CR steering committee, consisting of director level 
representatives, meets quarterly to discuss relevant issues and 
advise on the direction of CR within the business. Its achievements 
over the last 12 months include developing a brief for CR Champions 
and addressing Group-wide issues such as the Considerate 
Constructors Scheme and the findings of the Constructing 
Excellence report ‘Never Waste a Good Crisis’.
Galliford Try’s approach to corporate responsibility (CR) and 
sustainability has remained focused and consistent. We aim to 
ensure the long term success of our business by contributing 
economically, environmentally and socially to the communities in 
which we operate. This is our response to the sustainable 
development agenda.
Vision and values 
Our vision is ‘to be leaders in the construction of a sustainable 
future’. We define CR as ‘the management of our economic, 
environmental and social responsibilities to benefit our stakeholders 
and future generations’. To deliver this we need to continually 
improve our performance in all CR related areas, maintain a strong 
position at the forefront of our industry, and develop and train our 
employees to make their contribution. Our values therefore remain:
excellence – Striving to deliver the best
Passion – Committed and enthusiastic in all we do
integrity – Demonstrating strong ethical standards with  
  openness and honesty
Collaboration – Dedicated to working together to achieve results
Our 2010 corporate responsibility report concentrates on how the 
business has responded to the CR challenge over the financial year. 
It focuses on the Government’s Strategy for Sustainable Construction 
and illustrates through case studies how we practically apply these 
principles to our everyday work. It also puts Galliford Try’s plans for 
the future in the context of the sustainability challenges facing the 
housebuilding and construction industries.
We have revised and extended the detail of our CR reporting on  
the Group’s website which can be found at www.gallifordtry.co.uk/
corporate-responsibility, from where the 2010 CR report can also  
be accessed.
No Area KPI
1 Health and safety Accident frequency rate
2 Environment Percentage of waste diverted  
from landfill
3 Environment Operational carbon emissions  
(fleet, offices and sites) 
4 Our people Percentage churn (staff turnover)
5 Our people Training days per employee
6 Procurement  
and supply chain
Percentage of wood supplied  
with chain of custody certification
7 Economic 
sustainability
Sales in hand (Housebuilding)
Forward order book (Construction)
8 Community 
engagement
Average score % Considerate 
Constructors Scheme 
9 Customer 
satisfaction
Average score %
Key Performance Indicators Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 36
For 2010/11, we have a three point CR action plan:
1. Encourage the divisional ownership of CR – priorities have been  
 identified which are relevant to our specific divisional businesses.
2. Improve information capture and storage: 
 a. For internal use to identify trends and share best practice
 b. To evidence our approach to CR and sustainability externally.
3. Communicate our approach towards CR in a regular,  
 understandable and relevant way to employees.
Nine KPI’s, as listed on page 35, were approved by the executive 
board earlier in the year and will be reported on a six monthly basis 
on our website, www.gallifordtry.co.uk/corporate-responsibility. Over 
the next 12 months we are looking to embed the KPI reporting across 
the Group and review our approach to climate change and carbon.
People 
The cornerstone of our human resource management strategy is  
the measures we have developed to manage employee relations  
and generate high performance teams. By focussing on such areas 
as the organisation of work, employee development, performance 
management and management development, we add value to the 
business by creating a flexible and highly skilled workforce. 
Our commitment to equal opportunities is designed to ensure  
that all our employees, regardless of race, gender, nationality,  
age, disability, sexual orientation, religion or background, have  
the opportunity to develop their full potential within the Group. We 
recognise the value of a diverse workforce and have policies and 
practices in place that provide a fair opportunity for everyone in 
respect of employment, entry to employment, benefits, training, 
placements and promotion.
We are Investors in People accredited across the Group, a discipline 
that underpins our philosophy and ensures we are externally 
measured and benchmarked to strive for best performance at all 
times. Our inclusive organisational culture encourages our employees 
to act with integrity at all times and to treat each other and all our 
stakeholders with respect.
We have 3,516 employees. 80% are male and 20%   >
 are female.
Staff churn (voluntary leavers) has fallen by 7.4%. >
Our annual staff survey showed 83.9% of our employess  >
 were ‘satisfied or very satisfied’ with their job (2009: 83.2%).
In July 2009, six months after the implementation of a four day week 
across our housebuilding businesses, we were able to announce  
a return to full time working. Since July the numbers employed 
across our housing businesses has continued to rise steadily from 
490 in 2009 to 640. Numbers employed in construction have fallen 
as turnover has reduced.
The Group continues to recognise long service through its long 
service awards. Currently there are 765 employees who have ten 
years’ or more service with the Group. We have 2,100 employees in 
the Group’s pension scheme and all our operatives have access to 
the Building and Civil Engineering Benefits Scheme.
The Galliford Try Academy
The GallifordTry Academy continues to flourish. In 2009, 22 trainees 
and graduates were inducted. The Academy currently has a total  
of 64 trainees and graduates registered under approved structured 
training frameworks. A new Institute of Leadership & Management 
Endorsed Graduate Development programme has been introduced 
for 2010. 
Career development
We continue to invest significantly in training and development 
across the Group, specifically in respect of Management 
Development programmes. We recognise the value of our own 
No Objective Progress to date
1 Enhance the profile of 
CR across the Group
Board report on achievements and future plans by division prepared monthly, twice yearly  
executive and divisional board presentations, regular email news alerts and news features.
2 Record and evaluate 
current CR practices
Each division has identified the key CR drivers for their business and is collecting relevant data 
to set benchmarks accordingly.
3 Identify a suite of CR key 
performance indicators
A set of Group-wide KPI’s covering the key CR issues have been established and are being 
reported on for the first time as at June 2010. These are being supplemented by divisional KPI’s 
appropriate to their specific businesses.
4 Develop a road map to 
support CR contribution 
across the business
Each of the Group’s operating divisions has a policy statement, objectives and action plan now 
in place against which progress will be monitored going forward.
5 Develop our capacity to 
offer sustainable choices
Ongoing programmes in place, including:
Housing – sustainability training for sales executives, sustainability data capture on all live projects
infrastructure – working group on KPI’s and project information capture and sharing
building – working group on KPI’s, Considerate Constructors Scheme and BREAAM
6 Form partnerships with
sector and governmental
organisations
Ongoing participation in: Constructing Excellence, Next Generation, Homes and Communities 
Agency Forums
Progress
Last year we identified six strategic objectives for CR during the period 2009/11. Progress on those objectives is detailed below:
business review Corporate responsibility continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 37
internal labour market and make every effort to promote career 
development opportunities for our employees.
Total training days – 4,076 man days >
Management development training days – 1,814 man days >
Health and safety
Health and safety remains of paramount importance to Galliford Try 
and the Company is committed to a policy of effectively managing  
all aspects of health, safety and welfare. We maintain that nothing 
we do is so important that we cannot take the time and effort to do  
it safely.
Ken Gillespie is the executive board director responsible for health 
and safety, whilst David White, Group Health, Safety & Environment 
Director heads up the internal health and safety team and is also a 
member of the corporate responsibility steering committee.
Performance 
Our total number of reportable accidents, which reduced by 8.5%  
in the preceding 12 months to June 2009, has decreased again by  
a further 18% over the last 12 months to 62. Our accident frequency 
rate also decreased from 0.24 to 0.22 and was within the Group 
target set at the beginning of the year. 
 
We have also reduced our accident incidence rate for the third 
consecutive year, down to 5.3. 
Most regrettably there was one fatal accident this year, when a 
subcontractor’s machine operator lost his life during work on one  
of our projects. Such tragic events serve to acutely remind us as a 
Company that what we do under the banner of health and safety is 
attempt to prevent such incidents, ensuring that no-one comes to 
harm or has ill-health as a result of working on our projects. Since 
2008 the Group has been working hard to reduce the number of 
times utility services are struck, and set challenging targets of 20% 
reductions year on year. We are pleased to report that for the second 
year running we have over-performed against these targets and the 
number of these potentially highly dangerous incidents continues to 
fall significantly.
Leadership
The Group continues to promote the ethos that health and safety,  
to be an integral part of business success, has to be led from 
the top of the organisation. We maintain that the leaders of the 
business must look to themselves as to how they demonstrate 
strong leadership to ensure that our people truly believe that their 
safety is important to us as a Group. It is up to our leaders to lead, 
not manage, in this aspect; and to exhibit and demonstrate those 
values each and every day – for it is our leaders that set the standard 
of health and safety expectation.
A key element is our leadership Health and Safety tours on site,  
with all business leaders, up to and including the Chief Executive 
committing to tour our sites regularly, focussing purely on health, 
safety and environmental issues. 2009/10 has seen over 480 of 
such visits taking place. This is much increased on the 349 visits 
of 2008/09 and shows clear demonstration of the Group’s senior 
management’s commitment to health and safety and also the 
positive influence of our emerging behavioural programme. We also 
ran a number of one-off initiatives, such as a ‘Stop the Job’ day 
when all sites across the Group stopped work at the same time  
to focus solely on health and safety issues.
behavioural programme – The past year saw significant progress  
in relation to our behavioural programme. Based around the concept 
of ‘challenging beliefs, affecting behaviour’, our aim is to create and 
maintain an environment where care for our people, and those that 
work with us, is our top priority; and the belief that all accidents are 
preventable prevails.
The past year saw 350 leaders, including executive board directors, 
participate in Phase One of the Safety Leadership Programme.  
An additional 207 operational managers have now completed a 
similar programme. We aim to have 1,000 employees through the 
programme by the end of 2010.
The future
The focus for 2010/11 remains on our ongoing Safety Leadership 
Programme ‘Challenging Beliefs/Affecting Behaviour’.
Environment 
Galliford Try’s environment policy aims to ensure that the Group  
will conduct its activities, so far as is reasonably practicable, in  
an environmentally responsible manner that does not expose the 
natural environment or our neighbours to unacceptable environmental 
risks. Consequently we aim to:
Assess the risks to the environment and to our neighbours from   >
 our work activities.
Have effective arrangements in place for the planning, organising,   >
 controlling, monitoring and reviewing our preventative and  
 protective measures.
Appoint competent persons to help and undertake in the   >
 measures needed to comply with environmental law.
Provide employees with comprehensible and relevant information   >
 on environmental risks and the preventative and protective  
 measures necessary to control those risks.
Key statistics 2010 2009
Reportable accidents  62 76
Accident frequency rate 0.22 0.24
Accident incidence rate 5.3 5.7
RoSPA Health and Safety Awards 18 21 
Number of employees
As at 30 June
06
3,320
07
4,000
08
4,450
09
3,850
10
3,500
Accident incidence rate
Per 1,000 people
06
7.1
07
8.6
08
5.6
09
5.7
10
5.3 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 38
business review Corporate responsibility continued
In addition to the regular assessments of the environmental impact 
of our operations during the planning, design and implementation 
phases of all our projects and the compliance with all relevant 
environmental legislation and approved codes of practice, we  
aim to:
Develop and implement objectives and targets to ensure a   >
 continual improvement in our environmental performance.
Incorporate sustainable environmental considerations into our   >
 designs standards and construction practices, having particular  
 regard to energy and water consumption, the use of low  
 environmental impact materials, and designing our waste and  
 reusing materials.
Play our part in halving the amount of construction demolition   >
 and excavation waste going to landfill by 2012.
Progress in the year – Galliford Try continues to monitor the quantities 
of construction, demolition and excavation waste that we generate 
and dispose of during our construction activities. Our percentage 
diversion from landfill performance was 56%, which is an improvement 
upon our 53% that was achieved the previous year.
Despite a challenging economic climate for the construction industry, 
our environmental performance remains strong. However we had 
one environmental prosecution for the discharge of sewage effluent 
into a dyke in Lincolnshire that exceeded discharge consent 
conditions. The site was a shared development with two other 
housebuilders. We were fined £8,000. Following this incident, we 
thoroughly reviewed our internal processes and our environmental 
staffing levels. Furthermore, we increased resources to the provision 
of environmental training for our Health, Safety and Environmental 
Advisors and our construction staff by increasing the levels of 
attendance on our ’Managing Environmental Responsibilities within 
Galliford Try’.
One of our key initiatives during the year was our formal commitment 
to the Government’s Halving Waste to Landfill Commitment (½W2L) 
that aims to reduce the amount of construction, demolition and 
excavation waste being sent to landfill by 50% by 2012. To achieve 
this Galliford Try is committed to measuring the quantity of waste 
diverted from landfill and implementing plans to further reduce the 
quantity of construction, demolition and excavation waste being 
sent to landfill. As part of our commitment to the ½W2L commitment, 
we have implemented a project across all our divisions to identify 
targets for waste reduction, establishing waste performance indicators 
as well as identify opportunities to reduce the amount of waste we 
send to UK landfill sites.
We continued to deliver our bespoke four day IOSH Managing 
Environmental Responsibilities training course to further raise 
environmental awareness across the Company. As of November 
2009, this course has been successfully delivered to 52 employees.
We have continued with our project to get all our business units 
certified to ISO 14001:2004, and 29 business units (out of a possible 
39) have now achieved third party certification to ISO 14001:2004. 
Early in 2010, following extensive investigation, we registered  
with the Environment Agency that we fell outside the scope of the 
Carbon Reduction Commitment. We will follow the scheme closely 
and continue to develop our data collection systems, envisaging  
the scheme may extend in future years.
Carbon footprint
Our own internal sustainability efforts during the year have focused 
on:
Establishing the benchmark for the carbon footprint of our   >
 own offices.
Working on systems to establish the usage of energy across   >
 all our construction operations; this focuses on power  
 consumption, fuel oil and vehicle usage.
Working with supply chain partners to quantify their emissions. >
In July 2010 we submitted our second annual response to the 
Carbon Disclosure Project. This is the most respected global carbon 
management project, collecting information on how corporate 
organisations approach climate change. 
We have reported on:
Our strategy – how it ties in with corporate responsibility. >
Allocation of responsibility – reinforcing the link between board,   >
 steering committee and CR manager.
How we communicate our position and plans internally and   >
 externally.
Identification of risks and opportunities, both now and into   >
 the future.
Data on direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions.  >
A 30% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions since 2008   >
 to 38,000 tonnes in 2009, partially due to turnover reduction.
influence on design – Where we have an input into the design 
process we aim to take sustainability issues into consideration 
wherever practical. We are benefiting from the input of our renewable 
energy business, particularly in designing ways of reducing the 
carbon footprint of other regeneration schemes being carried out  
by our housebuilding businesses.
The future
Galliford Try plans to focus on increasing the percentage of our 
construction, demolition and excavation wastes that we divert from 
UK landfill sites, as well as reducing the costs incurred in the disposal 
of construction related waste streams. We plan to further increase 
the number of our business units to successfully achieve third party 
certification to ISO 14001:2004.
Procurement and supply chain 
We believe that developing long term relationships with all who provide 
services to our business is crucial to our ability to provide our clients 
and customers with projects that deliver to the highest standard. 
Through early engagement and working in partnership with these 
providers, we can address key performance requirements for health, 
safety, environmental and other CR matters.
We have a monthly Group procurement forum with representation 
from each division and a newly appointed Group Procurement 
Manager. These will provide real focus to drive CR related supply 
chain issues.
We have started to promote CR through our procurement teams by 
identifying how much timber we buy from sustainable sources and 
generating an annual report to understand how we can improve. We 
have piloted this approach in our Housebuilding division during the 
year and can report that 93% of our timber orders placed were chain 
of custody certified. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 39
Community 
Our policy is based on four key principles of engagement:
Contributing to the community through our core activities such   >
 as providing schools, healthcare facilities, affordable housing and  
 transport infrastructure.
Engaging with the communities and individuals in the areas in   >
 which we operate.
Delivering wider community benefits such as local employment. >
Charitable investment. >
Our policy is to ensure that our operations are integrated into the 
local community as effectively as possible. Practically, this means:
1. Promoting safety on building sites through local campaigns,  
 particularly targeted at schools.
2. Keeping local residents and organisations informed about  
 construction plans and progress.
3. Involvement in education programmes and school visits.
4. Participating in community work.
5. Supporting local charities and events in which our employees  
 are involved.
Our website gives further information on our activities and examples 
of best practice in the Group.
Economic sustainability 
We recognise that to be sustainable in the long term we need to be 
a profitable business. However, we realise this should not be at the 
expense of environmental and social issues and our plans and action 
across the areas above aims to ensure this. Our full financial position 
is set out within this annual report.
Corporate Governance 
Galliford Try is firmly committed to attaining high standards of 
corporate governance and conducting the Group’s operations in 
accordance with the best principles of corporate governance and 
the Turnbull Guidance. Throughout the year the Company complied 
with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code  
of Corporate Governance as revised in 2008 (the “Code”) and 
maintained by the Financial Reporting Council. Further detail is 
given in the Corporate Governance review on page 45.
Significant relationships
Relationships are important to Galliford Try: the business has been 
built on a collaborative culture.
Clients and customers
Our Building and Infrastructure businesses have a number of key 
clients, particularly those that operate through five year framework 
agreements. Although no one client has accounted for more than 
6% of revenue during the year, major clients currently include:
The seven regulated water utilities for whom we are working   >
 under five year framework contracts for their asset management  
 programmes.
The private finance initiative project companies through   >
 which we contract to construct PFI projects and in which our  
 Investments division holds equity stakes.
The All England Club at Wimbledon, for whom we have carried   >
 out all their construction projects for over 35 years.
The Olympic Delivery Authority for whom we are contracted to   >
 carry out land remediation, civil engineering and accommodation  
 building works for the Olympic Games in 2012.
Manhattan Loft Limited, for whom we are carrying out a   >
 £103 million contract to redevelop St Pancras Chambers  
 in London.
Business partners
We carry out some of our projects in joint ventures. Our partners are 
engineers, other contractors and consultants on our frameworks for 
the water utilities and our larger highways projects. In housebuilding 
we develop some of our sites under joint venture agreements with 
housing associations and other housebuilders. A number of our 
regeneration projects are undertaken under agreements with the 
Homes and Communities Agency. Significant relationships are with 
Affinity Sutton and the Devon and Cornwall Housing Associations 
together with developers Wates and Crest Nicholson.
Supply chain and service providers
Throughout its businesses the Group has relationships with architects, 
engineers and other consultants as well as with sub contractors and 
materials providers. By working closely with them, we improve a 
quality of service to our clients, increase efficiency and address key 
performance requirements in areas such as health, safety and the 
environment. The Group also has significant relationships with its 
providers of corporate services such as surety bonding, insurance 
and finance.
Corporate Responsibility report
Further information on our CR activities are can be found in our 
separately published CR report, which focuses on how our businesses 
contribute to the CR agenda and on our website, www.gallifordtry.co.
uk/corporate-responsibility, where more data is provided.
Also visit our website at 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk/corporate-responsibility Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 40
directors and executive board
DIRECTORS
Amanda Burton † ‡
Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director
Amanda Burton was appointed to the board in July 2005. She is 
Chief Operating Officer of Clifford Chance LLP . She was previously a non 
executive director of Fresca Group Limited, and a director of Meyer 
International plc and Chairman of its timber group. Amanda is also  
a Trustee of the Battersea Dogs and Cats Home. Age 51.
Peter Rogers † ‡
Non-Executive Director
Peter Rogers was appointed to the board in July 2008. He is  
Chief Executive of Babcock International Group plc. Prior to joining 
Babcock in 2002, he was a director of Courtaulds plc and Acordis BV , 
having earlier held senior executive positions in the Ford Motor 
Company. Age 62.
Andrew Jenner ACA † ‡  
Non-Executive Director
Andrew Jenner was appointed to the board in January 2009. He is 
currently Finance Director of Serco Group plc. Prior to joining Serco 
in 1996 he worked for Unilever and Deloitte & Touche LLP . Age 41.
David Calverley FCA 
Non-Executive Chairman
David Calverley was appointed to the board in September 2000  
as chief executive, a position he held until 30 June 2005. He is also 
Non-Executive Chairman of Tricone Development Limited. Chief 
Executive of Try Group from 1995, he was formerly a director of 
Trafalgar House, Chairman of Ideal Homes and Managing Director  
of Trafalgar House Property. Age 68.
Greg Fitzgerald
Chief Executive
Greg Fitzgerald was appointed to the board in July 2003 and was 
Managing Director of the Housebuilding division before being 
appointed chief executive on 1 July 2005. He was a founder of Midas 
Homes in 1992 and its Managing Director when it was acquired in 
1997, subsequently chairing Midas and Gerald Wood Homes. He is 
a Non-Executive Director of the National House-Building Council. 
Age 46.
Frank Nelson FCMA
Finance Director
Frank Nelson was appointed to the board in September 2000. 
Finance Director of Try Group since 1988, he was formerly a divisional 
finance director with Wiltshier and a management consultant with 
Coopers & Lybrand. Age 59.
KEY TO PHOTOGRAPHS
Top row, left to right: david Calverley, Greg Fitzgerald and Frank nelson
Middle row, left to right: Andrew Jenner, Amanda burton and Peter Rogers
bottom row, left to right: Ken Gillespie, Richard barraclough and ian baker Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 41
Ken Gillespie BSc *
Group Managing Director, Construction
Ken Gillespie joined the Group in March 2006 on the acquisition of 
Morrison Construction, having been its Managing Director since 
2005. He joined Morrison in 1996 having spent the previous 13 years 
holding senior positions in construction with George Wimpey.  
Age 45.
Richard Barraclough FCIS *
Company Secretary and Legal Director
Richard Barraclough has been company secretary since September 
2000. He joined Try Group as a director and company secretary  
in 1991 and was formerly deputy company secretary of George 
Wimpey PLC. Age 55.
Ian Baker *
Group Managing Director, Housebuilding
Ian Baker was appointed to the executive board in March 2007. He 
joined the Group in 1995, initially with Midas Homes, subsequently 
becoming Managing Director of all the Group’s housebuilding 
activities in 2009. Age 40.
* The executive board comprises the chief executive, 
 finance director and the executives listed.
† Member of the audit committee
‡ Member of the remuneration and nomination committees
EXECUTIVE BOARD Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 42
directors’ report
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report and 
the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended  
30 June 2010.
Principal activities
Galliford Try is a housebuilding and construction group. Further details 
of the Group’s activities during the year under review and of its 
prospects are contained in pages 4 to 39. The principal subsidiary 
companies operating within the Group are shown on page 110.
Business review and future developments
Company law requires the directors to produce a business review 
that sets out a fair review of the business of the Group during the 
year ended 30 June 2010 including a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties facing the Group, a review of financial and 
non-financial key performance indicators and a fair analysis of the 
development and performance of the Group’s business during the 
financial year. 
The directors consider that this requirement is fulfilled by the 
inclusion in this Annual Report and Financial Statements of a Chief 
Executive’s Review, Business Review, Corporate Governance Report 
and Remuneration Report. Information on the Group’s employment 
practices, including its policies on equal opportunities for disabled 
employees and employee involvement, and its approach to 
environmental matters is set out in the corporate responsibility 
section of the business review on pages 35 to 39. 
Results and dividends
The post-exceptional profit for the year after tax of £10.8 million  
is shown in the consolidated income statement on page 56. The 
directors recommend a final dividend of 9.2 pence per share be 
paid, which together with the interim dividend of 3.3 pence results 
in a total dividend for the year of 12.5 pence, which will absorb a 
total of £10.2 million of shareholders’ funds. The final dividend will 
be payable on 12 November 2010, to shareholders on the register 
at 8 October 2010.
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share capital. On 6 October 
2009 the Company undertook a share consolidation on the basis  
of one new ordinary share of 50 pence for every 10 then existing 
ordinary shares of 5 pence. The 377,766,773 ordinary shares of  
5 pence each then in issue were therefore consolidated into 
37,776,677 ordinary shares of 50 pence each. 44,072,789 new 
ordinary shares of 50 pence each were issued by way of rights on  
22 October 2009 on the basis of 7 new ordinary shares for every  
6 existing in accordance with the approval given by shareholders  
at an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 6 October 2009. 
Immediately following the rights issue there were therefore 
81,849,466 ordinary shares of 50 pence in issue, which remained 
unchanged at 30 June 2010. Except in relation to some of the 
Group’s employee share plans that include restrictions on the 
transfer of shares whilst the shares are subject to the plan, there  
are no restrictions on the transfer or voting rights of the Company’s 
share capital. 
Resolutions to be proposed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting will 
renew the limited authority of the directors to allot the unissued share 
capital of the Company and to issue shares for cash other than to 
existing shareholders. 
A resolution will also be proposed to renew the directors’ authority  
to make market purchases of its shares within prescribed limits. No 
such purchases were made in the year to 30 June 2010. 
Further explanation of the resolutions is included with the Notice of 
Meeting circulated to shareholders with this report.
As at the date of this report 81,849,466 ordinary shares of 50 pence 
each have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the 
London Stock Exchange. During the year ended 30 June 2010,  
no options were exercised pursuant to the Company’s share option 
schemes. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 43
No new ordinary shares have been allotted under these schemes 
since the end of the financial year to the date of this report. 310,189 
shares (0.4%) of the issued share capital of the Company is currently 
held within the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust for satisfying 
employee share options or share awards. 
Change of control provisions
The Group has entered into certain agreements that may alter on a 
change of control of the Group. The significant agreements are the 
Group’s banking and surety agreements, details of which are included 
under financing in the Business Review and under contingent 
liabilities in note 34 on page 95.
All of the Group’s share plans contain provisions relating to a change 
of control. Outstanding awards and options would normally vest on  
a proportionate basis and become exercisable on a change of control, 
subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time.
No compensation would be paid for loss of office of directors on a 
change of control of the Company.
Articles of association
The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the 
Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the 
appointment or removal of directors and the conduct of the Board 
and general meetings. In accordance with the Articles of Association, 
directors can be appointed or removed by the board or shareholders 
in general meeting. The Articles of Association may only be amended 
by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. Copies 
are available by writing to the Company Secretary.
Directors and their interests
The board of directors at the date of this report, and their biographies, 
are shown on pages 40 to 41. Greg Fitzgerald will retire by rotation 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will offer himself for 
re-election. Under the Articles of Association each director is subject 
to re-election at intervals of not more than three years. All other 
directors were either appointed or re-appointed in the last two years.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company 
and details of their service contracts are set out in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 54.
The step-daughter of Greg Fitzgerald, a director of the Company, 
proposes to purchase a property for her own residential use that  
is on a site in Devon being developed in joint venture between 
Westco Limited and a subsidiary of the Company, Midas Homes 
Limited. A resolution to approve the proposed transaction will  
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Further 
explanation of the resolution is included with the Notice of Meeting.
The Company takes out directors and officers’ insurance cover in 
respect of legal actions brought against its directors. The Company’s 
practice is to indemnify its directors in accordance with the Articles 
of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law. Neither 
insurance nor indemnities cover fraud or dishonesty.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 15 September 2010, being the date of this report, the following 
beneficial interests in 3% or more of the Company’s ordinary share 
capital had been notified to the Company.
Directors’ duty to avoid conflict of interest
The Company operates a formal ongoing procedure for the disclosure, 
review and authorisation of directors’ actual and potential conflicts  
of interest in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006. In addition, conflicts of interest are reviewed on an annual 
basis by the board.
Charitable and political contributions
Contributions for charitable purposes during the year amounted to 
£91,000 (2009: £81,000). Charities that benefited included those 
carrying out potential projects to assist homeless people, those 
providing benefit to workers in our industry who are in need and a 
significant number of small local charities in the areas within which 
we operate.
It is not the Company’s policy to make political donations and none 
were made during the year.
Creditors’ payment policy
The Group’s policy concerning creditors is to agree payment terms 
with its suppliers, ensure the relevant terms of payment are included 
in contracts and to abide by those terms when it is satisfied that 
goods or services have been provided in accordance with the 
contracts. Galliford Try plc, as a holding company, did not have any 
amounts owing to trade creditors as at 30 June 2010 (2009: nil). 
Trade creditors for the Group represented 29 days (2009: 26 days) 
of average daily purchases.
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of Royal Bank 
of Scotland, 3rd Floor Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London 
EC2M 4AA on Friday 5 November 2010 at 11 a.m.
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have confirmed their willingness to 
continue in office as auditors of the Company and a resolution for 
their re-appointment and for the audit committee to determine their 
remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Audit information
So far as each of the directors in office at the date of the signing of 
the report are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditors are unaware and each such director has 
taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
No. of shares %
Standard Life Investments Ltd 11,497,801 14.05%
Aberforth Partners LLP 4,110,223 5.02%
Legal & General Group 2,912,212 3.55%
Aviva plc & subsidiaries 2,816,312 3.44% Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 44
directors’ report continued
Important events since the year end 
There have been no important events affecting the Company or any 
of its subsidiaries since 30 June 2010.
Going concern
The directors are required under the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance to have satisfied themselves as to the Group’s ability  
to continue in existence for the foreseeable future. This has been 
carried out and the directors have concluded that the Group has 
adequate resources and is justified in using the going concern basis 
in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent 
company financial statements in accordance with applicable law  
and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law the directors have prepared 
the Group financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the parent company financial statements and the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable  
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Under company law the 
directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 
the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group 
for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them   >
 consistently;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; >
state that the Group financial statements comply with International   >
 Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European  
 Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements  
 that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed,  
 subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the  
 Group’s and parent company financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above 
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Each of the directors (whose names and functions are set out on 
pages 40 and 41) confirms that to the best of his and her knowledge:
the Group financial statements, set out on pages 56 to 96, which   >
 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial  
 Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union,  
 give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position  
 and profit of the Group as taken as a whole; and
the Business Review contained in pages 8 to 39 includes a   >
 fair review of the development and performance of the business  
 and the position of the Group, together with a description of the  
 principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that sufficiently show and explain the Company’s transactions 
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Company and the Group and to enable them  
to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the International Accountancy 
Standards Regulation and the parent company financial statements 
and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the board
Richard Barraclough, Company Secretary
15 September 2010 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 45
Compliance statement
Galliford Try is firmly committed to attaining high standards of 
corporate governance and conducting the Group’s operations  
in accordance with the best principles of corporate governance. 
Throughout the year the Company complied with the provisions  
set out in section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code of Corporate 
Governance (the “Code”) as maintained by the Financial Reporting 
Council. 
This statement, together with the Remuneration Report on page 50, 
describes how the Company has complied with the code provisions 
and has applied the main and supporting principles set out in the 
Code throughout the year.
The board has carried out a review of the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code that applies to the financial year commencing on 
1 July 2010. As well as complying with all of the overall provisions as 
currently applicable to the Company, the Company is also considering 
the adoption of certain provisions that apply to companies in the 
FTSE 350, in the interests of maintaining the highest standards of 
corporate governance.
The board and its directors
The Company is led by a board which consists of a non-executive 
chairman, two executive directors and three other non-executive 
directors (including a senior independent director). Biographical details 
of all of the directors, together with details of board committee 
memberships, are set out on page 40. There were no changes to 
the board during the year.
Each of the non-executive directors is considered by the board to  
be independent, with the exception of the chairman, David Calverley, 
who did not meet the independence criteria set out in the Code on 
his appointment in 2005, having previously been the chief executive 
of the Company. There have been no changes to his external 
commitments since then which may affect his responsibilities to  
the Company. Amanda Burton is the senior independent director 
who is an additional point of contact for shareholders. The board’s 
structure during the year, with half of the Company’s directors being 
independent non-executives, met the requirements of the Code. 
Any director appointed during the year is required, under the 
provisions of the Company’s Articles of Association to retire and 
seek re-appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General 
Meeting. The Code requires each director be subject to re-election 
at intervals of not more than three years. Greg Fitzgerald will retire 
and seek re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
A detailed description of the role and responsibilities of a non-
executive director is set out in the letter of appointment, and all new 
non-executive directors confirm before they take up their appointment 
that they can allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of the 
role. The service contracts of the non-executive directors are available 
for inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal office 
hours and at the Annual General Meeting. 
The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate. The 
chairman is responsible for the leadership and management of the 
board and ensuring that it operates effectively, and the chief executive 
is responsible to the board for the executive management of the 
Group. The chairman and the chief executive meet regularly to 
discuss the business and issues for the board. 
The board meets regularly during the year. Further details of the 
attendance of directors at board and committee meetings are 
COMMITTED 
TO THE HIGHEST 
STANDARDS OF 
GOVERNANCE
Balance of non-executive 
and executive directors
•
 non-executive chairman  1
•
 independent non-executive 
•
 directors  3
• executive directors  2
directors and Governance Corporate Governance Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 46
provided in the tables included in this report. The chairman has held 
meetings with non-executive directors, and the Company Secretary 
also attended part of these meetings by invitation. There is a formal 
schedule of matters reserved for decision by the board. The board 
agrees the Group’s business plan, determines overall Group strategy, 
acquisitions, investment, human resources, environmental and health 
and safety policies, and is responsible for the approval of major items 
of capital expenditure, significant financial matters, and reviewing the 
Group’s system of internal control. All directors receive appropriate 
and timely information and briefing papers in advance of the board 
meetings. All directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary. There is an agreed procedure for directors to 
take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Company’s 
expense in furtherance of their duties. The Company has a directors 
and officers liability insurance policy in place.
Each member of the board brings different experience and skills to 
the operation of the board and its committees. The board composition 
is kept under review and when a new appointment is to be made, 
appropriate consideration is given to the specific skills and experience 
which a potential new member could add. Newly appointed directors 
receive formal induction and appropriate training on the role and 
responsibilities of being a director of a public listed company as soon 
as practicable after appointment. The induction for non-executive 
directors includes meetings with senior management of the business 
and visits to the Company’s operations. 
Every director participated in an evaluation of their individual 
performance during the year using a self-assessment questionnaire 
with rating scales followed by an appraisal interview. The process 
also enables appropriate training and development needs to be 
planned. The senior independent director carried out the performance 
evaluation of the chairman. 
The board may, provided the quorum and voting requirements are 
satisfied, authorise any matter that would otherwise involve a director 
breaching his duty under the Act to avoid conflicts of interest. Any 
director may propose that the director concerned be authorised in 
relation to any matter which is the subject of such conflict and such 
a proposal shall be put to the board in the same way as any other 
matter, except that the director who is subject to the conflict (or any 
other director with a similar interest) shall not count towards the 
quorum or vote on the resolution authorising the conflict. This forms 
a central part of the procedures that the Company has to deal with 
conflicts of interest and these procedures have operated effectively 
throughout the year.
A process of monitoring and evaluating the performance of the board 
and its committees has been undertaken during the year. Members 
of the board completed a confidential questionnaire covering 
business and strategy, board effectiveness and management 
together with governance issues. The evaluation content was:
Board 
Business and strategy  >
Board effectiveness  >
Board management  >
Governance  >
Committees
Responsibility and effectiveness  >
Policy and structure  >
Meetings  >
Communication to stakeholders  >
Training and resources  >
Financial reporting  >
Internal controls and internal audit  >
External audit >
The questions were substantially revised this year to ensure they 
reflected current best practice, avoided repetitious, boiler plate 
issues and more effectively brought out suggestions for improvement. 
The Company Secretary collated the results from the questionnaires 
and prepared a report on the findings for an initial discussion with  
the chairman. The findings were then discussed by the board, and  
a number of actions were agreed. These included changes to the 
frequency and content of specific longer term strategy discussions 
together with a review of the support and advice provided to the 
nomination and remuneration committees.
Executive management is the responsibility of the chief executive 
who chairs the Group’s executive board. This also comprises the 
finance director, the Group managing directors of construction and 
housebuilding and the Company Secretary, and is responsible for  
the operational management of the Group under terms of reference 
delegated by the board. It meets on a monthly basis and more 
regularly when required. 
Specific responsibilities of the board have been delegated to audit, 
remuneration and nomination committees; all of which have defined 
terms of reference, procedures, responsibilities and powers. Other 
directors may attend some of the committee meetings by invitation. 
The committees’ terms of reference, which are closely modelled on 
the provisions of the Code, are available on the Group’s website 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk. 
The committees, their members and a report on their activities are 
given below:
Audit committee
The members are Amanda Burton, Peter Rogers and Andrew 
Jenner, who chairs the committee. Each of these non-executive 
directors is considered independent and served throughout the 
year. As a chartered accountant and finance director of Serco 
Group plc, Andrew Jenner has a strong finance background which 
directors and Governance Corporate Governance continued
Board of directors
Number of meetings held during the year  10
Members  Meetings attended
Chair: David Calverley  10
Greg Fitzgerald  10
Frank Nelson  10
Amanda Burton  10
Peter Rogers  10
Andrew Jenner  10
Executive board
Members
Chair: Greg Fitzgerald
Frank Nelson
Ken Gillespie
Richard Barraclough
Ian Baker
Objectives
The executive board is responsible for the operational  
management of the Group. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 47
fulfills the requirement to possess recent and relevant financial 
experience. The audit committee meets at least three times a year.
The audit committee maintains a formal calendar of items that are  
to be considered at each committee meeting and within the annual 
audit cycle to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements  
of the Code.
The main responsibilities of the audit committee are to:
Monitor the integrity of the annual and interim financial   >
 statements and any formal announcements relating to the  
 Company’s financial performance, paying particular attention  
 to significant reporting judgements contained therein, including  
 critical accounting policies and practices; 
Review and monitor the external auditors’ independence and   >
 objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into  
 consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements; 
Make recommendations to the board, for submission to   >
 shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to  
 the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external  
 auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of   
 engagement of the external auditors;
Monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function;  >
Maintain a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to   >
 supply non-audit services; and
Review arrangements by which employees may, in confidence,   >
 raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial  
 reporting, financial control or other matters.
During the year, the audit committee discharged its responsibilities 
as set out in its terms of reference by undertaking the following work:
Meeting prior to the board meeting at which the Annual Report   >
 and Financial Statements, and the Interim Report, were approved.  
 In doing so, the audit committee reviewed significant accounting  
 policies, financial reporting issues and judgements together with  
 reports from the external auditors; 
Reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process,   >
 the external auditors strategy and plan for the audit, and the  
 qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the  
 external auditors; 
Agreeing the terms of engagement and fee of the external   >
 auditors for the audit; 
Reviewing the policy on auditor independence and the provision   >
 of non-audit services by the external auditors; 
Receiving and considering regular reports on the findings and   >
 the follow up actions from management on internal audit reviews.  
 It also conducted a review, with external support on the annual  
 plan, remit, organisation, coordination and resources of the  
 internal audit function and how it interfaces with executive  
 management and the external auditors. A number of 
 recommendations were agreed and are now being implemented;
Reviewing the Annual Report disclosure items relevant to the   >
 audit committee including the revisions made by the Company  
 to the Group’s statement of accounting policies;
Reviewing the potential impact on the Group’s financial statements   >
 of significant corporate governance and accounting matters; 
Reviewing the findings of the external auditors, their management   >
 letters on accounting procedures and internal financial controls  
 and audit representation letters; 
Reviewing the accounting and financing arrangements with  >
 respect to the Group’s joint venture arrangements;
Reviewing the Company’s arrangements for testing the financial   >
 and non-financial covenants of the Group’s banking facilities;
Reviewing the appropriateness of the Company’s methodology   >
 used to assess the carrying value of the Company’s land and  
 work-in-progress;
Meeting separately with the external auditors in the absence of   >
 any executives and the internal audit team; 
Reviewing the procedures under which employees may, in   >
 confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in  
 matters of financial reporting, financial control or other matters.
The audit committee operates a policy to safeguard the objectivity 
and independence of the external auditors. This policy sets out  
certain disclosure requirements by the external auditors to the audit 
committee, restrictions on the employment of the external auditors’ 
former employees, partner rotation and procedures for the approval 
of non-audit services by the external audit firm. 
The committee’s policy is to review the necessity to consider whether 
to invite other firms to compete for the role with the incumbent firm at 
least as frequently as audit partner rotation is required. The Company’s 
current auditors were originally appointed in 2001 following a formal 
tender process. The audit partner is required to rotate after five years 
and a new partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) was responsible 
for the interim review and the year end statutory audit in 2010. 
Having considered the performance of PwC, and the new partner, 
the Committee recommended to the Board that a resolution to 
reappoint PwC be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. There are  
no contractual obligations that restrain the Committee’s choice, 
and the committee remains satisfied on the independence of PwC.
All significant non-audit services require approval of the audit 
committee before the external auditors can be appointed or, in 
respect of non-audit services that are ordinarily carried out by the 
external auditors, through subsequent ratification. The committee will 
not approve the use of the external auditors if a conflict of interest 
could arise that might impact their objectivity or independence. 
With respect to the significant non-audit related services provided 
during the year, the committee was satisfied that:
Services were provided in connection with the Company’s rights   >
 issue, which are ordinarily provided by the external auditors.
Taxation advice was most efficiently given by the external auditors. >
A report is made to the audit committee setting out all the non-audit 
services provided by the external auditors during the year and the 
fees charged. Details of the amount paid to the external auditors  
are given in note 5 to the Group financial statements on page 69.
Audit committee  
Number of meetings held during the year  3
Members  Meetings attended
Chair: Andrew Jenner  3
Amanda Burton   3
Peter Rogers  3
Objectives
The audit committee monitors the integrity of the Company’s 
financial statements and reporting judgements, also reviewing 
and monitoring the effectiveness of both external and internal 
audit. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 48
Remuneration committee
The members are Amanda Burton, who chairs the committee,  
Peter Rogers and Andrew Jenner, all independent non-executive 
directors who served throughout the year.  
The committee is responsible for deciding on all elements of executive 
directors’ and members of the Group’s executive board’s remuner-
ation. It also monitors the remuneration levels of the Company’s 
senior management and remuneration policy throughout the Group. 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report is on page 50. 
Nomination committee
The members are Peter Rogers, who chairs the committee,  
Amanda Burton and Andrew Jenner, all independent non-executive 
directors, who served throughout the year. The committee’s role is  
to consider the structure and composition of the board, and to make 
recommendations for filling vacancies, considering the nature of  
the role and the capabilities required, taking external advice where 
appropriate. It ensures that appointments to the board are made  
on merit and against objective criteria.
The nomination committee also satisfies itself that, in terms of 
succession planning, the necessary processes are in place in respect 
of board and senior management positions. During the year under 
review the committee carried out a specific exercise on non-executive 
director succession planning, taking into account the need for a 
regular refreshing of the board while ensuring the advantages of 
continuity are retained. It also reviewed reports on both the short 
term candidates and the longer term development pool from which 
future key executive appointments may be made. Individual 
development plans, and the progress made by potential internal 
candidates, were also reviewed to ensure effective contingency  
and succession resourcing is in place.
Shareholder communications
The Company places a high priority on maintaining good 
relationships with all its shareholders. The chief executive and the 
finance director regularly meet with all major shareholders. Any  
new non-executive appointments are referred to at such meetings. 
Feedback on such meetings and shareholder views generally are 
communicated to the board as a whole, and brokers’ reports are 
routinely circulated to all members of the board. The non-executive 
directors met with the Company’s brokers for direct discussions on 
the views and objectives of its major shareholders. This ensures that 
the non-executive directors are aware of and are able to develop  
an understanding of the views held by major shareholders about  
the Company. The chairman is available to discuss governance and 
strategy with major shareholders. Non-executive directors will also 
attend meetings if requested to do so, as will the senior independent 
directors who discussed relevant issues during the year with major 
shareholders. While the focus of dialogue is with the major institutional 
shareholders, care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive 
information is released to all shareholders, institutional and private,  
at the same time within the constraints of the UK Listing Authority 
guidelines. The Company Secretary oversees communications  
with private shareholders. The Company has also appointed  
specific investor relations advisors for both institutional and private 
shareholders to improve the efficiency of its communications 
programme.
Every effort is made to ensure that annual general meetings are 
informative and meaningful occasions, and the full board, including 
the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees, 
are available to answer questions following a presentation on the 
business which is given by the executive management. At the 
Annual General Meeting all proxy votes are reported. The Company 
has a comprehensive investor relations section within its website 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk to provide shareholders with all relevant 
information, including institutional presentation documents and 
webcasts, annual and interim reports and financial statements and 
frequently asked shareholder questions, in an effort to ensure that 
they are well informed about the Company. The investor relations 
section of the website has also been reviewed and redesigned in 
order to make it easier to navigate and to improve access to key 
investor information.
Accountability and audit
The board seeks to present a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Company’s position and prospects which is 
covered in the statement and reviews on pages 8 to 39.
The board has an audit committee as described above. The work 
undertaken by the audit committee on behalf of the board in 
reviewing the published statements, supported by the external 
auditors, allows the directors to make their responsibility statement 
on page 44 and the going concern statement on page 44. 
Internal control and risk management
The board is responsible for the system of internal controls and for 
reviewing their effectiveness. The board regularly reviews the major 
areas of risk that the Group faces in its business and operations  
and the management controls and processes that are in place to 
manage those risks. Such systems are designed to manage rather 
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and 
can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against 
misstatement or loss. A high-level register is maintained which is 
reviewed and updated as risks develop. This comprises risks 
specific to the divisional activities of the business, as well as 
environmental, social, governance, financial and human resources 
directors and Governance Corporate Governance continued
Nomination committee  
Number of meetings held during the year  2
Members  Meetings attended
Chair: Peter Rogers   2
Amanda Burton  2
Andrew Jenner  2
Objectives  
The committee’s role is to consider the structure and 
composition of the board, and to make recommendations for 
filling vacancies, considering the nature of the role and the 
capabilities required, taking external advice where appropriate.
Remuneration committee  
Number of meetings held during the year  8
Members  Meetings attended
Chair: Amanda Burton   8
Peter Rogers  6
Andrew Jenner  8
Objectives  
The committee is responsible for deciding on all elements of 
executive directors’ and members of the Group’s executive 
board’s remuneration. It also monitors the remuneration levels 
of the Company’s senior management and remuneration policy 
throughout the Group. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 49
approved by the board. A rigorous profit and cash reporting and 
forecasting regime is in place across the Group with reports prepared 
and reviewed on a monthly basis. The performance of each business 
is reviewed monthly by divisional and Group management and 
subsequently reported to the board against both budget and forecast. 
As well as the emphasis placed on cash flow, income and balance 
sheet reporting, health, safety and environmental matters form part  
of the key operating issues included within the monthly reports. 
Internal audit
The Company’s internal audit function is responsible for ensuring that 
all Group financial controls, as laid down in the corporate, finance and 
IT control manuals, are operating effectively. It reports to the audit 
committee on its findings.
Whistleblowing policy
The Company’s whistleblowing policy, which puts in place a 
confidential channel of communication for employees to bring matters 
of concern, whether operational or personal, to the attention of 
senior management, enables the Company to investigate fully and 
take whatever corrective action is deemed to be appropriate. The 
audit committee reviews these arrangements regularly. It also has 
responsibility for ensuring independent investigation of such matters 
and appropriate follow-up action where necessary.
Competition policy
The Group has a comprehensive set of policies and procedures  
for ensuring compliance with competition law requirements. These 
are supported by training programmes which comprise seminars 
conducted with legal input from the Group’s competition law 
advisors. In addition the Group has implemented a web-based 
training module which is to be undertaken by employees involved  
in areas of the business that are most likely to be affected by 
competition law.
Following the finding by the Office of Fair Trading in September 2009 
that the Group had breached the 1998 Competition Act by three 
instances of involvement in cover pricing from 2001 to 2004, the 
Group’s policy guidance and training programmes were reviewed and 
revised to ensure they took account of the most recent legal advice 
and competition authorities practice, and included specific guidance 
on housebuilding and construction activities. 
The Group is appealing the quantum of the £8.3 million fine imposed 
by the OFT, with a decision expected in late 2010.
Bribery policy
The Group has an updated bribery policy that has been developed 
and communicated during the year to take account of the new 
provisions of the 2010 Bribery Act. Training programmes for relevant 
employees have been implemented and will be extended further as 
guidance develops prior to the full implementation of the Act in 2011.
Annual review
The board has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the 
material internal controls outlined above for the year ended 30 June 
2010 and has taken any necessary action to remedy any significant 
weaknesses or findings identified from its review. The controls have 
been in place during the period under review up to the date of the 
approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements. 
Richard Barraclough, Company Secretary
15 September 2010
risks. During the year it was revised to recognise the changes in risk 
as the Company’s markets changed. This included lowering the 
thresholds at which contractual commitments are considered by 
management to take account of the increased competitive pressures 
in construction. The controls on land acquisition were also reviewed 
and additional checks and balances introduced to ensure the 
Group’s expansion strategy remains well controlled.
The Group completed a business procedures project during the  
year that resulted in a complete revision of its corporate manual  
that lays down policy and process across the Group over the key 
management disciplines. Re-launched early in 2010, the directors 
across all the Group’s business units are responsible for ensuring  
its provisions are complied with.
The audit committee commissioned a review during the year, with 
external advice, on the structure and composition of the Group’s 
Internal Audit department. The review made a number of 
recommendations on how to more effectively link the work of the 
department to the risks facing the Group which will be completed 
during the forthcoming year, including the appointment of a head  
of audit and risk, who has been identified and will shortly join  
the Group.
The Group operates under an established internal control framework. 
The material controls are described below. 
Organisational structure
The Group is organised into a number of divisions, under which  
there are clearly defined business units. Each division has its own 
management board and each business unit is run by a managing 
director and board. Clear reporting lines and delegated authorities 
are in place. Accordingly, the management of performance and 
monitoring and reporting of risk occurs at different levels within the 
Group with key issues being escalated through management to  
the board. 
Contractual commitments
There are clearly defined policies and procedures for entering into 
contractual commitments that are in place throughout the relevant 
business units. These include detailed requirements that are required 
to be completed prior to submitting proposals and/or tenders for 
construction work both in respect of the commercial, control and  
risk management aspects of the obligations being entered into. A 
legal authorities matrix is in place to ensure the controls are clearly 
communicated throughout the business.
Investment in land and development
There are clearly defined policies and procedures for the purchase of 
land and for expenditure on development opportunities. These include 
detailed pre-commitment due diligence procedures together with 
detailed appraisal and review requirements that have to be complied 
with and are subject to rigorous review and authorisation.
Operational activity
There are established frameworks managing and controlling all site 
operations that take account of the specific requirements of the type 
of site that is being operated. This includes extensive health, safety 
and environmental procedures, regular performance monitoring and 
accountability to clients or customers as relevant.
Operational and financial reporting
The Group updates its business plan on an annual basis, following  
a review of strategy carried out by the board. It prepares a detailed 
annual budget for each financial year that is considered and  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 50
SUPPORTING 
THE DELIVERY
OF OUR 
STRATEGY
directors and Governance Remuneration report
The report has been prepared in accordance with The Large and 
Medium-Sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008. The auditors are required to report on the 
‘auditable’ part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, 
that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Companies Act 2006. The report is therefore divided into 
separate sections for audited and unaudited information. The board 
has reviewed the Group’s compliance with the 2008 Combined 
Code (the “Code”) on remuneration related matters. It is the opinion 
of the board that the Group complied with all remuneration related 
aspects of the Code during the year.
Part One: Unaudited Information 
The remuneration committee 
The remuneration committee (“the committee”) is governed by formal 
terms of reference agreed by the board and is composed entirely of 
non executive directors whom the board considers are independent. 
The members are Amanda Burton, who chairs the committee, Peter 
Rogers and Andrew Jenner, who have all served throughout the year. 
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary are invited 
to attend meetings of the committee, although no executive is 
present when his/her own remuneration is being considered.
The committee determines the specific remuneration packages of 
executive directors. It also determines the remuneration packages  
of members of the Company’s executive board and monitors and 
makes recommendations on remuneration for the level of senior 
management below the executive board. To ensure executive 
remuneration is considered in the context of the Group as a whole, 
the committee reviews policy on the pay and benefit structure, 
including bonus schemes, for all employees in the Group. The 
committee keeps itself fully informed of developments and best 
practice in the field of remuneration and obtains advice from 
independent external consultants when required on individual 
remuneration packages and on executive remuneration practices  
in general. Independent consultants MM & K Limited have advised 
the committee on directors’ remuneration matters during the year. 
Independent legal advice may be sought by the committee as  
and when required. The committee is supported by the Company 
Secretary.
Remuneration policy 
During the year, the committee had agreed the following 
remuneration policy:
Remuneration packages must attract, retain and motivate   >
 the executives required to achieve the Company’s strategic  
 objectives.
The Group is committed to engendering a performance culture   >
 which will position Galliford Try as an employer of choice while  
 delivering increased shareholder value.
A significant proportion of an executive director’s total   >
 remuneration should be delivered through performance-related  
 pay.
Performance-related pay should deliver upper quartile pay only   >
 if outstanding performance is achieved.
The committee continues to ensure that the incentive structure  
for executive directors and senior management will not raise 
environmental, social or governance risk by inadvertently motivating 
irresponsible behaviour. There are no restrictions on the committee 
which prevent it from taking into account such matters generally 
when determining remuneration issues. It has also determined that  
if any unforeseen issues arise, particularly in the context of the 
Group’s bonus and incentive schemes, that would make an outcome 
unjustifiable, it will use its discretion under the rules of the respective 
schemes to correct the position.
The committee’s objective is for performance-related pay to account 
for two thirds of a director’s remuneration (excluding pension 
contributions). For the year ended 30 June 2010, performance-
related pay represented 43% of remuneration. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 51
Executive directors’ remuneration policy
•
 Salary
•
 Pension
•
 Annual bonus
•
 l TiP vest
Maximum potential
2010 actual
2009 actual
All staff throughout the Group participate in an annual bonus scheme, 
with targets linked to the performance of their particular responsibilities 
or business unit. The scope and extent of these schemes vary 
between levels of management and business sector. The committee 
monitors the operation of these schemes to ensure fairness and 
compatibility with executive remuneration. All bonus schemes 
throughout the Group are subject to a 50% reduction in payment  
if Group profit before tax does not meet a predetermined threshold, 
whatever the performance of the individual business may have been. 
From 1 July 2010 the committee has introduced health, safety and 
environment targets with a reduction in bonus for executive directors 
if the Group does not achieve externally measured targets set down 
in a matrix. If the target had been in place during the year to 30 June 
2010, bonus would have reduced by 9%. The same principle has 
been adopted for all annual bonus schemes covering staff across  
the Group. 
Long term incentive plan
Under the Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the Committee 
may grant awards to selected participants annually. The maximum 
value of an award that may be granted in any financial year to any 
individual will not exceed 100% of his/her basic annual salary at the 
award date. The number of shares subject to an award granted to 
any individual participant is calculated based on the average of the 
closing prices of the Company’s shares for the 30 days prior to the 
date of grant. The vesting of an award depends on the achievement 
of performance conditions applied to that award over a three year 
plan cycle. 
Awards granted in September 2006, September 2007  
and September 2009 
The Committee determined that there should be a performance 
underpin whereby the Company must achieve a compound growth 
in earnings per share at least equivalent to the growth in the retail 
prices index plus 2% per annum over a plan cycle before any awards 
are considered for vesting. If the earnings per share performance 
condition has been met, the performance of the Company is  
then measured by reference to its total shareholder return (TSR) 
performance compared to a peer group of comparable companies  
in the construction and housebuilding sectors. 
If the Company’s TSR places it at the 75th percentile over the three- 
year plan cycle 100% of the award will vest. If the Company’s 
performance places it below the 51st percentile the award will not 
vest and will lapse in its entirety. 30% of the awards will vest if the 
51st percentile is achieved, rising on a straight line scale to the 
75th percentile. On the achievement of exceptional performance  
that places the Company above the 75th percentile, an additional 
element of vesting can occur. The Company would also need to 
achieve a more demanding level of earnings per share growth which 
will need to exceed the growth in the retail price index plus 5% per 
annum compound. If this is achieved and the TSR performance of the 
Company places it at first position in the peer group, then the level  
of vesting increases to 200% of the original award. For performance 
between the 75th percentile and the top position, vesting is on a 
straight line sliding scale between 100% and 200%.
The awards granted in 2006 and 2007 did not meet the earnings per 
share underpin and therefore have lapsed.
Basic salary and benefits 
Executive directors’ basic salaries were last increased on 1 July 2007. 
In the light of the downturn in the housebuilding sector, all the 
directors agreed to take a salary reduction of 5% in 2009. These 
decisions were taken against a backdrop in the Group whereby the 
housebuilding business operated a four day week from January to 
June 2009, with staff returning to full time working from July 2009 at 
a 3% basic salary reduction. As the construction markets became 
more challenging, there was no increase for employees across the 
construction businesses in 2009, with senior management in 
construction taking reductions of up to 5%.
The outcome of the 2010 review across the Group is that basic 
salary for housebuilding employees has been reinstated from 1 July 
2010 as the market has stabilised and there has been no increase 
for a second year across the Group’s construction businesses. The 
salary reductions applying to the executive directors, executive 
board members and senior construction managers continue to 
apply following the June 2010 review.
Annual bonus scheme 
The annual bonus scheme enables executive directors to earn a 
maximum annual bonus of 100% of their basic salary dependent 
on the achievement of stretching financial targets set by the 
committee at the beginning of each financial year.
Two thirds of any amount earned in excess of 50% of an individual’s 
basic salary is required to be deferred into restricted shares. Such 
restricted shares must be retained for three years and will be forfeited 
if the recipient’s employment in the Group terminates before the end 
of that period, unless agreed otherwise by the committee in certain 
clemency situations.
For 2010 the committee determined that 70% of bonus should be 
determined based on the achievement of profit targets, with 30% 
based on net debt/cash targets throughout the year. Maximum 
bonus is only paid if challenging objectives are met. The committee 
reviewed the effect of the September 2009 share consolidation  
and rights issue on the Company’s targets and made appropriate 
adjustments to ensure that they remained equally stretching as 
when set at the beginning of the financial year, in particular taking 
into account the cash received from the rights issue and the plan 
for expansion in housebuilding. In the year to 30 June 2010 the 
Group substantially exceeded the profit targets set at the beginning 
of the year, and also managed its cash profile to be significantly 
better than forecast throughout the year. Accordingly, the executive 
directors earned bonuses for the year averaging 97% of basic salary, 
of which one third will be deferred for three years in restricted shares.  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 52
directors and Governance Remuneration report continued
The comparator companies used for the TSR comparison for the 
September 2009 award were:
Balfour Beatty plc Costain Group plc
Barratt Developments plc M J Gleeson plc
Bellway plc Kier Group plc
The Berkeley Group Holdings plc Morgan Sindall plc
Henry Boot plc Persimmon plc
Bovis Homes Group plc Redrow plc
Carillion plc ROK plc
T Clarke plc Taylor Wimpey plc
Awards granted in March 2009
At the 2008 annual general meeting, shareholders approved an 
amendment to the rules of the LTIP that gave the committee flexibility 
to amend the performance targets for any new awards granted in 
the financial year ended 30 June 2009 and beyond to take account 
of the changed economic situation as outlined in last year’s report. 
Consequently, the awards granted under the plan on 10 March 2009, 
covering the performance period 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2011, had 
the following performance targets:
1. The total shareholder return (‘TSR’) target as outlined above 
remained unchanged.
2. The performance underpin was set in two parts, to demonstrate 
the achievement of stretching performance over the plan cycle, 
as follows:
i. An absolute share price target equivalent to 10% per annum 
compound growth from the commencement of the 
performance period on 1 July 2008: and
ii. The achievement of cash management targets at the end  
of each quarter starting at the end of the month that the 
award was granted and ending on 30 June 2011. At each 
measurement date, points are awarded dependent on the 
extent to which cash performance exceeds a target with 
points deducted if the target is missed. If cash falls below a 
predetermined amount at any time between the measurement 
points, the underpin fails in its entirety. The basic underpin  
will be achieved if a predetermined total of points is obtained, 
but for performance between the 75th percentile and the top 
position, 33% more points against the target must  
be achieved.
3. The maximum amount which could vest under the award if the 
Company is in the top TSR position was reduced from 200% to 
150% of the initial award value.
Following the share consolidation and rights issue that took place in 
October 2009, the committee adjusted the number of shares under 
outstanding awards in accordance with the rules of the plan, which 
was reviewed by the Company’s auditors. The committee also 
adjusted the absolute share price underpin for the award granted  
on 10 March 2009 by using a calculation based on the theoretical  
ex rights price resulting in the original target of 66.25p (based on 
ordinary shares of 5p) being replaced by a target of £4.59 (based  
on the new ordinary shares of 50p).
Future awards 
The prospectus for the rights issue in September 2009 stated that 
whilst expected to be earnings dilutive for the first two years, the 
effects of the rights issue would be materially earnings enhancing 
from year three. The Committee takes the view that future LTIP 
performance targets should change to reinforce this key aspect  
of the Company’s strategy. 
In addition, the committee feels that, while comparative TSR 
remains an excellent way to align executives’ interests with those  
of shareholders, the fact that the Company’s competitors are in two 
different sectors, construction and housebuilding, which the recent 
economic downturn has clearly illustrated now operate in very 
different economic cycles, makes the selection of an appropriate 
single TSR comparator group problematic. The committee therefore 
wishes to address this issue in a way that improves the link between 
shareholder return and executive incentive as well as reflecting the 
reality of the Company’s business across the two sectors in which  
it operates. 
The committee is therefore currently planning, following consultation 
with major shareholders, to exercise the discretion that it has within 
the rules of the plan to amend the targets so that for a vesting of  
up to 100% of an award, half will be linked to earnings per share 
performance and half to comparative TSR performance. The earnings 
per share performance will be based on the achievement of absolute 
aggregate earnings per share targets for the three years of the 
performance period. For the next award, which the Committee 
anticipates granting in September 2010, a target of 140 pence  
per share is being proposed for the three years from 1 July 2010 to 
30 June 2013. A threshold will be set at 10% below this figure and 
a stretch target at 10% above. 15% of the award will vest at threshold, 
32.5% at target and 50% at stretch. 
It is proposed to split the comparator group for TSR performance 
used into two separate construction and housebuilding groups. Half 
of the award subject to TSR will be measured against a peer group 
comprising housebuilders (of which there are currently seven) and 
half against a peer group comprising contractors (of which there are 
currently nine). The vesting schedule will remain proportionately as at 
present, which will mean that 25% will vest for achieving top quartile 
in the construction sector, and 25% for achieving top quartile in the 
housebuilding sector.
The LTIP has a ‘super performance’ target that enables 200% of an 
award to vest on a sliding scale between top quartile of the existing 
mixed comparator group and the number one position. It is proposed 
that, in order to qualify for this element of the award, the Company 
will have to achieve the aggregate stretch EPS target (in the example 
above 154p) as an underpin and then there will be a straight line 
progression based on its relative TSR position in each comparator 
group from the upper quartile to the top company in each 
comparator group.
Share retention policy 
The Company operates a share retention policy that requires 
executive directors to build up a holding of shares in the Company 
over a five year period equivalent in value to 1 x basic salary or, in the 
case of the Chief Executive, 1.5 x basic salary. As at 30 June 2010, 
all the executive directors met this requirement. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 53
400
300
200
100
0
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Galliford Try plc
FTSE All Share
Save as you earn scheme 
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved 
savings related share option scheme for the benefit of all employees 
including executive directors, whereby employees make regular 
savings with a building society with an option to buy shares in 
Galliford Try plc at the end of a three or five year savings period  
at a discount of up to 20% of the market value when they started 
saving. There are no performance conditions attached to savings 
related options. 
Pensions
The executive directors receive a salary supplement of 20% of basic 
salary (calculated prior to the 2009 salary reductions) for pension 
purposes.
Greg Fitzgerald is entitled to deferred benefits under the Galliford  
Try Final Salary Pension Scheme which provided defined benefits 
based on service up until, and final pensionable salary to, its closure 
to future service accrual on 31 March 2007. Greg Fitzgerald’s 
accumulated total accrued pension at 30 June 2010 was £25,156 
and its transfer value was £279,892, an increase of £21,195 on the 
transfer value at 30 June 2009 which was £258,697.
Non-executive directors 
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three 
years after which their appointments are subject to review at least 
every three years. There is a maximum period of six months’ notice 
for early termination. A committee comprising the executive directors 
and Company Secretary is responsible for taking appropriate 
independent advice from remuneration consultants to determine 
non-executive directors’ remuneration.
No increases in non-executive directors’ fees have been made since 
1 July 2007 and the non-executive directors agreed to reduce their 
fees by 5% in 2009.
External appointments 
With the approval of the board in each case, executive directors may 
normally accept an external appointment as a non-executive director 
of another company and retain any fees received. Greg Fitzgerald 
was appointed a non-executive director of NHBC (the National 
Housebuilding Council) on 1 June 2010 at an annual fee of £33,600. 
He received fees in the year of £2,800.
Performance 
The Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance (share price 
movements plus dividends reinvested) over the last five financial 
years relative to the FTSE All Share index based on 30 trading day 
average values is shown below. The Company is a member of the 
FTSE Small Cap index but as there is no appropriate sector index 
that includes both construction and housebuilding companies the 
Group believes that the All Share index is the most appropriate 
comparator as it encompasses all of its key competitors, as well as 
the full cross section of other companies.
Table 1: Directors’ interests 
The directors at 30 June 2010 held the following beneficial interests 
in the ordinary shares of the Company:
There were no changes in the directors’ interests from 30 June 2010 
to 15 September 2010.
Table 2: Directors’ service contracts 
at 
01.07.09
†
at
30.06.10
David Calverley 165,625 232,609
Greg Fitzgerald 314,831 664,610*
Frank Nelson 100,226 162,440
Amanda Burton 8,255 17,885
Peter Rogers 12,500 27,083
Andrew Jenner 6,200 13,433
*
  
Greg Fitzgerald also has a beneficial interest in 425,402 shares (2009: 313,676
†
) held 
by Crownway Builders Limited, a company in which he owns 37.5% of its issued 
share capital.
†
  Adjusted to reflect the share consolidation on 6 October 2009.
Name Contract date Notice – months
non-executive directors
David Calverley 1 July 2005 6
Amanda Burton 1 July 2005 6
Peter Rogers 1 July 2008 6
Andrew Jenner 1 January 2009 6
executive directors
Greg Fitzgerald 1 July 2003 12
Frank Nelson 15 September 2000 12
1  
Contract dates shown are the director’s initial contract as an executive director or  
non-executive director of the Company. Executive directors have a rolling notice period 
as stated. Non-executives are initially appointed for a period of three years, subject to a 
rolling period which continues thereafter as stated.
2   
There are no provisions for compensation payments on termination in any contracts.  
The committee will seek to mitigate in appropriate circumstances.
Comparative TSR performance Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 54
Part Two: Audited Information 
Table 3: Directors’ remuneration
The salary supplement paid to the directors for pension purposes is shown as “Pension”.
Table 4: Directors’ interests in long term incentive plan
Name Award date
Market price 
at award 
date
Number of 
shares at 
01.07.09
Shares 
awarded
Shares 
vested
Shares 
lapsed
Number of 
shares at 
30.06.10
 
 Value
vested
Vesting 
date
Greg Fitzgerald 30.10.06 954p 41,113 – – 41,113 – _ 30.10.09
 10.09.07 1,061p 45,409 – – – 45,409 – 10.09.10
 10.03.09 250p 172,316 – – – 172,316 – 10.03.12
 11.09.09 507p – 107,105 – – 107,105 – 11.09.12
Total  258,838 107,105 – 41,113 324,830  
Frank Nelson 30.10.06 954p 28,500 – – 28,500 – – 30.10.09
 10.09.07 1,061p 29,826 – – – 29,826 – 10.09.10
 10.03.09 250p 113,184 – – – 113,184 – 10.03.12
 11.09.09 507p – 70,345 – – 70,345 – 11.09.12
Total  171,510 70,345 – 28,500 213,355  
All Awards were granted under the Galliford Try 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, details of which can be found on page 51. 
Value vested represents the gain made on vesting.
The market price of the Company’s shares at 30 June 2010 was 314.25 pence and the range of market prices during the year was between 514 pence and 285 pence.
The number of shares stated and market prices shown have been adjusted in accordance with the rules of the plan to take account of the share consolidation and rights issue that took
place during the year; further details are in the remuneration report on page 52.
Table 5: Directors’ interests in SAYE share option scheme
Date of 
grant
Number of
shares at 
01.07.09
Granted
 in year
Exercised 
in year
Lapsed 
in year
Number of
shares at
30.06.10
Exercisable 
from
Exercisable 
to
Exercise
 price
Greg Fitzgerald 20.12.05 1,696 – – 1,696 – 01.02.09 31.07.09 496p
Total 1,696 – – 1,696 –   
Frank Nelson 20.12.05 519 – – – 519 01.02.11 31.07.11 496p
 09.11.06 859 – – 859 – 01.01.10 30.06.10 738p
 02.11.07 151 – – – 151 01.01.11 30.06.11 912p
Total 1,529 – – 859 670   
The number of shares stated and exercise prices shown have been adjusted in accordance with the rules of the plan to take account of the scheme consolidation and rights issue that took 
place during the year.
directors and Governance Remuneration report continued
Name
Salary 
and fees 
£000
Annual 
bonus 
£000
Benefits 
£000
Pension 
£000
Total 
2010 
£000
Total 
2009 
£000
executive directors
Greg Fitzgerald 451 441 33 95 1,020 661
Frank Nelson 296 286 26 63 671 445
non-executive directors
David Calverley 100 – 1 – 101 104
Amanda Burton 42 – – – 42 38
Peter Rogers 38 – – – 38 35
Andrew Jenner 38 – – – 38 19
Former directors
Chris Bucknall – – – – – 18
Jonathan Dawson – – – – – 20
965 727 60 158 1,910 1,340 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 55
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF GALLIFORD TRY PLC
We have audited the Group financial statements of Galliford Try plc 
for the year ended 30 June 2010 which comprise the Consolidated 
Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement  
of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity, Consolidated Statement of 
Cash Flows and the related notes. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by 
the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 44, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements: 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs   >
as at 30 June 2010 and of its profit and cash flows for the 
year then ended; 
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as  >
adopted by the European Union; and 
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of   >
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial  >
year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the Group financial statements.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement  >
set out on page 48 of the Annual Report with respect to internal 
control and risk management systems and about share capital 
structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law   >
are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we  >
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
the directors’ statement, set out on page 44 in relation to going  >
concern; and 
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to   >
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the  
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review. 
Other matter 
We have reported separately on the parent company financial 
statements of Galliford Try plc for the year ended 30 June 2010  
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that  
is described as having been audited. 
Pauline Campbell (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Uxbridge
Wednesday, 15 September 2010 Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 56
     2010   2009
   Before    Before
   exceptional Exceptional  exceptional Exceptional 
   items items Total items items Total
  Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations       
Revenue  2 1,221.9 – 1,221.9 1,461.2 – 1,461.2
Cost of sales   (1,104.6) 1.4 (1,103.2) (1,344.9) (40.6) (1,385.5)
Gross profit/(loss)   117.3 1.4 118.7 116.3 (40.6) 75.7
Administrative expenses   (87.1) (8.3) (95.4) (83.4) (10.8) (94.2)
Share of post tax losses from joint ventures  12 (0.8) – (0.8) (1.0) – (1.0)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs   29.4 (6.9) 22.5 31.9 (51.4) (19.5)
Profit/(loss) from operations  2 35.2 (6.9) 28.3 43.4 (51.4) (8.0)
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax   (4.5) – (4.5) (9.5) – (9.5)
Amortisation of intangibles   (1.3) – (1.3) (2.0) – (2.0)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs   29.4 (6.9) 22.5 31.9 (51.4) (19.5)
Finance income  4 4.4 – 4.4 3.8 – 3.8
Finance costs  4 (7.7) – (7.7) (11.2) – (11.2)
Profit/(loss) before income tax  5 26.1 (6.9) 19.2 24.5 (51.4) (26.9)
Income tax (expense)/income  6 (8.0) (0.4) (8.4) (6.0) 15.1 9.1
Profit/(loss) for the year  30 18.1 (7.3) 10.8 18.5 (36.3) (17.8)
Earnings/(loss) per share       
– Basic  8 24.6p  14.7p 35.8p*  (34.4)p*
– Diluted   8 24.6p  14.7p 35.8p*  (34.4)p*
Dividend per share (declared)  7   12.5p   10.9p
* Restated following the 1 for 10 share consolidation and subsequent 7 for 6 rights issue in October 2009.
 
The notes on pages 60 to 96 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2010
   2010 2009
  Notes £m £m
Profit/(loss) for the year     10.8 (17.8)
Actuarial gains and losses recognised on retirement benefit obligations   31 4.8 (6.5)
Deferred tax on items recognised in equity    6 (1.3) 1.8
Other comprehensive income/(expense)     3.5 (4.7)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year     14.3 (22.5)
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2010 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 57
     2010 2009
    Notes £m £m
Assets 
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets    9 6.9 8.2
Goodwill    10 115.0 115.0
Property, plant and equipment    11 7.6 8.3
Investments in joint ventures    12 2.1 0.7
Financial assets 
– Available for sale financial assets    13 15.7 9.4
Trade and other receivables    18 38.2 40.3
Deferred income tax assets    25 11.2 12.0
Total non-current assets     196.7 193.9
Current assets
Inventories 15 1.1 0.9
Developments 16 528.9 447.6
Trade and other receivables 18 227.7 213.5
Cash and cash equivalents 19 166.7 159.5
  924.4 821.5
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 14 0.5 12.1
Total current assets  924.9 833.6
Total assets  1,121.6 1,027.5
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Financial liabilities – borrowings  23 (1.0) (13.0)
Trade and other payables 20 (563.0) (546.2)
Current income tax liabilities 21 (5.9) (4.6)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 22 (8.6) (0.6)
Total current liabilities  (578.5) (564.4)
Net current assets  346.4 269.2
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
– Borrowings    23 (89.2) (112.4)
– Derivative financial liabilities    26 (2.1) (2.8)
Retirement benefit obligations    31 (17.3) (27.5)
Deferred income tax liabilities    25 – (14.3)
Other non-current liabilities    24 (10.7) (11.4)
Provisions for other liabilities and charges    22 (0.6) (0.1)
Total non-current liabilities     (119.9) (168.5)
Total liabilities     (698.4) (732.9)
Net assets     423.2 294.6
Shareholders’ equity
Ordinary shares    27 40.9 18.9
Share premium    29 190.8 190.8
Other reserves    29 5.3 5.3
Retained earnings    30 186.2 79.6
Total shareholders’ equity     423.2 294.6
The notes on pages 60 to 96 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 56 to 96 were approved by the board on 15 September 2010 and signed on its behalf by:
Greg Fitzgerald Frank Nelson
Chief Executive Finance Director
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 30 JUNE 2010 Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 58
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN 
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2010
      Total
  Share Share Other Retained shareholders’
  capital premium reserves earnings equity
  £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 July 2008  18.9 190.8 5.3 110.3 325.3
Loss for the year  – – – (17.8) (17.8)
Other comprehensive expense  – – – (4.7) (4.7)
Transactions with owners
Dividends paid  – – – (9.6) (9.6)
Share based payments  – – – 1.4 1.4
At 1 July 2009  18.9  190.8  5.3  79.6  294.6 
Profit for the year  – – – 10.8  10.8 
Other comprehensive income  – – – 3.5 3.5
Transactions with owners
Transactions with owners      
Dividends paid  – – – (6.7) (6.7)
Share based payments  – – – 1.8  1.8 
Purchase of own shares  – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Issue of shares (note 27)  22.0  – – 97.3  119.3 
At 30 June 2010  40.9  190.8  5.3  186.2  423.2 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 59
     2010 2009
    Notes £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Continuing operations
Profit/(loss) before finance costs     22.5 (19.5)
Adjustments for:   
Depreciation and amortisation     3.3 4.4
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment     (0.1) (0.1)
Profit on sale of investments     (4.4) (4.2)
Share based payments     1.8 1.4
Share of post tax losses from joint ventures     0.8 1.0
Movement on provisions     8.5 (2.2)
Other non cash movements     (5.5) (6.0)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operations before
pension deficit payments and changes in working capital    26.9 (25.2)
Deficit funding payments to pension schemes     (7.3) (7.2)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operations before 
changes in working capital     19.6 (32.4)
(Increase)/decrease in inventories     (0.2) 0.8
(Increase)/decrease in developments     (25.1) 162.7
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables     (20.9) 79.1
Increase/(decrease) in payables     9.0 (162.8)
Net cash (used in)/generated from operations     (17.6) 47.4
Interest received     3.6 3.0
Interest paid     (4.6) (6.3)
Income tax (paid)/received     (7.5) 0.8
  
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities     (26.1) 44.9
Cash flows from investing activities   
Dividends received from joint venture    12 0.1 2.8
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash and borrowings acquired)   32 (55.7) –
Acquisition of investments in joint ventures    12 (2.4) (5.1)
Acquisition of available for sale financial assets    13 (1.0) –
Acquisition of non-current assets held for sale    14 (0.5) –
Proceeds from non-current assets held for sale    14 16.5 5.2
Proceeds from available for sale financial assets    13 0.2 0.2
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment    11 (1.6) (3.4)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment     0.4 0.8
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities     (44.0) 0.5
Cash flows from financing activities   
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital     119.3 –
Purchase of own shares    30 (0.1) –
Repayment of borrowings     (35.2) (14.8)
Increase in borrowings     – 4.1
Dividends paid to Company shareholders    7 (6.7) (9.6)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities     77.3 (20.3)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents     7.2 25.1
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 July    19 159.5 134.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 30 June    19 166.7 159.5
The notes on pages 60 to 96 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2010 Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 60
NOTES TO THE  
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Accounting policies
General information
Galliford Try plc is a company incorporated, listed and domiciled in England and Wales (Registered Number 836539). The address  
of the registered office is Galliford Try plc, Cowley Business Park, Cowley, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL. Galliford Try is a construction and 
housebuilding group.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the 
Group operates. The amounts stated are denominated in millions (£m). 
Basis of accounting
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU adopted International Accounting Standards (IASs), International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRS. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of 
land and buildings, available for sale investments, retirement benefit obligations, share based payments, and financial assets and liabilities 
(including derivative financial instruments) at fair value through profit and loss. The Group has applied all accounting standards and 
interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee,  
and endorsed by the EU, relevant to its operations and effective on 1 July 2009. 
In the current year, the Group has adopted the following new accounting standards:
 IAS 1 (revised), ‘Presentation of financial statements’. The revised standard prohibits the presentation of items of income and expense  >
(that is ‘non-owner changes in equity’) in the statement of changes in equity, requiring ‘non-owner changes in equity’ to be presented 
separately from owner changes in equity. All ‘non-owner changes in equity’ are required to be shown in a performance statement. Entities 
can choose whether to present one performance statement (the statement of comprehensive income) or two statements (the income 
statement and statement of comprehensive income). The Group has elected to present two statements: an income statement and a 
statement of comprehensive income. 
IFRS 8, ‘Operating segments’. IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14, ‘Segment reporting’. It requires a ‘management approach’ under which segment  >
information is presented on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes. Operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker has been 
identified as the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director. Goodwill is allocated by management to groups of cash-generating  
units on a segment level. 
IFRS 3 (revised), ‘Business combinations’ and consequential amendments to IAS 27, ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’,  >
IAS 28, ‘Investments in associates’ and IAS 31, ‘Interests in joint ventures’. The revised standard continues to apply the acquisition 
method to business combinations, with some significant changes. The key impact to the Group in the period is that on acquisition of the 
additional interest in a joint venture company there is a deemed disposal of the joint venture share held giving rise to a £8.4 million loss in  
the year, followed by an acquisition of the full interest of the share capital finally held. In addition all acquisition costs of £0.3 million have 
been expensed. 
Amendment to IAS 23, ‘Borrowing costs’. This amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the  >
acquisition, construction and production of a qualifying asset, as part of the cost of that asset. A qualifying asset is one that takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale. Inventories which are produced in large quantities on a repetitive basis over a short 
period of time are not qualifying assets. This amendment has not had any impact on the Group’s financial statements as the activities 
performed by the Group do not produce qualifying assets.
Amendment to IFRS 2, ‘Share based payments on vesting conditions and cancellations’. This amendment has had no impact on the  >
Group’s financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 32, ‘Financial instruments presentation and IAS 1 presentation of financial statements’: Puttable financial instruments  >
and obligations arising on liquidation’. This amendment has had no impact on the Group’s financial statements.
Amendment to IFRS 1, ‘First time adoption of IFRS’ and IAS 27, ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’ on the cost of an  >
investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate. This amendment has had no impact on the Group’s financial statements.
IFRIC 15, ‘Agreements for the construction of real estate’. IFRIC 15 has not had a significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. >
IFRIC 16, ‘Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation’. IFRIC 16 is not relevant to the Group’s operation. >
IFRIC 17, ‘Distribution of non-cash assets to owners’. IFRIC 17 has had no impact on the Group’s financial statements. >
IFRIC 18, ‘Transfer of assets from customers’. IFRIC 18 is not relevant to the Group’s operation. >
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of  
which form the basis of making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities which are readily apparent from other sources. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to 
accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of 
revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. 
Material estimates and assumptions are made in particular with regards to establishing the following policies: 
(i)  Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
The determination of the value of any impairment of goodwill and intangible assets requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-
generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected 
from these cash-generating units including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs and requires the determination of a suitable 
discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows. Details of the goodwill impairment review calculations and sensitivity analysis 
performed are included in note 10. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 61
1 Accounting policies continued
(ii)  Estimation of costs to complete
In order to determine the profit and loss that the Group is able to recognise on its developments and construction contracts in a specific 
period, the Group has to allocate total costs of the developments and construction contracts between the proportion completing in the 
period and the proportion to complete in a future period. The assessment of the total costs to be incurred requires a degree of estimation. 
However, Group management has established internal controls to review and ensure the appropriateness of estimates made.
(iii)  Retirement benefit obligation valuations
In determining the valuation of defined benefit schemes assets and liabilities, a number of key assumptions have been made. The key 
assumptions, which are given below, are largely dependent on factors outside the control of the Group:
 expected return on scheme assets >
 inflation rate >
 mortality >
 discount rate >
 salary and pension increases >
Details of the assumptions used are included in note 31.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements incorporate the results of Galliford Try plc, its subsidiary undertakings and the Group’s share of the results  
of joint ventures. Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group has the power to govern the financial 
and operating policies. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when 
assessing whether the Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the 
Group until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is 
measured at the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange plus 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition. The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in the business 
combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of any minority interest. The excess of cost of 
acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses  
are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries are changed 
where necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
In addition to total performance measures, the Group discloses additional information including performance before exceptional items,  
profit from operations and adjusted earnings per share. The Group believes that this additional information provides useful information on 
underlying trends. This additional information is not defined under IFRS, and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit 
measures reported by other companies. It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures of profit.
Exceptional items
Material non-recurring items of income and expense are disclosed in the income statement as “exceptional items”. Examples of items which 
may give rise to disclosure as exceptional items include gains and losses on the disposal of businesses, investments and property, plant and 
equipment, cost of restructuring and reorganisation of businesses, asset impairments and pension fund settlements and curtailments.
Segment reporting
Segment reporting is presented in the consolidated financial statements in respect of the Group’s business segments, which are the primary 
basis of segment reporting. The business segment reporting reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structure. Segment 
results include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Revenue and profit
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser. Revenue comprises the 
fair value of the consideration received or receivable net of rebates, discounts and value added tax. Sales within the Group are eliminated. 
Revenue also includes the Group’s proportion of work carried out under jointly controlled operations.
Revenue and profit are recognised as follows:
i) Housebuilding and land sales 
Revenue from private housing sales, including affordable housing is recognised at legal completion, net of incentives. Revenue from land 
sales is recognised on the unconditional exchange of contracts. Profit is recognised on a site by site basis by reference to the expected result 
of each site. Contracting development sales for affordable housing are accounted for as construction contracts.
(ii) Facilities management contracts 
Revenue is recognised on an accruals basis once the service has been performed and with reference to value provided to the customer. 
Profit is recognised by reference to the specific costs incurred relating to the service provided. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 62
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
1 Accounting policies continued
(iii) Construction contracts 
Revenue comprises the value of construction executed during the year and contracting development sales for affordable housing. The results 
for the year include adjustments for the outcome of contracts, including jointly controlled operations, executed in both the current and 
preceding years.
(a) Fixed price contracts – Revenue is recognised based upon an internal assessment of the value of works carried out. This assessment 
is arrived at after due consideration of the performance against the programme of works, measurement of the works, detailed 
evaluation of the costs incurred and comparison to external certification of the work performed. The amount of profit to be recognised 
is calculated based on the proportion that costs to date bear to the total estimated costs to complete. Revenue and profit are  
not recognised in the income statement until the outcome of the contract is reasonably certain. Adjustments arise from claims by 
customers or third parties in respect of work carried out and claims and variations on customers or third parties for variations on  
the original contract. Provision for claims against the Group is made as soon as it is believed that a liability will arise, but claims and 
variations made by the Group are not recognised in the income statement until the outcome is virtually certain. Provision will be made 
against any potential loss as soon as it is identified.
(b)  Cost plus contracts – Revenue is recognised based upon costs incurred to date plus any agreed fee. Where contracts include  
a target price consideration is given to the impact on revenue of the mechanism for distributing any savings or additional costs 
compared to the target price. Any revenue over and above the target price is recognised once the outcome is virtually certain. Profit 
is recognised on a constant margin throughout the life of the contract. Provision will be made against any potential loss as soon as  
it is identified.
Amounts recoverable on contracts and payments on account are calculated as cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses and 
cash received to date and are included in receivables or payables as appropriate.
(iv) Housing grants
Grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and the grants 
will be received. The grants are recognised as revenue or cost of sales, as appropriate, over the periods necessary to match them with the 
related costs which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis.
Bid costs for PFI/PPP contracts
Bid costs relating to PFI/PPP projects are not carried in the balance sheet as recoverable until the Group has been appointed preferred 
bidder or has received an indemnity in respect of the investment or costs, and regards recoverability of the costs as virtually certain.
Rent receivable
Rental income represents income obtained from the rental of properties and is credited to the income statement on a straight line basis  
over the period of the lease within revenue.
Interest income and expense 
Interest income and expense is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Income tax 
Current income tax is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation recorded in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years or that are never taxable or 
deductible. The liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted, or substantially enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for all temporary differences between the carrying amount 
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is measured at the average 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on rates and laws that  
have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax is accounted for on an undiscounted basis.  
A deferred tax asset is only recognised when it is more likely than not that the asset will be recoverable in the foreseeable future out of 
suitable taxable profits from which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted. 
Deferred income tax is charged or credited through the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited through the 
statement of comprehensive income, when it is charged or credited there.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the net assets 
acquired. It is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is a triggering event by considering the  
net present value of future cash flows. Any impairment is charged immediately to the income statement and is not subsequently reversed. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts following 
impairment tests. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been restated. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units  
or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets include brands, customer contracts and customer relationships acquired on acquisition of subsidiary companies. The 
intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is a triggering event. Intangible assets are stated at amortised 
cost less any impairment.  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 63
1 Accounting policies continued
Intangible assets are being amortised over the following periods:
(a) Brand – on a straight line basis over 4 to 10 years.
(b) Customer contracts – in line with expected profit generation varying from 1 to 9 years.
(c) Customer relationships – on a straight line basis over 3 years.
Property, plant and equipment 
Land and buildings comprise mainly offices and are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. All other property, plant 
and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of each asset to estimated residual value over its expected useful life. Freehold land is not 
depreciated. The annual rates of depreciation are as follows: 
Freehold buildings 2%
On cost or reducing balance: 
Plant and machinery 15% to 33%
Fixtures and fittings 10% to 33%
 In addition to systematic depreciation the book value of property, plant and equipment would be written down to estimated recoverable 
amount should any impairment in the respective carrying values be identified.
The asset residual values, carrying values and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Repairs and maintenance expenditure is expensed as incurred on an accruals basis.
Joint ventures
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint control with third 
parties. The Group’s interest in joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method. Under this method the Group’s share of profits 
less losses after taxation of joint ventures is included in the consolidated income statement and its interest in their net assets is included in 
investments in the consolidated balance sheet. Where the share of losses exceeds the Group’s interest in the entity and there is no obligation 
to fund these losses the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued. Future profits are not recognised 
until unrecognised losses are extinguished. Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed on consolidation where necessary to 
ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group. Where joint ventures do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with  
the Group’s, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Group’s accounting reference date.
Jointly controlled operations and assets
The Group accounts for jointly controlled operations and assets by recognising its share of profits and losses in the consolidated income 
statement. The Group recognises its share of associated assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. 
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date. On 
initial recognition the asset is recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. Available for sale financial assets are measured at subsequent 
reporting dates at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the asset is disposed  
of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or 
loss for the period.
The Group operates schemes under which part of the agreed sales price for a residential property can be deferred until the earlier of 10 years, 
remortgage or resale of the property. The fair value of these assets is calculated by taking into account forecast inflation in property prices 
and discounting back to present value using the effective interest rate. Provision is also made for estimated default to arrive at the initial fair 
value. The unwind of the discount included on initial recognition at fair value is recognised as finance income in the year.
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Inventories and developments
Inventories and developments are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Work in progress is valued at the lower of cost, 
including direct costs and directly attributable overheads, and net realisable value. On initial recognition, land is included within developments 
at its fair value, which is its cost to the Group. Land inventory is recognised at the time a liability is recognised which is generally after the 
exchange of conditional contracts once it is virtually certain the contract will be completed.
Where a development is in progress net realisable value is assessed by considering the expected future revenues and the total costs to 
complete the development including direct costs and directly attributable overheads. To the extent that the Group anticipates selling a 
development in its current state then net realisable value is taken as its open market value at the balance sheet date less any anticipated 
selling costs. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 64
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method,  
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group 
will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, 
probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (typically more than  
30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between 
the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The 
carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income 
statement within ‘cost of sales’.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the impairment provision for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of 
amounts previously written off are credited against ‘cost of sales’ in the income statement. Short term trade receivables do not carry any 
interest and are stated at their amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at nominal value. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, including bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are 
also included as they are an integral part of the Group’s cash management.
Bank deposits with an original term of more than three months are classified as short term deposits where the cash can be withdrawn on 
demand and the penalty for early withdrawal is not significant. Cash held in escrow accounts is classified as a short term deposit where the 
escrow agreement allows the balance to be converted to cash if replaced by a bond repayable on demand.
Bank and other borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts and other loans are originally recognised at fair value net of transaction costs incurred. Such 
borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with the difference between initial fair value and redemption value recognised in the 
income statement over the period to redemption.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in 
the income statement using the effective interest rate method. Re-financing costs associated with new borrowing arrangements are included 
within the borrowing amount and amortised over the period of the loan.
Trade payables
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value. Trade payables on extended terms, 
particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate. The discount  
to nominal value is amortised over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the effective interest rate.
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Provisions for onerous leases and restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably 
estimated. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination costs and employee termination payments. Provisions are not recognised  
for future operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using the pre-tax rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to 
the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Derivative financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provision  
of the instrument.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risks. In accordance with its treasury policy, the 
Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments, mainly comprising interest rate swaps, are initially accounted for and measured at fair value at the  
point the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value. The gain or loss on re-measurement is taken to  
the income statement.
Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the income statement. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 65
1 Accounting policies continued
Retirement benefit obligations
For defined contribution schemes operated by the Group, amounts payable are charged to the income statement as they accrue.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit method. 
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the excess of the present value of scheme liabilities over the  
fair value of the schemes’ assets. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future  
cash flows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension 
liability. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Gains and losses arising on curtailment and settlements are taken to the income statement as incurred.
Accounting for Employee Share Ownership Plan
Own shares held by the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust (“The Trust”) are shown, at cost less any permanent diminution in value, as a 
deduction from retained earnings. The charge made to the income statement for employee share awards and options is based on the fair 
value of the award at the date of grant spread over the performance period. Where such shares subsequently vest to the employees under 
the terms of the Group’s share option schemes or are sold, any consideration received is included in shareholders’ equity.
Share based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined 
by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions such as growth in earnings 
per share. Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest. At each 
balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the 
revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium  
when the options are exercised.
Dividend policy
Final dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in  
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of directly attributable incremental issue costs.
Consideration paid for shares in the Group held by the Employee Benefit Trust are deducted from total shareholders’ equity.
2  Segmental reporting
Segment reporting is presented in the consolidated financial statements in respect of the Group’s business segments, which are the primary 
basis of segment reporting. The business segment reporting reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structure. Segment 
results include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. As the Group has  
no material activities outside the UK, segmental reporting is not required by geographical region. Inter-segment revenue is not material.
The chief operating decision-maker (“CODM”) has been identified as the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director. The CODM 
review the group’s internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources. Management has determined the operating 
segments based on these reports. Following decisions made by management to embark on plans to expand its contracting business for 
the affordable housing market within the Partnerships division the Group’s internal reporting was changed to reflect the new management 
structure. As a result management has reconsidered the segmental disclosure made in the Interim Statement and has concluded that it  
is more appropriate to disclose five main operating segments, namely Housebuilding, Building, Partnerships, Infrastructure and PPP 
investments as this better reflects how information is now presented to the CODM. The housebuilding segment encompasses all private 
housing development, including that previously reported under regeneration.
The CODM assess the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted earnings before net finance costs, tax and 
amortisation. This measurement basis excludes the effects of non-recurring expenditure from the operating segments, such as restructuring 
costs and impairments when the impairment is the result of an isolated, non-recurring event. Interest income and expenditure are included 
in the result for each operating segment that is reviewed by the CODM. Other information provided to them is measured in a manner 
consistent with that in the financial statements.
Following the adoption of IFRS 8, the segmental reporting below includes profit from operations which is stated before finance costs, 
amortisation of intangible assets, share of joint ventures’ interest and tax, exceptional items and tax. This reflects the principal internal 
reporting measure used by the CODM. As at 30 June 2010, the operating segments reported are different to those previously reported  
and hence the comparative information provided for the year ended 30 June 2009 has been restated accordingly. In addition, profit from 
operations in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 was stated including the Group’s share of joint ventures’ interest hence the 
presentation has also been amended in line with the current disclosures. Central costs relate to head office costs that cannot be allocated  
to the operating segments. Other segment information has been provided as required by IFRS 8, although not all is directly reviewed by  
the CODM. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 66
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
2  Segmental reporting continued
Primary reporting format – business segments
     Construction
 House-  Partner- Infra-  PPP  Central
 building Building ships** structure Total  Investments costs Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Year ended 30 June 2010
Group revenue and share 
of joint ventures’ revenue 316.0 445.3 93.8 397.4 936.5 3.5 0.4 1,256.4
Share of joint ventures’ revenue (21.8) (0.2) – (10.4) (10.6) (2.1) – (34.5)
Revenue 294.2 445.1 93.8 387.0 925.9 1.4 0.4 1,221.9
Segment result:
Profit/(loss) from operations before  
share of joint ventures’ profit 15.2 10.6 1.3 10.7 22.6 1.3 (7.6) 31.5
Share of joint ventures’ profit  2.4 0.2 – – 0.2 1.1 – 3.7
Profit/(loss) from operations* 17.6 10.8 1.3 10.7 22.8 2.4 (7.6) 35.2
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax  (2.0) (0.2) – – (0.2) (2.3) – (4.5)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs, amortisation, 
net exceptional items and taxation 15.6 10.6 1.3 10.7 22.6 0.1 (7.6) 30.7
Net finance (costs)/income (11.0) 0.8 – (0.4) 0.4 – 7.3 (3.3)
Profit/(loss) before amortisation, 
net exceptional items and taxation 4.6 11.4 1.3 10.3 23.0 0.1 (0.3) 27.4
Amortisation of intangibles        (1.3)
Profit before net exceptional items and taxation        26.1
Net exceptional items        (6.9)
Income tax expense        (8.4)
Profit for the year        10.8
Year ended 30 June 2009 (restated)
Group revenue and share of joint 
ventures’ revenue 306.7 528.7 130.4 516.6 1,175.7 27.4 0.5 1,510.3
Share of joint ventures’ revenue (12.0) (0.5) – (10.8) (11.3) (25.8) – (49.1)
Revenue 294.7 528.2 130.4 505.8 1,164.4 1.6 0.5 1,461.2
Segment result:
Profit/(loss) from operations before  
share of joint ventures’ profit 11.0 11.6 2.1 13.9 27.6 2.3 (6.0) 34.9
Share of joint ventures’ profit  0.3 0.3 – – 0.3 7.9 – 8.5
Profit/(loss) from operations* 11.3 11.9 2.1 13.9 27.9 10.2 (6.0) 43.4
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax  (0.3) (0.2) – – (0.2) (9.0) – (9.5)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs, amortisation, 
net exceptional items and taxation 11.0 11.7 2.1 13.9 27.7 1.2 (6.0) 33.9
Net finance (costs)/income (23.0) 3.0 (1.3) 1.0 2.8 (0.4) 13.2 (7.4)
Profit/(loss) before amortisation, 
net exceptional items and taxation (12.0) 14.7 0.8 14.9 30.5 0.8 7.2 26.5
Amortisation of intangibles        (2.0)
Profit before net exceptional items and taxation        24.5
Net exceptional items        (51.4)
Income tax expense        9.1
Loss for the year        (17.8)
* Profit from operations is stated before finance costs, amortisation, share of joint ventures’ interest and tax, exceptional items and taxation.
** Revenue in this segment includes £7.5 million (2009: £19.3 million) relating to work done for joint venture undertakings at cost. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 67
2  Segmental reporting continued
     Construction
 House-   Infra-  PPP  Central   
 building Building Partnerships structure Total  Investments costs Total
 Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Year ended 30 June 2010         
Assets    
Net cash/(debt)  (467.9) 140.4  23.3  43.1  206.8  2.1  335.5   76.5 
Other assets          943.7 
Borrowings         90.2 
Deferred income tax assets         11.2 
Total assets         1,121.6 
Year ended 30 June 2009 (restated)
Assets
Net cash/(debt)  (433.7) 152.2  10.4  74.5  237.1  (8.8) 239.5   34.1 
Other assets          856.0 
Borrowings         125.4 
Deferred income tax assets         12.0 
Total assets          1,027.5 
Other segment information
Year ended 30 June 2010
Investment in joint ventures   0.6  1.0 – – 1.0  0.5 – 2.1 
Contracting revenue  24.0  437.6  93.8  385.6  917.0  – – 941.0 
Capital expenditure 
   (including acquisitions)
–  Property, plant and equipment 11 0.1  – – 0.8  0.8  – 0.7  1.6 
Depreciation 11 0.1  0.3  – 0.9  1.2  – 0.7  2.0 
Impairment of receivables 5 – 0.4  – – 0.4  – – 0.4 
Share based payments 3 0.1  0.2  – 0.3  0.5  – 1.2  1.8 
Amortisation of intangible assets 5 1.0  0.3  – – 0.3  – – 1.3
Year ended 30 June 2009 (restated)
Investment in joint ventures   0.3  0.4  – – 0.4  – –  0.7 
Contracting revenue  64.1  514.1  130.4  495.9  1,140.4  – – 1,204.5 
Capital expenditure
   (including acquisitions)           
–  Property, plant and equipment 11 0.3  0.4  – 2.1  2.5  – 0.6  3.4 
Depreciation 11 0.2  0.4  – 1.1  1.5  – 0.7  2.4 
Impairment of receivables 5 – 0.2  – – 0.2  – – 0.2 
Share based payments 3 0.2  0.5  – 0.6  1.1  – 0.1  1.4 
Amortisation of intangible assets 5 1.1  0.3  – 0.6  0.9  – – 2.0 Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 68
3  Employees and directors
     2010 2009
Employee benefit expense for the Group during the year    £m £m
Wages and salaries     142.0 158.5 
Redundancy and termination costs     – 2.3 
Social security costs     15.1 17.4 
Retirement benefit costs (see note 31)     12.8 7.7 
Share based payments (see note 28)     1.8 1.4 
     171.7   187.3 
      2009
     2010 (restated)
Average monthly number of people (including executive directors) employed   Number Number
By business group:       
Housebuilding     554  476 
Building     1,020  1,164
Partnerships     286 338
Infrastructure     1,416  1,796 
Total Construction       2,722   3,298 
PPP Investments     19  20 
Group      233  238 
      3,528   4,032 
    
The allocation of employees to segments in 2009 has been restated in line with the segmental reporting as explained in note 2.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The key management personnel comprise the Executive Board and non-executive directors. The remuneration of the key management 
personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures. Further 
information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Salaries and short term employee benefits      3.9   2.3 
Retirement benefit costs     0.3   0.2 
Share based payments     1.2   0.1 
      5.4   2.6 
4  Net finance costs
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Interest receivable on bank deposits     0.6 1.5
Interest receivable from joint ventures     2.4 2.2
Unwind of discount on shared equity receivables     0.4 –
Fair value profit on financing activities – interest rate swaps    0.7 –
Other     0.3 0.1
Finance income     4.4 3.8
      
Interest payable on borrowings     (4.5) (5.4)
Unwind of discounted payables     (1.1) (1.5)
Fair value losses on financing activities – interest rate swaps    – (3.5)
Net finance cost on retirement benefit obligations     (2.0) (0.8)
Other     (0.1) –
Finance costs     (7.7) (11.2)
Net finance costs     (3.3) (7.4)
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 69
5  Profit/(loss) before income tax
The following items have been included in arriving at profit/(loss) before income tax:
     2010 2009
    Notes £m £m
Employee benefit expense    3 171.7 187.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:  
– Owned assets    11 2.0 2.4
Amortisation of intangible assets    9 1.3 2.0
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment      (0.1) (0.1)
Profit on sale of investments    14 (4.4) (4.2)
Other operating lease rentals payable:  
– Plant and machinery     29.7 52.6
– Property     3.8 3.8
Inventories recognised as an expense     7.1 9.5
Developments recognised as an expense     263.8 321.8
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment    0.8 0.9
Impairment of receivables    18 0.4 0.2
Net exceptional items     6.9 51.4 
Net exceptional items
We have reviewed the carrying value of housing related assets in light of the limited recovery in the housing market since the downturn in the 
previous year which resulted in an exceptional charge to the income statement of £51.4 million for the year ended 30 June 2009. This has 
resulted in adjustments to the carrying value of a number of development sites in circumstances where the original estimates have been 
changed, resulting in a net exceptional credit to the income statement of £1.4 million in respect of market movements. This is made up of a 
write down in land and work in progress in the period of £2.0 million and a reversal of £3.4 million on developments that were written down  
in the previous financial year. Other movements on these sites are taken to normal trading. The income tax charge associated with this net 
exceptional item amounted to £0.4 million (30 June 2009: £15.1 million credit).
On 22 September 2009 the Office of Fair Trading announced its decision to fine 103 companies following its investigation into breaches of the 
Competition Act 1998 in the construction industry. Galliford Try has been fined £8.3 million in respect of three incidences of “cover pricing” 
that occurred between the years 2001 to 2004. Cover pricing was the practice undertaken when a contractor wished to stay on a client’s 
tender list, but not carry out a particular building contract, of obtaining a price from another tenderer that was intended to be at a level that 
would not win the tender. The fine takes into account the maximum reduction granted by the OFT for companies that co-operated fully with 
their investigation from the time that they were made aware of the allegations.
The Group has submitted an appeal to the Competition Appeal Tribunal in respect of the size of the penalty imposed; however the outcome 
of the appeal is not expected until late in 2010. Accordingly, a provision for the full amount has been made in the period. No tax credit is 
associated with this exceptional charge as it is not deductible for tax purposes.
Services provided by the Group’s auditors and network firms
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at costs as detailed below:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements  0.2 0.2
Total audit services     0.2 0.2
The audit of financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation   0.3 0.3
Services relating to corporate matters 
(a)
     0.3 –
Services relating to taxation and accounting advice 
(b)
     0.3 0.1
Total non-audit services     0.9 0.4
Total     1.1 0.6
  
(a) Work relating to working capital report required for the rights issue. 
(b) Includes £0.2 million relating to the acquisition of interests in joint ventures.
A description of the work of the audit committee in respect of auditors’ independence is set out in the Corporate Governance Report. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 70
6  Income tax expense/(income)
   000 000000  2010  00000000  2009
   Before    Before
   exceptional Exceptional  exceptional Exceptional 
   items items Total items items Total
  Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Analysis of expense/(income) in year
Current year’s income tax
Current tax   8.7 0.4 9.1 8.3 (15.1) (6.8)
Deferred tax   25 (0.6) – (0.6) (2.3) – (2.3)
Adjustments in respect of prior years
Current tax   (0.3) – (0.3) 0.3 – 0.3
Deferred tax  25 0.2 – 0.2 (0.3) – (0.3)
Income tax expense/(income)   8.0 0.4 8.4 6.0 (15.1) (9.1)
Tax on items recognised in equity  
Deferred tax expense/(income) on retirement benefit obligations  1.3 – 1.3 (1.8) – (1.8)
Total taxation   9.3 0.4 9.7 4.2 (15.1) (10.9)
The total income tax expense for the year of £8.4 million (2009: income £9.1 million) is higher (2009: higher) than the year end standard rate 
of corporation tax in the UK of 28% (2009: 28%). The differences are explained below:
   0000 00000   2010 000000000   2009 
   Before    Before
   exceptional Exceptional  exceptional Exceptional 
   items items Total items items Total
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) before income tax   26.1 (6.9) 19.2 24.5 (51.4)  (26.9) 
Profit/(loss) before income tax multiplied by the year end standard rate 
in the UK of 28% (2009: 28%)   7.3 (1.9) 5.4 6.8 (14.4) (7.6)
Effects of:    
Permanent differences   2.7 2.3 5.0 0.4 – 0.4
Non taxable income   (1.9) – (1.9) (1.2) – (1.2)
Change in rate of current income tax   – – – – (0.7) (0.7)
Adjustments in respect of prior years   (0.1) – (0.1) – – –
Income tax expense/(income)   8.0 0.4 8.4 6.0 (15.1)  (9.1)
A number of changes to the UK Corporation tax system were announced in the June 2010 Budget Statement. The Finance (No 2) Act 2010
included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 28% to 27% from 1 April 2011. Further reductions to the main rate are 
proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 24% by 1 April 2014. The changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these financial statements.
The effect of the changes to be enacted in the Finance (No 2) Act 2010 would be to reduce the deferred tax asset provided at 30 June 2010 
by £0.3 million. This £0.3 million decrease in the deferred tax asset would decrease profit for the year by £0.3 million.This decrease in the 
deferred tax asset is due to the reduction in the corporation tax rate from 28% to 27% with effect from 1 April 2011.
The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per year to 24% by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately 
each year. The overall effect of the further changes from 27% to 24%, if these applied to the deferred tax balance at 30 June 2010, would  
be to reduce the deferred tax asset by £1.0 million (being £0.3 million recognised in 2012, £0.3 million recognised in 2013 and £0.3 million 
recognised in 2014).
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 71
7  Dividends
The dividend per ordinary share amounts shown in the table below have been restated by dividing those previously reported by an adjusting 
factor of 0.1381 to reflect the share consolidation and bonus element in the shares issued under the rights issue which completed on  
22 October 2009.
     000  000 2009
      2010  (restated)
      pence per  pence per
     £m share £m share
Previous year final      4.0  7.6   7.9   15.2
Current period interim      2.7   3.3   1.7   3.3
Dividend recognised in the year      6.7  10.9  9.6 18.5 
     
The following dividends were declared by the Company in respect of each accounting period presented:
     000  000 2009
      2010  (restated)
      pence per  pence per
     £m share £m share
Interim      2.7   3.3   1.7   3.3 
Final      7.5   9.2   4.0   7.6 
Dividend relating to the year     10.2   12.5   5.7   10.9 
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2010 of 9.2p per share, bringing the total dividend
in respect of 2010 to 12.5p per share (2009: 10.9p). The final dividend will absorb approximately £7.5 million of shareholders’ funds. Subject 
to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 November 2010, the dividend will be paid on 12 November 2010 to 
shareholders who are on the register of members on 8 October 2010.
8  Earnings/(loss) per share
a) Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share
Basic earnings/(loss) per share is calculated by dividing the earnings/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held by the Employee Share Trust (note 30), which are treated  
as cancelled.
The weighted average number of shares used for 2009 in the calculation of earnings per share information shown in the table below has 
been restated by adjusting those previously reported by an adjusting factor of 0.1381 to reflect the share consolidation and bonus element  
in the shares issued under the rights issue which completed on 22 October 2009.
Under normal circumstances, the average number of shares is diluted by reference to the average number of potential ordinary shares held 
under option in the period. The dilutive effect amounts to the number of ordinary shares which would be purchased using the aggregate 
difference in value between the market value of shares and the share option price. Only shares that have met their cumulative performance 
criteria are included in the dilution calculation. The Group has two classes of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: those share options granted 
to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year and the 
contingently issuable shares under the Group’s long term incentive plan. A loss per share cannot be reduced through dilution, hence this 
dilution is only applied where the Group has reported a profit. As at 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2010, there are no potentially dilutive shares 
as the employer share options have an exercise price that is greater than the current share price.
The earnings/(loss) and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
      2009
 0000000  2010 0000000  (restated)
  Weighted   Weighted
  average  Per share  average Per share
 Profit   number of amount Loss  number of amount
 £m shares pence £m shares pence
Basic EPS
Earnings/(loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders 10.8 73,598,363 14.7 (17.8) 51,673,188 (34.4)
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options  –  –  – –
Diluted EPS 10.8 73,598,363 14.7 (17.8) 51,673,188 (34.4) Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 72
8  Earnings/(loss) per share continued
b) Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share based on the earnings before net exceptional items of £7.3 million (2009: £36.3 million) for the year are set  
out below:
      2009
 0000000  2010 0000000  (restated)
  Weighted   Weighted
  average  Per share  average Per share
 Earnings   number of amount Earnings  number of amount
 £m shares pence £m shares pence
Basic EPS
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 18.1 73,598,363 24.6  18.5  51,673,188 35.8
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options   –  –  – –
Diluted EPS 18.1 73,598,363 24.6  18.5   51,673,188  35.8
9  Intangible assets
    Customer Customer
   Brand contracts relationships Total
   £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 July 2008, 1 July 2009 and 30 June 2010   10.8  2.9  0.4  14.1
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 July 2008   (1.6) (2.1) (0.2) (3.9)
Amortisation in year   (1.3) (0.5) (0.2) (2.0)
At 1 July 2009   (2.9) (2.6) (0.4) (5.9)
Amortisation in year   (1.0) (0.3) – (1.3)
At 30 June 2010   (3.9) (2.9) (0.4) (7.2)
Net book amount
At 30 June 2010   6.9 – – 6.9
At 30 June 2009   7.9 0.3 – 8.2
All amortisation charges in the year have been included in administrative expenses.
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 73
10  Goodwill
      £m
Cost
At 1 July 2008, 1 July 2009 and 30 June 2010      115.7
Accumulated amortisation and aggregate impairment at 1 July 2008, 1 July 2009 and 30 June 2010   (0.7)
Net book amount 
At 30 June 2010      115.0
At 30 June 2009      115.0
Impairment review of goodwill 
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) identified according to business segment.   
The goodwill is attributable to the following business segments:
      2009
     2010 (restated)
     £m £m
Housebuilding     52.2 52.2
Building     17.9 17.9
Partnerships     5.8 5.8
Infrastructure     37.2 37.2
PPP Investments     1.9 1.9
     115.0 115.0
The allocation of goodwill to segments in 2009 has been restated in line with the segmental reporting as explained in note 2.
Key assumptions
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations. These calculations use pre tax cash flow projections 
based on future financial budgets approved by the Board based on past performance and its expectation of market developments. The key 
assumptions within these budgets relate to revenue growth and the future profit margin achievable. Future budgeted revenue is based on 
management’s knowledge of actual results from prior years, latest forecasts for the current year along with the existing secured work and 
management’s future expectation of the level of work available within the market sector and expected changes in selling volumes and prices  
for completed houses. In establishing future profit margins, the margins currently being achieved are considered in conjunction with expected 
inflation rates in each cost category and to reflect the current market value of land being acquired. Budgeted profit margins in housebuilding 
are in line with expectations included within the strategic review undertaken at the time of the rights issue to double the size of the 
housebuilding business, increasing the number of home completions from the current level of around 1,700 to around 3,500 in 2012.
Cash is monitored very closely on a daily, weekly and monthly basis for the purposes of managing both treasury and the business as a whole. 
Details of the Group’s treasury management are included within the Business Review on page 31 of the Annual Report. The assumptions 
used are reviewed regularly and differences between forecast and actual results are closely monitored with variances being investigated fully. 
The knowledge gained from this past experience is used to ensure that the future assumptions used are consistent with past actual outcomes 
and are management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of each business unit. Cash flows beyond the budgeted three year period are 
extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 3% per annum within building, partnerships and infrastructure and 2.5% per annum within 
housebuilding. The growth rate used is the Group’s estimate of the average long term growth rate for the market sectors in which the  
CGU operates. Pre tax discount rates of 12.8% (2009: 11.3%) in housebuilding, 12.0% (2009: 11.9%) in building, 12.7% (2009: 11.3%) in 
partnerships, 13.1% (2009: 11.9%) in infrastructure and 11.8% (2009: 10.5%) in investments have been applied to the future cash flows.
Sensitivities
The fair value of the goodwill in all CGU’s are substantially in excess of book value. Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken on each goodwill 
impairment review, by changing the discount rates, profit margins, growth rates and other variables applicable to each CGU. Taking into 
account current market conditions within the construction and housebuilding markets, none of these sensitivities, either individually or combined, 
resulted in the carrying value of these businesses being reduced to its recoverable amount.
The impairment review relating to Linden Homes goodwill, which is included within the housebuilding segment, could be impacted by the 
uncertainty over trading conditions within the housing market. The detailed sensitivity analysis indicates that an increase of more than 33% 
(2009: 27%) in the pre tax discount rate or a reduction of 40% (2009: 41%) in the forecast operating profits of the CGU would give rise to  
an impairment. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 74
11  Property, plant and equipment
   Land and  Plant and Fixtures and
   buildings machinery fittings Total
   £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 July 2008   3.5  3.6  8.5  15.6
Additions   –  2.3  1.1  3.4
Disposals   (0.1) (1.1) (1.5) (2.7)
At 1 July 2009   3.4  4.8  8.1  16.3
Additions    – 0.7 0.9 1.6
Disposals   (0.2) (0.9) (0.1) (1.2)
At 30 June 2010   3.2  4.6  8.9  16.7
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2008   0.8  1.3  5.5  7.6
Charge for the year   0.2  1.3  0.9  2.4
Disposals   – (0.8) (1.2) (2.0)
At 1 July 2009   1.0 1.8 5.2 8.0
Charge for the year   0.1 0.9 1.0 2.0
Disposals   (0.2) (0.6) (0.1) (0.9)
At 30 June 2010   0.9  2.1  6.1  9.1
Net book amount
At 30 June 2010   2.3  2.5  2.8  7.6
At 30 June 2009   2.4  3.0  2.9 8.3
There are no assets held under finance leases (2009: £Nil).
The cost of land and building primarily relates to freehold properties. 
There has been no impairment of property, plant and equipment during the year (2009: £Nil).
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 75
12  Investments in joint ventures
     2010 2009
     £m £m
At 1 July
– Net assets excluding goodwill     0.7 9.3
– Goodwill     – 3.2
     0.7 12.5
Additions
 (a)
– Net assets     2.4 5.1
Transferred to subsidiary undertaking 
(b)
     – –
Transferred to non-current assets classified as held for sale    – (12.1)
Disposal 
(c)
      (0.1) (1.0)
Dividend received from joint ventures      (0.1) (2.8)
Share of post tax losses     (0.8) (1.0)
At 30 June
– Net assets excluding goodwill     2.1 0.7
– Goodwill     – –
     2.1 0.7
Joint ventures
At 30 June 2010 the Group held interests in the following principal joint ventures all of which are incorporated in England and Wales, except 
where stated:
  %
Name Year end shareholding Principal activity
Kingseat Development 2 Limited (Scotland) 30 June 50% Building   
Projco (St Andrews Hospital) Limited (Scotland) 31 March  50% Construction and facilities management  
WLHC ProjectCo Limited
 (a) (iii)
 31 October 100% Construction and facilities management
gbconsortium2 Limited 31 March  50% PPP Investment   
Urban Vision Partnership Limited 31 December 30%* Infrastructure   
Wates Homes BR1 Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding   
Wates Linden (Cuckfield) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding   
Linden Wates (Ridgewood) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding   
Linden and Dorchester Limited 30 June 50% Housebuilding   
Linden and Dorchester Portsmouth Limited 30 June 50% Housebuilding   
Crest/Galliford Try (Epsom) LLP 31 October 50% Housebuilding   
Linden/Downland Graylingwell LLP 31 March  50% Housebuilding   
* Under the terms of the shareholders’ agreement and in relation to voting rights this investment is treated as a joint venture.
Other than noted above the Group had no significant interests in joint ventures at the year end.
(a) Additions
 (i) On 3 July 2009 and 30 March 2010, the Group subscribed for £0.1 million and £1.1 million respectively of subordinated debt in  
  Projco (St Andrews Hospital) Limited.     
 (ii)  On 29 January 2010, the Group acquired an additional 5% shareholding in gbconsortium2 Limited for £0.1 million, settled in cash.  
  This increased the Group’s shareholding to 50%. On 12 March 2010 the Group subscribed for £0.6 million of subordinated debt in   
  gbconsortium2 Limited.
 (iii) On 2 February 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the equity in WLHC ProjectCo Limited and subscribed for £1 million of subordinated  
  debt. The Group’s intention is to sell 50% of this investment and retain a joint venture interest. The share of the asset to be retained  
  has been classified as an addition to investments in joint ventures.
(b) Transferred to subsidiary undertaking
 (i) On 14 October 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 50% shareholding in its joint venture Linden Properties Western Limited,  
  taking the Group’s ownership to 100%. With effect from this date, Linden Properties Western Limited is treated as a subsidiary   
  undertaking. The total consideration payable was £1. Full details of the acquisition are set out in note 32.   
 (ii) On 12 February 2010, the Group acquired the remaining 50% shareholding held by Bank of Scotland in its joint ventures undertaking  
  residential development in the south east area, taking the Group’s ownership to 100%. The joint ventures were Sentient Ventures   
  LLP, Linden London LLP, Linden London (Hammersmith) Limited, Linden Homes Eastern Newhall Limited and Linden St Albans LLP.  
   With effect from this date, these companies are treated as subsidiary undertakings. The companies are developing residential sites in  
  Colchester, Harlow, Hammersmith and St Albans. The consideration, which was settled in cash totalled a nominal £4. Full details of  
  the acquisition are set out in note 32.
(c) Disposals
 During the year gbconsortium2 Limited repaid loans of £0.1 million. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 76
12  Investments in joint ventures continued
In relation to the Group’s interest in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Current assets     129.2 172.4
Non-current assets     28.3 21.8
Current liabilities     (78.9) (84.1)
Non-current liabilities     (76.5) (109.4)
     2.1 0.7
Amounts due from joint ventures     46.0 45.7
Amounts due to joint ventures     0.9 1.0
Revenue     34.3 49.1
Expenses     (30.7) (35.2)
     3.6 13.9
Finance cost     (5.4) (17.6)
Income tax     1.0 2.7
Share of post tax (losses)/profits from joint ventures     (0.8) (1.0)
The Group’s share of unrecognised losses of joint ventures is £8.0 million (2009: £9.4 million).
As at 30 June 2010, amounts due from joint ventures of £46.0 million (2009: £55.4 million) were considered for impairment. The impairment 
reviews were based on future financial budgets based on past performance and expectation of market developments. The key assumptions 
used were consistent with those applied in the goodwill impairment reviews as described in note 10. No impairment has been provided for 
these balances in the year ended 30 June 2010 (2009: £9.7 million). At 30 June 2009, the provision was all allocated to balances due in more 
than one year.
The Group has commitments to provide a further £0.1 million and £3.0 million of subordinated debt to Projco (St Andrews Hospital) Limited 
and WHLC ProjectCo Limited respectively, by 30 June 2012.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed. The joint ventures had no capital commitments as 
at 30 June 2010 (2009: £Nil).
Details of related party transactions with joint ventures are given in note 35.
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 77
13 Available for sale financial assets
     2010 2009
     £m £m
At 1 July      9.4 3.6
Additions     6.1 6.4
Unwind of discount on shared equity receivables     0.4 –
Impairment     – (0.4)
Disposals     (0.2) (2.2)
At 30 June     15.7 9.4
The available for sale assets relate to PPP/PFI investments and shared equity receivables in which the Group’s interest depends on future
property prices.
Additions in the year of £6.1 million are made up as follows:
(i) During the year the Group’s investment in shared equity receivables increased by £5.5 million. £5.1 million related to new shared equity   
 receivables and £0.4 million arose on the unwind of the discount applied on initial recognition of the receivables at fair value which has   
 been shown as finance income in the income statement. The shared equity receivables are secured by a charge over the related property.  
(ii) On 28 August 2010, the Group subscribed for £0.6 million of subordinated debt in Ealing Care Alliance (Holdings) Limited.   
(iii) On 29 January 2010, the Group acquired an additional 1.1% shareholding in gbconsortium1 Limited for £0.1 million, settled in cash.  
 This increased the Group’s shareholding to 11.1%. On 29 July 2009, the Group subscribed for £0.1 million of subordinated debt in   
 gbconsortium1 Limited.     
(iii) On 8 April 2010, the Group subscribed for £0.2 million of subordinated debt in gbprimarycare Limited.
Disposals in the year of £0.2 million relate to the repayment of shared equity receivables.
The fair value of unlisted investments is based on future expected cash flows discounted using an average rate of 8.5% (2009: 8%) based on 
the type of investment and stage of completion of the underlying assets held.
14 Non-current assets classified as held for sale
     2010 2009
     £m £m
At 1 July      12.1 –
Transfer from investment in joint ventures     – 12.1
Additions     0.5 –
Disposal     (12.1) –
At 30 June      0.5 12.1
On 8 July 2009 the Group sold its investment in Alpha Schools (Highland) Limited for £16.5 million (net of expenses of £0.3 million) settled
in cash which gave rise to a profit on disposal of £4.4 million.
As stated in note 12, on 2 February 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the equity in WLHC ProjectCo Limited and subscribed for £1 milllion 
of subordinated debt. The Group’s intention is to sell 50% of this investment and retain a joint venture interest. The share of the asset to be 
disposed of has been classified as non-current assets classified as held for resale.
15 Inventories
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Materials and consumables      1.1   0.9
No inventories have been written off during the year.
16  Developments
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Land     364.1 317.0 
Work in progress     164.8 130.6 
      528.9 447.6 Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 78
17  Construction contracts
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Contracts in progress at balance sheet date:
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts included in trade and other receivables   121.5 115.4
Payments received on account on construction contracts included in trade and other payables  (59.1) (76.8)
     62.4 38.6
The aggregate amount of cost incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all contracts in progress at the balance sheet date 
was £1,995.9 million (2009: £2,068.8 million).
Retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £37.0 million (2009: £32.6 million).
18 Trade and other receivables
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables     82.6 75.8
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables     (0.9) (0.5)
Trade receivables – net     81.7 75.3
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts     121.5 115.4
Amounts owed by joint venture undertakings     8.9 8.8
Other receivables     8.8 7.7
Prepayments and accrued income     6.8 6.3
     227.7 213.5
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Amounts falling due in more than one year:
Amounts owed by joint venture undertakings     37.1 36.9
Other receivables     1.1 3.4
     38.2 40.3
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivable are as follows:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
At 1 July     (0.5) (0.6)
Provision for receivables impairment     (0.4) (0.2)
Unused amounts reversed     – 0.3
At 30 June      (0.9) (0.5)
Provisions for impaired receivables have been included in ‘cost of sales’ in the income statement. Amounts charged to the impairment 
provision are generally written off, when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
Provisions for amounts owed by joint venture undertakings are set out in note 12. The other classes within trade and other receivables do  
not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the book value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does 
not hold any collateral as security. None of the financial assets that are fully performing have been renegotiated in the last year.
Management believes that the concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the Group’s customer base being 
large and unrelated. Major water industry customers accounted for in total 10% (2009: 14%) of Group revenue in the year. However, the 
customers involved comprise a variety of entities including those both in the public and commercial sectors. In addition, within the commercial 
sector each customer has an unrelated ultimate parent company.
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 79
18 Trade and other receivables continued
The maturity of non-current receivables is as follows:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
In more than one year but not more than two years     0.7 4.6
In more than two years but not more than five years     15.2 12.8
In more than five years     22.3 22.9
     38.2 40.3
Of the amounts due in more than five years £0.3 million (2009: £0.3 million) is due within 18 years (2009: 19 years) and £22.0 million  
(2009: £17.6 million) is due within six years (2009: seven years). These amounts are unsecured and interest rates vary from bank base rate 
plus 1.75% to 10%.
As of 30 June 2010, trade receivables of £7.3 million (2009: £11.1 million) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of 
independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default and there are no indications that they will not meet their payment 
obligations in respect of the trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet that are past due and unprovided. The ageing analysis of  
these trade receivables is as follows:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Number of days past due date:
Less than 30 days     2.9 1.7
Between 30 and 60 days     1.2 2.2
Between 60 and 90 days     0.3 1.2
Between 90 and 120 days     0.3 0.6
Greater than 120 days     2.6 5.4
     7.3 11.1
As of 30 June 2010, trade receivables of £5.4 million (2009: £5.7 million) were considered for impairment. The amount provided for these 
balances was £0.9 million (2009: £0.5 million). The allocation of the provision is as follows:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Number of days past due date:
Less than 30 days     – 0.1
Greater than 120 days     0.9 0.4
     0.9 0.5
19  Cash and cash equivalents
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand     22.2 44.6
Short term bank deposit     144.5 114.9 
     166.7 159.5 
  
The short term bank deposits above includes £7.5 million (2009: £6.3 million) which is held in escrow. The funds will become available on 
completion of the associated contract.
The effective interest rate received on cash balances is 0.4% (2009: 1.7%). Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 80
19  Cash and cash equivalents continued
     2010 2009
Net cash     £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents (as above)     166.7 159.5
Current borrowings
Bank loan      – (11.5)
Unsecured loan notes      (1.0) (1.5)
Non-current borrowings
Bank loans     (89.2) (112.4)
Net cash     76.5 34.1
20  Trade and other payables
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Payments received on account on construction contracts     59.1  76.8 
Trade payables     94.9 105.1 
Development land creditors     58.8 25.6 
Amounts due to joint venture undertakings     0.9 1.0 
Other taxation and social security payable     16.0 11.4 
Other payables     19.1  14.1 
Deferred consideration on acquisitions     – 0.7 
Accruals and deferred income     314.2 311.5 
     563.0 546.2 
The deferred consideration of £0.7 million at 30 June 2009 related to the acquisition of Kendall Cross Holdings Limited and was settled in
November 2009.
21  Current income tax liabilities
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Current income tax liabilities     5.9 4.6
22  Provisions for other liabilities and charges
    Onerous
   Restructuring  leases Other  Total
   £m £m £m £m
Current
At 1 July 2009   0.2  0.4 – 0.6 
Charged to income statement   – – 8.3 8.3
Utilised in year   (0.2) (0.1) – (0.3)
At 30 June 2010   –  0.3  8.3 8.6 
Non-current
At 1 July 2009   – 0.1 –  0.1 
Charged to income statement   – 0.5 – 0.5
Utilised in year   – – – –
At 30 June 2010   – 0.6 – 0.6 
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 81
22  Provisions for other liabilities and charges continued
Restructuring
The restructuring provision made in the year ended 30 June 2009 related to the cost of reorganising the housebuilding division following the 
downturn in the housing market. The provision has been fully utilised during the year.
Onerous leases
The onerous lease provision relates to Group properties which are no longer used. The provision reflects the estimated costs which will be 
incurred to the termination of the leases. The provision is expected to be utilised within three years (2009: three years).
Other
As explained in note 5, on 22 September 2009 the Office of Fair Trading announced its decision to fine 103 companies following its 
investigation into breaches of the Competition Act 1998 in the construction industry. Galliford Try has been fined £8.3 million. The Group has 
submitted an appeal to the Competition Appeal Tribunal in respect of the size of the penalty imposed; however the outcome of the appeal is 
not expected until late in 2010. Accordingly, a provision for the full amount has been made in the year.
23  Financial liabilities – borrowings
     2010 2009
Current     £m £m
Bank loan – secured 
(i)
     –   11.5 
Unsecured – Loan notes 
(ii)
     1.0  1.5 
     1.0  13.0 
     2010 2009
Non-current     £m £m
Bank loans – secured 
(i)
     89.2 112.4 
(i) The bank loans are secured by a fixed charge over certain of the Group’s developments. They currently incur interest at 0.9% (2009: 0.9%) 
 over LIBOR. The Group has entered into interest rate swaps as set out in note 26.
(ii)  The unsecured loan notes are made up as follows:
 (a)   £0.7 million (2009: £0.9 million) of loan notes were issued in 1997 and 2002 as part of the acquisition of Midas Homes Limited and 
Gerald Wood Homes Limited respectively. They are redeemable in whole or in part by the holders at any time provided that 30 days’ 
notice is given of their intention to redeem the loan notes. Their interest rate is determined by reference to LIBOR and varies every 
three months. The final date for the redemption of these loan notes is July 2011 and July 2012 respectively. The loan notes are 
guaranteed by a bank.
 (b)  £0.3 million (2009: £0.6 million) of loan notes were issued in 2007 as part of the acquisition of Linden Holdings plc. They are  
  redeemable in whole or in part by the holders at six monthly intervals provided that 30 days’ notice is given of their intention to  
  redeem the loan notes. Their interest rate is 5% per annum. The final date for the redemption of these loan notes is March 2012.  
  The loan notes are guaranteed by a bank.
24  Other non-current liabilities
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Development land creditors     6.8 7.2
Other payables     3.2 3.5
Accruals and deferred income     0.7 0.7
     10.7 11.4 Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 82
25  Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 28% (2009: 28%).
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against  
current income tax liabilities. The net deferred tax position at 30 June was:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Deferred income tax assets     11.2  12.0 
Deferred income tax liabilities     – (14.3)
     11.2 (2.3)
The movement for the year in the net deferred income tax account is as shown below:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
At 1 July     (2.3) (6.7)
Income statement      
Current year’s deferred income tax     0.6 2.3
Adjustment in respect of prior years     (0.2) 0.3
(Expense)/income recognised in equity     (1.3) 1.8
On acquisition of subsidiaries     14.4 –
At 30 June      11.2 (2.3)
Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred income 
tax assets because it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below:
  Retirement 
  benefit Share based Fair value
  obligations payments adjustments Other Total
Deferred income tax assets  £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 July 2008  7.7  0.2  – 2.8  10.7 
(Expense)/income taken to income statement  (1.8) (0.1) – 1.4  (0.5)
Income recognised in equity  1.8  – – – 1.8 
At 1 July 2009  7.7  0.1  – 4.2  12.0 
(Expense)/income taken to income statement  (1.5) 0.2 – (0.1) (1.4)
Adjustment in respect of prior years  – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Expense recognised in equity  (1.3) – – – (1.3)
Transfer from deferred income tax liabilities  – – 2.0 – 2.0
At 30 June 2010  4.9  0.3  2.0 4.0  11.2
    Accelerated 
   Fair value tax
   adjustments depreciation Other Total
Deferred income tax liabilities   £m £m £m £m
At 1 July 2008   (17.6) 0.3  (0.1) (17.4)
Income/(expense) taken to income statement   3.2  (0.1)  – 3.1 
At 1 July 2009   (14.4) 0.2  (0.1) (14.3)
Income taken to income statement   2.0  – – 2.0 
Adjustment in respect of prior years   – (0.1) – (0.1)
On acquisition of subsidiaries   14.4  – – 14.4 
Transfer to deferred income tax assets   (2.0) – – (2.0)
At 30 June 2010   – 0.1  (0.1) –
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 83
26  Financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk 
and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise 
potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
The Group operates within financial risk policies and procedures approved by the board. It is, and has been throughout the year, the Group’s 
policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. The board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well 
as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments 
and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. The Group’s financial instruments principally comprise bank 
borrowings, cash and liquid resources, receivables and payables, and interest rate swaps that arise directly from its operations and  
its acquisitions.
Capital risk management   
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt 
divided by total shareholders’ equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including ‘current and non-current borrowings’ as shown 
in the consolidated balance sheet) less cash and cash equivalents. The Group held net cash at 30 June 2010 hence gearing was nil at 
that time (2009: Nil).
Financial risk factors
(a) Market risk
 (i)  Foreign exchange risk
    All material activities of the Group take place within the UK and consequently there is little direct exchange risk other than payments 
to overseas suppliers who require settlement in their currency. If there is any material foreign exchange exposure, the Group’s policy 
is to enter into forward foreign currency contracts. The Group has no material currency exposure at 30 June 2010 (2009: Nil). 
 (ii) Price risk
  The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk because investments held by the Group are classified on the consolidated  
  balance sheet either as available for sale or at fair value through profit or loss. The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk.
 (iii) Interest rate risk
  The Group’s income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
   The Group’s interest rate risk arises from movement in cash and cash equivalents and long term borrowings. Borrowings issued at 
variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group policy is to accept a degree of interest rate risk as long as 
the effect of various changes in rates remains within prescribed ranges. Details of the interest rate swaps entered into by the Group 
are set out below. 
  The Group analyses its interest rate exposure on a dynamic basis. On a regular basis the Group calculates the impact on the income  
  statement of a defined interest rate shift on the Group’s borrowing position. 
  Based on the forecasts performed, the impact on post tax profit and equity of a 1% decrease or increase in interest rates for a  
  year would be a maximum increase of £0.7 million (2009: £0.5 million) or decrease of £1.1 million (2009: £0.5 million), respectively.
(b) Credit risk
  Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits  
  and borrowings with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and  
  committed transactions. The Group has a credit risk exposure to the providers of its banking facilities. These are primarily provided  
  by HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Bank of Scotland and Barclays Bank PLC, being four of the UK’s leading financial  
  institutions. Further details of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 18. No credit limits were exceeded  
  during the reporting period, and management does not expect any material losses from non-performance of any counterparties. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 84
26  Financial instruments continued
(c) Liquidity risk
 Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding through  
 an adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury maintains  
 flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines.
  The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings. The contracting operations of the Group   
 generally generate cash. The housebuilding  operations, however, utilise cash and any future downturn in the housebuilding market may  
 require additional borrowings in addition to retained earnings to finance the maintenance of the landbank and associated work in  
 progress. Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (which comprises undrawn borrowing facilities (see  
 below) and cash and cash equivalents (note 19)) on the basis of expected cash flow. This is generally carried out at local level in the  
 operating companies of the Group in accordance with practices and limits set by the Group. These limits vary by location to take into  
 account the liquidity of the market in which the entity  operates. On a daily basis throughout the year, the bank balances or borrowings  
 in all the Group’s operating companies are aggregated into a total cash or borrowing figure in order that the Group can obtain the  
 most advantageous interest rate.
In accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded 
derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. No such 
embedded derivatives have been identified.
Financial liabilities – derivative financial liabilities
The fair value of interest rate swaps is detailed below:
       Liabilities
      £m
At 30 June 2010
Non-current      (2.1)
At 30 June 2009
Non-current      (2.8)
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 30 June 2010 was £45 million (2009: £57 million). 
At 30 June 2010, the fixed interest rate is 5.7% (2009: 5.7%).
Fair values of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected 
future cash flows at the prevailing interest rate. The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amounts as the impact of discounting 
is not significant.
   000000000 2010 000000000 2009
   Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
Fair value of non-current borrowings  Note  £m £m £m £m
Long term borrowings  23 89.2 86.9 112.4 103.4
Fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance  
the Group’s operations:
Short term borrowings  23 1.0 1.0 13.0 13.0 
Trade and other payables  20 487.9 487.9 458.0 458.0 
Trade and other receivables  18 259.1 259.1 247.5 247.5 
Cash and cash equivalents  19 166.7 166.7 159.5 159.5
Other non-current liabilities  24 9.1 9.1 11.4 11.4
Prepayments and accrued income are excluded from the trade and other receivables balances and statutory liabilities and payments 
received on account on construction contracts are excluded from trade and other payables balances, as this analysis is required only for 
financial instruments.
The effective interest rate used for fair valuing long term borrowings is 1.44% (2009: 3.7%) being the prevailing interest rate at 30 June 2010.
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 85
26  Financial instruments continued
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the carrying value of the Group’s non-current liabilities at 30 June was as follows:
 000000000  2010 000000000  2009
  Other   Other
  financial    financial 
 Borrowings   liabilities Total Borrowings  liabilities Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
In more than one year but not more
than two years 89.2 – 89.2 12.0 7.6 19.6
In more than two years but not more
than five years – – – 100.4 1.1 101.5 
In more than five years – – – – 2.7 2.7
 89.2 – 89.2 112.4  11.4 123.8
Borrowing facilities
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 June, which are restricted by the value of developments 
available to be secured under the terms of the facility:
   00000000000  2010 2009
   Floating rate Fixed rate Total Total
   £m share £m £m
Expiring:
 Within one year   30.0 – 30.0 30.0
 Between one and two years   258.7 – 258.7 –
 In more than two years   – – – 264.4
   288.7 – 288.7 294.4
The Group entered into a five year bank facility for an aggregate total amount of £450 million in February 2007 with HSBC Bank plc,
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Bank of Scotland and Barclays Bank PLC. The facility provides working capital, development finance  
and bonding. £150 million of this facility is on an amortising basis which at 30 June 2010 stood at £90 million giving a total available facility 
of £390 million. The facility is subject to covenants on interest cover, minimum net assets and gearing and is secured by charges over 
certain developments. Overall debt levels do fluctuate throughout the year, but the Group has substantial headroom within its banking 
facilities and continues to operate within the covenants of those facilities.
The facilities expiring within one year are on demand facilities provided by HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank PLC that form part of the overall 
facility above. These facilties are subject to an annual review. All these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 86
26  Financial instruments continued
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below:
    Loans and Available  
    receivables  for sale Total
    £m £m £m
30 June 2010
Assets as per balance sheet
Available for sale financial assets    – 15.7 15.7
Trade and other receivables    259.1 – 259.1
Cash and cash equivalents    166.7 – 166.7
Total    425.8 15.7 441.5
    Liabilities at fair
    value through the Other financial  
    income statement liabilities Total
    £m £m £m
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Derivative financial instruments    2.1 – 2.1
Borrowings    – 90.2 90.2
Trade and other payables    – 498.6 498.6
Total    2.1 588.8 590.9
    
    Loans and Available 
    receivables for sale Total
    £m £m £m
30 June 2009
Assets as per balance sheet
Available for sale financial assets    – 9.4 9.4
Trade and other receivables    247.5 – 247.5
Cash and cash equivalents    159.5 – 159.5
Total    407.0 9.4 416.4
    Liabilities at fair Other financial 
    value through the liabilities Total
    income statement £m £m
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Derivative financial instruments    2.8 – 2.8
Borrowings    – 125.4 125.4
Trade and other payables    – 469.4 469.4
Total    2.8 594.8 597.6
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 87
27  Called up share capital
    000000  2009
   000000 2010  (restated)
Authorised, issued and fully paid   shares £m shares £m
Ordinary shares of 50 pence each
At 1 July   37,776,677   18.9   37,760,444   18.9 
Allotted under rights issue   44,072,789   22.0   –   – 
Allotted under share option schemes   –   –   16,233   – 
At 30 June   81,849,466   40.9   37,776,677   18.9 
On 10 September 2009, the Company announced that it was to undertake a share consolidation and rights issue which was subsequently
agreed by shareholders on 6 October 2009. The share consolidation was on the basis that every 10 ordinary shares of 5p each were 
consolidated into one ordinary share of 50p each. The basis of the rights issue was 7 new ordinary shares of 50p each for every 6 ordinary 
shares of 50p each. The issue price per new ordinary share was £2.85. The rights issue was completed on 22 October 2009. Ordinarily the 
excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital would be credited to a non-distributable share premium account. 
However, the rights issue was effected through a structure which resulted in the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the 
share capital being recognised within retained earnings under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
At 30 June 2010 the total number of shares outstanding under the SAYE share option scheme was 389,937 and under the long term 
incentive plans was 1,573,506 as detailed below:
28  Share based payments
The Company operates performance related share incentive plans for executives, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report. 
The Company also operates savings related option schemes (“SAYE”). The total charge for the year relating to employee share based 
payment plans was £1.8 million (2009: £1.4 million), all of which related to equity settled share based payment transactions. After deferred 
tax, the total charge was £1.6 million (2009: £1.5 million).
All share prices, exercise prices and fair values are shown below after adjustment for the share consolidation and rights issue which occurred 
in October 2009. accordingly, previously disclosed values have been multiplied by 10 to allow for the share consolidation and then by 72.4% 
to allow for the rights issue. The number of shares has been restated by multiplying those previously reported by an adjustment factor of 
0.1381 to allow for the share consolidation and rights issue.
Savings related share options
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved savings related option scheme (“SAYE”) under which employees are granted 
an option to purchase ordinary shares in the Company at up to 20% less than the market price at grant, in either three or five years’ time, 
dependent on their entering into a contract to make monthly contributions into a savings account over the relevant period. These funds are 
used to fund the option exercise. This scheme is open to all employees. No performance criteria are applied to the exercise of SAYE options.
The options were valued using the binomial option-pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the 
calculation are as follows:
        Employee
        turnover
  Share price Exercise Expected Option life Risk free Dividend before Fair value 
 Grant date at grant date price volatility years rate yield vesting  per option
01.02.06 655p 496p 37% 5 4.3% 2.3% 10% 270p
01.01.07 1,086p 738p 33% 5 4.8% 1.7% 10% 501p
01.01.08 918p 912p 31% 3 4.6% 2.4% 10% 223p
01.01.08 918p 912p 31% 5 4.6% 2.4% 10% 272p
SAYE share option scheme
Shares 
under option
Year of 
grant
Exercise price 
per share
Exercise period 
ending
78,998 2006 655p 31.07.11
154,596 2007 1,086p 30.06.12
81,862 2008 918p 30.06.11
74,481 2008 918p 30.06.13
389,937
Long term incentive plans
Shares 
awarded
Year of 
grant
Award 
price
Vesting 
date
156,573 2008 1,046p 10.09.10
869,152 2009 272p 10.09.11
547,781 2010 421p 11.09.12
1,573,506 Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 88
28 Share based payments continued
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility in the movement in the share price over the last three or five years up to the date of  
grant depending on the option life. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the yield on zero-coupon 
UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. A reconciliation of savings related share awards over the year to  
30 June 2010 is shown below:
    000000  2009
   000000 2010  (restated)
    Weighted  Weighted
    average  average
   Number exercise price Number exercise price
Outstanding at 1 July    799,372 71p 1,172,184 702p
Forfeited   (15,200) 330p (43,589) 751p
Cancelled   (67,195) 350p (284,762) 739p
Expired   (327,040) 337p (22,059) 407p
Exercised   – – (22,402) 130p
Outstanding at 30 June    389,937  759p 799,372 71p
Exercisable at 30 June   – – 145,123 496p
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was Nil (2009: Nil). There were no share options exercised during the  
year ended 30 June 2010. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise in the year to 30 June 2009 was 305p. The weighted 
average remaining contractual life is 1 year 3 months (2009: 1 years 11 months).
Performance related long term incentive plans
The Company operates performance related share incentive plans for executives, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report. 
The awards that vest are satisfied by the transfer of shares for no consideration.
The options were valued using a Monte Carlo model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are  
as follows:
    Vesting period/    
  Share price Option life Risk free Dividend Fair value
Grant date  at grant date months rate yield per option
08.03.07  1,278p 36  5.0% 2.0% 785p
10.09.07  1,061p 36  5.2% 1.5% 518p
10.03.09  250p 36  1.7% 2.5% 72p
11.09.09  507p 36  5.0% 2.1% 579p
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility in the movement in the share price of the Company and its comparator group and the 
correlations between them over the last three years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the  
yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. A reconciliation of performance related share 
awards over the year to 30 June is shown below:
      2009
     2010 (restated)
     Number Number
Outstanding at 1 July     1,041,336 459,443
Granted     547,781 869,152
Cancelled     – (97,828)
Forfeited     (15,611) (158,368)
Exercised     – (31,063)
Outstanding at 30 June      1,573,506 1,041,336 
Exercisable at 30 June     – –
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 579p (2009: 72p). There were no options exercised during 
the year ended 30 June 2010. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise in the year ended 30 June 2009 was 433p. 
The weighted average remaining contractual life is Nil as the shares are exercised on the day that they vest (2009: Nil).
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 89
29  Share premium and other reserves
     Share premium Other reserves
     £m £m
At 1 July 2008, 1 July 2009 and 30 June 2010     190.8 5.3
The other reserve relates to a merger reserve amounting to £4.7 million (2009: £4.7 million) and the movement on available for sale financial
assets amounting to £0.6 million (2009: £0.6 million).
30  Retained earnings
      £m
At 1 July 2008      110.3
Loss for the year      (17.8)
Actuarial losses recognised in the retirement benefit obligations     (6.5)
Deferred tax on movements in equity      1.8
Dividends paid      (9.6)
Share based payments      1.4
At 1 July 2009      79.6
Profit for the year      10.8
Actuarial gains recognised in the retirement benefit obligations     4.8
Deferred tax on movements in equity      (1.3)
Dividends paid      (6.7)
Share based payments      1.8
Purchase of own shares      (0.1)
Issue of shares (note 27)      97.3 
At 30 June 2010      186.2
The cumulative amount of goodwill arising on acquisition and written off directly against reserves is £9.5 million (2009: £9.5 million).
At 30 June 2010, the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust held 310,189 (2009: 208,417) shares. The nominal value of the shares held is  
£0.2 million (2009: £0.1 million). 101,772 shares were acquired during the year (2009: Nil). The cost of funding and administering the Trust  
is charged to the profit and loss account of the Company in the period to which it relates. The market value of the shares at 30 June 2010 
was £1.0 million (2009: £1.0 million). No shareholders (2009: None) have waived their rights to dividends. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 90
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
31  Retirement benefit obligations
The Group’s principal funded pension scheme is the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme (based on final pensionable salary) with assets 
held in separate trustee administered funds which was closed to all future service accrual on 31 March 2007. All staff employees are entitled 
to join the Galliford Try Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme established as a stakeholder plan, with a Company contribution 
based on a scale dependent on the employee’s age and the amount they choose to contribute. Since 1 April 2009, the Group has operated  
a pension salary sacrifice scheme which means that all employee pension contributions are now paid as employer contributions on their behalf.
Pension costs for the schemes were as follows:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Defined benefit schemes – Expense recognised in the income statement     2.0 0.8
Defined contribution schemes     10.8  6.9
Total included within employee benefit expenses (note 3)     12.8  7.7
Of the total charge for all schemes £5.9 million (2009: £3.7 million) and £6.9 million (2009: £4.0 million) were included, respectively, within 
cost of sales and administrative expenses. 
Defined benefit schemes
The most recent valuation of the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme is as at 30 June 2006, using the projected unit method with a 
three year control period. The assumptions used which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation were the investment 
return, which was assumed to be 5.2% per annum on pre-retirement assets and 5.2% on post-retirement assets, and the rate of increase in 
pensionable salaries, which was assumed to be 5.0% per annum. The valuation showed that the market value of the scheme’s assets was 
£104.1 million and that those assets represented 67% of the value of the benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for the 
expected future increases in pensionable salaries.
A new valuation is currently being carried out by Mercer, the scheme actuary, with an effective date of 1 July 2009. The valuation is due to be 
completed by October 2010.
The Galliford Group Special Scheme is funded and provides benefits based on final pensionable salaries. The most recent actuarial valuation 
of the scheme was prepared using the attained age method as at 1 April 2007. The assumptions used which had the most significant effect 
on the results of the valuation were the investment return, which was assumed to be 5.5% per annum on pre-retirement assets and 4.5% for 
post-retirement assets, and the rate of increase in pensionable salaries, which was assumed to be 5.1% per annum. The valuation showed 
that the market value of the scheme’s assets was £4.1 million and that those assets represented 76% of the value of the benefits that had 
accrued to members after allowing for the expected future increases in pensionable salaries.
The Kendall Cross Holdings Limited Scheme is funded and provides benefits based on final pensionable salaries. The scheme was closed to 
new members and to future accrual for existing members prior to the date of the acquisition by Galliford Try plc in November 2007. The most 
recent actuarial valuation of the scheme was prepared using the projected unit method as at 14 November 2008. The assumptions used 
which had the most significant effect on the results of the valuation were the investment return, which was assumed to be 5.2% per annum 
on pre-retirement assets and 4.7% for post-retirement assets. The rate of increase in pensionable salaries was assumed to be 2.5% or 3.8% 
as appropriate. The valuation showed that the market value of the scheme’s assets was £4.9 million and that those assets represented  
91% of the value of the benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for the expected future increases in pensionable salaries. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 91
31  Retirement benefit obligations continued
The valuation of the Group’s pension schemes have been updated to 30 June 2010 and all information is consolidated for disclosure purposes 
below. The principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the disclosure items are as follows:
     2010 2009
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries     n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment     3.25% 3.45% 
Discount rate     5.45% 6.45%
Inflation assumption     3.30% 3.55%
The assumptions for mortality are based on actuarial tables S1PMA, medium cohort with 1.25% underpin for males and S1PFA, medium 
cohort with 1% underpin for females (2009: PXA92 medium cohort). The average life expectancy at 65 for future male pensioners is  
24.9 years (2009: 24.0 years) and for current male pensioners is 22.5 years (2009: 22.9 years).
The fair value of the assets, long term rate of return expected and present value of the obligations at 30 June of the Group’s defined benefit 
arrangements are as follows:
  2010  2009
  Value   Value
 Return £m  Return £m 
Equities 7.90% 51.3 35% 8.10% 52.6 43%
Gilts 3.90% 43.9 30% 4.10% 40.1 33%
Bonds 5.45% 46.0 31% 6.45% 24.8 20%
Cash and other 5.45% 5.3 4% 5.55% 4.5 4%
  146.5 100%  122.0 100%
Present value of defined benefit obligations  (163.8)   (149.5) 
Deficit in scheme recognised 
as non-current liability  (17.3)   (27.5) 
Where investments are held in bonds and cash, the expected long term rate of return is taken to be the yields generally prevailing on  
such assets at the balance sheet date. A higher rate of return is expected on equity investments, which is based on more realistic future 
expectations than on the returns that have been available historically. The overall expected long term rate of return on assets is then the 
average of these rates taking into account the underlying asset portfolio of the pension scheme.
Sensitivity analysis of scheme liabilities
The sensitivity of the present value of scheme liabilities to changes in the principal assumptions is set out below.
 Change in assumption  Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase by 0.1% Decrease by £2.9 million
Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1%  Decrease by £2.9 million
Increase in pension payments Increase by 0.05%  Increase by £0.5 million
Life expectancy Increase by one year  Increase by £3.1 million
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Finance costs     9.5 9.8
Expected return on scheme assets     (7.5) (9.0)
Net finance costs     2.0  0.8
Expense recognised in the income statement      2.0  0.8
The actual return on scheme assets was of £22.5 million (2009: charge £10.3 million). Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 92
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
31  Retirement benefit obligations continued
The amounts recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense are as follows:    
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Total amount of actuarial gains/(losses)     4.8 (6.5)
Cumulative actuarial losses     (29.9) (34.7)
     2010 2009
Movement in present value of defined benefit obligations    £m £m
At 1 July     149.5 161.0
Interest cost     9.5 9.8
Experience (losses)/gains     (9.9) 1.6
Impact of change in assumptions     20.1 (14.4)
Benefit payments     (5.4) (8.5)
At 30 June     163.8 149.5
     2010 2009
Movement in fair value of scheme assets     £m £m
At 1 July      122.0 133.6
Expected return on scheme assets     7.5 9.0
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets     15.0 (19.3)
Employer contributions     7.4 7.2
Benefit payments     (5.4) (8.5)
At 30 June     146.5 122.0
The contributions expected to be paid to the defined benefit schemes during the year ended 30 June 2011 is £7.3 million.
Details of experience gains and losses in the year:  2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Difference between the expected and actual return on assets:
Amount £m  15.0 (19.3) (15.8) 2.4 6.4
Percentage of assets  10 (16) (11) 0.2 6
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount £m  9.9 (1.6) 0.4  1.9 5.2
Percentage of present value of defined benefit obligations  6 (1) 0 0.1 3
Total amount recognised in statement of comprehensive income:
Amount £m  4.8 (6.5) (11.8) 3.9 (5.2)
Percentage of present value of liabilities  3 (4) (7) 0.2 (3) Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 93
32  Business combinations
On 14 October 2009, the Group acquired the remaining 50% shareholding in its joint venture Linden Properties Western Limited, taking the 
Group’s ownership to 100%. With effect from this date, Linden Properties Western Limited is treated as a subsidiary undertaking. The total 
consideration payable was £1. At completion, the development loans provided to the joint venture by Bank of Scotland were settled by a 
cash payment of £8.5 million. In addition loan notes with a nominal value of £1.2 million were acquired for £0.5 million. Developments have 
been written down to their estimated fair market value at the date of acquisition. No goodwill arose on this acquisition. Details of the assets 
acquired are set out in the table below:
    Carrying value Fair value Provisional
    pre acquisition adjustment fair value
    £m £m £m
Developments    15.8 (2.9) 12.9
Trade and other receivables    0.5 – 0.5
Deferred tax asset    – 0.8 0.8
Bank loans and overdrafts    (11.2) 2.7 (8.5)
Trade and other payables    (3.3) – (3.3)
Financial liabilities – borrowings    (2.4) 0.7 (1.7)
Deferred tax liabilities    – (0.7) (0.7)
Net assets acquired    (0.6) 0.6 –
Goodwill       –
Consideration      –
The outflow of cash and cash equivalents and borrowings on the acquisition is calculated as follows:
      £m
Cash consideration      –
Borrowings acquired      (10.2)
Net cash outflow      (10.2)
On 1 December 2009, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Rosemullion Property Company Limited and its subsidiary companies 
(Rosemullion), a housing developer based in the South West of England. The total consideration payable was £0.1 million which was settled  
in cash. No goodwill arose on this acquisition. Details of the assets acquired are set out in the table below. The fair value adjustments relate to 
the alignment of accounting policies and an adjustment to bring developments to their estimated fair market value at the date of acquisition.
    Carrying value Fair value Provisional
    pre acquisition adjustment fair value
    £m £m £m
Developments    3.8 (0.2) 3.6
Trade and other receivables    0.1 – 0.1
Bank loans and overdrafts    (3.1) – (3.1)
Trade and other payables    (0.5) – (0.5)
Net assets acquired    0.3 (0.2) 0.1
Goodwill       –
Consideration      0.1
The outflow of cash and cash equivalents and borrowings on the acquisition is calculated as follows:
      £m
Cash consideration      (0.1)
Borrowings acquired      (3.1)
Net cash outflow      (3.2) Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 94
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
32  Business combinations continued
On 12 February 2010, the Group acquired the remaining 50% shareholding held by Bank of Scotland in its joint ventures, undertaking 
residential development in the South East area, taking the Group’s ownership to 100%. The joint ventures were Sentient Ventures LLP,  
Linden Homes Eastern Newhall Limited, Linden London LLP, Linden London (Hammersmith) Limited and Linden St Albans LLP. With effect 
from this date, these companies are treated as subsidiary undertakings. The companies are developing residential sites in Colchester, Harlow, 
Hammersmith and St Albans. The consideration, which was settled in cash, totalled a nominal £4. The development loans provided to  
the joint ventures by Bank of Scotland were settled by a cash payment of £42.5 million. Developments have been written down to their 
estimated fair market value at the date of acquisition. Details of the assets acquired are set out in the table below:
    Carrying value Fair value Provisional
    pre acquisition adjustment fair value
    £m £m £m
Developments    76.8 (37.1) 39.7
Trade and other receivables    4.2 – 4.2
Deferred tax asset    3.6 10.4 14.0
Cash and cash equivalents    0.2 – 0.2
Bank loans and overdrafts    (42.5) – (42.5)
Trade and other payables    (7.2) – (7.2)
Net assets acquired    35.1 (26.7) 8.4
Negative goodwill       (8.4)
Consideration      –
The negative goodwill represents the carrying value of the investment in joint ventures held prior to the acquisition of the remaining 50% 
share. Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
      £m
Loss on investment in joint ventures      (8.4)
Negative goodwill      8.4 
Total      –
The outflow of cash and cash equivalents and borrowings on the acquisition is calculated as follows:
      £m
Cash consideration      –
Cash acquired      0.2
Borrowings acquired      (42.5)
Net cash outflow      (42.3)
Total acquisition costs of £0.3 million were incurred relating to acquisitions during the year which have been written off in the income statement.
From the date of acquisition to 30 June 2010 the acquisitions contributed £3.6 million of revenue, £0.4 million to profit before interest and 
intangible amortisation and £Nil to profit before income tax.
  Profit before
  finance costs 
  and intangible Profit before Profit after  Capital
 Revenue amortisation income tax income tax Cash flow* expenditure
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Rosemullion 3.1 0.3 0.3 0.2 4.1 –
Linden Properties Western Limited – – (0.1) (0.1) 8.5 –
Sentient Ventures Limited 0.2 0.1 – – 10.9 –
Linden Homes Eastern Newhall Limited 0.3 – – – 5.7 –
Linden London LLP – – – – 9.3 –
Linden London (Hammersmith) Limited – – (0.1) – – –
Linden St Albans LLP – – (0.1) (0.1) 16.5 –
 3.6 0.4 – – 55.0 –
* Stated including transactions within the Group. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 95
32  Business combinations continued
The results of operations as if the acquisitions had been made at the start of the financial year is as follows:
    Group Acquisitions* Total
    £m £m £m
Revenue    1,221.9  4.4 1,226.3 
Profit before finance costs    22.5  (0.2) 22.3 
Profit before tax    19.2  (2.4) 16.8 
Profit after tax    10.8  (1.6) 9.2
* Results for period from 1 July 2009 to date of acquisition.
33 Financial and capital commitments
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Commitments for:
Capital expenditure in subsidiaries     – –
Subordinated loan stock in available for sale investments     – 0.6 
Subordinated debt in joint ventures     1.6  1.3 
Subordinated debt in non-current assets classified as held for sale    1.5  –
     3.1  1.9
Galliford Try plc, together with certain of its subsidiaries, has entered into non-cancellable contracts for the operational leasing of land and
buildings and plant and machinery. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The maximum commitments for 
payments under these contracts are as follows:
    2010 00000000 2009
    Vehicles,   Vehicles, 
    plant and  plant and
   Property equipment Property equipment 
   £m £m £m £m
Amounts due: 
Within one year   3.7 6.4 3.7 4.2
Later than one year and less than five years   13.4 10.8 12.8 4.0
After five years   19.7 – 24.5 –
   36.8 17.2 41.0 8.2
Galliford Try plc, together with certain of its subsidiaries, has entered into arrangements with HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, 
Bank of Scotland and Barclays Bank PLC to guarantee the borrowings of Group companies. Fixed charges have been given to these banks 
over certain of the Group’s developments.
34  Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Galliford Try plc has entered into financial guarantees and counter indemnities in respect of bank and performance bonds issued on behalf  
of Group undertakings, including joint arrangements and joint ventures, in the normal course of business amounting to £120.7 million  
(2009: £113.5 million).
Disputes arise in the normal course of business, some of which lead to litigation or arbitration procedures. The directors make proper 
provision in the financial statements when they believe a liability exists. Whilst the outcome of disputes and arbitration is never certain,  
the directors believe that the resolution of all existing actions will not have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial position. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 96
NOTES TO THE 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
35  Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not 
included within this note. Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and jointly controlled operations are disclosed as follows:
  Sales to Purchases from Amounts owed by Amounts owed to
 00000000000 related parties 0000related parties 0000related parties  0000related parties
 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trading transactions
Joint ventures 14.8 38.2 0.1 0.1 7.0 7.7 0.8 1.0
Jointly controlled operations  36.0 118.6 0.2 0.5 1.8 1.9 0.3 –
 
  Interest income      
   from loans to  Loans to  Loans from   Injection of
  related parties 0000 related parties 0000 related parties 0000 equity funding
 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-trading transactions
Joint ventures 2.2 2.2 39.0 38.0 – – 1.9 5.1
Services are sold to related parties based on terms that would be available to unrelated third parties. Receivables are due within six years 
(2009: seven years) and are unsecured and interest rates vary from bank base rate plus 1.75% to 10%. Payables are due within one year 
(2009: one year) and are interest free.
The Company has provided performance guarantees in respect of certain operational contracts entered into between joint ventures and a 
Group undertaking.
The Company has entered into a financial guarantee in respect of its joint venture Crest/Galliford Try (Epsom) LLP. The maximum amount 
payable under the terms of this guarantee is £13.75 million.
Shareholders are, by way of a separate resolution to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, being asked to approve a proposed 
purchase by a step-daughter of Greg Fitzgerald, a director of the Company, of a property situated in Devon being developed and sold by  
a joint venture in which a subsidiary of the Company, Midas Homes Limited, is a 50% shareholder. The property is to be purchased for her 
own residential use for a consideration of £305,204 taking a part exchange property as part of the consideration of £145,000. As she and 
her partner are also longstanding employees of the Company, a total discount of 7.5% has been allowed, taking into account the standard 
discount of 5% available to each employee purchasing a home from Midas Homes Limited. Subject to this discount, the directors have 
received written confirmation from independent valuers stating that the price payable for this property and the value attributed to the 
property being taken in part exchange under the Company’s part exchange scheme represent fair market values.
36  Post balance sheet events
No matters have arisen since the year end that require disclosure in the financial statements. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 97
We have audited the parent company financial statements of 
Galliford Try plc for the year ended 30 June 2010 which comprise 
the Company Balance Sheet and related notes. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 44, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the 
parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those 
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only 
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. 
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility 
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report 
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly 
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently 
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements: 
give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs   >
as at 30 June 2010 and of its profit for the year then ended;
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom  >
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of   >
the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006
In our opinion:
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has  >
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and 
the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year  >
for which the parent company financial statements are prepared  
is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters  
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion: 
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent  >
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or 
the parent company financial statements and the part of  >
the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law   >
are not made; or 
we have not received all the information and explanations we  >
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of 
Galliford Try plc for the year ended 30 June 2010.
Pauline Campbell (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Uxbridge
Wednesday, 15 September 2010
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF GALLIFORD TRY PLC Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 98
     2010 2009
    Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments    3 191.8 191.2
Current assets
Debtors     4 44.0 21.2
Cash at bank and in hand     344.5 273.6
     388.5 294.8
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year    5 (59.0) (66.3)
Net current assets     329.5 228.5
Total assets less current liabilities     521.3 419.7
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year   6 (91.3) (115.2)
Net assets     430.0 304.5
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital    7 40.9 18.9
Share premium account    8 190.8 190.8
Merger reserve    8 3.0 3.0
Profit and loss account    8 195.3 91.8
Total equity shareholders’ funds    9 430.0 304.5
The notes on pages 99 to 110 are an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 98 to 110 were approved by the board on 15 September 2010 and signed on its behalf by:
Greg Fitzgerald Frank Nelson
Chief Executive Finance Director
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AT 30 JUNE 2010 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 99
NOTES TO THE 
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Statement of accounting policies
Basis of accounting
These financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention except for the valuation of share 
based payments, financial instruments and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the UK.  
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, except for any changes arising from the adoption of new accounting 
standards, are set out below. As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has not presented its own profit and 
loss account.
The Company has taken the exemption, in line with Financial Reporting Standard 1 (revised), from the requirement to prepare a cash flow 
statement on the grounds that its consolidated financial statements, which include the Company and present a cash flow statement, are 
publicly available.
Under Financial Reporting Standard 8, the Company is exempt from the requirement to disclose related party transactions with entities that 
are part of the Galliford Try plc Group. 
There are no recognised gains and losses other than those included in the profit and loss account and therefore no separate statement of 
total recognised gains and losses has been presented.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of the Company financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect  
the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of  
which form the basis of making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities which are readily apparent from other sources.  
Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to 
accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period  
of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Material estimates and assumptions are made in particular with regards to establishing the policy relating to the retirement benefit  
obligations valuation.
In determining the valuation of defined benefit schemes assets and liabilities, a number of key assumptions have been made. The key 
assumptions, which are given below, are largely dependent on factors outside the control of the Group:
expected return on scheme assets >
inflation rate >
mortality >
discount rate >
salary and pension increases >
Details of the assumptions used are included in note 10.
Recent accounting developments
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been published and have been adopted by the Company but have no 
material impact on the results.
Amendment to FRS 26, Financial instruments recognition and measurement on eligible hedged items. >
Amendment to FRS 29, Financial instruments: disclosure. >
UITF Abstract 42 and FRS 26, Embedded derivatives. >
Money market deposits
Money market deposits are stated at cost. All income from these investments is included in the profit and loss account as interest receivable 
and similar income.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at the value of the amount received, net of attributable transaction costs. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption 
value being recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Fixed asset investments and impairment
The book value of fixed asset investments is recorded at cost less any impairment.
Financial instruments
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the Company’s interest rate exposure. The interest payable or receivable in respect of these swaps 
is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings. Interest rate swaps are revalued to fair value at the year end with 
the movement being recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Accounting for Employee Share Ownership Plan
Own shares held by the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust (“The Trust”) are shown, at cost less any permanent diminution in value, as a 
deduction from the profit and loss account reserve. The charge made to the profit and loss account for employee share awards and options 
is based on the fair value of the award at the date of grant spread over the performance period. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 100
1 Statement of accounting policies continued
Share based payments
The Company operates a number of equity-settled, share based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received  
in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account. Where options have been granted to 
employees of subsidiary companies the associated expense has been credited to investments. The total amount to be expensed over the 
vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions 
such as growth in earnings per share. Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are 
expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.  
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the profit and loss account or investments as appropriate, with  
a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium  
when the options are exercised.
Debtors
Debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less 
provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of debtors is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not  
be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the debtors. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that 
the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (typically more than 30 days overdue) are 
considered indicators that the trade debtor is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is 
reduced through the use of an impairment provision, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the profit and loss account.
When a trade debtor is uncollectible, it is written off against the impairment provision for debtors. Subsequent recoveries of amounts 
previously written off are credited in the profit and loss account. Short term debtors do not carry any interest and are stated at their amortised 
cost as reduced by appropriate impairment for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where 
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the 
balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be 
regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which 
the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to 
reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is measured 
on an undiscounted basis.
Retirement benefit obligations
The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, the assets of which are held separately from those of the Company in independently 
administered funds.
As the Company is unable to identify its share of the assets and liabilities of the Group scheme, it accounts for contributions as if they were to 
a defined contribution pension scheme.
Dividend policy
Final dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are accounted for when paid.
NOTES TO THE 
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 101
2 Profit before taxation
(i)  Employees
Average monthly number of people (including executive directors) employed:
     2010 2009
     Number Number
Directors     6 6
The directors received all of their remuneration, as disclosed in the Remuneration Report, from Galliford Try plc.
     2010 2009
(ii)  Staff costs     £m £m
Wages and salaries     1.7   1.2 
Social security costs      0.2   0.2 
Pension costs      0.2   0.2 
Share based payments     1.2 0.1
     3.3   1.7 
The schedule VI requirements for directors’ remuneration are included within the Remuneration Report.
 
(iii)  Auditors’ remuneration 
The fee payable to the Company’s auditors for the parent company is £0.1 million (2009: £0.1 million).
(iv)  Dividends    
For details of equity dividends see note 7 of the Group’s financial statements on page 71.
3 Investments
      Shares
      in Group
      undertakings
      £m
Cost
At 1 July 2009      192.8
Additions      0.6
At 30 June 2010      193.4
Aggregate impairment
At 1 July 2009 and 30 June 2010      1.6
Net book value
At 30 June 2010      191.8
At 30 June 2009      191.2
The principal subsidiary companies are set out in note 15 on page 110.
Additions relate to the charge for share based payments allocated to subsidiary undertakings. The carrying value of investments has been 
reviewed and the directors are satisfied that there is no impairment. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 102
NOTES TO THE 
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
4  Debtors
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings     43.3 19.9
Taxation recoverable     0.4 1.2
     43.7 21.1
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Other debtors     – –
Deferred taxation     0.3 0.1
     44.0 21.2
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are unsecured, have no interest chargeable and are repayable on demand. The carrying value  
of debtors approximates to their fair value.
The deferred tax asset recognised in the financial statements is calculated on the liability method at 28% (2009: 28%) and comprises:
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Tax effect of timing differences due to:
 Share based payments     0.3 0.1
There was no movement in the deferred tax asset in the year (2009: £Nil).
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Bank loans     – 11.5
Secured loan notes     1.0 1.5
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings     57.0 52.4
Other creditors     – –
Accruals and deferred income     1.0 0.9
     59.0 66.3
The unsecured loan notes consist of two types of loan notes, as follows:
(i) £0.7 million (2009: £0.9 million) of loan notes were issued in 1997 and 2002 as part of the acquisition of Midas Homes Limited and  
 Gerald  Wood Homes Limited respectively. They are redeemable in whole or in part by the holders at any time provided that 30 days’  
 notice is  given of their intention to redeem the loan notes. Their interest rate is determined by reference to LIBOR and varies every  
 three months.  The final dates for the redemption of these loan notes are July 2011 and July 2012 respectively. The loan notes are  
 secured by a bank guarantee.
(ii)  £0.3 million (2009: £0.6 million) of loan notes were issued in 2007 as part of the acquisition of Linden Holdings plc. They are redeemable  
 in whole or in part by the holders at six monthly intervals provided that 30 days’ notice is given of their intention to redeem the loan notes.  
 Their interest rate is 5% per annum. The final date for the redemption of these loan notes is March 2012. The loan notes are secured by a  
 bank guarantee.
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings are unsecured, have no interest chargeable and are repayable on demand. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 103
6 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Bank loans     89.2 112.4
Derivative financial liabilities     2.1 2.8
     91.3 115.2
The bank loans above are all denominated in sterling and have an effective interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.9% (2009: 0.9%) and the amounts 
due after one year are repayable within five years of the balance sheet date.
7 Called up share capital
   000000  000000 2009
    2010  (restated)
Authorised, issued and fully paid   shares £m shares £m
Ordinary shares of 50 pence each
At 1 July   37,776,677   18.9 37,760,444 18.9 
Allotted under rights issue   44,072,789   22.0   –   – 
Allotted under share option schemes   – –   16,233   – 
At 30 June   81,849,466 40.9 37,776,677   18.9 
On 10 September 2009, the Company announced that it was to undertake a share consolidation and rights issue which was subsequently 
agreed by shareholders on 6 October 2009. The share consolidation was on the basis that every 10 ordinary shares of 5p each were 
consolidated into one ordinary share of 50p each. The basis of the rights issue was 7 new ordinary shares of 50p each for every 6 existing 
ordinary shares of 50p each. The issue price per new ordinary share was £2.85. The rights issue was completed on 22 October 2009. 
Ordinarily the excess of the net proceeds over the nominal value of the share capital would be credited to a non-distributable share premium 
account. However, the rights issue was effected through a structure which resulted in the excess of the net proceed over the nominal value  
of the share capital being recognised within retained earnings under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
At 30 June 2010 the total number of shares outstanding under the SAYE share option scheme was 389,937 and under the long term 
incentive plans was 1,573,506 as detailed below:
SAYE share option scheme
Shares 
under option
Year of 
grant
Exercise price 
per share
Exercise period 
ending
78,998 2006 655p 31.07.11
154,596 2007 1,086p 30.06.12
81,862 2008 918p 30.06.11
74,481 2008 918p 30.06.13
389,937
Long term incentive plans
Shares 
awarded
Year of 
grant
Award 
price
Vesting 
date
156,573 2008 1,046p 10.09.10
869,152 2009 272p 10.09.11
547,781 2010 421p 11.09.12
1,573,506 Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 104
NOTES TO THE 
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
8 Share premium and reserves
   Share Merger Profit  
   premium reserve and loss Total
   £m £m £m £m
At 1 July 2009   190.8 3.0 91.8 285.6
Profit for the financial year    – – 11.2 11.2
Dividends paid   – – (6.7) (6.7)
Share based payments   – – 1.8 1.8
Purchase of own shares   – – (0.1) (0.1)
Issue of shares (note 7)   – – 97.3 97.3
At 30 June 2010   190.8 3.0 195.3 389.1
At 30 June 2010, the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust held 310,189 (2009: 208,417) shares. The nominal value of the shares held is
£0.2 million (2009: £0.1 million). 101,772 shares were acquired during the year (2009: Nil). The cost of funding and administering the Trust  
is charged to the profit and loss account of the Company in the period to which it relates. The market value of the shares at 30 June 2010 
was £1.0 million (2009: £1.0 million). No shareholders (2009: None) have waived their rights to dividends.
9 Reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders’ funds
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Profit for the financial year      11.2 22.1 
Dividends paid     (6.7) (9.6)
Purchase of own shares      (0.1) –
Share based payments     1.8 0.1
Increase in share capital     22.0 – 
Issue of shares (note 7)     97.3 –
Net movement in equity shareholders’ funds      125.5  12.6 
Opening equity shareholders’ funds      304.5 291.9 
Closing equity shareholders’ funds     430.0  304.5
10  Retirement benefit obligations
The Company’s principal defined benefit pension scheme is the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme (based on final pensionable salary) 
with assets held in separate trustee administered funds which was closed to future service accrual on 31 March 2007. As the Company is 
unable to identify its share of the assets and liabilities of the scheme, it accounts for contributions as if they were to a defined contribution 
pension scheme.
The most recent full actuarial valuations referred to in note 31 of the Group financial statements were updated to 30 June 2010 and the 
following information is disclosed in these financial statements in accordance with FRS17:
The assumptions used are specified below:
    2010 2009 2008
Rate of increase in salaries    n/a n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment    3.25% 3.45% 3.85%
Discount rate    5.45% 6.45% 6.30%
Inflation assumption    3.30% 3.55% 4.00%
The assumptions for mortality are based on actuarial tables S1PMA, medium cohort with 1.25% underpin for males and S1PFA, medium 
cohort with 1% underpin for females (2009: PXA92 medium cohort). The average life expectancy at 65 for future male pensioners is  
24.9 years (2009: 24.0 years) and for current male pensioners is 22.5 years (2009: 22.9 years). Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 105
10  Retirement benefit obligations continued
The assets in the scheme and the expected long term rates of return at 30 June were:
 000000 2010 000000 2009 000000 2008
  Value  Value  Value
 Return £m Return £m Return £m
Equities 7.90% 51.3 8.10% 52.6 8.65% 68.3
Bonds 5.45% 44.3 6.45% 24.8 6.30% 11.3
Gilts 3.90% 45.6 4.10% 40.1 5.15% 48.0
Cash 0.50% 0.3 0.50% 0.4 5.00% 1.2
  141.5  117.9  128.8
Present value of liabilities  (159.0)  (145.8)  (157.1)
Deficit in the scheme  (17.5)  (27.9)  (28.3)
Deferred tax   4.9  7.8  7.9
  (12.6)  (20.1)  (20.4)
Where investments are held in bonds and cash, the expected long term rate of return is taken to be the yields generally prevailing on  
such assets at the balance sheet date. A higher rate of return is expected on equity investments, which is based on more realistic future 
expectations than on the returns that have been available historically. The overall expected long term rate of return on assets is then the 
average of these rates taking into account the underlying asset portfolio of the pension scheme.
Sensitivity analysis of scheme liabilities
The sensitivity of the present value of scheme liabilities to changes in the principal assumptions is set out below.
 Change in assumption  Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase by 0.1% Decrease by £2.9 million
Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1%  Decrease by £2.5 million
Increase in pension payments Increase by 0.05%  Increase by £0.5 million
Life expectancy Increase by one year  Increase by £3.1 million
     2010 2009
     £m £m
Analysis of the net return:
Expected return on the pension scheme assets     7.3 8.8
Interest on pension scheme liabilities     (9.3) (9.6)
Net profit and loss (charge)/credit before deduction of tax    (2.0) 0.8
Analysis of amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Actual return less expected return on assets     14.4 (18.4)
Experience gains and losses on liabilities     10.1 (1.6)
Changes in assumptions     (19.3) 14.0 
Actuarial profit/(loss)     5.2 (6.0)
Movement in deficit during the year:
At 1 July     (27.9) (28.3)
Movement in the year:
Contributions     7.2 7.2 
Expected return on the pension scheme assets     7.3 8.8 
Interest on pension scheme liabilities     (9.3) (9.6)
Actuarial profit/(loss)     5.2 (6.0)
At 30 June     (17.5) (27.9) Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 106
NOTES TO THE 
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
10  Retirement benefit obligations continued
Details of experience gains and losses in the year:  2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
Difference between the expected and actual
return on assets:
Amount £m  14.4 (18.4) (15.2) 2.2 6.4
Percentage of assets  10 (16) (12) 2 6
Experience gains and losses on liabilities:
Amount £m  10.1 (1.6) 0.4 1.9 5.2
Percentage of present value of liabilities  6 (1) – 1 3
Total amount recognised in statement
of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount £m  5.2 (6.0) (11.4) 3.7 (5.1)
Percentage of present value of liabilities  3 (4) 7 2 (3)
11 Financial instruments
For further FRS 29 narrative disclosures refer to note 26 of the Group financial statements.
Interest rate swaps
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 30 June 2010 was £45 million (2009: £57 million).  
At 30 June 2010, the fixed interest rate is 5.7% (2009: 5.7%).
The fair value of interest rate swaps is detailed below:
       Liabilities
      £m
At 30 June 2010
Non-current       (2.1)
At 30 June 2009
Non-current      (2.8)
Fair values of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected 
future cash flows at the prevailing interest rate. The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amounts as the impact of discounting 
is not significant. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 107
11 Financial instruments continued
    2010  2009
   Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
Fair value of non-current borrowings   £m £m £m £m
Long term borrowings   89.2 86.9 112.4 103.4 
Fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations:
Short term borrowings   1.0 1.0 13.0 13.0
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year   58.0 58.0 53.3 53.3
Debtors   43.3 43.3 19.9 19.9
Cash at bank and in hand   344.5 344.5 273.6 273.6
Statutory receivables are excluded from the debtor balances as this analysis is required only for financial instruments.
The effective interest rate used for fair valuing long term borrowings is 1.44% (2009: 3.7%) being the prevailing interest rate at 30 June 2010.
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the carrying value of the Company’s non-current liabilities at 30 June was as follows:
   2010   2009
   Other    Other
  financial   financial
 Borrowings liabilities Total Borrowings liabilities Total 
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
In more than one year but not more
than two years 89.2 – 89.2  12.0  – 12.0 
In more than two years but not more 
than five years – – –  100.4  – 100.4 
 89.2  – 89.2  112.4  – 112.4
Borrowing facilities
The Company had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 June in respect of which all conditions precedent had 
been met at that date:
     2010 2009
   Floating rate Fixed rate Total Total
   £m £m £m £m
Expiring within one year   30.0 – 30.0 30.0
Expiring in between one and two years   258.7 – 258.7 –
Expiring in more than two years   – – – 264.4
   288.7 – 288.7 294.4
The Group entered into a five year bank facility for an aggregate total amount of £450 million in February 2007 with HSBC Bank plc, 
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Bank of Scotland and Barclays Bank PLC. The facility provides working capital, development finance and 
bonding. £150 million of this facility is on an amortising basis which at 30 June 2010 stood at £90 million giving a total available facility of 
£390 million. The facility is subject to covenants on interest cover, minimum net assets and gearing and is secured by charges over certain 
developments. Overall debt levels do fluctuate throughout the year, but the Group has substantial headroom within its banking facilities and 
continues to operate within the covenants of those facilities. 
The facilities expiring within one year are on demand facilities provided by HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank PLC that form part of the overall 
facility above. These facilties are subject to an annual review. All these facilities incur commitment fees at market rates.   Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 108
NOTES TO THE 
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
11  Financial instruments continued
The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below:
 00000000000  2010 000000000  2009
 Assets at fair Loans  Assets at fair Loans
 value through the and   value through the and 
 profit and loss   receivables Total profit and loss  receivables Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
30 June 2009
Assets as per balance sheet
Debtors – 43.3 43.3 – 19.9 19.9 
Cash at bank and in hand – 344.5 344.5 – 273.6 273.6
Total – 387.8 387.8 –  293.5 293.5
 00000000000  2010 000000000  2009
 Liabilities at fair Other  Liabilities at fair Other
 value through the financial  value through the financial 
 profit and loss   liabilities Total profit and loss  liabilities Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liabilities as per balance sheet
Derivative financial liabilities 2.1 – 2.1 2.8 – 2.8
Borrowings – 90.2 90.2 – 125.4 125.4 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year – 58.0 58.0 – 53.3 53.3
Total 2.1 148.2 150.3 2.8 178.7 181.5 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 109
12  Share based payments
The Company operates performance related share incentive plans for executives, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report. 
The awards that vest are satisfied by the transfer of shares for no consideration.
All share prices, exercise prices and fair values are shown below after adjustment for the share consolidation and rights issue which occurred 
in October 2009. Accordingly, previously disclosed values have been multiplied by 10 to allow for the share consolidation and then by 72.4% 
to allow for the rights issue. The number of shares has been restated by multiplying those previously reported by an adjustment factor of 
0.1381 to allow for the share consolidation and rights issue.
The options were valued using the Monte Carlo model. The fair value per option granted, subsequent to November 2002, and the 
assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: 
  Share price Vesting period Risk free Dividend Fair value
Grant date  at grant date months rate yield per option
08.03.07  1,278p 36  5.2% 1.5% 785p
10.09.07  1,061p 36  5.0% 2.1% 518p
10.03.09  250p 36  1.7% 2.5% 72p
11.09.09  507p 36  2.1% 5.0% 579p
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility in the movement in the share price of the Company and its comparator group and the 
correlations between them over the last three years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the  
yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. A reconciliation of performance related share 
awards over the year to 30 June is shown below:
      2009
     2010 (restated)
     Number Number
Outstanding at 1 July     1,041,336 459,443
Granted     547,781 869,152
Cancelled     – (97,828)
Forfeited     (15,611) (158,368)
Exercised     – (31,063)
Outstanding at 30 June      1,573,506 1,041,336
Exercisable at 30 June     – –
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 579p (2009: 72p). There were no options exercised during the year 
ended 30 June 2010. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise in the year ended 30 June 2009 was 433p. The weighted 
average remaining contractual life is Nil as the shares are exercised on the day that they vest (2009: Nil).
13  Contingent liabilities
Disputes arise in the normal course of business, some of which lead to litigation or arbitration procedures. The directors make proper 
provision in the accounts when they believe a liability exists. Whilst the outcome of disputes and arbitration is never certain, the directors 
believe that the resolution of all existing actions will not have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial position.
The Company has entered into financial guarantees and counter indemnities in respect of bank and performance bonds issued on behalf  
of Group undertakings in the normal course of business amounting to £120.7 million (2009: £113.5 million).
14  Other financial commitments
The Company, together with certain of its subsidiaries, has entered into arrangements with HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, 
Bank of Scotland and Barclays Bank PLC to guarantee the borrowings of Group companies. Fixed charges have been given to these banks 
over certain of the Group’s freehold and development properties.
Details of other guarantees given by the Company in respect of joint ventures is set out in note 35 of the Group financial statements. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 110
NOTES TO THE 
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
15 Subsidiaries
The directors consider that to give particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length. The following 
subsidiary undertakings, in the opinion of the directors, principally affect the results and assets of the Group and have been disclosed in 
accordance with section 409 (5) of the Companies Act 2006. A complete list will be attached to the Company’s annual return. All are 
incorporated in England and Wales, except where indicated, operate in the United Kingdom, are 100% owned and have 30 June year ends.
Galliford Try Construction Limited*  Gerald Wood Homes Limited
Galliford Try Employment Limited  Kendall Cross Holdings Limited
Galliford Try Homes Limited* Linden Limited
Galliford Try Infrastructure Limited**  Midas Homes Limited
Galliford Try Investments Limited*  Pentland Limited
Galliford Try Partnerships Limited  Rock & Alluvium Limited
Galliford Try Plant Limited  Stamford Homes Limited
Galliford Try Properties Limited*  Stamford Homes North Limited
Galliford Try Services Limited*
* Shares of these subsidiary companies are owned directly by the Company.
** Incorporated in Scotland
16 Related party transaction
Shareholders are, by way of a separate resolution to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, being asked to approve a proposed 
purchase by a step-daughter of Greg Fitzgerald, a director of the Company, of a property situated in Devon being developed and sold by  
a joint venture in which a subsidiary of the Company, Midas Homes Limited, is a 50% shareholder. The property is to be purchased for her 
own residential use for a consideration of £305,204 taking a part exchange property as part of the consideration of £145,000. As she and 
her partner are also longstanding employees of the Company, a total discount of 7.5% has been allowed, taking into account the standard 
discount of 5% available to each employee purchasing a home from Midas Homes Limited. Subject to this discount, the directors have 
received written confirmation from independent valuers stating that the price payable for this property and the value attributed to the 
property being taken in part exchange under the Company’s part exchange scheme represent fair market values.
17 Post balance sheet events
No matters have arisen since the year end that require disclosure in the financial statements. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 111
FIVE YEAR 
RECORD
  2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
  £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue   851.5  1,409.7  1,831.9  1,461.2  1,221.9 
Profit before exceptional items   32.5  53.0  71.8  24.5  26.1 
Exceptional items   2.0  7.2  (11.5) (51.4) (6.9)
Profit/(loss) before taxation  34.5  60.2  60.3  (26.9) 19.2 
Tax  (9.1) (16.6) (17.8) 9.1  (8.4)
Profit/(loss) after taxation attributable to shareholders  25.4  43.6  42.5  (17.8) 10.8 
      
Fixed assets, investments in joint ventures and 
available for sale financial assets  12.5  15.4  24.1  18.4  25.4 
Intangible assets and goodwill  59.5  121.2  125.2  123.2  121.9 
Net current assets   137.2  312.0  321.6  269.2  346.4 
Long term receivables   15.9  15.7  34.4  52.3  49.4 
Long term payables and provisions  (105.0) (157.7) (180.0) (168.5) (119.9)
Net assets   120.1  306.6  325.3  294.6  423.2 
Share capital   13.7  18.8  18.9  18.9  40.9 
Reserves   106.4  287.8  306.4  275.7  382.3 
Shareholders’ funds   120.1  306.6  325.3  294.6  423.2 
Dividends per share (pence)  18.1  21.7  21.7  10.9  12.5 
Basic earnings per share (pence)  78.2  103.5  82.5  (34.4) 14.7 
Diluted earnings per share (pence)  76.8  102.1  82.5  (34.4) 14.7 
All dividends and earnings per share figures above, for the years 2006 to 2009, have been restated for the share consolidation and rights issue. Financial Statements 2010
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 112
Registered office
Galliford Try plc
Cowley Business Park
Cowley
Uxbridge
Middlesex UB8 2AL 
Registration
England 836539
Stockbrokers
KBC Peel Hunt
Hoare Govett
Financial advisers
Rothschild
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
 
Bankers
HSBC Bank plc
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Bank of Scotland
Barclays Bank PLC
Analysis of shareholdings
at 30 June 2010
   % of Number of % of Number of 
Size of shareholding   holders holders shares shares
1 – 10,000   92 4,325 6 4,820,787
10,001 – 50,000                            4 191 5 3,841,652
50,001 – 500,000   3 128 26 21,543,629
500,001 – Highest   1 42 63 51,643,398
Totals   100 4,686 100 81,849,466
SHAREHOLDER
INFORMATION
Financial calendar 2010
Half year results announced  24 February
Interim dividend paid 30 March
Full year results announced 15 September
Ex dividend date 6 October
Final dividend record date  8 October
Annual General Meeting  5 November
Final dividend payment 12 November
Shareholder enquiries 
The Company’s registrars are Equiniti Limited. They will be pleased to deal with any questions regarding your shareholding or dividends. 
Please notify them if you change your address or other personal information. Call the shareholder helpline on 0871 384 2202 or write to them at:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
You can find a number of shareholder services online via their website at www.shareview.co.uk, including the portfolio service which  
gives you access to more information on your investments such as balance movements, indicative share prices and information on recent 
dividends. You can also register your email address to receive shareholder information and Annual Report and Financial Statements 
electronically.
Low cost share dealing service
A telephone and internet dealing service is available through Equiniti which provides a simple way of buying and selling Galliford Try shares. 
Commission is currently 1.5% with a minimum charge of £25 for telephone dealing and 1% with a minimum charge of £20 for internet dealing. 
For telephone sales call 0845 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to www.shareview.
co.uk/dealing. You will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate. Share dealing services are also widely 
provided by other organisations. The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the code GFRD.
Company website 
You can find out more about the Company on our website www.gallifordtry.co.uk which includes a section specifically prepared for 
investors. In this section you can check the Company’s share price, find the latest Company news, look at the financial reports and 
presentations as well as search frequently asked questions and answers on shareholding matters.
The Company’s up to date share price can also be obtained by telephoning Cityline on 09058 171690 (calls charged at 75p per minute).
 
Company contact
Contact with existing and prospective shareholders is welcomed by the Company. If you have any questions please contact the Company 
Secretary, Richard Barraclough, at the registered office, or via email (richard.barraclough@gallifordtry.co.uk). Printed on Hello Matt, which is produced using wood fibre from
fully sustainable forests, certified as well managed in accordance
with the rules of the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). All pulps
used are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) and are manufactured at  
a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certificates  
for environmental management. The report has been printed by 
Quadracolor, an FSC approved printer.
Page 11, Trinity Watch photograph © Cameracraft, Truro.
Page 27, Liverpool Museum photograph © McCoy Wynne, Liverpool.
 
Designed and produced by www.farraday.com This 322 home site in Epsom on 
land originally acquired from English 
Partnerships, has non-standard house 
types that are eco friendly, designed 
to achieve between 35% to 40% 
savings in carbon emissions.
www.gallifordtry.co.uk Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the forty-sixth Annual  
General Meeting of Galliford Try plc will be held at the offices  
of Royal Bank of Scotland, 3rd Floor Conference Centre,  
250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA on Friday 5 November 
2010 at 11.00 a.m. The business of the Meeting will be to 
consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of 
which resolutions 1 to 7 are proposed as ordinary resolutions 
and resolutions 8 to 10 as special resolutions: 
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS
1. To receive the directors’ report and the audited accounts  
for the year to 30 June 2010 and the auditors’ report on  
the accounts.
2. To approve the report on directors’ remuneration for the  
year to 30 June 2010.
3. To declare a final dividend of 9.2 pence per ordinary share.
4. To re-elect Greg Fitzgerald as a director of the Company.
5. To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors  
to the Company and to authorise the directors to set their  
remuneration.
6. To authorise the directors generally and unconditionally  
pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to  
exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in the  
Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert  
any security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate  
nominal amount of £27,283,156 comprising:
 (a) an aggregate nominal amount of £13,641,578 (whether  
  in connection with the same offer or issue as under (b)  
  below or otherwise); and
 (b) an aggregate nominal amount of £13,641,578 in the  
  form of equity securities (as defined in section 560(1) of  
  the Companies Act 2006) in connection with an offer or  
  issue by way of rights, open for acceptance for a period  
  fixed by the directors, to holders of ordinary shares   
  (other than the Company) on the register on any record  
  date fixed by the directors in proportion (as nearly as   
  may be) to the respective number of ordinary shares   
  deemed to be held by them, subject to such exclusions  
  or other arrangements as the directors may deem   
  necessary or expedient in relation to fractional  
  entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any  
  overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory  
  body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever.
This authority shall expire (unless previously varied, revoked or 
renewed by the Company in general meeting) fifteen months 
after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the 
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 
2011, except that the Company may before such expiry make 
an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to 
be allotted or such rights to be granted after such expiry and 
the directors may allot shares or grant such rights in pursuance 
of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this 
resolution had not expired.
7. To approve the proposed purchase of a property in Devon  
 by a step-daughter of Greg Fitzgerald, a director of the 
Company, from Midas Homes Limited (a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of the Company) for a purchase price of £305,204 
for which part of the consideration shall comprise a property 
valued at £145,000 to be taken under the Company’s part 
exchange scheme. 
SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS
8. To empower the directors pursuant to section 570 of the  
 Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities (as defined  
 in section 560(1) of that Act) for cash pursuant to the   
 general authority conferred on them by resolution 6 above  
 and/or to sell equity securities held as treasury shares for   
 cash pursuant to section 727 of that Act, in each case as  
 if section 561(1) of that Act did not apply to any such   
 allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to:
 (a) any such allotment and/or sale of equity securities in  
  connection with an offer or issue by way of rights or  
  other pre-emptive offer or issue, open for acceptance  
  for a period fixed by the directors, to holders of ordinary  
  shares (other than the Company) on the register on any  
  record date fixed by the directors in proportion (as nearly  
  as may be) to the respective number of ordinary shares  
  deemed to be held by them, subject to such exclusions  
  or other arrangements as the directors may deem  
  necessary or expedient in relation to fractional  
  entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any  
  overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory  
  body or stock exchange or any other matter  
  whatsoever; and
 (b) any such allotment and/or sale, otherwise than  
  pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above, of equity  
  securities having, in the case of ordinary shares, an  
  aggregate nominal amount or, in the case of other  
  equity securities, giving the right to subscribe for or  
  convert into ordinary shares having an aggregate  
  nominal amount, not exceeding the sum of £2,046,237.
This authority shall expire, unless previously revoked or renewed 
by the Company in general meeting, at such time as the general 
authority conferred on the directors by resolution 6 above 
expires, except that the Company may at any time before such 
expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might 
require equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held 
as treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the directors 
may allot equity securities and/or sell equity securities held as 
treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as  
if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
9. That the Company be and is generally and unconditionally  
 authorised to make market purchases (as defined in   
 section 693(4) of the Companies Act 2006) of its ordinary   
 shares of 50 pence each provided that in doing so it:
 (a) purchases no more than 8,184,947 ordinary shares of  
  50 pence each;
 (b) pays not less than 50 pence (excluding expenses) per   
  ordinary share of 50 pence each;
 (c) pays a price per share that is not more (excluding   
  expenses) per ordinary share than the higher of  
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2010
201009_GallifordTry_NoM_04.indd   3 2010/09/29   02:33:10 PM Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010
  (i) 5% above the average of the middle market   
  quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the   
  London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five   
  business days immediately before the day on which it   
  purchases that share; and (ii) the price stipulated by   
  Article 5(1) of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation  
  (EC 2273/2003).
This authority shall expire eighteen months after the date of the 
passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the 
Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011, 
except that the Company may, if it agrees to purchase ordinary 
shares under this authority before it expires, complete the 
purchase wholly or partly after this authority expires.
10. That a general meeting other than an annual general  
 meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days’   
 notice.
By order of the board
Richard Barraclough
Company Secretary
15 September 2010
Registered office:
Cowley Business Park
Cowley 
Uxbridge
Middlesex 
UB8 2AL
Registered in England and Wales No. 836539
EXPLANATION OF RESOLUTIONS
Resolution 1 – Report and financial statements
The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to 
present to the shareholders of the Company at a general 
meeting the reports of the directors and auditors, and the 
audited accounts of the Company, for the year ended 30 June 
2010. The report of the directors and the audited accounts 
have been approved by the directors, and the report of the 
auditors has been approved by the auditors, and a copy of 
each of these documents may be found in the annual report 
and accounts, starting at page 42. 
Resolution 2 – Remuneration report
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to seek 
shareholder approval for the Directors’ Remuneration Report  
at the general meeting before which the Company’s annual 
accounts are laid. The Directors’ Remuneration Report is 
included in the annual report and accounts, starting at page 50. 
If shareholders vote against the report the directors will still be 
paid, but the Remuneration Committee will reconsider its policy. 
Resolution 3 – Declaration of dividend
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 9.2 pence 
per ordinary share, payable on 12 November 2010 to holders 
on the register as at 8 October 2010. The final dividend will not 
be paid without shareholder approval and its amount may not 
exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Resolution 4 – Election of director
The Company’s articles of association require every director to 
be re-elected at least every three years, in line with the Combined 
Code on Corporate Governance requirements. Greg Fitzgerald 
was last re-elected in 2007 and consequently is standing for  
re-election this year.
The biographical details of the directors are on pages 40 and 
41 of the annual report that accompanies this Notice. All the 
directors have had an annual performance appraisal to confirm 
their performance continues to be effective and demonstrates 
commitment to the role.
Resolution 5 – Auditors
The Companies Act 2006 requires that auditors be appointed at 
each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to hold office 
until the next such meeting. This resolution seeks shareholder 
approval for the reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
and permits the directors to determine the auditors’ remuneration 
for the audit work to be carried out by them in the next financial 
year. 
Resolution 6 – Allotment of shares
The Companies Act 2006 provides that the directors may only 
allot shares if authorised by shareholders to do so. Resolution 6 
will, if passed, authorise the directors to allot the Company’s 
unissued shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 
£27,283,156, which represents an amount which is approximately 
equal to two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the 
Company as at the date of this Notice. As at 15 September 
2010, the Company did not hold any treasury shares.
201009_GallifordTry_NoM_04.indd   4 2010/09/29   02:33:10 PM Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010
As provided in paragraph (a) of the resolution, up to half of this 
authority (equal to one-third of the issued share capital of the 
Company) will enable directors to allot and issue new shares  
in whatever manner (subject to pre-emption rights) they see fit. 
Paragraph (b) of the resolution provides that the remainder of 
the authority (equal to a further one-third) may only be used in 
connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders. 
As paragraph (a) imposes no restrictions on the way the authority 
may be exercised, it could be used in conjunction with paragraph 
(b) so as to enable the whole two-thirds authority to be used  
in connection with a rights issue. This accords with guidance 
issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The authority will expire at the earlier of the date that is fifteen 
months after the date of the passing of the resolution and the 
conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company. 
Passing resolution 6 will ensure that the directors continue to 
have the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, 
when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares. There are no 
current plans to issue new shares except in connection with 
employee share schemes. 
Resolution 7 – Proposed sale of a property to a  
connected person of a director
Shareholders are being asked to approve a proposed purchase 
by a step-daughter of Greg Fitzgerald, a director of the Company, 
of a property situated in Devon being developed and sold by a 
joint venture in which a subsidiary of the Company, Midas Homes 
Limited, is a 50% shareholder. This resolution is required by 
section 190 of the Companies Act 2006 in order to permit  
Greg Fitzgerald’s step-daughter to proceed with the proposed 
purchase. The property is to be purchased for her own residential 
use for a consideration of £305,204 taking a part exchange 
property as part of the consideration of £145,000. As she and 
her partner are also long-standing employees of the Company, 
a total discount of 7.5% has been allowed, taking into account 
the standard discount of 5% available to all employees purchasing 
a home from Midas Homes Limited. Subject to the discount, the 
directors have received written confirmation from independent 
valuers stating that the price payable for this property and the 
value attributed to the property being taken in part exchange 
under the Company’s part exchange scheme represent fair 
market values.
Resolution 8 – Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights
The Companies Act 2006 requires that, if the Company issues 
new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first 
offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their current 
holdings. It is proposed that the directors be authorised to issue 
shares for cash and/or sell shares from treasury (if any are  
so held) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £2,046,237 
(representing approximately 5% of the Company’s issued 
share capital as at 15 September 2010) without offering them 
to shareholders first, and to modify statutory pre-emption rights  
to deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that may 
arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue. If passed, 
this authority will expire at the same time as the authority to  
allot shares given pursuant to resolution 6. The directors do  
not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital 
on a non-pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period.
Resolution 9 – Purchase of own shares
The resolution seeks to renew the Company’s authority to 
purchase its own shares. It specifies the maximum number  
of shares which may be acquired as 10% of the Company’s 
issued ordinary share capital, and specifies the minimum and 
maximum prices at which shares may be bought. The directors 
will only use this authority if, in the light of market conditions 
prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such 
purchases will be to increase earnings per share, and that 
taking into account other investment opportunities, purchases 
will be in the best interests of the shareholders generally. Any 
shares purchased in accordance with this authority will be held 
in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash or transfer to  
an employee share scheme although they may be cancelled 
immediately on repurchase in the light of circumstances at the 
time. The directors have no present intention of exercising this 
authority, which will expire at the conclusion of the next annual 
general meeting. Under the Company’s share option and 
restricted share schemes, at 15 September 2010, options  
and restricted share awards over a total of 1,806,870 ordinary 
shares in the Company (of which 310,189 shares are held by 
the Employee Share Trust), were outstanding representing 2.21% 
of issued share capital. This would represent 2.45% of issued 
share capital if the proposed authority to purchase the Company’s 
shares were exercised in full. 
Resolution 10 – Notice period for general meetings
Under rules introduced in August 2009 to implement the 
Shareholder Rights Directive, the Company must give at least 
21 clear days’ notice of any general meeting, but is permitted to 
call meetings other than the annual general meeting on at least 
14 clear days’ notice if it obtains annual shareholder approval. 
The Company must also offer, for any meeting held on less than 
21 clear days’ notice, a facility to vote by electronic means that 
is accessible to all members. The directors do not intend to call 
a meeting on less than 21 clear days’ notice unless they consider 
it would be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole. 
201009_GallifordTry_NoM_04.indd   5 2010/09/29   02:33:10 PM Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010
NOTES
1. Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all  
or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on   
their behalf at the meeting. A shareholder may appoint   
more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General  
Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise  
the rights attached to a different share or shares held by   
that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the  
Company. A proxy form which may be used to make such  
appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies  
this Notice. 
2. To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing  
a proxy must be either (a) deposited at the Company’s  
registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road,  
Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZX so that it is received no  
later than 11.00 a.m. on 3 November 2010, (b) lodged  
using the CREST Proxy Voting Service – see paragraph  
9 below, or (c) lodged electronically by visiting  
www.sharevote.co.uk – see paragraph 12 below. 
3. The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument 
or any CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in paragraph 
9 below) will not prevent a shareholder attending the 
Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he/she 
wishes to do so. 
4. Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person   
nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006  
to enjoy information rights (a “Nominated Person”) may,   
under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder  
by whom he/she was nominated, have a right to be  
appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy  
for the Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person  
has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to  
exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, have  
a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the  
exercise of voting rights. 
5. The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to   
the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above  
does not apply to Nominated Persons. The rights described  
in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders  
of the Company. 
6. To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General  
Meeting (and for the purpose of the determination by the  
Company of the votes they may cast), shareholders must  
be registered in the Register of Members of the Company  
at 6.00 p.m. on 3 November 2010 (or, in the event of any   
adjournment, at 6.00 p.m. on the date which is two working  
days before the time of the adjourned meeting). Changes  
to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall  
be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to  
attend and vote at the meeting. 
7. As at the date of this Notice the Company’s issued share  
capital consists of 81,849,466 ordinary shares of 50 pence  
each, carrying one vote each. Therefore, the total voting  
rights in the Company as at the date of this Notice are  
81,849,466. 
8. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies   
through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service   
may do so by using the procedures described in the   
CREST Manual. CREST personal members or other CREST  
sponsored members, and those CREST members who  
have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their  
CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who will be  
able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
9. In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using  
the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST  
message (a “CREST Proxy Instruction”) must be properly  
authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland  
Limited’s specifications, and must contain the information  
required for such instruction, as described in the CREST  
Manual (available via www.euroclear.com/CREST). The  
message, regardless of whether it constitutes the  
appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the  
instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in  
order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by  
the issuer’s agent (ID 7RA01) by 11.00 a.m. on 3 November  
2010. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken  
to be the time (as determined by the time stamp applied  
to the message by the CREST Application Host) from  
which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message  
by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.  
After this time any change of instructions to proxies   
appointed through CREST should be communicated to  
the appointee through other means.
10. CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST  
sponsors, or voting service providers should note that 
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available 
special procedures in CREST for any particular message. 
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply 
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is  
the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take  
(or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, 
or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service 
provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting 
service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary 
to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the 
CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, 
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 
sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, 
to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical 
limitations of the CREST system and timings.
11. The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy 
Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)
(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
12. Shareholders may, if they wish, register the appointment  
of a proxy electronically by visiting www.sharevote.co.uk. 
To use this service a shareholder will need his Reference 
Number, Card ID and Account Number printed on the 
accompanying proxy form. Full details of the procedure  
are given on the website at www.sharevote.co.uk.
13. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or 
more corporate representatives who may exercise on its 
201009_GallifordTry_NoM_04.indd   6 2010/09/29   02:33:10 PM Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010
behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they  
do not do so in relation to the same shares.
14. Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members 
meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section 
have the right to require the Company to publish on a 
website a statement setting out any matter relating to:  
(i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the 
auditors’ report and the conduct of the audit) that are to  
be laid before the Annual General Meeting; or (ii) any 
circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company 
ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which 
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with 
section 437 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company 
may not require the shareholders requesting any such 
website publication to pay its expenses in complying with 
sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006. Where 
the Company is required to place a statement on a website 
under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must 
forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later 
than the time when it makes the statement available on  
the website. The business which may be dealt with at the 
Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the 
Company has been required under section 527 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
15. Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask 
questions. The Company must cause to be answered  
any such question relating to the business being dealt  
with at the meeting but no such answer need be given  
if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation 
for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential 
information, (b) the answer has already been given on a 
website in the form of an answer to a question, or (c) it is 
undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good 
order of the meeting that the question be answered.
16. A copy of this Notice, and other information required by 
section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found  
at www.gallifordtry.co.uk. 
17. Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies 
Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in 
those sections have the right to require the Company (i) to 
give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice 
of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly 
be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting 
and/or (ii) to include in the business to be dealt with at the 
meeting any matter (other than a proposed resolution) which 
may be properly included in the business. A resolution may 
properly be moved or a matter may properly be included  
in the business unless (a) (in the case of a resolution only)  
it would, if passed, be ineffective (whether by reason of 
inconsistency with any enactment or the Company’s 
constitution or otherwise), (b) it is defamatory of any person, 
or (c) it is frivolous or vexatious. Such a request may be in 
hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the 
resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be 
included in the business, must be authorised by the person 
or persons making it, must be received by the Company 
not later than 23 September 2010, being the date six clear 
weeks before the meeting, and (in the case of a matter to 
be included in the business only) must be accompanied by 
a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
18. The service agreements of the executive directors and 
copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive 
directors are available for inspection during normal business 
hours at the registered office of the Company and will be 
available for inspection for fifteen minutes prior to and 
during the Annual General Meeting. 
19. Any electronic address, within the meaning of section 334 
(4) of the Companies Act 2006, provided in this Notice, or 
any related documents including the proxy form, may not 
be used to communicate with the Company for any purpose 
other than those expressly stated.
201009_GallifordTry_NoM_04.indd   1 2010/09/29   02:33:10 PM Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2010
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
201009_GallifordTry_NoM_04.indd   2 2010/09/29   02:33:10 PM
