 Strength  
in diversity
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 59 Independent auditors’ report
 to the members of Galliford Try plc
60 Consolidated income statement
60 Consolidated statement of
 comprehensive income
61 Consolidated balance sheet
62 Consolidated statement of changes in equity
63 Consolidated statement of cash flows
64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
99 Five year record
100 Shareholder information
PERFORMANCE
40 Directors and Executive Board
42 Governance
48 Remuneration report
55 Directors’ report and other statutory information 
01 Highlights
02 The Group at a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Chief Executive’s review
08 Finance review
12 Business review
      16 Housebuilding  
      24 Construction
      31 PPP Investments
 32 Principal risks
 34 Corporate responsibility  
GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
PERFORMANCE
01
Performance 
on track
Group revenue 
1
£1,284m
Up 5% (2010: £1,222 million)
Profit before tax –  
pre exceptional 
£35.1m
Up 34% (2010: £26.1 million)
Profit before tax –  
post exceptional 
2
£41.7m
Up 117% (2010: £19.2 million)
Earnings per share – 
pre exceptional
Earnings per share – 
post exceptional 
2
32.2p
Up 31% (2010: 24.6p)
Dividend per share
40.3p
Up 174% (2010: 14.7p)
16.0p
Up 28% (2010: 12.5p)
1
 Group revenue excludes share of joint ventures’ revenue of £52 million (2010: £35 million). Revenue where stated throughout the business review on pages 03 to 39 includes share of 
joint ventures.
2
 Stated after a net exceptional credit of £6.6 million (2010 net charge: £6.9 million).
Highlights – year ended 30 June 2011
£36 million net cash at year end, ahead of expectations (2010: £77 million).
Housebuilding 
27% increase in completions to 2,170 (2010: 1,705).
8.1% housebuilding margin shows strong progress (2010: 5.6%), 9.2% achieved in second half.
25% increase in sales currently reserved, contracted or completed at £328 million (2010: £263 million).
72% of 10,400 plot landbank now acquired at current market values (2010: 58% of 9,700).
100% of land required for 2012 financial year in place with detailed planning, 80% land secured for 2013.
Construction 
2.4% construction margin remains robust (2010: 2.4%).
Strong year end construction cash balance of £217 million (2010: £207 million).
£1.7 billion current construction order book underpinned by major long term projects, 90% of this year’s 
planned revenue secured (2010: £1.8 billion; 88%). The Group at a glance
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
02
Galliford Try is a housebuilder and affordable housing developer across the 
South and East of England, and a provider of construction services throughout 
the UK.
Galliford Try’s strength is in the diversity of its operations, spanning markets 
in both the housebuilding and construction industries. We provide whole 
life solutions to projects for the built environment, delivering housing and 
regeneration schemes and carrying out major construction projects from  
public and commercial buildings to major civil engineering works.
Housebuilding
Our credentials
Galliford Try’s award winning housebuilding 
business has a long track record of building 
individually designed developments with an 
unrivalled expertise in brownfield sites and 
building conversions. We aim to design with 
local architectural styles and building materials 
and do not rely on standard house types. 
Market position
We are the seventh largest housebuilder 
in the UK, and during the year rebranded our 
entire business as Linden Homes to provide  
a consistent recognisable presence across  
our regions. We operate across the South  
of England and the Eastern counties. 
We are also a major provider of affordable 
homes and are one of only six developers 
working on all of the Homes and Communities 
Agency’s developer partner panels.
Our strategy
We are at the start of the final year of our 
three year expansion plan, under which we 
plan to have doubled the size of the business  
from 2009. In 2012 we anticipate completing 
over 3,000 homes, placing us in the top five  
of UK housebuilders – delivering an increasing 
proportion of our sales from land acquired 
since July 2008 on which higher profit 
margins will drive absolute profit growth.
 
Sustainability
Sustainability is about creating affordable,  
well designed homes in viable dynamic 
communities. The majority of our homes are 
on brownfield sites and we have sustainability 
action plans covering the key issues – technical, 
localism and planning, regulation, supply 
chain and customer engagement.
Revenue
£389m
Profit from operations
£31.6m
Home completions
2,170
Revenue by sector UK coverage Completions by sector
For more detailed information 
go to: www.gallifordtry.co.uk
For more information about 
Housebuilding see pages 16 to 23.
1 Private Housing  £324m
2 Affordable Housing  £65m
1 Private Housing  1,446
2 Affordable Housing  724
1
1
2
2 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
3
PERFORMANCE
03
Our credentials 
Galliford Try’s record has been built on 
collaborative working with clients to deliver 
best value construction projects. A significant 
proportion of our work is in long term 
frameworks, particularly on programmes  
for improving the country’s infrastructure.
We have experience in working in joint 
ventures where we can bring regional 
expertise and our specialist civil engineering 
skills to the largest projects.
Market position 
We are a UK top 12 contractor operating 
across the entire country. Building works  
range across commercial property, leisure  
and hospitality facilities, education, health  
and, in our partnerships division, affordable 
housing. Infrastructure projects encompass 
water, highways and rail, civil engineering and 
flood alleviation as well as renewable energy 
and energy from waste.
Our strategy 
We aim to maintain our order book at a 
consistent level with the objective in the 
current economic conditions of delivering 
profit and cash balances, not absolute levels 
of revenue. We strive for a diverse spread of 
work across the regulated, public and private 
sectors, focusing on sectors where procuring 
work is not based on price competition alone, 
where there are opportunities to deliver best 
value with an acceptable return and risk 
profile. We aim to be in a position to resume 
our growth strategy when economic 
conditions and markets improve.
Sustainability
We aim to play a key role in supporting  
our clients to achieve their sustainability 
objectives, and have initiatives in place  
to reduce our carbon footprint and drive 
improvements across our own operations.
Construction
Revenue
£937m
Profit from operations
£22.2m
Order book
£1.75bn
For more detailed information 
go to: www.gallifordtry.co.uk
For more information about 
Construction see pages 24 to 30.
Revenue by activity Order book by activity UK coverage
1 Building  £439m
2 Partnerships  £124m
3 Infrastructure  £375m
1 Building  £673m
2 Partnerships  £156m
3 Infrastructure  £921m
3
2
1
1
2
3 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
04
Chairman’s statement
A strategy 
for value
The business is soundly based, is in  
robust good health, and has a clear  
vision for the future.
I am delighted to have been appointed 
Chairman of Galliford Try at this important 
stage of the Group’s development and to 
make my first report to shareholders. Since 
joining the board last November, I have spent 
some time getting to know the business and 
can confirm that it is soundly based, is in 
robust good health and has a clear vision  
for the future. I know that I am speaking  
on behalf of all the board in paying tribute 
to the inestimable contribution made by 
David Calverley over the 16 years he was 
with the Company, and particularly as 
Chairman over the last six. We wish him 
a long and happy retirement.
Board and governance 
We have a top quality executive management 
team, led by a first class Chief Executive, 
Greg Fitzgerald. We also have an impressive 
and well balanced mix of non-executive 
directors who question and challenge in a 
way that is both constructive and supportive. 
The board is well informed by the executive, 
ensuring that board debate is both full  
and open. 
I am pleased to be able to report that I have 
found corporate governance within the 
Company to be excellent and in line with  
best practice. This is the first annual report 
prepared under the new UK corporate 
governance code and I can confirm that, 
although not mandatory for the Company,  
the board has decided to follow best practice 
as applicable to FTSE 350 listed companies.  
I would specifically highlight that this means, 
notwithstanding the effectiveness of the 
current board evaluation process, the board 
has committed to an external evaluation  
at least once every three years, and that  
all directors will stand for re-election at each 
annual general meeting. I can also report  
that the Company carried out a considerable 
amount of work prior to the implementation 
of the 2010 Bribery Act on 1 July 2011,  
and has put in place a well thought-through 
package of appropriate measures, including  
a Group-wide information and training plan, 
to drive compliance with the law. We have 
also appointed an experienced Head of Risk  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
5
PERFORMANCE
05
and Internal Audit during the year to further 
strengthen our processes for managing the 
assessment, impact and mitigation of risk 
across the Group. 
The board is also very aware of current 
concerns around the effectiveness of 
executive remuneration, which underlines the 
importance of the work of our remuneration 
committee to ensure there is clear alignment 
with shareholders’ interests and the long  
term success of the business.
Strategic overview 
Galliford Try is a housebuilder and a 
construction contractor. We therefore operate 
in two distinct market sectors, with differing 
characteristics and complementary features 
that are explained in detail on page 12 of this 
report. This business model has served us well 
in recent years, particularly through the recent 
recession, and the board will ensure that the 
way it develops and is adapted to meet the 
changing business environment in the future will 
continue to deliver best value to shareholders.
The fragility of both the global and UK 
economy has been clearly demostrated over 
recent months. Our businesses are closely 
aligned with the health of the economy and 
general economic confidence. The way  
we adapted quickly to the housing market 
downturn in early 2008 and to the opportunities 
to acquire land for expansion that arose in 
2009 clearly demonstrated the value of 
identifying economic changes early and 
responding to them, emphasising the 
importance of the board’s role in monitoring 
economic statistics and trends so we can 
react quickly again should the need arise.  
Despite the challenging conditions, the Group 
has delivered an excellent financial performance 
during the financial year. Importantly, we have 
made significant progress towards achieving 
the objective we set when raising a net 
£119.3 million by rights issue in October 2009. 
Our aim was to approximately double the size 
of our housebuilding business over a three 
year period with the objective of delivering  
a significant enhancement to earnings per 
share during 2012. At the end of the second 
year of the plan, we have the land, the 
planning consents, the construction resource 
and the management to deliver during the 
final year. We also planned to manage our 
construction business through more difficult 
times by focusing on profit margin and cash, 
not revenue. To date, the business has held 
up better than forecast in challenging markets, 
and continues to benefit from its many long 
term client relationships.  
Earnings and dividend 
The financial results achieved this year 
represent an increase in earnings per share  
of 31%, and as a result the directors are 
recommending a final dividend of 11.5 pence 
per share which, subject to approval at the 
annual general meeting, will be payable on  
18 November 2011 to shareholders on the 
register on 7 October 2011. With the interim 
dividend of 4.5 pence per share paid in April, 
this will result in a total dividend of 16.0 pence 
per share, an increase of 28% over the previous 
year. The board reviewed its dividend policy 
during the year and has stated its intention 
that, subject to the performance and prospects 
of the business, the Group will pay a total 
dividend that represents around one third of 
profits before tax.
People 
I have spent some time visiting a number  
of our operations since my appointment  
to the board last November and have been 
impressed by the quality and dedication of 
our people. They have been through a hard 
three years and I am particularly pleased  
that the efforts they have been making  
and the dedication they have shown to the 
business is now being reflected in improving 
performances across the Group. I thank 
them all.
Conclusion and outlook
The board has a clear strategy for delivering 
the expansion of its housebuilding business, 
and for managing its construction business 
through more challenging times, as set out in 
2009. We remain totally focused on delivering 
this strategy and in the coming year will 
review how we develop it over the next three 
to five years to ensure it remains appropriate 
and aligned to delivering value to shareholders. 
We have first class businesses in both 
contracting and housebuilding and the board 
is confident they will be able to make the 
most of the opportunities that arise.
Ian Coull 
Chairman
09 10 11
295
423
455
Total equity (£m)
09 10 11
10.9
12.5
16.0
Dividend per share (p) Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
06
Chief Executive’s review
Significant 
progress towards 
our objectives
We exceeded our profit expectations  
during the year and are in strong position 
to deliver on the objectives we set for 
2012 when embarking on our three year 
housebuilding expansion plan and to 
drive further growth thereafter.
We exceeded our profit expectations  
during the year as growth in housebuilding 
accelerated in the second half and we 
maintained a higher margin in construction 
than anticipated. As we enter the final year of 
our three year transformational expansion plan 
for housebuilding we are in a strong position 
to deliver on the objectives we set for 2012 
and to drive further growth thereafter.
Strategy and progress 
In 2009 we laid out our plan to double the 
size of our housebuilding business over three 
years based on a strategic focus on Southern 
England. £119.3 million was raised by way of 
rights issue with the intention of acquiring land 
at the attractive prices we foresaw would  
be available, building up our management 
resources and strengthening our market 
coverage within our southern biased business 
so that by the third year we could deliver 
around 3,000 units. We forecast that earnings 
per share would reduce as we made the 
investment required during the first two  
years of the plan before materially increasing  
in 2012 as we delivered the resultant 
revenues and profits.
At the end of the second year we have made 
significant progress. We have exceeded our 
profit forecasts in each of the first two years. 
We have managed our cash to both invest in 
land and maintain a robust financial position. 
By the year end we had secured all the land 
we need to deliver our planned production  
in 2012, with every plot having a detailed 
planning consent. 
During the year we increased the number of 
active selling sites from 59 to 78, and opened 
new regional offices in Guildford and the 
Thames Valley. We completed 2,170 homes, 
27% up on the previous year and brought all 
our housebuilding businesses together under 
the Linden Homes brand, which is driving 
improvements in cost effectiveness, brand 
recognition and consistent marketing. At the 
year end, 70% of our landbank of 10,250 
plots had been acquired at current market  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
7
PERFORMANCE
07
values on which profit margins are materially 
higher than on legacy land. The housing market 
in our southern biased area of operation has 
generally remained stable and, although there 
remains a significant amount of production  
to deliver, and sales to achieve, we are in a 
strong position to meet our objectives. We will 
then drive forward further growth towards 
4,000 annual completions in the medium 
term to firmly establish ourselves as a top  
five housebuilder.
Our plan took account of construction markets 
that we anticipated would become more 
difficult as economic conditions hardened. 
We set a clear strategy to focus on profit 
margin and cash performance, the two key 
measures determining the success of a 
contracting business. We planned for the 
absolute level of our construction revenues  
to fall, as we were not prepared to acquire 
work in highly competitive markets where 
price levels or contract conditions were 
unacceptable. 
Although the market held up longer than  
we expected, the effect of public sector 
spending constraints is impacting the 
construction industry’s future pipeline of  
work and continuing to drive further intense 
competitiveness. Our strategy has held  
up well with a maintained margin of 2.4%, 
excellent cash balances generated from our 
construction activities and year end order 
book of £1.75 billion. This demonstrates 
success in winning work in our chosen sectors, 
particularly as we move towards carrying out 
larger projects such as the recently awarded 
£790 million Forth Road Crossing, being 
carried out in a four party consortium, where 
specific skills and organisational strengths  
are required that mitigate against selection on 
price criteria alone. We therefore have visibility 
on revenues in the immediate future which 
enables us to maintain the resources we need 
to ultimately grow the business again when 
economic conditions and markets improve.
Sustainability 
Our objective is to run a sustainable business. 
Working with our construction clients to 
provide innovative solutions that help them 
meet their own sustainability objectives  
has become a key part of our service.  
In housebuilding we are playing our part in  
both the industry and Government approach 
to improving sustainability, building on our 
experience in delivering homes to increased 
environmental standards and our work on  
net zero carbon developments. Within the 
business, we have established a 15% carbon 
reduction target by the end of 2013. Our 
objectives and record across our key areas  
of corporate responsibility, from the absolute 
priority of our health and safety performance 
and case studies from across the Group,  
are in the Corporate Responsibility section  
of the business review and in our separate 
CR report. 
People 
I never fail to be impressed by the expertise 
and effort shown by our people across  
all of our businesses, particularly through  
difficult times, and I am delighted to have this 
opportunity to thank them. They can be justly 
proud of the projects that they deliver to their 
clients and customers and it is the service 
they give that the future of our business 
depends on.
Outlook 
Sales during the summer period have been 
resilient, with £328 million currently reserved, 
contracted or completed, 25% ahead of last 
year. Since the year end our landbank has 
risen to 10,400 plots of which 72% have been 
acquired at current market values and we 
now have 81 active selling sites. Our southern 
biased markets are remaining stable, giving 
us the backdrop to deliver significant growth 
in the new financial year and to drive further 
expansion in the medium term towards 4,000 
annual completions.
We have maintained a high quality 
construction order book currently standing  
at £1.7 billion. After securing a number of 
valuable projects in the second half of the 
year our forecasts take account of the effect 
of the increasingly competitive market over 
the next one to two years. With 90% of  
our planned revenue for the new financial 
year secured, and our continued focus on 
delivering optimum margins and industry 
leading cash balances, we are well placed  
to work through the downturn.
Although the economic outlook in the UK 
remains uncertain, in the absence of a material 
effect on our markets we remain confident of 
delivering our planned progress. 
Greg Fitzgerald 
Chief Executive Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
08
Finance review
Strong financial 
results
An excellent financial performance in the year 
and our rigorous focus on cash management 
puts us in a strong financial position to support 
our planned growth.
I am pleased to report a significant 
improvement in the Group’s financial 
performance during 2011. At the end of the 
second year of the Group’s housebuilding 
expansion plan, our trading is showing  
the effect of our investment in land and  
work in progress made since we raised 
£119.3 million by way of rights issue  
in 2009.
Financial highlights
 • Pre exceptional profit before tax up  
34% to £35.1 million.
 • Post exceptional profit before tax up  
117% to £41.7 million.
 • A net £6.6 million exceptional credit to 
profit before tax following the decision  
of the Competition Appeal Tribunal to 
reduce by 83% the fine imposed by the 
Office of Fair Trading in 2009 for historic 
cover pricing.
 • Equity up by £32 million to £455 million. 
 • Net tangible assets up by 9.8% to  
£331 million.
 • The successful refinancing of the Group’s 
core bank facilities, completed in May 
2011 and providing stability and financial 
flexibility at competitive rates through to 
mid 2015. 
 • Continued strong cash performance in 
construction, contributing a year end 
balance of £217 million to overall Group 
net cash at the year end of £36 million.
 • Net investment in housebuilding 
developments, including joint ventures, 
increased in line with the expansion plan 
to £571 million.
Results 
For the year to 30 June 2011 Group  
revenue was up 5% to £1,284 million  
(2010: £1,222 million) with revenue, including 
joint ventures, up 6.5% to £1,336 million 
(2010: £1,256 million). The Group achieved a 
profit from operations (stated before finance 
costs, share of joint ventures interest and tax, 
exceptional items and tax) of £43.6 million 
(2010: £35.2 million). The Group’s pre 
exceptional profit before tax increased by 34% 
to £35.1 million (2010: £26.1 million) and after  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
PERFORMANCE
09
the £6.6 million exceptional credit detailed 
below, post exceptional profit before tax was 
up 117% to £41.7 million (£19.2 million).
Segmental analysis 
Revenues grew sharply in housebuilding  
as we delivered the second year of our 
expansion plan, new sites came on stream 
and the number of completions increased. 
Housebuilding revenue was up 23% to 
£388.5 million (2010: £316 million). Profit 
from operations was up 80% to £31.6 million 
(2010: £17.6 million). The housebuilding 
margin grew by 45% to 8.1% (2010: 5.6%) 
notwithstanding that we have already put the 
cost base in place to deliver the significantly 
higher revenues forecast for our new financial 
year. We achieved a gross margin during the 
year of 16.1%, with both gross and operating 
margins expected to increase further in  
the new financial year as the proportion of 
completions from new land continues to rise. 
Our concentration in construction is on margin 
and cash, with revenue remaining little changed 
during the year at £936.9 million (2010: 
£936.5 million). Profit from operations was 
£22.2 million (2010: £22.8 million) maintaining 
the margin at a better than expected 2.4%, 
as we reduced our cost base ahead of 
anticipated lower revenues. 
Within the construction division, Building 
contributed operating profit from operations of 
£10.4 million (2010: £10.8 million), which was 
achieved at a margin of 2.4% (2010: 2.4%), 
and Partnerships contributed profit from 
operations of £1.9 million (2010: £1.3 million), 
at a margin of 1.5% (2010: 1.4%), its margin 
currently lower as we invest in the resources 
and infrastructure required to meet its 
expansion objectives. Infrastructure contributed 
profit from operations of £9.9 million (2010: 
£10.7 million), representing margin performance 
of 2.6%.
PPP Investments reported a loss from 
operations for the financial year of £1.0 million 
(2010: profit £2.4 million) as bid costs exceeded 
income from equity sales. The loss included  
a profit of £1.2 million realised on the sale  
of its interest in the previously wholly owned 
Worcester History and Library Centre project.
Exceptional items
On 24 March 2011 a Competition Appeal 
Tribunal judgement reduced the quantum  
of the fine imposed by the Office of Fair 
Trading in 2009 for cover pricing during the 
period from 2001 to 2004 from £8.3 million 
to £1.4 million. The net £6.6 million reduction, 
after costs, is reflected in the Group’s results 
as an exceptional item credited to profit 
before tax. 
Taxation
The pre exceptional tax rate is 25.4%  
(2010: 30.7%) which has been reduced as  
a result of utilising unrecognised tax losses. 
The post exceptional tax rate is 21.3% 
(2010: 43.8%) as the exceptional income  
of £6.6 million is non taxable as it is reversing 
the non deductable treatment of the 
exceptional loss in 2010.
The Group has an established relationship 
with HMRC and seeks to identify, provide for 
and settle all anticipated taxation liabilities 
either in advance of or at the time of their 
crystallising. I have been appointed as the 
Group’s Senior Accounting Officer (SAO) 
during the financial year, that appointment 
preceding a thorough review of the Group’s 
taxation systems, practices and procedures 
in accordance with the requirements of the 
SAO legislation.
Earnings and dividend
There were no changes to the Company’s 
issued share capital in the year. The financial 
results achieved this year represent an 
increase in earnings per share of 31% to  
32.2 pence (2010: 24.6 pence) with post 
exceptional earnings per share up 174%  
to 40.3 pence (2010: 14.7 pence). 
The directors are recommending a final 
dividend of 11.5 pence per share which, 
subject to approval at the Annual General 
Meeting, will be paid on 18 November 2011 
to shareholders on the register at 7 October 
2011. With the interim dividend of 4.5 pence 
per share paid in April, this will result in a total 
dividend of 16.0 pence per share, an increase 
of 28% over the previous year. The cost of 
the final dividend is £9.4 million, resulting in  
a total relating to the year of £13.1 million.  
Cash and equity
During the year the Group has maintained  
a strong focus on cash management 
demonstrated by the £36 million of net  
cash held at the year end (2010: £77 million). 
Construction continued to maintain significant 
cash balances throughout the year with a 
positive cash balance of £216.7 million as  
at 30 June 2011 (2010: £206.8 million). 
Housebuilding requires net investment with a 
cash outflow of £83 million of the £141 million 
committed on land acquisitions in the year, 
leading to a net year end investment in 
developments  and housebuilding joint 
ventures of £571 million.
Total equity has increased by £32 million to 
£455 million. Tangible net assets increased by 
£29.5 million to £331 million. This represents 
tangible net assets per share as at 30 June 
2011 of £4.05 (2010: £3.68).
More detailed information regarding the 
performance of the Company’s share price 
and improvements in the Company’s total 
shareholder return over the financial year can 
be found in the performance section of the 
Remuneration Report on page 49.
Pension and share scheme costs
The total cost of pensions charged to  
the income statement in the financial  
year amounted to £10.4 million (2010:  
£12.8 million). Under IAS19 ‘Employee 
Benefits’ a small surplus has arisen in the 
Group’s final salary pension schemes. This 
was calculated, as at 30 June 2011, by an 
independent qualified actuary and the gross 
surplus recognised on the balance sheet  
is £3.2 million (2010: deficit £17.3 million). 
The most significant contributory factor to the 
surplus was the change to the assumptions 
used to reflect the use of the consumer price 
index for the revaluation of deferred benefits. 
Other factors were investment returns, further 
employer deficit contributions and a reduction 
in liabilities following the enhanced transfer 
value exercise carried out during the year. 
The Company instigated an Enhanced Transfer 
Value exercise during the year which offered 
deferred members of the closed Galliford Try 
Final Salary Pension Scheme an enhancement 
to their transfer value if they transferred their 
benefits out of the scheme. The exercise  
was carried out in accordance with the best 
practice provisions laid down by the Pensions 
Regulator in respect of such exercises and 
with full monitoring by the scheme Trustees. 
The result of the exercise, which was 
completed after the end of the financial year, 
was to generate a net reduction of £2.9 million 
in the scheme’s deficit as measured on its 
funding basis, or a £1.4 million net reduction 
measured on the Company’s IAS19 basis.  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
10
Finance review continued
Following completion of the 1 July 2009 
valuation of the Galliford Try Final Salary 
Pension Scheme in October 2010, and of  
the 1 April 2010 valuation of the Galliford 
Group Special Scheme in June 2011, the 
deficits in those schemes were calculated  
by the scheme actuaries at £48.0 million  
and £0.6 million respectively. Following 
negotiation with the respective Trustees,  
the Company agreed to maintain its existing 
deficit funding payments at £7.0 million and 
£0.2 million respectively, subject to the 
reduction in deficit resulting from the ETV 
exercise offsetting contributions over the 
three year inter-valuation period.
Further details on the Group’s pension 
arrangements can be found in note 32 on 
page 94.
 
Amounts charged to the income statement  
in respect of employee share schemes during 
the year amounted to £2.5 million. Following 
consultation with major shareholders, the 
remuneration committee has determined that 
the awards made under the Company’s Long 
Term Incentive Plan with a vesting date of 
March 2012 will vest in full. This gives rise  
to an additional IFRS2 fair value accounting 
charge of £5.3 million in the financial year  
to 30 June 2012, which has no incremental 
effect on either cash or the balance sheet. 
Further details are in the Remuneration Report 
on page 50 and in note 30 on page 92.
Capital management and 
investment
In 2010 I reported that the Group had 
maintained a strong focus on cash 
management, and that remained the case 
operationally throughout the financial year  
to 30 June 2011. As outlined above 
construction continued to maintain significant 
cash balances whilst housebuilding requires 
net investment, and the combination of the 
two businesses minimises the need for 
external finance.
In May 2011 the Group successfully 
completed the refinancing of its bank 
facilities, agreeing a four year £325 million 
revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank plc, 
Barclays Bank plc and The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc. The new facility replaced the 
facility entered into in 2007, which was due  
to expire in February 2012. The new facility 
provides long term finance and bonding 
facilities at market competitive rates, providing 
working capital with a comfortable margin 
over the Group’s projected requirements until 
2015. The new facility is subject to covenants 
over interest cover, gearing, adjusted gearing 
taking account of land creditor debt and 
minimum consolidated tangible assets as well 
as security against the Group’s housebuilding 
development sites. Interest is calculated by 
aggregating margin, LIBOR and relevant 
costs. The refinancing extends the Group’s 
debt maturity profile substantially, from 
February 2012 to May 2015.
Construction’s strong underlying cash 
position partially offsets housebuilding’s 
increased investment in land, resulting in  
the Group holding net cash of £36 million  
as at 30 June 2011 (2010: £77 million). 
Overall debt levels do fluctuate throughout 
the year with average debt of around  
£40 million. As highlighted above, the  
Group has significant headroom within  
its new facility and continues to operate  
well within the covenants of that facility.
The board has confirmed its intention that  
in future the total dividend will represent 
around one third of profits before tax. The 
projected increases in dividend payments are 
necessarily expected to distribute a greater 
proportion of the Group’s retained earnings, 
and associated cash outflows are forecast to 
increase. However, we continue to anticipate 
that Group gearing will remain at acceptable 
levels and within the parameters established 
by the board.
Treasury management and risks
The Group operates within and through 
treasury policies and procedures approved by 
the board. The Group’s financial instruments 
principally comprise bank borrowings together 
with cash and liquid resources that arise 
directly from its operations. Throughout the 
period under review and in line with the Group’ s 
policy, no trading in financial instruments has 
been undertaken.
The Group finances its operations through a 
mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings. 
The contracting operations of the Group  
are budgeted to be cash positive. The 
housebuilding operations, however, require 
cash to invest in land and work in progress. 
In light of current market conditions rigorous 
controls are in place to ensure borrowings are 
maintained at an acceptable level. On a daily 
basis throughout the year, the bank balances 
or borrowings in all the Group’s operating 
companies are aggregated into a total cash 
Housebuilding – gross margin 
progression %
1
Construction – cash as % of revenue
09 10 11* 11**
3.7
9.9
6.2
5.6
12.7
7.1
6.5
14.3
7.8
9.2
17.3
8.1
0%
5%
10%
15%
  Operating margin                Overhead
* 2011 First half
** 2011 Second half
1 Pre exceptional and after sales costs of circa 2%
20%
08 09 10 11
21
20
22
23
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25% Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
11 11
PERFORMANCE
or borrowing figure in order that the Group 
can obtain the most advantageous offset 
arrangements and interest rate.
The main risk arising from the Group’s 
financial instruments is interest rate risk and 
this is reviewed by the Board on a regular 
basis. The Group policy is to accept a 
degree of interest rate risk as long as the 
effect of various changes in rates remains 
within prescribed ranges. The Group 
remains party to a swap agreement which 
had the effect of fixing £33 million (2010:  
£45 million) of borrowings at a rate of 5.7% 
for the duration of the previous bank facility. 
The agreement falls away in February 2012. 
The difference between the swap rate and 
the previous borrowing rate has been fully 
expensed in the income statement.
All material activities of the Group take place 
within the United Kingdom and consequently 
there is little direct exchange risk other than 
payments to overseas suppliers who require 
settlement in their currency. If there is any 
material foreign exchange exposure, the 
Group’s policy is to enter into forward foreign 
currency contracts. The Group had no material 
currency exposure as at 30 June 2011. 
Critical accounting policies  
and assumptions
Goodwill and intangibles
The Group’s carrying values for  
goodwill and intangibles were £115 million 
(2010: £115 million) and £9.0 million (2010: 
£6.9 million) respectively as at 30 June 2011. 
The finance team carry out annual impairment 
tests in relation to these amounts and any 
other carrying values. The calculations use 
pre-tax cash flow projections based on  
three year financial budgets approved by 
divisional management teams based on past 
performance and its expectation of market 
developments. The key assumptions within 
these budgets relate to the discount rate, 
revenue growth and the future profit margins 
achievable. The calculations were carried out 
following the year end and did not find there 
was a need to record any impairment of 
these assets. Further information regarding 
the impairment testing performed during and 
since the financial year is provided in note 10.
Shared equity
The Group’s carrying value for shared equity 
receivables, shown within available for sale 
financial assets, amounted to £20.0 million  
at 30 June 2011 (2010: £13.7 million). The 
shared equity receivables are largely with non 
fixed repayment dates and variable repayment 
amounts, provided as part of the sales 
transaction and are secured by a second legal 
charge on the related property. They are stated 
at fair value as described in note 14 and in 
determining the fair value, the key assumptions, 
which are largely dependent on factors outside 
the control of the Group, are the date of final 
repayment of the receivable, house price 
inflation and the discount rate used. The 
Group monitors these on a regular basis to 
ensure that changes in the assumptions are 
made if required.
 
There have otherwise been no significant 
changes to the Group’s critical accounting 
policies or assumptions, and these are 
considered in greater detail in note 1 to  
the financial statements on page 64.
Going concern
The Group’s statement of going concern, 
together with further related information,  
can be found in the Directors’ Report on 
page 57. The key risks and uncertainties 
potentially affecting the Group’s future 
financial performance are detailed on  
page 32.
Frank Nelson
Group Finance Director Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
12
Business review: Overview
Advantage 
through diversity
Galliford Try is a housebuilder and provider of construction services. 
It is a UK based business, with construction activities carried out 
across the whole of the country, and housebuilding focused across 
the South of England and the Eastern counties. 
Outline structure and major operating businesses
GROUP SERVICES
Health, Safety & 
Environment
Human Resources
Finance & Corporate
BUILDING
Galliford Try 
Construction
Morrison 
Construction
AFFORDABLE HOUSING 
Galliford Try 
Affordable Homes
PRIVATE HOUSING
Linden Homes
PARTNERSHIPS
Galliford Try 
Partnerships
INFRASTRUCTURE
Galliford Try 
Infrastructure
Morrison 
Construction
HOUSEBUILDING CONSTRUCTION
GALLIFORD TRY plc
PPP INVESTMENTS
Galliford Try 
Investments
Our business model 
Our activities are spread across two 
complementary, but different, industry 
sectors. This gives us a number of financial 
and operational advantages, and mitigates 
business risk in a number of ways:
 • Housebuilding and construction serve 
different markets. Housebuilding sells 
homes direct to the public and affordable 
homes to housing associations and local 
authority providers. Construction services 
are business to business, with our client 
base ranging from major Government 
departments, through the regulated utilities 
to private sector commercial companies. 
The financing that supports our home 
purchasers and construction clients comes 
from different finance models and sources. 
Our reliance on the market in any one 
sector is therefore reduced.
 • The businesses have different and 
complementary financial profiles. 
Housebuilding requires cash for investment 
initially in land and then to pay for the 
development costs of bringing sites to  
the market before the homes can be sold, 
generating income and profit. An effectively 
run construction business will generate 
cash balances, with monthly or milestone 
payments from clients for work completed. 
A housebuilding business therefore plans 
to generate attractive profit margins while 
controlling the cash locked up in the 
business and a construction business 
produces relatively low margins but 
generates cash balances for investment. 
The overall business therefore minimises  
its requirement for external debt finance. 
 • The model gives a competitive advantage 
in the range of services we offer clients 
based on the skill sets of our people.   Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
13 13
PERFORMANCE
Housebuilding
  Market size   New home
 2010 Completions  starts
 % %   %
Sector £bn change  000’s change  000’s change
Private Housing  14.7 17% 97 -12% 93 27%
Public Housing  4.9 47% 28 -13% 28 8%
Total  19.6 23% 125 -12% 121 22%
The 23% increase in the overall size of the housebuilding market in 2010 
followed a 28% fall in 2009. Private and public housebuilding completions 
fell but the number of UK housing starts increased markedly.
In the first half of 2011, private housing completions registered by the 
National House-Building Council were up 6% to 40,700 in comparison 
with 2009 (38,389), and public housing completions rose by 15% from 
20,182 to 23,132 over the same period.
Gross mortgage lending in 2010 was £135.9 billion, down 5.4% from 
2009. 2011 gross lending was £63.7 billion in the six months to June, 
essentially unchanged from 2010. The CML forecasts both gross and  
net lending to be broadly flat at £140 billion and £9 billion respectively  
in 2011, rising to £150 billion and £12 billion in 2012.
Construction
  Market size  New orders
  2010
  %   %
Sector    £bn change  £bn change
Infrastructure    13.5 26% 9.2 -17%
Public    14.4 21% 13.6 -7%
Industrial & Commercial    27.4 -6% 16.4 6%
Total    55.3 7% 39.2 -5%
The infrastructure and public sector markets continued to grow through 
2010. Conversely, the industrial and commercial sector declined, as  
in 2009, although at a significantly reduced annualised rate of 5.6%.
However, new orders placed in 2010 show both the infrastructure and 
public sectors seeing reductions in future workloads, with the effect of the 
Government’s comprehensive spending review starting to affect public 
expenditure reduction on capital projects. On the other hand, orders for 
private work in the industrial and commercial sectors increased by 5.8%, 
albeit this is following a 41% decrease in the previous year.
Over recent years, there has also been  
an increase in the opportunities arising  
that require a full range of construction  
and development services. The diversity  
of our businesses enables us to offer whole 
life solutions to major projects. We can 
remediate land, put in the site infrastructure 
and design and construct public or 
commercial buildings. Our housebuilding 
business can then develop homes for sale 
or supply to the affordable housing market 
on the same site, thereby offering a 
complete package to a commissioning 
agency. Our business model, as well  
as our track record, was an important 
element of securing a place as one of only 
six developers on all three of the Homes  
and Communities Agency’s delivery  
partner panels. Earlier in 2011, it led to  
our appointment as preferred bidder for  
the £347 million Gateshead regeneration 
project which is expected to provide both 
construction and development work for 
over 10 years.
 • The construction and housebuilding 
markets operate in different economic 
cycles. Housebuilding is an early cycle 
business, with the market adapting  
quickly to changes in the wider economy. 
Construction is late cycle, as clients 
purchasing decisions are typically made 
over a much longer timeframe, with most 
contracts lasting for periods well in excess 
of a year. The benefits of this difference 
were clearly illustrated during 2008/09 
where our housebuilding business felt  
the effects of the downturn early on its 
sales and pricing, while our construction 
business continued to generate profits  
and cash. In 2011, the housebuilding 
business has recovered from the earlier  
low point with profits increasing, while 
construction is in a more challenging 
position as contracts secured earlier have 
completed and new work is procured in  
a more competitive market.
The business model therefore provides 
Galliford Try with operational and financial 
diversity that gives it the flexibility to maintain 
and develop its business through economic 
cycles, putting it in a position to grow its 
business when appropriate and retrench 
when necessary while optimising its overall 
performance in delivering returns to 
shareholders. 
Our markets 
Demand and supply drives the housing 
market. The UK housing shortage is well 
documented by Government and other 
forecasting agencies, estimating that there  
is a requirement for between 220,000 and 
250,000 additional homes per year to meet 
the underlying rising demand. Against this, 
total industry completions in 2009 and 2010 
were 90,000 and 100,000, substantially 
down from the peak of 185,000 in 2007. 
Long term demand is being driven by 
demographic changes with an increased 
population in the UK, the longevity of the 
population rising and the proportion of multi 
person households falling. The market is 
geographically sensitive, with the strongest 
demand in areas where the economy is 
performing well, such as in London and  
the South East. At present, there is less 
demand for homes in those areas of higher 
unemployment and where there is reliance  
on the public sector.
Against these factors supporting demand, 
supply is constrained. The availability of land 
for development is finite, and competition  
for alternative use will be highest where  
the economy is strongest. The process for 
securing planning consents for residential 
development is complex, lengthy and 
expensive, as well as being subject to delays 
and uncertainties caused by political factors. 
Government policy, and the provision of 
support for affordable homes to meet 
regeneration objectives, changes both demand 
and the regulatory framework within which 
the industry works. The availability and the 
terms of finance, whether through mortgage 
facilities for individual purchasers, or through 
grant or other methods of financing affordable 
housing providers, affects demand.
The operation of the market during the  
period under review is further discussed  
in the housebuilding review on page 18.
UK market data, 2010
Sources: ONS, CML, Land Registry, HCA, BoE.
 2008 2013 2018
Forecast UK households 26.1m 27.4m 28.9m Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
14
Business review: Overview continued
The construction market is driven by the 
investment programmes of the client base.  
In the public sector, the drive to improve  
the country’s infrastructure, and how plans 
dovetail with Government financing objectives, 
prescribes the volume of work available to  
the industry. Many projects are long term, 
such as the recently awarded Forth Road 
Crossing project which will provide work for 
the Group until 2016. Specific initiatives, such 
as the Government’s objective to reduce the 
propensity of the country’s rivers to flood, 
drive expenditure through the Environment 
Agency, with whom we have a long term 
framework. Health, education and custodial 
facilities require replacement and refurbishment, 
with a mix of models being used to finance 
plans, including public private partnerships. 
Our PPP investments business is dependent 
on the requirement for private sector financing 
to deliver public investment plans. 
The investment plans of the regulated utilities 
are driven both by requirements to deliver  
an agreed level of service to their customers, 
their respective regulators and by European 
policy directives. Much is delivered through 
long term asset management programmes 
such as in the water industry. 
Private sector work will depend both on the 
confidence of organisations to invest and the 
availability of development finance. Large 
organisations, such as those in the property, 
retail and leisure sectors will have long term 
development plans that seek the consistent, 
quality, standard of delivery that Galliford Try 
can meet. There is some recovery in the 
London market, where international finance 
plays a part, although across the UK the 
market for one-off buildings has reduced 
significantly since the financial crisis in 
2008/09, due to a fall in economic confidence 
of smaller businesses and their continuing 
shortage of cost effective finance.
The current state of and outlook for the  
building, infrastructure and affordable  
housing contracting markets are discussed  
in the construction section of this report.
Strategy 
The Group’s vision is to become one of the 
top five in both housing and construction  
in the UK. The Group laid out its strategy 
in 2009 to work towards this aim. The key 
elements are:
 • To double the size of housebuilding –  
Over a three year period from 2009 to 
2012 the Group’s objective is to double  
the size of the business to deliver around 
3,000 homes per annum. Supported by 
the £119 million raised by the rights issue 
in October 2009, the Group is now two 
years into delivering the strategy which 
aimed, by the third year in 2012, to deliver 
a material increase in earnings per share. 
 Delivering the strategy is by:
– Increasing the landbank with higher 
margin land, initially over a period  
of reduced competition for land.
– Increasing the capacity of our existing 
housebuilding regions, and opening  
new offices to improve coverage  
across our southern biased business.
– Boosting our management and 
employee resources from the available 
pool of quality people.
– Maintaining our reputation for individually 
designed developments and quality 
across a larger business.
 • To maintain construction as cash positive 
and profitable – We will maintain our 
emphasis on delivering an upper quartile 
profit margin and industry leading cash 
balances, accepting that during the 
downturn in the economic cycle revenues 
will be lower. During this period our aim  
is to maintain the structure and resources 
of the business at a level to be able to 
resume growth when markets improve. 
 The construction business will therefore:
– Focus on profit and cash, not revenue
– Aim to maintain a sustainable and well 
spread order book
– Ensure robust risk management across 
the business
– Focus on emerging private sector 
opportunities as public work falls
– Develop further our existing long term 
client relationships
Significant factors underpinning the delivery 
of the Group’s strategy are as follows:
Financial strength
The Group has a balance sheet with total 
equity of £455 million, of which £331 million  
is represented by tangible net assets. This, 
together with its recently renewed four year 
bank facility, means its housebuilding 
business has the ability to invest in the land 
and work in progress required to deliver its 
expansion plan, and provides the strength  
of covenant that qualifies the construction 
business to undertake the significant projects 
that will provide the best opportunities for 
delivering our profit and cash objectives. 
Effective supply chain management
As a project based business the relationships 
with, and our management of, consultants, 
sub-contractors and suppliers are crucial  
in maintaining continuity and quality in the 
services we provide.
Innovation and sustainability
Our agenda for sustainability encompasses 
working with clients in the construction 
business to deliver their environmental  
and sustainability objectives and in our 
housebuilding business, working towards 
delivering more sustainable homes to either 
meet or exceed the sustainability standards 
being required from the industry.
Client focus
We understand the importance of maintaining 
our position as a leader in customer satisfaction 
levels across our housebuilding business, and 
in construction to have a track record in building 
long term relationships with clients across our 
markets. We aim to develop further our strong 
links with organisations that look for best value 
services, and that will work with us to deliver 
the best outcomes for their projects, which 
are rarely delivered through selection solely  
by lowest cost competitive tendering. 
Performance measurement
The board measures performance against 
strategy through regular reporting of a 
number of financial and non financial metrics. 
The key financial performance indicators are 
pre exceptional profit before tax and earnings 
per share, with the dividend demonstrating 
progress in delivering a return to shareholders. 
As is evident from our business model,  
cash management is vital and we measure 
construction cash balances and housebuilding’ s 
use of capital. Health and safety is a top 
priority and our key non financial performance 
indicator is the measure of our accident 
frequency rate. Staff churn is a measure  
of employee retention that underpins our 
need for quality, motivated people to deliver 
our strategy. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
15 15
PERFORMANCE
Group Key performance indicators
Objective Measure 2011 Performance Comment
Health and safety 
To ensure our operations are 
carried out safely and without 
causing injury.
The accident frequency rate, 
which is the total number of 
reportable accidents in the  
year per 1,000 hours worked.
Improvement by 14%. We are rolling out our 
behavioural safety programme 
across the entire Group, and  
all of our incentive schemes  
now take account of health and 
safety performance.
Profit before tax
To achieve increases in profit 
before tax each year.
Profit on ordinary activities  
in £m, excluding exceptional 
items, stated before tax.
Up by 34%. Housebuilding profits rose as  
our expansion plan delivered 
more homes at a higher  
profit margin. Construction 
profits delivered a better than  
expected profit margin on 
revenues higher than forecast.
Earnings per share
To provide long term growth 
in earnings per share, with a 
material enhancement in 2012  
on delivery of the housebuilding 
expansion plan.
Earnings per share in pence 
based upon profit attributable  
to ordinary shareholders before 
exceptional items, divided by  
the average number of shares  
in issue during the year.
Up by 31%. The Group is on track to  
deliver its objective in 2012,  
and the increase in 2011 
reflects housebuilding earnings 
rising during the second year of 
the three year expansion plan.
Dividend per share
The board has adopted a  
policy of working towards  
a total dividend representing  
one third of profits before tax.
The sum of the interim dividend 
and the final proposed dividend 
in pence per share.
Up by 28%. The 2011 dividend  
represents 37% of profit  
before tax and reflects the 
Group’s performance and 
prospects as we reach the  
end of the second year of  
the three year housebuilding 
expansion plan.
Cash/capital management
Construction to generate  
optimum cash balances and 
housebuilding to control 
investment in developments  
to minimise Group net debt.
Net cash/debt in £m at year  
end, monitored during the year  
on a weekly basis.
Improvement over plan. The investment in housing  
land and work in progress 
continued with a total of  
£571 million in developments  
and joint ventures at the year 
end, when the cash balance in 
construction was 23% of revenue, 
an excellent performance.
Staff churn
To attract and retain the highest 
calibre of employees by being  
an employer of choice.
The number of employees  
within the Group who voluntarily 
leave during the year divided  
by the average number of 
employees, expressed as  
a percentage. 
Up by 1.4%. We have significantly  
increased employee numbers  
in housebuilding and have  
had some reductions in 
construction, with staff churn 
currently moving up from  
the low point following the 
recession.
09 10 11
0.24
0.22
0.19
09 10 11
24.5
26.1
35.1
09 10 11
35.8
24.6
32.2
09 10 11
12.3
7.4
8.7
09 10 11
34.1
76.5
36
09 10 11
10.9
12.5
16.0 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
16
Business review: Housebuilding
Ian Baker Group Managing Director, 
Housebuilding
Our track record differentiates us in meeting 
the aspirations of purchasers for our new 
homes. We use local architectural styles, 
individually design our developments, do 
not rely on standard house types and deliver 
industry leading customer satisfaction.
2011 Achievements
Homes completed 
2,170
Average private sales price 
£227,000
>
>
Sales in hand 
£247m
Landbank 
10,250 plots
>
>
As we increase the size of our business towards delivering 
3,000 homes each year, our concentration remains on location, 
design and quality.
Housebuilding: 
Setting standards 
in design Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
17 17
PERFORMANCE
Individually designed homes on 
award winning developments
Little Eaves at Holberton in Devon is a development of 14 homes 
incorporating local stone and a thatched property in a range of new 
and converted buildings. The development won a ‘Best Development’ 
award at the 2010 ‘What House’ awards.
Also visit our website at 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
18
Overview
Galliford Try develops homes across the South and East of the 
UK. Our development activities encompass both private housing  
for direct sale to the public and for affordable housing providers, 
who require homes for sale, to rent or for intermediate forms of 
ownership. We also carry out large scale regeneration projects, 
many in partnership with the Homes and Communities Agency.
Housebuilding is a local business, and Galliford Try operates on  
a regional basis with local management teams that have an in  
depth knowledge of their markets and the factors that drive the 
requirement for homes within them. During the year we adopted our 
Linden Homes brand across all of our housing activities, providing  
a consistent, higher profile presence throughout our business.
 2011 2010
Revenue (£m)  388.5  316.0
Profit from operations (£m)  31.6  17.6
Operating profit margin (%)  8.1  5.6
Completions 2,170 1,705
Attractive homes in 
sought after locations
Boxgrove Gardens in Guildford is  
a development of 199 homes using  
a mix of modern and traditional  
materials to provide varied streetscapes.  
From a village green at the heart of the 
development, pedestrian paths lead 
through a series of landscaped squares 
and spaces that make the most of the 
mature trees that envelop the site.
Business review: Housebuilding continued
Market
The housing market during the financial year 
went through two distinct phases. Up until 
December 2010, purchasers’ confidence  
was poor and sales were low although  
prices remained stable. The particularly bad 
weather across our operational areas in the 
South of England in late November and 
during December prevented access to our 
developments and further reduced sales. 
However, in January 2011 there was a 
significant upturn in visitor levels and then 
sales rates, which then continued throughout 
the spring selling season. The market was, 
and continues to be, strongest in the South 
East of England, reflected in both sales rates 
and prices achieved. 
From the position early in the financial year, 
when mortgage availability was extremely 
restricted and lenders were seeking significant 
deposits, there has been some easing during 
2011 although affordability remains dependent 
on the ratio of the size of the loan to the 
property value.
There was a significant pause in the 
development activities of housing associations 
following the Government’s comprehensive 
spending review in the autumn of 2010. 
However, they have started to recommence 
developments based on the new financial 
model of up to 80% of market rent being 
classified as affordable. This will enable 
housing associations to plan on increased 
revenues in the future to compensate for 
reduced levels of direct Government grant. 
There is a historic under supply of affordable 
homes across the south of the country, our 
strongest area of operation where the effect 
of the change in the financing model will  
have the most positive effect. 
Strategy
We have reached the end of year two of our 
three year expansion strategy. Our objective, 
set out in 2009, was to double the size  
of the business by 2012, delivering around 
3,000 homes annually and materially 
increasing the profits and return on capital  
of the business. We will have then set a new 
baseline for the business, and will thereafter  
grow the business at a sustainable rate over 
the medium term towards 4,000 homes.  
Our strategy to achieve this was:
 • To increase the size of the landbank, 
starting during a period where land prices 
had reduced significantly and competition 
for land was limited. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
19 19
PERFORMANCE
Housebuilding Key performance indicators
Objective Measure 2011 Performance Comment
Completions
To increase the number of 
completions to around 3,000  
in 2012.
Total number of homes that  
have been legally completed, 
including completions from  
joint ventures represented  
by our share of ownership.
Up by 27%. As the number of selling  
sites increased in line with  
our expansion plan, we made 
more sales, particularly during 
the second half of the year.
2,170 homes completed,  
1,988 net of our joint venture 
partners’ shares.
Profit from operations
To significantly increase  
profit from operations  
under the three year  
expansion plan to 2012.
Profit on ordinary activities in £m
stated before finance costs, 
exceptional items, amortisation 
and share of joint ventures’ 
interest and tax.
Up by 80%. The number of active selling 
sites, on land acquired in  
current market conditions  
rose significantly during the 
second year of our expansion 
plan, resulting in increased  
sales and higher profit margins.
Operating margin
To deliver upper quartile  
operating margin for our sector.
Profit from operations  
in £m divided by revenue,  
expressed as a percentage.
Up by 45%. A greater proportion of  
sales were made from land 
acquired at current market 
values on which there are  
higher profit margins.
Capital employed/net debt
To control the capital  
invested in developments in
line with the Group’s strategy.
Total investment in  
developments and  
housebuilding joint ventures  
in £m. Investment and debt 
targets are monitored monthly.
Up by 11%. Investment in land and work 
in progress grew as we  
delivered the second year  
of the expansion plan.
Landbank
To acquire the increased  
landbank required to meet  
the expansion plan.
The total number of owned and 
controlled plots in the landbank.
Up by 7%. The land required to deliver the 
production forecast for the third 
year of our expansion plan has 
been secured.
Customer satisfaction
To maintain and, where  
practical, improve customer 
satisfaction scores.
The percentage of our  
home buyers who would 
recommend the Company  
to their best friend.
Maintained. The research is carried out  
by an independent external 
research company that contacts 
every customer after they have 
purchased one of our homes.
09 10 11
1,825
1,705
2,170
09 10 11
7,850
9,600
10,250
09 10 11
90%
97%
95%
09 10 11
461
509
571
09 10 11
3.7%
5.6%
8.1%
09 10 11
11.3
17.6
31.6 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
20
Business review: Housebuilding continued
 • To make the land acquisitions on a forecast 
profit margin of 20% (blended between 
private sales and affordable homes) and  
a return on capital of over 20%.
 • To supplement our regional operating bases 
with additional offices to improve coverage 
across the South and East of England.
 • To recruit the additional management and 
staff required to deliver the growth from  
the pool of quality people available, as  
our competitors significantly downsized.
The larger proportion of new land in our 
landbank will drive increased profits as sales 
volumes rise, and the proportion of sales 
taken from land acquired pre July 2008, 
when land prices were higher, falls.
In delivering our strategy we have continued 
to focus on the middle market of traditional 
family housing which will remain a mixture of 
houses as well as apartments in appropriate 
urban areas, particularly in the South East of 
England. We have an enviable reputation for 
producing individually designed developments 
and non standard house types that maximise 
the attractiveness of our homes. Our industry 
leading experience in developing brownfield 
sites as well as in the refurbishments of existing 
buildings, often part of mixed refurbishment/
new build developments, remains important 
in generating opportunities and maintaining 
our market position. We will concentrate on 
prime sites in prime locations, keeping to a 
minimum our involvement in multi developer 
consortium sites where similar homes are 
offered by a number of housebuilders.
Performance
Substantial progress has been made as we 
complete the second year of our three year 
expansion plan. Profit from operations was 
up 80% with operating profit margin up 45% 
as completions started to rise during the 
second year of the plan. We achieved a gross 
margin during the year of 16.1%, with both 
gross and operating margins expected to 
increase further in the new financial year as 
the proportion of completions from new land 
continues to rise and the cost base already  
in place delivers a significantly increased 
planned output. 
The housing market during the financial  
year went through two distinct phases. Until 
December 2010, purchaser confidence was 
poor and sales levels disappointing although 
prices remained stable. However, in January 
2011 there was a significant upturn in visitor 
levels and then sales rates which continued 
throughout the spring selling season. The 
market was, and continues to be, strongest 
in the South East of England, reflected in 
both sales rates and prices achieved. From 
the position early in the financial year, when 
mortgage availability was extremely restricted 
and lenders were seeking significant deposits, 
there has been some easing during 2011 
although affordability remains dependent  
on the ratio of the size of the loan to the 
property value.
By landbank
1 From post July 2008 1,020
2 Legacy  1,150
By sector
1 Private 1,446
2 Affordable  724
By area of operation
  South 1,614
  Midlands/East 556
1
1
2
2
Completions analysis – 2,170 homes
What House Bronze Awards
Best Large Housebuilder
Best Developments
Best Partnership Scheme
Regeneration with a 
contemporary feel
Phoenix Quay is a key part of the 
regeneration of Millbay on the waterside 
at Plymouth. The development of 123 
town houses and apartments, with a mix 
of private sale and affordable properties, 
has been designed to make the most of 
a contemporary waterfront location. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
21 21
PERFORMANCE
Following the improvement in the market 
during the second half of the year when  
a number of new sites came on stream, 
completions rose bringing the total to 2,170, 
1,988 net of the proportionate share of our 
partners in joint venture developments  
(2010: 1,705 and 1,624). Private housing 
completions accounted for 1,446 of the total, 
with an average selling price, reflecting an 
increased proportion of sales in the South 
East of England of £227,000 (2010: £207,000). 
Affordable housing completions were 724 
with an average selling price of £106,000 
(2010: £124,000).
The number of active selling sites increased 
during the year from 59 to 78. Although less 
than originally forecast, we completed a 
number of legacy sites earlier than anticipated 
by selling stock in hand at a faster rate than 
expected during the second half of the financial 
year. We have opened new offices in Guildford 
and the Thames Valley and have recruited 
additional staff across our existing regions  
so that we now employ 770 people 
compared to 650 a year ago. 
On 30 June our landbank stood at 10,250 
plots, up 7% on a year ago. Importantly, 70% 
is held at current market prices, up from 56% 
a year ago. The proportion of land remaining 
at historic prices, on which profit margins and 
return on capital are lower, is therefore 
steadily reducing. Our strategic land holdings 
stand at 1,200 acres.
Affordable housing and 
regeneration 
The affordable housing market has gone 
through a fundamental restructuring since  
the Government’s comprehensive spending 
review changed the financing model from 
capital subsidy to capitalised revenue 
streams. This has the effect of significantly 
reducing public sector capital investment over 
the next four years, although using the new 
rental model the Government now expects 
170,000 affordable homes to be delivered 
from 2011 to 2015. Housing associations 
have recommenced their development 
programmes using the flexibilities of the  
new regime. We have secured partner status 
on the Homes and Communities Agency’s 
2011 to 2015 framework and have been 
awarded £3 million for delivery of 200 homes 
under the Government’s new FirstBuy direct 
scheme. Public land disposals are expected 
to continue, with authorities using the delivery 
partner panel, on which we are represented 
in all three regions, to select private sector 
partners using a wider range of delivery 
models.
Delivering these homes will remain heavily 
dependent on private sector involvement and 
Galliford Try is well placed to grow its affordable 
housing business. We have a leading sector 
2011 2012 2013 2014
78
100
105
115
2011 2012 2013 2014
Completions by period
  From post July 2008 landbank
  Legacy
2011
0
0
0
2,000
30
1,000
4,000
60
2,000
6,000
90 3,000
4,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
14,000 120
2012 2013 2014
Landbank by acquisition period
  Acquired post July 2008
  Legacy
Sales outlets
Landbank analysis – 10,250 plots
By aquisition period
1 Post July 2008 7,200
2 Legacy 3,050
Private sector mix
1 Houses 5,350
2 Apartments 2,900
Future landbank/completions – forecasts to 2014
Housebuilder Awards
Best Large Housebuilder
Best low or zero carbon initiative
1
1
2
2
Geographical split
1 South 7,550
2 Midlands/East 2,700
By sector
1 Private 8,250
2 Affordable 2,000
1 1
2
2 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
22
Business review: Housebuilding continued
Partnerships create new  
inner city life
Evolve at Devonport is a development of 400 homes  
to be constructed over several years in partnership  
with affordable housing provider Westco Properties  
as part of the Devonport regeneration community 
partnership. A 21st century design complements  
the historic Grade I listed buildings to create a  
vibrant new community out of a failing 1960’s inner  
city environment.
Building for Life Awards 2010
Gold Standard: be: Newhall; Fairfield Park, 
Bedfordshire; Watercolour, Redhill  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
23 23
PERFORMANCE
position and excellent relationships with the 
Homes and Communities Agency, with a 
track record of delivering affordable and 
regeneration projects through our ability  
to provide development, contracting and 
ongoing support services to the sector. 
The affordable rent model now being worked 
into housing associations’ development plans 
will enable us to build on the partnerships 
and joint ventures we have carried out to 
date, delivering homes for the various  
tenures required by the affordable sector. 
We are in a prime position to access the 
public sector land disposal programme  
as one of only six delivery partners on all 
three Homes and Communities Agency’s 
delivery partner panels. 
Projects worked on during the year included 
the redevelopment of a former hospital site  
at Fairmile in Oxfordshire with the Homes  
and Communities Agency, where we are 
developing 353 homes within 90 acres of 
listed parkland as part of a public sector  
land release. 30% will be affordable under  
a four year build and maintain contract.  
At Graylingwell in Chichester, we are in the 
second year of developing an 800 home  
site in joint venture with Affinity Sutton,  
the largest net zero carbon scheme in the  
UK where we are providing development, 
construction and facilities management as 
well as development-wide energy services 
through a central combined heat and  
power plant.
 
In the second half of our financial year we 
were appointed preferred bidder for the 
Gateshead Evolution project which is a 
strategic joint venture with Home Group and 
Gateshead Council under which 2,400 homes 
will be created over 15 years as 19 sites are 
released for development in portfolios.
Looking forward, we anticipate housing 
associations recommencing their development 
programmes as they adjust to the new 
flexible rent regime and secure funding from 
the capital markets. Public land disposals are 
expected to continue, with authorities using 
the delivery partner panel to select private 
sector partners using a wider range of delivery 
models. Galliford Try’s track record of diverse 
service offering puts it at the forefront of being 
able to secure the opportunities we need to 
support our housebuilding expansion plan.
Customer satisfaction
A regular independently conducted survey  
of customer satisfaction levels is carried  
out throughout the year. Overall, 95% of our 
customers said that they would recommend 
us to their family and friends when asked, 
maintaining our industry leading performance. 
In the Home Builders Federation annual 
customer satisfaction survey we achieved  
a four star award for the quality of our new 
homes and are aiming to secure the top  
five star level.
Outlook
We entered our new financial year with  
£247 million of sales carried forward, 23%  
up on last year. The level and value of sales 
achieved since the start of the year have 
been resilient, with sales reserved, contracted 
or completed now standing at £328 million, up 
25% compared to last year, with £254 million 
for the current financial year. The current 
number of sales outlets is 81 with sales per 
week per site since 1 July averaging 0.43 and 
the cancellation rate remaining broadly similar 
at 18%.
Evening Standard Awards 
Best Conversion, Highly Commended:  
The Royal Apartments, Henley-on-Thames
Brownfield and 
conversion expertise
Kingston Mills, a stunning riverside 
location in Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltshire, 
consists of 170 new and converted 
houses alongside shops, restaurants  
and office space. 90% of our total homes 
sold in 2011 were on brownfield sites.
Also visit our website at 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
24
Business review: Construction
Ken Gillespie Group Managing Director, 
Construction
We have maintained a well balanced order 
book across our building, partnerships and 
infrastructure divisions, with a number of 
long term contracts secured that provide 
visibility to our future workload.
2011 Achievements
Profit margin 
2.4%
Order book 
£1.75bn
>
>
Cash 
£217m
Work secured for new year 
80%
>
>
Our business is built upon long term relationships with our clients, 
working with them to deliver best value construction projects across 
the building and infrastructure markets.
Construction: 
Performing across 
diverse markets Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
25 25
PERFORMANCE
National coverage with specific  
sector expertise
In a contract worth over £100 million, we transformed the derelict  
St Pancras Chambers, one of London’s most iconic buildings, into a 
luxury 244 bedroom hotel and 67 apartments. The project is a prime 
example of how we can bring together heritage based refurbishment 
skills with a major new build element to create a building that has 
become a destination in its own right since its opening in May 2011.
Also visit our website at 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
Also visit our website at 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
26
Market
The construction market in the UK has 
remained challenging throughout the financial 
year. The Government’s comprehensive 
spending review in the autumn of 2010  
has had a significant effect on reducing  
the pipeline of future public sector work, 
particularly in England and Wales. However, 
an ongoing programme in Scotland, particularly 
in health, education and in major infrastructure 
projects such as the Forth Road Crossing, 
remains in place.
Private sector opportunities for building 
projects are showing early signs of 
improvement, albeit primarily focused on 
London and the South East of England.  
Work for the retail, leisure and hospitality 
sectors is continuing, there are opportunities 
in affordable housing contracting across  
the country, and some commercial office 
investment is evident. However, across all  
our markets competition for new work is 
intense, particularly where specific sector 
skills are not required and one off projects 
can be put to pure price competitive tender. 
Strategy 
The long term strategic objective is to  
grow the business to become a top five 
contractor when the economic and market 
conditions improve. During the current 
downturn, the Group is concentrating on 
delivering an optimum margin and generating 
cash balances, accepting that absolute 
revenue levels will fall as we consciously  
turn away work at unsustainable prices  
or with an unrealistic risk profile. 
Overview
Galliford Try’s construction activities cover the full spectrum of 
the building and infrastructure markets with the Group able to 
deliver whole life solutions to projects for the built environment.  
The business is organised into building, partnerships and 
infrastructure divisions. 
The Building division provides a national service to the health, 
education and private commercial markets from operating  
centres in London, the South West, the Midlands, the North  
of England and Scotland. 
Partnerships, our specialist affordable housing contractor,  
has strong businesses in the South East and North East,  
with a growing presence across the rest of the country. 
The Infrastructure division carries out civil engineering projects  
primarily in the water, highways, rail, remediation and renewable 
energy markets through sector focused businesses operating 
across the UK.
Award winning 
infrastructure projects
A £60 million contract for the  
Highways Agency to completely  
rebuild junction 15 of the M40 with  
an associated bypass was completed 
ahead of schedule and to a standard  
that achieved the 2011 ‘Best Large 
Highways and Transportation’ award.
 2011 2010
Revenue (£m)  936.9  936.5
Profit from operations (£m)  22.2  22.8
Operating profit margin (%)  2.4  2.4
Order book (£bn)  1.75  1.8
Business review: Construction continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
27 27
PERFORMANCE
Construction Key performance indicators
Objective Measure 2011 Performance Comment
Profit from operations
To achieve optimum  
profits at each stage  
of an economic cycle.
Profit in £m stated before 
finance costs, exceptional items, 
amortisation and share of joint 
ventures’ interest and tax.
Maintained. Profit has been maintained  
on consistent revenue.
Operating profit margin
To deliver a sustainable  
operating margin for the 
relevant stage of the  
economic cycle.
Profit from operations  
in £m divided by revenue,  
expressed as a percentage.
Maintained. Profit margins have been 
maintained as we reduced  
costs in anticipation of  
revenues falling. We anticipate 
that as the more competitive  
work more recently secured  
is carried out, the margin  
will reduce.
Cash
To maintain optimum  
positive cash balances  
throughout the year.
Net cash at the year end  
in £m. Targets are set for  
each construction business  
and monitored weekly.
Maintained. The business delivered 
substantial cash balances 
throughout the year. The ratio  
of cash held to revenue has 
been maintained at circa 20% 
despite more competitive 
conditions.
Revenue
To maintain revenue at a  
level that will deliver our  
profit and cash objectives.
Value of work carried out  
in the year, measured in £m.
Maintained. In the market downturn,  
we will not take on work at 
unsustainable prices and have 
adjusted our revenues and  
cost base to maintain optimum 
profit levels and cash balances.
Order book
To secure a balanced  
visible stream of future  
profitable workload.
The size of the order book in 
£bn which is the total revenue 
expected to be generated from 
orders received.
Maintained. We maintained a diverse  
spread of work across our 
market sectors, securing a 
number of large projects in  
the second half of the year to 
replace completing contracts.
09 10 11
1.7
1.8
1.75
09 10 11
1,176
936.5
936.9
09 10 11
237.1
206.8 216.7
09 10 11
2.4% 2.4% 2.4%
09 10 11
27.9
22.8
22.2
Construction News Awards 
Best Project over £50 million – M74 
Completion project Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
28
Business review: Construction continued
Our strategy can be currently summarised as:
 • Retain focus on client service
 • Maintain emphasis on profit margin,  
not volume of work
 • Ensure robust risk management  
and a prudent profit taking policy
 • Achieve industry leading cash performance
 • Maintain order book with diverse spread  
of work
 • Maintain resources at a level to grow  
again when market improves
In this market, our strong reputation for  
long term framework contracting and repeat 
business client relationships continues to 
demonstrate its worth. Our order book is 
spread across the regulated, public and 
private sectors. We have continued with  
the increased level of risk management 
implemented in the previous financial year, 
which included new processes to ensure  
our project selection remains vigorous.
Performance
The division delivered a strong trading 
performance with a maintained margin on 
unchanged revenue. We achieved excellent 
cash balances that stood at £216.7 million  
at 30 June 2011 (2010: £206.8 million), 
representing 23% of revenue.
The construction market in the UK remained 
challenging throughout the financial year.  
The Government’s comprehensive spending 
review in the autumn of 2010 has had a 
significant effect on reducing the pipeline  
of future public sector work, particularly  
in England and Wales. However, we have 
continued to secure projects through our  
LIFT (Local Improvement Finance Trust) 
frameworks in health, limited Building Schools 
for the Future work and a number of other 
education projects. In Scotland an ongoing 
programme in health, education and in major 
infrastructure projects such as the Forth  
Road Crossing, recently secured in a four 
party consortium, remains in place. With a 
significant amount of work already let under 
long term frameworks in the infrastructure 
sector, specifically in the water industry, there 
is more visibility to future opportunities, and 
we have been successful in supplementing 
our five year AMP5 work with additional 
projects. 
Private sector opportunities for building 
projects are showing signs of improvement, 
albeit primarily focused on London and the 
South East of England. Work for the retail, 
leisure and hospitality sectors is continuing, 
there are opportunities in affordable housing 
contracting across the country, and some 
commercial office investment is evident. 
However, across all our markets competition 
for new work is intense. 
Our objective is to target work in sectors 
where we have specialist expertise and where 
clients work with their construction partners 
to develop best value solutions. This focus  
on markets where there are barriers to entry 
reduces the proportion of work that we 
secure on the basis of price competition 
alone. Of our total £1.75 billion year end  
order book 42% is in the public sector,  
40% in the regulated and 18% in the private 
sector. Importantly, 50% of our order book  
is in frameworks and 63% has been secured  
on a basis other than through pure price 
competition. Since the year end our order 
book has reduced marginally to £1.7 billion, 
in line with our policy of focusing on work that 
will support our profit and cash objectives, 
not on maintaining past revenue levels.
Building
  2011 2010
Revenue (£m) 436.5 445.3
Profit from operations (£m) 10.4 10.8
Operating profit margin (%)  2.4 2.4
Order book (£m) 673 638
Major projects completed during the year 
included the £103 million St Pancras Chambers 
refurbishment and conversion into a luxury 
hotel which has rapidly become an iconic 
London destination. We also completed  
the latest phase of our long term work at 
Wimbledon, with the new number 3 court 
completed for the 2011 championships. 
Work continues on our Athletes’ Village  
block project at Olympic Park.
Health and education projects continued  
to provide work during the year. In Scotland 
we are working on the £300 million ten year 
framework for the Scottish NHS Trust, new 
contracts were awarded under our LIFT 
primary care frameworks in the Midlands and 
North West of England and we secured the 
  %
1  Building  38
2  Partnerships  9
3  Infrastructure   53
 %
1  Public 42
2  Regulated 40
3  Private 18
Order book by activity Order book by sector
1
1
2
2
3
3
Saltire Society Awards 2010
A830 Arisaig to Loch nan Uamh 
Improvement project Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
29 29
PERFORMANCE
Expertise in energy  
from waste
Galliford Try has developed a track record  
in the growth market for energy from  
waste plants. A £22 million contract for  
Biffa was recently completed to process  
food waste into biogas that provides  
heat and electricity generation.
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
5
5
Partnerships – £156m
 £m
Affordable homes 156
Infrastructure – £921m
 £m
1  Water 577
2  Civil engineering 40
3  Transport 228
4  Communications 37
5  Renewables 39
Building – £673m
 £m
1  Commercial 204
2  Education 126
3  Facilities management 123
4  Health 117
5  Other public 103
Order book by division – total £1.75bn Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
30
Business review: Construction continued
£58 million schools investment programme 
for the Orkney Islands Council. We also won 
the £50 million Halton schools BSF project 
which we are carrying out in joint venture.
From a low base the previous year, we have 
seen signs of limited improvement in the 
private sector market particularly in the 
commercial and hospitality sectors. Examples 
of work secured are £9 million of work for 
Moto Hospitality on the M40, a £39 million 
commercial and apartments scheme in 
Wandsworth for Fraser Projects and a  
£16 million hotel in Birmingham for Hotel  
de la Tour. We have established a new base 
in Bristol which has secured its first contracts 
including a £7 million project to refit the 
Bristol Old Vic theatre. Going forward we  
see some further recovery in the London 
commercial market.
Partnerships
 2011 2010
Revenue (£m) 123.9 93.8
Profit from operations (£m) 1.9 1.3
Operating profit margin (%) 1.5 1.4
Order book (£m) 156 198
The affordable housing contracting market 
started to improve as, following the 
Government’s comprehensive spending 
review, the housing associations adjusted 
their development models to their new 
affordable rent funding regime. The limited 
recovery in the opportunities available is most 
evident in the South East as southern based 
housing associations in particular will benefit 
from the new funding regime. 
In the North East, we were successful  
in securing the £347 million Gateshead 
regeneration programme in joint venture  
with Home Group, one of the country’s largest 
housing associations. Over the period to 2026, 
19 sites across the Gateshead area will be 
regenerated, providing Galliford Try with both 
contracting and development revenues.
We opened a new office in the South West of 
England, taking advantage of the opportunities 
arising from the demise of a competitor. In 
Birmingham, we have been appointed on the 
£9 million Public Land Initiative South to create 
79 homes. We added to our frameworks by 
selection as one of the delivery partners on 
the £400 million L&Q framework in London 
and the South, the £144 million ‘Create’ 
framework in North London for three affordable 
housing providers and for the £40 million 
Estuary Housing Association framework to 
the South East of London. We see the use of 
local asset backed vehicles by public sector 
bodies to deliver development as an area  
of growth and our objective is to build on  
our contracting and framework skills with  
the Group’s development expertise to 
generate opportunities.
Infrastructure
 2011 2010
Revenue (£m) 376.5 397.4
Profit from operations (£m) 9.9 10.7
Operating profit margin (%) 2.6 2.7
Order book (£m) 921 922
Having secured the largest proportion of  
any contractor of the five year AMP5 water 
programmes in 2010 on which we work for 
seven water utilities, and additional frameworks 
from the Environment Agency, we have  
both visibility of future work and a base that  
qualifies us for securing projects let outside 
the frameworks. Examples of work secured  
by our water joint ventures included the  
£200 million Liverpool waste water scheme 
as part of our process alliance framework 
with United Utilities in the year, and £90 million 
of additional waste water treatment works for 
Thames Water. Revenues in water started to 
build up during the second year of the AMP 
programmes, with £597 million of water and 
flood alleviation work in our order book at  
the year end.
We have built on our expertise in water 
treatment processes to develop a business  
in energy from waste schemes and during the 
year completed a £22 million project for Biffa 
Waste in Cannock. We have also secured a 
£33 million project for Northumbrian Water to 
construct an energy from waste scheme at 
Howden in Northumberland. Our highways 
business completed the £55 million M40 
junction ahead of schedule, and our four 
party consortium constructing the £445 million 
M74 interlink contract in Glasgow handed 
over the project in June, ahead of programme 
and within budget. In April, again in a four party 
joint venture, we secured the £790 million 
Forth Road Crossing scheme which will 
provide revenues for the next five years. 
We completed the Rothes flood alleviation 
scheme in Scotland, following which we  
were awarded a further £50 million scheme  
at Elgin for Moray Council, handed over the 
first Olympic Park venue to be completed, the 
white water canoe centre at Broxborne and 
secured a £50 million contract to construct 
the infrastructure for Petrofac’s gas plant in 
Shetland. We are on track to complete our 
£22 million Halley 6 research station for the 
British Antarctic Survey in Antarctica during 
the forthcoming winter weather window.  
New work for our telecommunications 
infrastructure clients has been secured and 
we have won our first contract at Gatwick 
Airport, providing security infrastructure.
Client satisfaction
We want our clients to achieve their 
objectives in working with us and are 
increasingly becoming a key part in how they 
meet their growing sustainability objectives. 
Further details on how we measure and are 
improving our performance are in the corporate 
responsibility section of the business review.
Outlook
The construction market is expected to 
remain challenging for the foreseeable future. 
The pipeline of work from the public sector  
is down, although there are some essential 
projects being resurrected. Private sector 
work remains dependent on economic 
confidence and the availability of finance,  
with London and the South East standing  
out from the rest of the country as showing 
some signs of recovery. 
We continue to be encouraged by the work 
we have secured in the regulated sector, 
where our five year AMP5 frameworks for the 
water sector are generating anticipated levels 
of revenue and providing opportunities over 
and the above framework projects. We will 
therefore continue to maintain a tight control 
over work secured, maintaining our resources 
at the right level to carry out a lower workload, 
while retaining the spread of skills required to 
grow again when markets improve.
Also visit our website at 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
Green Apple Awards 2010 Winners
Whitelee Windfarm, Forres Flood Alleviation 
Scheme and M74 Completion project Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
31 31
PERFORMANCE
Market
It has taken a significant period of time for the 
Coalition Government to consider its spending 
priorities and procurement strategies and the 
result has been a slowdown in projects coming 
to market and a reduction in deal flow. 
However, a stronger pipeline is anticipated  
in the coming year, particularly in Scotland. 
The development and use of asset backed 
finance models is expected to grow through 
public and private sector joint ventures, 
demonstrating how the public sector is 
adapting to the changing market.
Renewable energy remains a growth sector 
as the Government seeks to achieve the 
2020 target of satisfying 15% of the UK 
electricity demand through renewable  
energy generation. 
Strategy
Galliford Try’s strategy is to bid for PPP 
projects that create both investment 
opportunities and provide the ability to secure 
construction and maintenance contracts for 
the Group. Due to the significant timescales 
and costs of bidding and developing projects, 
we are focused on those sectors where  
there is an acceptable balance between  
risk and reward. 
To date, we have arranged and financed  
29 PPP projects across a wide range of 
sectors with a total funding requirement in 
excess of £1.6 billion, including two of the 
largest multi-school PPP projects in the UK. 
In addition to education, we are strong in 
affordable housing, waste and wastewater, 
transport, accommodation and health.
We are also investing in the renewable energy 
sector to create a portfolio of project financed 
wind turbine projects and a series of Energy 
Services Companies (ESCo’s) through 
community and district energy schemes.  
Performance
The directors’ valuation of the Group’s PPP 
portfolio as at 30 June 2011 was carried out, 
as in previous years, on a discounted cash 
flow basis. The result showed a valuation of 
£4.4 million, which compares to the value 
invested of £1.9 million (2010: valuation of 
£6.9 million and value invested of £2.8 million).
During the year we sold our interest in the 
Worcester Library and History Centre to 
release funds for future bidding and further 
investment. We are on the shortlist of two  
on both the Kent “Excellent Homes for All” 
project and the Brunswick Neighbourhood 
Regeneration project in Manchester. We also 
formalised our position as the private sector 
partner for the development of £300 million  
of community facilities across South East 
Scotland over the next 10 years under the 
Scottish Futures Trust’s hub initiative as part 
of the SPACE consortium. Financial close on 
the £50 million Halton BSF was achieved by 
our consortium and we are now carrying out 
the redevelopment of two schools.
Our renewables business secured its first 
community and district energy scheme, 
which is a combined gas and biomass energy 
centre for 800 homes. We now have option 
agreements covering over 250 megawatts  
of wind generation.
Outlook
We remain in a strong position to take 
advantage of the opportunities in the sectors 
where the Group has the track record and 
resources. We will be maintaining our focus 
on the growing and evolving renewable 
energy market alongside our existing  
PPP sectors, where we see infrastructure, 
specifically roads and bridges, and mixed  
use schemes delivered though asset backed 
vehicles having a higher profile.
Business review: PPP Investments
Overview
We deliver major building and infrastructure projects through  
Public Private Partnerships (PPPs). We lead bid consortia and 
arrange project finance, take direct equity investment and  
manage construction through to operations.
 2011 2010
Revenue (£m)  9.6  3.5
Profit from operations (£m)  (1.0)  2.4
Directors’ valuation (£m)  4.4 6.9 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
32
Business review: Principal risks
Proactive risk 
management
Type of risk Possible impact Mitigation
Health, safety and 
environmental 
Incidents that occur in construction operations can 
affect our employees, all others who work on our 
sites and members of the public. Secondarily, they 
affect our reputation and have a direct cost on the 
business and management resources. 
We recognise the need to provide a safe working 
environment and promote health, safety and 
environmental issues with a comprehensive policy 
and framework in place to manage the risks.
Changes to the UK 
housing market and  
the economic cycle
Consumer confidence and the state of the  
housing market impacts the ultimate price that  
our purchasers are prepared to pay for their homes 
and, by deducting the building and all other costs  
of development, the price and terms under which  
the Group purchases land for development.
We monitor Government and industry data on 
housing prices, sales volumes and construction 
commencement data, enabling us to anticipate 
market changes and adjust our land acquisition 
plans, build programmes, sales releases and 
purchaser incentives accordingly.
Availability of  
mortgage finance
The availability, cost and terms under which our 
purchasers can secure mortgage finance impacts 
both their ability to purchase and the price they  
are able to pay.
We monitor published statistics on mortgage 
approvals and lending, analysing the impact on 
potential customers across the different market 
sectors and the prices of the properties we sell.  
We then adjust our development plans and our 
purchaser incentives, such as part exchange  
facilities and shared equity.
Availability of  
developable land
A healthy land market provides us with the raw 
material on which to build. A general market 
downturn, reducing the value of land, affects land 
owners’ willingness to sell. Delays and uncertainty  
in the planning system reduces our ability to obtain 
the required supply of developable land.
We aim to maintain a landbank comprising a balance 
of plots with full planning consent, with outline 
consent and zoned for residential development.  
We also have strategic land holdings held primarily 
under options to purchase in the future. Public 
sector planning strategies are monitored both 
nationally and locally in the regions where we 
operate and our plans for future development 
adjusted accordingly.
Land acquisition Acquiring land at the wrong price, or underestimating 
development costs, could affect the Group’s return 
on development projects.
We have a rigorous pre-acquisition site appraisal 
process with tight authority levels covering purchase, 
construction and sales, enabling us to alter plans 
and adapt to changes where necessary.
Availability of financing Funding not available to finance the Group’s  
strategy to expand its housebuilding activities.
Funding is provided by equity and bank borrowings. 
We constantly monitor levels of available funding  
and compliance with our bank covenants, and have 
renewed our facilities until 2015. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
33 33
PERFORMANCE
Type of risk Possible impact Mitigation
The level of public  
sector spending
Public sector spending and the investment 
programmes of the regulated infrastructure sectors 
affects the amount of work available and the degree 
of competition for that work, potentially affecting  
both the absolute level of revenues and profit 
margins achievable.
We gather published and informal intelligence on  
our markets, monitoring closely our order book and 
pipeline of potential opportunities. Our business 
planning process forecasts future market trends, 
enabling us to match resources to projected 
workloads.
Confidence and the 
availability of project 
finance
Confidence in the economy, combined with our 
private sector clients’ ability to secure development 
finance, affects their level of spend on construction 
projects.
Our business planning and annual budgeting 
process analyses data on forthcoming projects and 
we monitor the spending programmes of our major 
clients, adapting our approach to those sectors  
and clients where we see the best opportunities.
Contract acquisition Securing construction contracts at a price and  
under terms that deliver an acceptable return  
for the risk undertaken.
We take commercial risk on each construction 
contract, which includes credit and counterparty 
risk, pricing and the technical ability to deliver.  
We have a rigorous approach to contract selection 
through an authorities matrix covering our 
capabilities and resources, as well as the terms 
under which we carry out the work.
Project delivery Failure to deliver projects to time, quality or budget, 
or contractual disputes that can arise over the  
scope and/or valuation of contracts, make the 
ultimate outcome of contracts uncertain.
We have business information systems providing 
profit margin and cash forecasting by contract. We 
monitor construction progress against programme  
in order to re-plan and reassess resources where 
applicable.
People Attracting, developing and retaining talented 
individuals in the business at all levels is crucial  
to our success.
Our human resources policies are based on the 
Investors in People principles under which all of our 
businesses are accredited. We carry out annual 
succession planning, and have a training and 
development programme designed to optimise 
career satisfaction.
Sustainability Failure to meet increasing sustainability regulations 
on homes for sale or being unable to deliver 
sustainable solutions in line with our construction 
clients’ requirements will affect our ability to sell 
homes or secure projects.
We have a programme to develop sustainable 
homes in accordance with projected requirements 
and a strategy to improve our understanding of 
construction clients’ changing aspirations.
Identifying, evaluating and managing the 
principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group is an integral part of the way we do 
business. We have policies and procedures  
in place throughout our operations that 
enable us to do so, embedded within our 
management structure and part of our  
normal operating processes.
The Group keeps registers at Group and 
divisional level detailing the identified risks, 
relating them to the Group’s objectives  
and rating them based on their likelihood,  
and their potential impact should they 
materialise. This is then linked to how the  
risk is managed, the responsibility for its 
management and the way in which this is 
monitored through the checks and balances 
in place. The registers then show the levels  
of residual risk, enabling the board to judge 
its acceptability. The process is developing  
to incorporate risk registers at business  
unit level. 
During the year the Group embarked on a 
comprehensive review of its risk assessment 
process under the control of its newly 
appointed Head of Risk and Internal Audit. 
The objective is to drive further improvements 
in the assessments of probabilities and 
impact, the identification and implementation 
of mitigating strategies and the more effective 
integration of the risk processes at the 
different levels in the Group. 
As well as regular updating as risks change, 
the Group carries out an annual review where 
management stands back and looks at general 
market developments, Group strategy and 
projects being secured in the context of its 
risk management processes to ensure they 
are adapted to meet changing requirements 
when new measures can be put in place  
if required. Carrying out this exercise in 
co-ordination with the board’s annual review 
of internal controls and their effectiveness 
helps to ensure the management of risk 
remains up to date and relevant. Details of 
the work undertaken in this area during the 
year are given in the Corporate Governance 
report on page 42. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
34
Business review: Corporate responsibility
Strategy
Galliford Try’ s approach to CR and sustainability 
is focused on ensuring the long term success 
of the Group through the appropriate 
consideration, prioritisation and management 
of environmental, social and community 
factors in the Group’s strategic planning  
and operational activities. 
The Group’s key strategic CR aim remains ‘to 
be leaders in the construction of a sustainable 
future’ and the Group has developed core 
values to support the delivery of this aim 
across its operating divisions and markets:
Excellence  – Striving to deliver the best.
Passion  – Committed and enthusiastic  
  in everything we do.
Integrity  – Demonstrating strong   
  ethical standards with   
  openness and honesty.
Collaboration  – Dedicated to working   
  together to achieve results.
The Group has identified six fundamentals  
of sustainable business, outlined in the  
chart opposite. They are: health and safety, 
environment and climate change, our people, 
community, customers and supply chain.
 
We define them within an annual Group policy 
statement, which also communicates the  
CR performance expectations for the Group 
for any forthcoming financial year. Group 
performance is in turn measured by reference 
to key performance indicators (KPIs) specific 
to each.
Delivering a 
sustainable  
future
ENVIRONMENT & 
CLIMATE CHANGE
CUSTOMERS
HEALTH & SAFETY
COMMUNITY
OUR PEOPLE
SUPPLY CHAIN
We aim to protect the 
environment and plan 
for its improvement 
where we can. 
We place the 
highest priority 
on health and 
safety. 
We are committed 
to developing our 
people by investing 
in their careers. 
We will give total 
commitment and high 
standards to all our 
customers. 
We actively engage 
with our supply chain to 
promote our principles 
and practices.
Our objective is to 
make a positive impact 
in the communities in 
which we operate. 
The six fundamentals of our 
sustainable business Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
35 35
PERFORMANCE
Performance
Our KPIs demonstrate our performance in our six 
fundamentals of a sustainable business.
Health and safety
Accident frequency rate 
(number of accidents per 
100,000 hours worked)
Environment
Waste diverted from landfill, 
as a proportion of total waste 
produced – six months to  
year end
Operational carbon emissions 
metric tonnes CO
2
 / £100,000
revenue
* Latest available – to December 2010
Our people
Staff churn – staff leaving 
voluntarily
Training days completed
Supply chain
Wood supplied with chain  
of custody certification, as  
a proportion of total orders
Community
Average overall score in the 
Considerate Constructors 
Scheme
Customers
Customer satisfaction:
Construction 
– Overall satisfaction
Housebuilding 
– “Would you recommend 
a friend to buy one of our 
homes?”
Economic sustainability:
Construction 
– Forward order book
Housebuilding 
– Sales in hand
2011
2010
93%
93%
2011
2010
95%
97%
2010
79%
83%
2011
2010
£247m
£201m
2011
2010
£1.75bn
£1.8bn
2011
2010
33.6/40
33.2/40
2011
2010
0.19
0.22
2011
2010
74%
39%
2010 *
2009
3.63
3.74
2011
2010
8.7%
7.0%
2011
2010
2,964
2,171
Governance
The Chief Executive ultimately has delegated 
authority from the Group board for all CR 
matters, and takes direct responsibility  
for the annual CR policy statement. 
The Group has an effective CR board reporting 
mechanism, through which the CR manager 
updates the executive board on both 
performance against KPIs and progress 
made on a monthly basis. There are also 
regular presentations to the executive board, 
and reporting to, and interaction with, the 
divisional boards to ensure that CR issues 
specific to those businesses are communicated 
and prioritised in line with the Group approach. 
Appropriate CR risks are included in the Group 
risk register which is subject to regular review 
by the Group audit committee.
A Group CR steering committee, chaired  
by the company secretary and consisting of 
director level representatives, meets quarterly 
to discuss company specific and industry 
relevant CR matters and best practice, and  
to advise on the future direction of CR  
across the Group. The steering committee 
recommends changes to the Group’s CR 
KPIs. During the financial year, the key issues 
considered by the steering committee 
included the development of non-financial 
KPIs, the Group’s Carbon Strategy and a 
programme of internal CR communications.
The Group’s share retention policy, detailed 
further on page 52, ensures that the executive 
directors retain significant shareholdings in 
the Company, and therefore aligns their long 
term interests with those of shareholders.
Progress
During the financial year we made progress 
against the six strategic objectives for the 
period 2009/11 identified in the table on  
page 36. Progress was also made against 
the three point action plan for 2010/11 which 
was to encourage the divisional ownership of 
CR; improve information capture and storage 
and to communicate our approach to CR 
more effectively to employees.
For 2012 our key target is to demonstrate 
progress against our 15% reduction in carbon 
objective for 2013. In addition, divisional KPI 
targets have been set. For example, those 
established for the housebuilding division 
include: 70% of waste to be diverted from 
landfill, a divisional average Considerate 
Constructors Scheme target score of 33/40 
and for 50% of homes to be built at Code  
for Sustainable Homes Level 3 or above.
2011 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
36
Business review: Corporate responsibility continued
People
Strategy and policies
People are recognised as crucial to the 
success of the Group. Accordingly the Group 
has continued to adopt and refine its human 
resources (HR) management strategy, focusing 
on work organisation, employee development, 
performance management and management 
development. The aims of the strategy remain 
to strengthen employee relations, generate 
greater flexibility and maximise performance 
from the Group’s teams.
The Group remains committed to equal 
opportunities for all employees, regardless of 
race, gender, nationality, age, disability, sexual 
orientation, religion or background, and seeks 
to provide opportunities for all individuals to 
develop to their full potential. There are policies 
and practices in place which ensure fair 
opportunities in respect of employment, entry 
to employment, benefits, training, placements 
and promotion. Those policies and practices 
have been supplemented during the financial 
year by the development and roll-out of 
comprehensive e-learning courses aiming  
to facilitate diversity and counteract 
discrimination across the Group. The Group 
also acknowledges Lord Davies’s report on 
‘Women on Boards’ and the subsequent 
Financial Reporting Council consultation 
‘Gender Diversity on Boards’, both of which 
are addressed by the e-learning courses  
and will also be taken into account in the 
formulation of future HR policy. The Group 
already supports initiatives aimed at raising 
the profile of civil engineering as a career 
among women.
Performance
The Group retained its Investors in People 
accreditation across each of its divisions in 
2011, which continues to provide external 
verification of HR practices across the Group. 
The annual employee survey, completed in 
July 2011, further confirmed that 85.1% of 
staff were ‘satisfied or very satisfied’ with  
their job (2010: 83.9%).
The total number of employees, divisional 
employment profiles and related Group  
costs are all detailed in note 3 to the financial 
statements on page 72. Of the total number 
of employees 79% are male and 21% are 
female. The Group continues to recognise 
long service through its long service awards, 
and currently there are 867 employees who 
have ten years or more service with the 
Group and 314 with over 20 years’ service.
Training and development
The Group continues to invest significantly in 
training and career development, in particular 
management development programmes and 
the Galliford Try Academy. Courses have 
been specifically aligned with Group strategy 
and as such focus on strategy, leadership, 
managing change and maintaining competitive 
positions in challenging markets. A total of 
1,541 management development training 
days were completed during the financial 
year. The Group has a long-standing 
relationship with the Henley Business School, 
and a number of directors and senior managers 
attended courses at the School during the 
financial year. 
The Galliford Try Academy also remains 
integral, and 35 further trainees and graduates 
were accordingly enrolled in 2010. There are 
96 trainees and graduates currently registered 
under approved structured training frameworks. 
The Group is separately working with 
Construction Skills to develop a programme 
compatible with the requirements of the 
National Apprenticeship Scheme. The Graduate 
Development programme, endorsed by the 
Institute for Leadership and Management, 
has been integrated into, and has further 
consolidated, the Group’s suite of people 
development tools. The Group has also 
established an e-learning platform to improve 
accessibility for all employees to training and 
development resources, and is developing a 
library of courses tailored to the specific needs 
of its divisions. A total of 2,964 training days 
were completed during the financial year.
HR Governance
The Group considers that it has effective 
relationships with its employees and 
accordingly it has not been necessary  
for the Group to develop a trade union 
negotiating framework. For example, an 
employee communication forum has been 
Investors in People
Entire Group accredited
No Objective Progress to date
1 Enhance the profile of CR across  
the Group
The Constructing a Sustainable Future visual identity has been launched and promoted.
2 Record and evaluate current  
CR practices
Monthly CR executive board reports provide regular updates on performance against the 
key CR KPIs.
3 Identify a suite of CR key 
performance indicators
The Group and divisional KPIs have been embedded, and KPI data continues to be 
collected and reviewed.
4 Develop a road map to support CR 
contribution across the business
Divisional policy statements, objectives and action plans are in place and performance 
monitoring is ongoing.
5 Develop our capacity to offer 
sustainable choices
Programme identified in 2010 is ongoing:
Housebuilding, sustainability training for sales executives, sustainability data capture on  
all live projects.
Infrastructure, working group on KPI and project information capture and sharing.
Building, working group on KPIs, Considerate Constructors Scheme and BREAAM.
6 Form partnerships with sector  
and governmental organisations
Ongoing participation in: Construction Excellence, Next Generation, Homes and 
Communities Agency Forums, UK Contractors Group and the Home Builders Federation.
Progress
In 2009 we identified six strategic objectives for CR for the period 2009 to 2011. Progress on those objectives is detailed below. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
37 37
PERFORMANCE
integrated within the Group’s Infrastructure 
division to consolidate and complement 
existing communication channels, and to 
provide a regular platform for employees  
to share opinions. The Group continues to 
publish ‘Evolve’, its six monthly employee 
magazine. The Group issues a monthly 
briefing note that covers matters of interest 
for employees, including the financial and 
economic factors relevant to the Group and 
its performance. The chief executive held a 
third annual roadshow explaining the Group’s 
performance, strategy and progress to 
employees across the UK. The Group has 
also completed thorough due diligence to 
ensure compliance with relevant aspects of 
the Agency Worker Regulations due to come  
into effect on 1 October 2011.
The Company Secretary has responsibility for 
Group HR matters at executive board level, 
with the Group HR Director having immediate 
day-to-day responsibility. The key Group  
HR risk is identified in the consideration of 
principal risks and uncertainties on page 32. 
The Group issued a comprehensively 
updated Employee Handbook in February 
2011, and implemented new procedures  
to comply with the 2010 Bribery Act which 
include policy and guidelines, transparency 
and rules on corporate hospitality. The 
Employee Code of Conduct, in operation 
since 2009, continued to be applied.
Health and safety
Overview
Health and safety (H&S) remains of 
paramount importance to Galliford Try,  
and the Group is committed to a policy  
of effectively managing all aspects of  
health, safety and welfare. Recognising that 
construction operations are acknowledged  
as involving inherently high risk activities,  
for example through working at height,  
in confined spaces or as a result of piling 
operations or demolition works, the Group’s 
divisions and business units each prioritises 
health and safety and efficiently embeds 
health and safety policies, procedures  
and practices within their operations. 
The Group has developed and operates  
a bespoke health, safety and environment 
management reporting system based on  
the H&S Executive’s HS(G)65 framework, 
and which further complies with the  
OHSAS 18001 and EMS 14001 standards. 
Scottish Chamber of Safety 
‘Lord Cullen Trophy’ for producing 
hard-hitting safety DVD, ‘Buried Alive’
Performance
The total number of reportable accidents, 
which fell by 18% over the 12 months to 
June 2010, again reduced by 5.1% to 59  
in 2011. The Group accident frequency rate 
also decreased from 0.22 to 0.19, and again 
met the Group key performance indicator 
established for the financial year. The Group 
accident incidence rate also reduced, for the 
fourth consecutive year, to 4.37 (2010: 5.3). 
Key statistics
 2011 2010
Reportable accidents  59 62
Accident frequency rate 0.19 0.22
Accident incidence rate 4.37 5.3
RoSPA Health and  
Safety Awards 16 18
The Group received two prohibition notices 
during the financial year (2010: six). No 
improvement notices or letters of intent to 
prosecute were received, while the Group 
was subjected to 204 enforcement visits 
(2010: 217). 
The Group continues to focus attention on 
reducing the number of times utility services 
are struck, and has maintained challenging 
targets of 20% annualised reductions. 
During the year the Group introduced health 
and safety performance measures into every 
incentive scheme operated throughout the 
Group in the form of a deduction matrix, 
thereby directly linking remuneration to 
performance. For the second consecutive 
year a ‘stop the job’ day was held across  
the entire Group to focus attention on  
health and safety initiatives.
Governance
Ken Gillespie, Managing Director of the 
Construction division has responsibility for 
health and safety at executive board level. 
The Group Director of Health, Safety and 
Environment (HS&E) has direct responsibility 
for all related matters, the Group HS&E team 
and is also a member of the CR steering 
committee.
The executive board prioritises consideration 
of the monthly H&S report, and there is a 
robust schedule of meetings from site level 
through the management structure to ensure 
that H&S performance is reviewed and 
discussed, thereby ensuring that Group 
policies, procedures and practices remain 
effective and ‘fit for purpose’. Senior 
management reviews also periodically 
consider Group H&S performance and 
identify areas meriting greater attention. 
Risk management
Health and safety is integrated effectively 
into business planning processes using 
established risk assessment methodologies, 
appropriate control measures, and set key 
performance indicators and targets. The 
Group HS&E Director agrees annual safety 
management thresholds with divisional 
Managing Directors, and applicable 
management teams, which are in turn 
monitored on a monthly basis and subjected 
to internal audit.
The Group also operates a detailed HS&E 
annual action plan which identifies a number 
of objectives, forward looking rolling targets 
and related actions for any forthcoming 
financial year, and communicates the  
HS&E key performance indicators across 
Group management.
On-site H&S tours, completed by all business 
leaders up to and including the Chief 
Executive, form a key HS&E risk management 
mechanism. Over the last two financial years 
over 950 such visits have been organised 
and completed.
Number of employees
As at 30 June
Accident incidence rate
Per 1,000 people
09
09
10
10
11
11
3,850
5.7
3,500
5.3
4,230
4.4 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
38
Business review: Corporate responsibility continued
Another key risk management mechanism is 
the now established behavioural programme 
‘challenging beliefs, affecting behaviour’. The 
programme aims to create and maintain an 
environment where care for our people, and 
those that work with us, is our top priority, 
and in which the belief that all accidents are 
preventable prevails. Under the programme, 
over 400 of the senior management 
population, including executive board 
members, have participated in the Senior 
Management Leadership Workshop, while 
ahead of expectations over 1,500 operational 
managers have attended the equivalent 
Operational Management Workshop. The 
Group intends that a further 1,000 operational 
managers will attend the latter course under 
the programme in 2011/12, and to also 
develop more on-site forums and coaching. 
The programme will remain a key H&S 
initiative over the next financial year.
Environment
Strategy and policies
The Galliford Try environmental policy continues 
to prioritise the Group delivering, as far  
as reasonably possible, to its clients and 
customers in an environmentally responsible 
manner which does not expose the natural 
environment or any site neighbours to 
unacceptable risks. Consequently, in addition 
to complying with all environment legislation, 
the Group’s divisions are required as a matter 
of policy to:
Assess Complete an assessment of the 
risks to the environment and any 
site neighbours from the Group’s 
projects or activities.
Arrange Have effective arrangements in 
place for planning, organising, 
controlling, monitoring and 
reviewing our preventative and 
protective measures.
Appoint Appoint competent persons at 
project and Group level to commit 
to the measures needed to 
comply with environmental law.
Advise Provide employees with the 
appropriate guidance on 
environmental risks and the 
preventative and protective 
measures necessary to mitigate 
those risks.
The environmental policy forms a central 
tenet of the Group’s environmental strategy, 
which is supported by objectives and  
rolling targets which have been developed  
to facilitate a continual improvement 
in environmental performance. The 
environmental team is designated with 
ensuring sustainable environmental 
considerations are incorporated into the 
Group’s design standards and construction 
practices, in particular improving energy  
and water consumption, promoting the  
use and reuse of low impact materials,  
and designing Group waste processes.
Performance
No environmental notices were received,  
or environmental prosecutions pursued, 
against the Group in the financial year.
The Group continues to monitor the 
quantities of construction, demolition and 
excavation waste generated. The percentage 
of waste diverted from landfill rose to 60%  
in the calendar year 2010 (2009: 56%),  
and excluding soil and stones (muckaway) 
performance improved further to 76% (2009: 
54%). This key environmental performance 
indicator measured progress against the 
Group’s stated objective to contribute to 
halving the amount of construction, demolition 
and excavation waste going to landfill between 
2008 and 2012. The Group continues to 
work closely with the Government’s Waste 
and Resources Action Programme (WRAP)  
to identify further related opportunities. 
The Group completed its third annual 
submission to the Carbon Disclosure  
Project, and CO
2
 emissions further reduced 
to 46,131 tCO
2
e in 2010 (2009: 49,106). 
The emissions intensity measure (as 
£100,000 of turnover) reduced from 3.74  
to 3.63 over the same period. A number of 
initiatives, to reduce average fleet emissions, 
energy saving practices for offices, the use  
of a new range of eco-work cabins and a 
consolidation of energy procurement practices, 
are all being developed under the remit of  
a new Group Carbon Task Force to further 
improve related Group performance. The 
Task Force will primarily be implementing  
a new strategy to reduce Group carbon 
emissions per unit of turnover by 15% by the 
end of 2013. The Group also continues to 
develop its carbon data collection systems 
with the intention of meeting any future 
extension of the Environment Agency’s 
Carbon Reduction Commitment.
The Group has continued to increase 
attendance levels on the four day course 
accredited by the Institute of Occupational 
Safety and Health ‘Managing Environmental 
Responsibilities’. A further 147 employees 
benefited from the course during the financial 
year, which amounts to a further 588 training 
days. Tailored environmental training has also 
been provided internally to 327 employees, 
which represents a further 137 environmental 
training days.
Third party ISO 14001:2004 certification  
for all business units remains a key Group 
objective, and following a rationalisation of 
the Group’s business units, 17 of a maximum 
25 units have now been accredited at  
that standard. 
The Group’s housebuilding division has 
completed a study in conjunction with WRAP 
which found that 79.3% of total waste from 
individual housebuilding sites was waste 
wood. As a result the Group has given its 
support to the National Community Wood 
Recycling Project during the financial year, the 
project employs those from disadvantaged 
backgrounds to collect waste wood. 
Of the collected wood approximately 85%  
is recycled and the remainder is prepared  
for reuse, either as wood products or  
as firewood.
Governance
An environmental management system (EMS) 
has been developed that is compliant with 
the requirements of ISO 14001: 2004, and 
which has been subject to independent  
third party certification audits by the British 
Standards Institute. The EMS defines and 
communicates key Group environmental 
standards which are required to be adopted 
on each construction site, and includes both 
process and technical standards. Examples 
include, but are not limited to, accident and 
incident reporting, environmental design 
management, environmental risk assessment, 
ecological management, hazardous materials 
management and water management.
Significant relationships
Relationships are important to Galliford Try: 
the business has been built on a collaborative 
culture.
Considerate Constructors Award 
Eight national awards in the year Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
39 39
PERFORMANCE
Clients and customers
Our Building and Infrastructure businesses 
have a number of key clients, particularly 
those that operate through five year 
framework agreements. Although no one 
client has accounted for more than 4% of 
revenue during the year major clients, both 
during the year and currently, include:
 • The seven regulated water utilities for 
whom we are working under five year 
framework contracts for their asset 
management programmes.
 • Lend Lease, for whom we are carrying  
out accommodation building works for  
the Olympic Games in 2012.
 • Manhattan Loft Limited, for whom we 
completed a £103 million contract to 
redevelop St Pancras Chambers in 
London.
 • Transport Scotland for whom we carry  
out highways projects and who is the  
client for the recently awarded Forth  
Road Crossing project.
Business partners
We carry out some of our projects in joint 
ventures. Our partners are engineers,  
other contractors and consultants on our 
frameworks for the water utilities and our 
larger highways projects. During the year  
we secured the £790 million Forth Road 
Crossing project in a consortium with 
Dragados, Hochtief and American Bridge.  
In housebuilding we develop a number of 
sites under joint venture agreements with 
housing associations and other house-
builders. Significant relationships in our 
housebuilding business include our partnership 
with the Homes and Communities Agency.  
We have major projects with Affinity Sutton 
and the Devon and Cornwall Housing 
Associations together with developers Wates 
and Crest Nicholson with whom we have joint 
ventures. Going forward the Home Group is 
our joint venture partner on the £347 million 
Gateshead evolution regeneration project  
for Gateshead Council on which we were 
appointed preferred bidder during the year.
Supply chain and service providers
The Group continues to prioritise developing 
long term relationships with established and 
new product suppliers and service providers.
Throughout its businesses the Group has 
relationships with architects, engineers  
and other consultants as well as with  
sub-contractors and materials providers.  
By working closely with them, we improve 
our quality of service to our clients, increase 
efficiency and address key performance 
requirements in areas such as health, safety 
and the environment. The Group also has 
significant relationships with its providers of 
corporate services such as surety bonding, 
insurance and finance.
A new procurement initiative has involved our 
Group Procurement forum members visiting 
external businesses in different sectors to 
gain insights into alternative procurement 
approaches and purchasing systems.
The Group procurement team has maintained 
efforts to ensure the integrity of the 
housebuilding divisional timber supply chain, 
and accordingly 93% of timber orders in the 
financial year were chain of custody certified.
Community engagement
The Group necessarily contributes to, invests 
in, and creates communities through its 
projects. The Group approach to CR ensures 
that sustainability is actively prioritised in 
project design and planning, which is reflected 
in their resultant impact on communities.  
The Group engages with communities and 
individuals wherever necessary and appropriate 
in connection with its operations, particularly 
keeping local residents and organisations 
informed about construction plans and 
progress. A wide variety of safety campaigns, 
education programmes including school 
visits, and community based projects have 
been developed and were completed by  
the Group through the year.
The Group became an associate member  
of the Considerate Constructors Scheme  
in 2011, which demonstrates a continuing 
commitment to improving the interaction  
with communities in the localities where 
construction works are being carried out. 
Competent management, efficiency and 
awareness of local environmental issues are 
required by the scheme’s ‘Site and Company 
Codes of Considerate Practice’. Eight of the 
Group’s projects have been awarded national 
awards under the scheme during the year. 
The Group is a patron of CRASH, the UK 
registered practical charity that focuses on 
improving the buildings used by homeless 
people, and set up a Group volunteering 
scheme with the charity during 2011. 
Further details of the Group’s charitable 
donations during the financial year are 
disclosed with other statutory information  
on page 57, in the Directors’ Report.
CR report 2011
A more detailed consideration of our CR 
activities during the financial year, and plans 
for the future, can be found in our separately 
published 2011 CR report ‘Positive Impact’, 
and on our website at www.gallifordtry.co.uk/
corporate-responsibility, where more CR data 
is also provided.
ROSPA
16 Health and safety awards.
20                 11
GOLD MEDAL
Award Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
40
Directors and Executive Board
Top row 
Ian Coull, Greg Fitzgerald, Frank Nelson
Middle row: 
Andrew Jenner, Amanda Burton, Peter Rogers
Bottom row: 
Ian Gillespie, Richard Barraclough, Ian Baker Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
41 41
GOVERNANCE
Ian Coull FRICS 
‡
Non-Executive Chairman
Ian Coull was appointed to the board as  
a non-executive director and chairman 
designate on 8 November 2010 and became 
Chairman on 1 July 2011. Until April 2011  
Ian was Chief Executive of SEGRO plc.  
He was also previously a main board director 
of J Sainsbury plc with responsibility for all 
property and construction activities. He is  
a non-executive director of Pendragon PLC 
and London Scottish International Limited, a 
Senior Adviser to Oaktree Capital Management 
and a member of the Government’s Property 
Advisory Panel. Age 61.
Greg Fitzgerald
Chief Executive
Greg Fitzgerald was appointed to the board 
in July 2003 and was Managing Director  
of the Housebuilding Division before being 
appointed chief executive on 1 July 2005.  
He was a founder of Midas Homes in 1992 
and its Managing Director when it was 
acquired in 1997, subsequently chairing 
Midas and Gerald Wood Homes. He is  
a Non-Executive Director of NHBC, the 
National House-Building Council. Age 47.
Frank Nelson FCMA
Finance Director
Frank Nelson was appointed to the board  
in September 2000. Finance Director of  
Try Group since 1988, he was formerly a 
divisional finance director with Wiltshier and  
a management consultant with Coopers & 
Lybrand. Age 60.
Ken Gillespie *
Group Managing Director, Construction
Ken Gillespie joined the Group in March 2006 
on the acquisition of Morrison Construction, 
having been its Managing Director since 
2005. He joined Morrison in 1996 having 
spent the previous 13 years holding senior 
positions in construction with George 
Wimpey. Age 46.
Richard Barraclough FCIS *
Company Secretary and Legal Director
Richard Barraclough has been company 
secretary since September 2000. He joined 
Try Group as a director and company 
secretary in 1991 and was formerly deputy 
company secretary of George Wimpey PLC. 
Age 56.
Ian Baker *
Group Managing Director, Housebuilding
Ian Baker was appointed to the executive 
board in March 2007. He joined the Group in 
1995, initially with Midas Homes, subsequently 
becoming Managing Director of all the Group’s 
housebuilding activities in 2009. Age 41.
Amanda Burton 
† ‡
Non-Executive Director and Senior 
Independent Director
Amanda Burton was appointed to the board 
in July 2005. She is currently Chief Operating 
Officer at Clifford Chance LLP. She was 
previously a non executive director of Fresca 
Group Limited, and a director of Meyer 
International plc and Chairman of its timber 
group. Amanda is also a Trustee of the 
Battersea Dogs and Cats Home. Age 52.
Peter Rogers CBE  
† ‡
Non-Executive Director
Peter Rogers was appointed to the board  
in July 2008. He is Chief Executive of 
Babcock International Group plc. Prior to 
joining Babcock in 2002, he was a director  
of Courtaulds plc and Acordis BV, having  
earlier held senior executive positions in  
the Ford Motor Company. Peter is also 
President of ADS, the trade organisation 
advancing the interests of UK aerospace, 
defence, security and space industries.  
Age 63.
Andrew Jenner ACA † ‡  
Non-Executive Director
Andrew Jenner was appointed to the board 
in January 2009. He is currently Finance 
Director of Serco Group plc. Prior to joining 
Serco in 1996 he worked for Unilever and 
Deloitte & Touche LLP . Age 42.
* The executive board comprises the chief executive, 
 finance director and the executives listed.
† Member of the audit committee.
‡ Member of the remuneration and nomination committees.
Executive Board
Directors Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
42
Governance
Committed to the 
highest standards 
of governance
Balance of non-executive  
and executive directors
1 Non-executive chairman (1) 
2 Independent non-executive directors (3)
3 Executive directors (2)
Compliance statement
The Group believes the highest standards  
of corporate governance are integral to the 
delivery of its strategy, providing the means 
by which the Board manages the expectations 
of stakeholders to optimise sustainable 
performance.
The UK Corporate Governance Code, in 
force for all premium listed companies with 
accounting periods commencing on or after 
29 June 2010 (the “Code”) is the governance 
code to which the Group is now subject. 
Galliford Try has committed to complying in 
full with all provisions of the Code, including 
those aspects only strictly relevant to FTSE 
350 companies, in seeking to both support 
and foster the highest standards of corporate 
governance. The extended provisions are 
proportionate, and the Group accordingly 
complied in full with all provisions of the  
Code throughout the financial year. 
Key governance policy 
developments
In reflection of its formal adoption of the 
Code, the Board has determined that all 
serving directors will stand for re-appointment  
at the 2011 Annual General Meeting (AGM)  
to be held in November, and annually going 
forward. The directors have further agreed to 
commit to externally facilitated performance 
evaluations on a rolling three yearly basis, 
with the first external evaluation to be held 
before 2014. Going forward the Group will 
also operate clawback provisions in connection 
with all executive incentive plans, thereby 
permitting performance related elements of 
remuneration to be reclaimed in the event  
of subsequent material misstatement  
or misconduct. 
Board: composition
The Company is led by a board which 
comprises the non-executive chairman, two 
executive directors, the senior independent 
director and two further independent 
non-executive directors. 
Ian Coull was appointed as a non-executive 
director and chairman designate with effect 
from 8 November 2010. He subsequently 
became chairman and a member of the 
nomination and remuneration committees on 
1 July 2011 following the retirement of David 
Calverley from the board on 30 June 2011. 
These were the only changes to the board 
during and since the financial year; further 
information regarding the appointment of Ian 
Coull is included in the nomination committee 
report on page 45.
Biographical summaries for each of the 
current directors, their respective committee 
responsibilities and their external directorships 
are set out on page 41. All of the directors 
serving throughout the financial year made 
significant contributions to the Group. They all 
continue to demonstrate commitment to their 
roles. Amanda Burton’s continuing term as a 
non-executive director extended to six years 
as at 1 July 2011, and her reappointment has 
therefore been subject to particularly rigorous 
review this year taking into account the need 
for the progressive refreshing of the board. 
The board is particularly keen to maintain the 
continuity she brings to the board, particularly 
in light of the change of chairman, and the 
valuable roles she continues to perform as 
senior independent director and chairman  
of the remuneration committee.
Each of the non-executive directors serving 
during the financial year is considered to be 
independent, with the exception that David 
Calverley did not meet the independence 
criteria set out in the Code on his appointment 
as chairman in 2005, having previously been 
the chief executive of the Company. At least 
half of the board comprised independent 
non-executive directors throughout the 
financial year.
1
2
3 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
43 43
GOVERNANCE
The roles of the chairman and the chief 
executive are separate, clearly defined  
and documented. The Chairman takes 
responsibility for board matters encompassing 
induction and training, governance and 
information, leadership and effectiveness,  
and shareholder relations. The chief executive 
is responsible to the board for the executive 
management of the Group. The chairman and 
the chief executive meet regularly to discuss 
the Group’s performance, operations and any 
matters arising that merit the attention of the 
wider board.
Amanda Burton continues to be the Group’s 
senior independent director and as such 
remains available to shareholders if they have 
concerns which contact through normal 
channels has failed to resolve, or for which 
such contact is inappropriate. She was not 
approached during the year.
The role and responsibilities expected of a 
non-executive director are detailed in their 
individual letters of appointment, and each 
non-executive confirms prior to appointment 
that they have sufficient time to commit to  
the Group. The letters of appointment are 
available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office during normal office hours 
and prior to the annual general meeting.
Board: attendance
The board meets regularly through any 
financial year, with a total of ten meetings 
held in 2011. Attendance of the individual 
directors is detailed in the following table; 
however, the directors attend other meetings 
throughout the year and the board believes 
their contributions should be measured 
beyond simple attendance records. Ian Coull 
also attended the two meetings immediately 
prior to his appointment as a director, at the 
invitation of the board.
Board of directors
Number of meetings held during the year  10
Members Meetings attended
Ian Coull  5
Greg Fitzgerald  10
Frank Nelson  10
Amanda Burton  10
Peter Rogers  9
Andrew Jenner  9
David Calverley  10
The chairman held additional meetings with 
the non-executives during the financial year 
without the executives present, and the 
Company Secretary also attended part of 
these meetings by invitation. The senior 
independent director meets separately with 
the non-executives to assess the performance  
of the chairman without him being present.
Board: remit
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved 
for prior authorisation by the board. The board 
takes responsibility for the Group’s business 
plan; overall Group strategy; all material 
investments, acquisitions and disposals; all 
human resource, environmental and health 
and safety policies; all significant capital 
expenditure, financial matters and reviewing 
the Group’s system of internal control. 
The board has established reporting 
mechanisms which simultaneously ensure 
that it receives timely and appropriate reports 
and proposals from senior management  
in advance of its scheduled meetings,  
and is immediately informed of significant 
developments affecting the business. Ad hoc 
matters considered by the board during  
the financial year included the successful 
refinancing of the Group’s banking facilities  
in May.
The board may, provided the quorum and 
voting requirements are satisfied, authorise 
any matter that would otherwise involve a 
director breaching his duty under the Act  
to avoid conflicts of interest. Any director  
may propose that the director concerned  
be authorised in relation to any matter which 
is the subject of such conflict and such a 
proposal shall be put to the board in the 
same way as any other matter, except that 
the director who is subject to the conflict (or 
any other director with a similar interest) shall 
not count towards the quorum or vote on the 
resolution authorising the conflict. This forms 
a central part of the procedures that the 
Company has to deal with conflicts of interest 
and these procedures have operated effectively 
throughout the financial year.
Board: information and advice
The Company Secretary, at the request  
of the chairman, ensures that all directors 
receive appropriate and timely information  
and briefing papers in advance of board  
and committee meetings.
All directors have access to the advice and 
services of the Company Secretary, and there 
is an agreed procedure whereby directors 
can take independent professional advice,  
if necessary, at the Company’s expense in 
furtherance of their duties. No directors 
sought independent advice during the 
financial year.
Board: insurance and indemnity
In accordance with the requirements of the 
Code, the Company maintains an appropriate 
directors’ and officers’ liability insurance policy, 
and similarly provides an indemnity to the 
directors and company secretary which is  
a qualifying indemnity for the purposes of 
s.234 Companies Act, 2006.
Board: performance evaluation
The process of monitoring and evaluating the 
performance of the board and its committees 
was reviewed and updated during the financial 
year to reflect the application of the Code. All 
directors completed confidential questionnaires 
reformatted to rigorously address themes 
including board mechanics and effectiveness; 
Group performance and strategy; governance 
and corporate social responsibility, and 
incorporate a separate review of the evaluation 
process. The questionnaires invited any 
recommendations regarding any areas  
of concern or potentially meriting greater 
board attention.
The tailored committee questionnaires 
covered areas such as committee mechanics 
and effectiveness; committee governance; 
communication; risk and internal controls, 
and external audit. Each aspect of the 
questionnaire sought to gauge opinion  
on detailed aspects of the committee’s 
workings, recent Group developments  
and market practice.
The Company Secretary collated results from 
the questionnaires and prepared a report on 
the findings for an initial discussion with the 
chairman. The findings were then discussed 
by the wider board, with a number of related 
actions then being agreed.
Executive board report
The executive board comprises the Group 
chief executive, Group finance director, Group 
company secretary, and the managing 
directors of the Group’s construction   Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
44
Governance continued
During the financial year, the audit committee 
otherwise discharged its responsibilities as set 
out in its terms of reference by undertaking 
the following calendar of prioritised work:
 • agreeing the terms of engagement and fee 
of the external auditor for the half and full 
year audits;
 • receiving and approving regular reports on 
the findings of, and actions arising from, 
the internal audit team’s review programme;
 • considering the potential impact on the 
Group’s financial statements of significant 
corporate governance and accounting 
matters;
 • reviewing the appropriateness of the 
methodology used to assess the carrying 
value of the Group’s land and work-in-
progress;
 • reviewing the accounting and financing 
arrangements with respect to any 
associate and joint venture entities;
 • reviewing the Annual Report disclosure 
items relevant to the committee’s remit 
including any revisions made to the 
Group’s statement of accounting policies;
 • meeting prior to the board meetings at 
which the Annual Report and Financial 
Statements and the Interim Report  
were approved, in particular to approve 
significant accounting policies, financial 
reporting issues and any judgements 
together with related reports from the 
external auditor;
 • reviewing any findings of the external auditor, 
their management letters on accounting 
procedures and internal finance controls, 
and their audit representation letters;
 • meeting with the external auditor separately 
in the absence of any executives or the 
internal audit team;
 • reviewing the effectiveness of the external 
audit process, the strategy and plan for  
the forthcoming statutory audit, and the 
qualifications, expertise, resources and 
independence of the external auditor;
 • reviewing arrangements for the testing of 
the financial and non-financial covenants 
within the Group’s banking facilities;
 • reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing  
policy and procedures;
 • reviewing the implementation and 
effectiveness of the Group’s measures  
to comply with the 2010 Bribery Act;
 • reviewing the committee’s own terms  
of reference.
and housebuilding divisions. Executive 
management is the responsibility of the chief 
executive who chairs the executive board, 
which in turn takes responsibility for the 
operational management of the Group under 
terms of reference delegated by the main 
board. There are regular performance and 
operational related reports and presentations 
from divisional management. The Assistant 
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the 
executive board.
The executive board meets on a monthly 
basis and more frequently when circumstances 
require, by way of example several board 
meetings were convened during the year  
to specifically finalise the terms and related 
content of the Group’s involvement in key 
project bids.
Executive board
Members 
Chair: Greg Fitzgerald  
Frank Nelson  
Ken Gillespie  
Richard Barraclough  
Ian Baker  
Audit committee report
At the year end the audit committee 
comprised Andrew Jenner, who is chair, 
Amanda Burton and Peter Rogers, all three 
independent non-executive directors who 
served throughout the financial year.
Having qualified as a chartered accountant 
with Deloitte & Touche LLP , and now as 
Finance Director of Serco Group plc, Andrew 
Jenner has a strong financial background 
which fulfils the Code requirement that the 
committee’s membership has recent and 
relevant financial experience.
The committee meets at least three  
times a year, this number being deemed 
appropriate to the audit committee’s role  
and responsibilities. The committee also 
meets with the internal and external audit 
teams in the absence of executive 
management. The terms of reference  
are available on the Group website. 
Audit committee
Number of meetings held during the year  3
Members Meetings attended
Chair: Andrew Jenner   3
Amanda Burton  3
Peter Rogers  3
The committee has delegated responsibility for: 
 • financial reporting, to include monitoring 
the integrity of the annual and half year 
financial statements and any formal 
announcements relating to the Group’s 
financial performance; approving any 
significant reporting judgements contained 
therein; and authorising changes to any 
critical accounting policies and practices;
 • external audit, to include overseeing the 
relationship with the external auditor; 
reviewing the effectiveness of the audit 
process at the end of the external audit 
cycle; making recommendations to the 
board, for submission to shareholders for 
their approval in general meeting, regarding 
the appointment, re-appointment and 
removal of the external auditor; approving 
the external auditors’ remuneration and 
terms of engagement; and assessing the 
independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor, taking into consideration 
relevant UK professional and regulatory 
requirements, and which encompasses 
maintaining a policy on their engagement 
to supply non-audit services to the Group;
 • internal audit, risk and controls, to include 
monitoring and reviewing the role and 
effectiveness of the internal audit function; 
receiving regular reports on the results of 
the internal audit team’s work; monitoring 
executive and senior management 
responsiveness to any findings; keeping 
under review the integrity of the Group’s 
internal control framework and 
recommending changes as necessary; 
assessing the annual internal audit plan; 
and reviewing elements of the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements relating  
to risk and controls;
 • whistleblowing, reviewing arrangements by 
which employees may, in confidence, raise 
concerns about possible improprieties in 
matters of financial reporting, financial 
control or other matters. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
45 45
GOVERNANCE
The committee also approved an updated 
policy on the provision of non-audit services 
by the external auditor during the financial 
year, also in line with its terms of reference. 
The updated policy reflected the 
recommendations of the Financial Reporting 
Council’s (FRC) Guidance on Audit Committees 
published in December 2010 and applies de 
minimis limits on both individual engagements 
for which the external auditor can be appointed 
without committee pre-approval and total 
group expenditure on non-audit services.  
The external auditor is excluded from providing 
specific services in accordance with the  
FRC Guidance.
Where significant non-audit related services 
were provided during the financial year, the 
committee satisfied itself beforehand that the 
services were most efficiently provided by the 
external auditor. A report is also made to the 
committee outlining all the non-audit services 
provided by the external auditor during the 
year together with fees charged, and is 
ratified as appropriate. Details of the fees 
incurred by the external auditor during the 
financial year are given in note 5 to the 
financial statements on page 74.
The committee separately operates a policy 
to safeguard the objectivity and independence 
of the external auditors. The policy sets out 
certain disclosure requirements by the external 
auditors to the audit committee, restrictions  
on the employment of the external auditors’ 
former employees, and partner rotation 
requirements. It is committee policy to review 
the need to enter into a competitive tender 
for the external audit engagement, which 
would include the incumbent, at least as 
frequently as audit partner rotation is 
required. The Company’s current auditors 
were originally appointed in 2001 following  
a formal tender process. The audit partner  
is required to rotate at least every five years. 
The committee remains satisfied with the 
performance of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP (PwC) and the audit partner appointed in 
2010, and accordingly recommended to the 
board that a resolution to reappoint PwC be 
proposed at the forthcoming AGM. There are 
no contractual obligations that restrict the 
committee’s choice, and the committee is 
satisfied that PwC remains independent.
Following a review conducted by the 
committee in 2010, a Head of Risk and 
Internal Audit was appointed during the 
financial year, on the specific recommendation 
of the committee, to improve the Group’s 
risk, audit and control functions. A more 
detailed consideration of the developments 
made in that area can be found in the 
consideration of audit, risk and internal 
control matters on page 47.
Nomination committee report
At the year end the nomination committee 
comprised Peter Rogers, who is chair, 
Amanda Burton and Andrew Jenner, all  
three independent non-executive directors 
who served throughout the financial year.  
Ian Coull was appointed as a committee 
member with effect from 1 July 2011.
Nomination committee
Number of meetings held during the year 2
Members Meetings attended
Chair: Peter Rogers 2
Amanda Burton 2
Andrew Jenner 2
The committee has delegated responsibility 
for reviewing the size, structure and 
composition of the board; evaluating the 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience 
both on the board and as required for  
any new appointments; overseeing and 
recommending the recruitment of any new 
directors to include preparing descriptions  
of the role and capabilities required, ensuring 
appointments are made on merit against 
objective criteria, and the use of external 
consultants and/or open advertising as 
appropriate; and also keeping the leadership 
and succession requirements of the Group 
under review. The terms of reference are 
available on the Group website.
The committee took direct responsibility for 
the processes which led to the appointment 
of Ian Coull as a non-executive director and 
chairman designate on 8 November 2010.  
A detailed job specification was prepared by 
the committee and external consultants were 
appointed to provide advice on the availability 
of suitable candidates before commencing a 
thorough and formal selection process, which 
included interviewing a shortlist of diverse 
potential candidates, which included men and 
women. The committee then recommended 
that the board approve the appointment of 
Ian Coull, having established that he met the 
independence criteria imposed by the Code, 
confirmed his external commitments and that 
he had sufficient time to commit to the role. 
On appointment Ian undertook a detailed 
personal induction programme in anticipation 
of becoming chairman on 1 July 2011.
Each director brings different experience and 
skills to the operation of the board and its 
committees. Board composition is kept under 
review by the committee and when a new 
appointment is to be made appropriate 
consideration is given to the specific skills 
and experience any potential new director 
could add. Newly appointed directors receive 
formal induction and appropriate training on 
the role and responsibilities of being a director 
of a publicly listed company as soon as 
practicable after appointment. The induction 
for non-executive directors includes meetings 
with senior management across the Group 
and visits to operational sites.
Individual development plans, and the progress 
made by potential internal candidates for  
key executive roles, were also reviewed 
during the financial year to ensure continual 
development of effective contingency and 
succession planning.
Remuneration committee report
At the year end the remuneration committee 
comprised Amanda Burton, who is chair, 
Peter Rogers and Andrew Jenner, all three 
independent non-executive directors who 
served throughout the financial year. Ian Coull 
was appointed as a committee member with 
effect 1 July 2011.
Remuneration committee
Number of meetings held during the year 4
Members Meetings attended
Chair: Amanda Burton 4
Peter Rogers 3
Andrew Jenner 4
The committee has delegated responsibility 
for determining all elements of remuneration 
of the executive directors and senior 
management, who comprise the members  
of the executive committee. The committee 
oversees all aspects of the performance 
related elements of executive remuneration. 
In authorising executive remuneration, the 
committee is sensitive to the structure and 
level of remuneration elsewhere in the Group 
and general remuneration levels within the 
Group’s different markets. The committee  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
46
Governance continued
also reviews its terms of reference annually 
and is responsible for approving the 
remuneration related aspects of the Group’s 
Annual Report and Financial Statements. 
Further information regarding the work of  
the committee during the financial year can 
be found in the Remuneration Report on 
page 48.
Governance policies
Bribery Act 2010 – on publication of the 
Government’s Guidelines on Bribery Act 
compliance in March 2011, the Group 
finalised its related policy, procedures and 
training schedules in consultation with 
specialist legal advisers. The Group initiated  
a risk assessment exercise, and developed 
an appropriate and proportionate compliance 
programme ensuring adequate procedures 
across its operating divisions to ensure 
compliance with the new law. The adequate 
procedures were in place ahead of 
implementation of the Act on 1 July 2011. 
Related information has been provided to  
all employees and training and awareness 
programmes are in place.
Whistleblowing – the Group’s 
whistleblowing policy, which puts in place  
a confidential channel of communication  
for employees to bring matters of concern, 
whether operational or personal, to the 
attention of senior management, enables  
the Company to then investigate fully and 
take whatever corrective action is deemed  
to be appropriate. During the financial year 
the Group put in place a confidential external 
whistleblowing hotline which provides 
alternative means for employees to raise 
concerns directly to specialist independent 
advisers. The audit committee reviews both 
these arrangements regularly. It also has 
responsibility for ensuring independent 
investigation of such matters and appropriate 
follow-up action where necessary.
Competition Policy – in March 2011 the 
Competition Appeal Tribunal reduced the 
quantum of the £8.33 million fine imposed by 
the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) in September 
2009 for three breaches of the Competition 
Act 1988 between 2001 and 2004 relating  
to cover pricing. The fine was reduced by 
83% from £8.33 million to £1.395 million. 
The Group has a comprehensive set of policies 
and procedures for ensuring compliance with 
competition law requirements. These are 
supported by training programmes which 
comprise seminars conducted with input 
from the Group’s competition law advisers.  
In addition the Group continues to operate  
its web-based training modules which are 
undertaken by employees involved in areas  
of the Group that are most likely to be 
affected by competition law. 
Consumer credit and anti-money 
laundering – the Group is subject to 
consumer credit licence (CCL) and anti-money 
laundering (AML) legislation as a result of the 
credit provision activities of its housebuilding 
division, Linden Homes. The Group therefore 
established an Anti-Money Laundering 
Committee during the financial year to 
develop and oversee related policies and 
procedures, and complies with the obligation 
as a consumer credit financial institution to 
maintain current CCL and AML registrations 
with the OFT. 
Shareholder relations
The board welcomed the Financial Reporting 
Council’ s implementation of the UK Stewardship 
Code in December 2010, and supports its 
broad principles of disclosure, engagement 
and collaboration.
 
The Company continues to prioritise 
maintaining effective relationships with  
all its shareholders and seeks to frame its 
communications accordingly. The chief 
executive and the finance director have 
programmes of regular meetings with all 
major shareholders and potential investors. 
Feedback from such meetings, and 
shareholder views generally, are communicated 
to the board as a whole, and brokers’ reports 
are regularly circulated to all directors for 
consideration. The non-executive directors 
attended a meeting with the Company’s 
brokers to receive updates on the views  
and objectives of major shareholders during 
the financial year, thereby ensuring that  
they further develop their awareness and 
understanding of any changes in the views  
of the Group held by major shareholders. The 
chairman is available to discuss governance 
and strategy with major shareholders, and 
the non-executives, including the senior 
independent director, will also attend meetings 
on request. While the focus of dialogue is 
with the major institutional shareholders,  
care is exercised to ensure that any 
price-sensitive information is released to 
all shareholders, institutional and private, 
at the same time in accordance with the 
requirements of the FSA’s Listing and 
Disclosure & Transparency Rules.
The Company Secretary takes responsibility 
for communications with private shareholders 
and has regular meetings with private client 
fund managers and other investors and/or 
potential investors. When appropriate the 
Group takes specific investor relations advice 
to ensure that its investor communications 
are as effective as possible. 
Every effort is made to ensure that annual 
general meetings are informative and 
meaningful occasions, and the full board, 
including the chairmen of the audit, 
remuneration and nomination committees, 
are available to answer questions in 
accordance with the requirements of the 
Code. All directors were available at the 2010 
annual general meeting. It is customary for 
opportunities to answer questions to follow a 
presentation from executive management on 
operational performance during the financial 
year. The Notice of annual general meeting  
is sent to shareholders at least 20 working 
days in advance of the meeting and includes 
a substantially separate resolution on each 
item of business to be considered. The proxy 
form includes options to vote for or against 
any resolution, or for this to be withheld, making 
it clear that any votes withheld will not be 
counted in the calculation of votes for and 
against any resolution. Voting at the AGM in 
November 2011 will be conducted by way of  
a poll.
The Company has a comprehensive investor 
relations area of its Group website to provide 
all current and prospective shareholders with 
relevant information, including institutional 
presentations, webcasts, financial reports 
and statements, and related frequently asked 
questions in an effort to ensure they are well 
informed. The investor relations section of the 
website is kept under regular review and is 
continuously updated. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
47 47
GOVERNANCE
Reporting, risk, internal audit  
and controls
In presenting this report and having monitored 
and reviewed, or approved all key shareholder 
communications during the financial year,  
the board is confident it has consistently 
presented a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the Group’s performance.
The board is responsible for the Group’s 
system of internal controls and for reviewing 
its effectiveness. The board regularly reviews 
the major areas of risk that the Group faces in 
its operations and the management controls 
and processes that are in place to manage 
them. Such systems are designed to manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure and  
do not provide absolute assurance against 
misstatement or loss. The board reviewed the 
operation and effectiveness of the material 
internal controls during the financial year and 
has taken any necessary action to remedy 
any significant weaknesses or findings 
identified. The controls have remained in 
place throughout the period under review  
and up to the date of the approval of the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The material controls, and key foundations,  
of the Group’s established internal control 
framework are:
 • organisational structure, the Group is 
organised into a number of divisions,  
under which there are clearly defined 
business units. Each division has its own 
management board and each business 
unit is led by a managing director and 
team. Clear reporting lines and delegated 
authorities are in place. Accordingly, the 
management of performance, and 
monitoring and reporting of risk, occurs  
at different levels across the Group with 
key issues being escalated by and through 
management to the board;
 • contractual review and commitments,  
the Group has clearly defined policies and 
procedures for entering into contractual 
commitments which apply across its 
business units and operations. These 
include detailed requirements that are 
required to be completed prior to submitting 
proposals and/or tenders for construction 
work, both in respect of the commercial 
and control or risk management aspects  
of the potential contractual obligations. 
 • legal authorities matrix, is in place  
to ensure the controls are clearly 
communicated throughout the business;
 • investment in land and development, there 
are clearly defined policies and procedures 
for the purchase of land and for expenditure 
on development opportunities. These 
include detailed pre-commitment due 
diligence procedures together with thorough 
appraisal and review requirements to be 
complied with through the acquisition 
process. The policies and procedures are 
subject to rigorous review and authorisation;
 • operational activity, there are established 
frameworks to manage and control all site 
operations that take account of the specific 
requirements of the type of site that is 
being operated. These include extensive 
health, safety and environmental procedures, 
regular performance monitoring, and external 
accountability to clients or customers 
where relevant;
 • operational and financial reporting, the 
Group reviews and redevelops its business 
plan on an annual basis, following specific 
board meetings held to consider strategy. 
A detailed annual budget is prepared for 
each financial year which is approved by 
the board. An exacting profit and cash 
reporting and forecasting regime is in place 
across the Group, with monthly reporting 
and approval mechanisms against both 
budget and forecast in place at divisional, 
Group and board levels. As well as the 
emphasis placed on cash flow, income and 
balance sheet reporting, health, safety and 
environmental matters form key aspects of 
the operational reports included with the 
monthly reports;
 • pension plan administration, the 
administration of the Group’s fully closed 
final salary and defined contribution pension 
plans are outsourced to professional 
service providers. Each of the Group’s  
final salary schemes have an independent 
scheme secretary and a proportion of 
independent trustees to provide additional 
layers of external scrutiny;
 • assurance provided by non-audit functions, 
a number of other Group functions provide 
assurance in areas including, but not  
limited to, health, safety and environment; 
legal contract review and compliance; 
construction industry regulation; and 
quality management tools including  
ISO 9001.
The Group risk register has been redeveloped 
during the financial year in conjunction with  
a revised annual risk assessment and a 
programme of divisional workshops. The 
register is continuously reviewed and updated 
as significant risks develop or are anticipated 
and includes, but is not limited to, key risks 
associated to the divisional operations of  
the group, as well as environmental, social, 
governance, financial and human resource 
factors, and those related to the evolving 
markets in which the Group operates.  
The additional controls initiated in 2010,  
in particular the lowering of the thresholds  
at which contractual commitments are 
considered by management to take account 
of the increased competitive pressures  
in construction, and more rigorous land 
acquisition controls, were maintained  
during the financial year. 
During the financial year, a programme  
of internal audits was completed across  
the Group’s operations and progress  
checks were completed against previous 
recommendations. All significant internal 
control failings or weaknesses have been 
rectified during the financial year. Following 
the appointment of a new Head of Risk and 
Internal Audit, the scope of the function  
has been reviewed with detailed short and 
medium term internal audit plans having  
been agreed with the audit committee. 
The internal audit team is aligning its reviews 
and recommendations more closely with the 
divisional operations and strategies of the 
Group, in line with the recommendations  
of the external review which preceded the 
recent changes. The Head of Risk and 
Internal Audit reports directly to the audit 
committee on the team’s findings and 
recommendations.
The Group Corporate Manual, which details 
the policy, procedures and authority matrices 
by which the central functions and divisions 
operate, and which was redeveloped in 2010, 
continues to be applied. It is the responsibility 
of relevant directors to ensure compliance 
with the provisions of the manual, which is in 
turn subject to internal audit.
For and on behalf of the board
Richard Barraclough
Company Secretary
14 September 2011 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
48
Remuneration report
Supporting the 
delivery of our 
strategy
The following remuneration report has been 
prepared in accordance with the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 
and the Financial Services Authority’s Listing 
Rules. The auditors are required to report  
on the ‘auditable’ part of this report and to 
state whether, in their opinion, that part of  
the report had been properly prepared in 
accordance with relevant provisions of  
the Companies Act, 2006 (as amended).  
This report is therefore divided into separate 
sections comprising the unaudited report and 
audited information on pages 53 and 54.
The remuneration committee (the “committee”) 
has reviewed the Group’s compliance with 
remuneration related elements of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, which is now 
formally applicable to the Group for the first 
time. It is the opinion of the committee, and 
following consideration of the committee’s 
recommendations all board directors, that the 
Group complied with all remuneration related 
aspects of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code during the financial year.
Committee
The committee has delegated responsibility 
from the board for Group remuneration 
strategy, remuneration policy and for 
determining the specific remuneration 
packages of executive directors. The 
committee is governed by formal terms of 
reference agreed by the board and is and  
has been composed solely of non-executive 
directors, each of whom the board considers 
are independent. The terms of reference are 
available on the Group’s website.
The committee is chaired by Amanda Burton, 
the senior independent director, and during 
the financial year the other members were 
Peter Rogers and Andrew Jenner. Ian Coull 
was appointed as a member of the committee 
with effect 1 July 2011. The Company 
Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee 
and the chief executive has a standing 
invitation to attend committee meetings.  
No director is present when his or her  
own remuneration is being considered.
In addition to determining executive 
remuneration, the committee has delegated 
responsibility for making recommendations 
concerning the remuneration of the level of 
senior management immediately below the 
executive directors. To ensure executive 
remuneration is considered in the context of 
the Group as a whole, the committee reviews 
policy on the pay and benefit structure, including 
bonus scheme for all employees of the 
Group. The committee keeps itself fully 
informed of developments and best practice 
in the field of remuneration and obtains 
advice from independent external consultants 
when required on individual remuneration 
packages and on executive remuneration 
practices in general.  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
49 49
GOVERNANCE
During the year the committee conducted  
a review of its remuneration adviers and, 
having finalised a shortlist, appointed Hewitt 
New Bridge Street (HNBS) as the committee’s 
primary external adviser on remuneration 
matters. MM&K Limited (MM&K) have 
continued to provide advice to the committee 
and the wider Group in connection with the 
operation of the Company’s existing share 
plans. Neither HNBS nor MM&K provide any 
other services to the Group, although HNBS 
is now a part of the Aon Corporation (Aon). 
Aon have provided services to the Group on 
private medical insurance and to the trustees 
of two of the Group’s closed final salary 
pension schemes during the financial year, 
but the committee remains satisfied that the 
services provided by Aon did not impinge on 
the independence of HNBS. The Company 
Secretary also advises the committee as 
necessary and makes arrangements for the 
committee to receive independent advice  
at the request of the committee chairman.
Strategy
The Group’s remuneration strategy is to 
appropriately incentivise future executive 
performance, reward successful delivery  
and strengthen retention all within a 
framework of relative comparator group 
benchmarking and sensitivity to other 
mitigating factors. 
Policy
During the year the committee restated the 
following Group remuneration policy, which 
will apply for the following financial year 
unless and until subjected to further review:
 • remuneration packages must attract, retain 
and motivate the executives required to 
achieve the Company’s strategic objectives;
 • the Group is committed to engendering  
a performance culture which will position 
Galliford Try as an employer of choice  
while delivering shareholder value;
 • a significant proportion of total executive 
pay should be delivered through 
performance-related remuneration;
 • performance related elements of 
remuneration should deliver upper  
quartile reward only in circumstances 
where outstanding results, and if  
applicable peer sector outperformance, 
have been delivered.
The committee continues to take account  
of environmental, social and governance 
issues in determining incentive structures for 
executive directors and senior management, 
thereby ensuring that irresponsible behaviour 
is not encouraged. The committee is not 
restricted in any way from applying these and 
related factors when determining remuneration 
issues or incentive structures. It has also 
been determined that should any unforeseen 
issues arise that would make any outcome 
unjustifiable, particularly in the context of the 
Group’s bonus and incentive schemes, then 
the committee would use its discretion under 
the respective plan rules, or otherwise, to 
address such outcomes. The committee  
has resolved that going forward clawback 
provisions will apply to the operation of all  
the Group’s executive incentive plans. Further 
related information is available in the key policy 
developments section of the Corporate 
Governance report on page 42.
In line with the third element of the 
remuneration policy, the committee’s  
objective is to design performance related 
elements of pay that represent two thirds of 
executive remuneration (excluding pension 
contributions). For the year ended 30 June 
2011 average individualised performance 
related pay represented 42% of total 
remuneration (2010: 43%).
Performance
The closing mid-market quotation for the 
Company’s shares on 30 June 2011 was 
£5.17 (2010: £3.1425). The range, high and 
low, during the financial year were £5.17 and 
£2.765 respectively (2010: £5.14 and £2.85). 
   
Earnings per share for the financial year were 
£0.322 per share (2010: £0.246 per share  
on a pre-exceptional basis), representing an 
increase of 31% against the prior year. The 
total dividend per share for the financial  
year was £0.16 (2010: £0.125 per share), 
representing an increase of 28% against the 
prior year.
The Group’s Comparative Total Shareholder 
Return (TSR) over the last five financial years 
relative to the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share 
indices, based on 30 trading day average 
values, is shown below. The Company is 
currently a member of the FTSE Small Cap 
index but, as there is no directly applicable 
sector index that includes both construction 
and housebuilding groups, the Group believes 
that the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share indices 
are the most directly relevant comparators as 
these encompass all of the Group’s key listed 
competitors, provide a full cross-section of 
other FTSE companies and separately reflect 
companies of similar and immediately larger 
market capitalisation respectively.
Comparative TSR performance
Non-performance related 
remuneration
Executive directors’ base salaries again 
remained unchanged during the financial 
year, not having been augmented since  
1 July 2007. The 5% salary reduction that  
the executive directors agreed to take in  
2009 also remained in force throughout the 
financial year. In applying both these restrictions 
the directors carefully monitored pay and 
employment conditions across the Group, 
continuing to note in particular the salary 
reductions imposed on staff across the  
Group to varying extents since 2009.
At the 2011 salary review, completed in  
June, the 5% salary reduction applying  
to executive directors and the Group and 
construction division senior management 
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
120
150
90
60
30
Galliford Try plc
FTSE 250
FTSE All Share
Executive directors’  
remuneration policy
Maximum potential
2010 actual
2011 actual
  Salary
  Pension
  Annual bonus
  LTIP vest Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
50
Remuneration report continued
teams since 1 July 2009, was restored with 
effect from 1 July. Following the same review, 
basic salaries for those not impacted by the 
salary reductions will increase by an average 
of 2.7% across the Group.
Benefits
Benefits provided to executive directors 
comprise entitlements to a company car or  
a cash equivalent allowance, private medical 
and permanent health insurance and life 
assurance. The company car or cash 
equivalent allowance and private medical 
insurance benefits were taxable during the 
financial year.
Pensions
The executive directors receive salary 
supplements equivalent to 20% of basic 
salary in lieu of company pension contributions. 
The rate of pension contribution applied 
during the financial year was calculated on 
the relevant gross salary prior to the salary 
reduction applied since 2009. 
Greg Fitzgerald was previously entitled to 
deferred benefits under the Galliford Try plc 
Final Salary Pension Scheme (the “scheme”) 
but transferred all his benefits out of the 
scheme during the year and is therefore  
no longer a scheme member.
Performance related 
remuneration
Executive 
Long Term Incentive Plan
Under the rules of the Company’s 2006 Long 
Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the committee  
is authorised to grant awards to selected 
participants annually. The maximum value  
of an award that may be granted in any 
financial year to any individual must not 
exceed 100% of their basic annual salary  
as at the award date. The number of shares 
subject to an award granted to any individual 
participant is calculated based on the average 
of the Company’s mid-market closing share 
price for the 30 dealing days immediately 
prior to the date of grant. The vesting of  
any award depends on the achievement of 
performance conditions linked to specific 
grants over an associated three year plan cycle.
The LTIP awards granted in September 2007 
lapsed on 10 September 2010 following 
performance testing, which determined that 
the associated earnings per share underpin 
had not been met.
The LTIP awards granted in March 2009 were 
subject to a two part performance underpin 
which involves (1) an absolute share price 
target equivalent to ten percent per annum 
compound growth from the commencement 
of the performance period on 1 July 2008; 
and (2) the achievement of cash management 
targets at the end of each quarter starting  
at the end of the month that the award was 
granted and ending on 30 June 2011. At each 
measurement date, points were awarded 
dependent on the extent to which cash 
performance exceeds targets with points 
deducted if any target is missed. If cash fell 
below a predetermined amount at any time 
between the measurement points, the 
underpin would fail in its entirety. The basic 
underpin would be achieved if a predetermined 
total of points is obtained, but for performance 
between the 75th and 100th percentiles,  
a points total greater than 133% of the 
underlying target must have been achieved.
Following the share consolidation and rights 
issue that took place in October 2009, the 
committee adjusted the absolute share price 
underpin for the award from the original target 
of 66.25p (based on ordinary shares of 5p) to 
a target of £4.59 (based on the new ordinary 
shares of 50p) by using a calculation based 
on the theoretical ex-rights price.
Subject to the achievement of the underpins, 
the proportion of the award to vest would 
depend on the Company’s total shareholder 
return (TSR) performance. This required that 
the Company be placed at the 75th percentile 
over the three year plan cycle in order for 
100% of the award to vest. If the Company’s 
performance placed it below the 51st 
percentile the award would not vest and 
would lapse in its entirety. 30% of the awards 
would vest if the 51st percentile is achieved, 
rising on a straight line basis to the 75th 
percentile. On the achievement of exceptional 
performance that places the Company above 
the 75th percentile, an additional element of 
vesting would occur. If this was achieved and 
the TSR performance of the Company placed 
it at the 100th percentile when compared  
to the comparator group, then the level of 
vesting increased to 150% of the original 
award. For performance between the  
75th and 100th percentiles, vesting was  
on a straight line sliding scale between  
100% and 150%. 
A report prepared by the Company’s 
external independent consultants on  
the Company’s total shareholder return 
comparative performance shows that  
the Company achieved top position in the 
comparator group with a TSR return during 
the performance period to 30 June 2011  
of 105% compared to the second ranked 
company’s TSR of 70% and the median 
return of 20%. This exceptional relative 
performance entitles award holders to  
the maximum 150% vesting, subject to 
achievement of the underpins.
 
The Company significantly bettered its cash 
management underpin targets throughout  
the performance period, with the maximum 
number of points, 66% ahead of the targets 
set, having been achieved. The assumed 
methodology for assessing performance 
against the absolute share price underpin, 
which was used for the calculation of the  
IFRS2 valuation for the award at the original 
grant date, was a three month average of the 
share price to 30 June 2011. Assessed on 
this basis, the share price target was missed 
by approximately 2%. However, the Committee, 
having consulted with the Group’s major 
shareholders, has exercised its discretion  
to alternatively assess average share price 
performance over the last 30 days of the 
performance period to 30 June 2011, as  
it provides consistency with the averaging 
period used for the relative TSR performance 
measure. This was 489p, which meant that 
the share price underpin was also satisfied. 
As a result, the Committee has approved the 
vesting of the awards on the third anniversary 
of grant, 10 March 2012, which will incur an 
accounting charge under IFRS2 as noted in 
the finance review on page 10 with further 
detail in note 30 on page 92.
The LTIP awards granted in September  
2009 are subject to a performance underpin 
whereby the Company must achieve 
compound growth in earnings per share at 
least equivalent to the growth in the retail 
prices index plus 2% per annum over the 
plan cycle before any awards are considered 
for vesting. If the earnings per share underpin 
is met, then the Company is then measured 
by reference to its TSR performance on the 
same basis as the March 2009 grant. If 
earnings per growth exceeds 5% and TSR 
performance is between the 75th and 100th 
percentiles, vesting is on a straight line basis 
between 100% and 200%. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
51 51
GOVERNANCE
The comparator group companies  
for the March and September 2009 
grants were: 
Balfour Beatty plc Costain Group plc
Barratt Developments plc M J Gleeson plc
Bellway plc Kier Group plc
The Berkeley Group  Morgan Sindall plc 
Holdings plc
Henry Boot plc Persimmon plc
Bovis Homes Group plc Redrow plc
Carillion plc ROK plc
T Clarke plc Taylor Wimpey plc
The latest LTIP grant was made on  
28 September 2010. The committee,  
having consulted with the Group’s major 
shareholders and as outlined in the 2010 
remuneration report, made the awards 
subject to two separate performance 
measures, under which:
 • Earnings per share performance is required 
to achieve an absolute aggregate target  
of 140p for the three year plan cycle 
commencing on 1 July 2010. The threshold 
for vesting is 10% below the target, whereby 
15% of the award will vest, and a higher 
stretch target has been set at 10% above, 
where 50% of the award will vest:
 • TSR performance over the plan cycle  
must exceed the median of two separate 
comparator groups drawn from the 
housebuilding and construction sectors. 
Median performance in either of the sector 
groups will result in 7.5% of the total award 
vesting and above median to upper quartile 
performance in either sector will result in 
between 7.5% and 25% vesting on a 
straight line basis. 
 • A super performance target, which enables 
up to 200% vesting of the total award, 
requires the Company to meet the stretch 
EPS target and outperform the TSR 
comparator groups in the upper quartile. 
Above upper quartile to the top company 
TSR performance in both sectors will result 
in straight line vesting up to 75% of the 
award. 200% of the original award would 
therefore vest only if the stretch EPS target 
is achieved and the Company is top in 
both sector TSR comparator groups.
The comparator group companies  
for the September 2010 grant were:
Housebuilding: Construction:
Barratt Developments plc Balfour Beatty plc
Bellway plc Carillion plc
The Berkeley Group  Costain Group plc 
Holdings plc 
Bovis Homes Group plc Henry Boot plc
Persimmon plc  Keller Group plc
Redrow plc Kier Group plc
Taylor Wimpey plc M J Gleeson plc
 Morgan Sindall plc
 ROK plc
These performance measures were applied 
by the committee for the plan cycle to align 
executive incentives with, and reinforce, the 
Group strategy that requires the effects of the 
rights issue completed in 2009 to be materially 
earnings enhancing from the 2012 financial 
year onwards. 
The committee monitors all performance 
measures and continues to believe that they 
represent a stretching requirement over the 
relevant plan cycle. The vesting of all future 
awards under the plan will now be subject to 
clawback provisions. The committee intends 
to make a further award in the new financial 
year on the same basis as in 2010, but with 
an increased aggregate earnings per share 
target to 30 June 2014 of 190p. 
Annual Bonus Plan
The 2007 Annual Bonus Plan enables 
executive directors and a selected senior 
management population to earn a maximum 
annual bonus of 100% of basic salary 
dependent on the achievement of stretching 
financial targets set by the committee at the 
beginning of each financial year. Where the 
bonus earned and payable equates to over 
50% of the recipient’s basic salary in any 
financial year, two thirds of the bonus earned 
in excess of that 50% salary threshold is 
required to be deferred into restricted shares. 
Although beneficially held by the participants, 
the allocated restricted shares are legally 
retained by the trustee of the Galliford Try plc 
Employee Benefit Trust for a period of three 
years. The restricted shares are subject  
to forfeiture provisions if the participant’s 
employment with the Group terminates before 
the end of the three year deferral period, 
unless otherwise agreed by the committee  
in certain clemency situations. Subject to 
continued employment, the restricted shares 
are legally transferred to participants on the 
third anniversary of allocation. Participants 
receive dividend payments throughout the 
deferred period in recognition of their 
beneficial ownership.
During the financial year the trustees allocated 
deferred shares to executive directors and 
senior management in respect of the annual 
bonuses paid for the financial year ended  
30 June 2010. Accordingly on 28 September 
2010 a total of 151,417 deferred shares were 
allocated to participants in accordance with 
the plan rules, of which Greg Fitzgerald 
received 47,286 deferred shares and Frank 
Nelson 30,306 deferred shares. Assuming 
the forfeiture provisions are not activated,  
these restricted shares will be released  
to participants on 28 September 2013. 
 
The committee also determined that for  
the financial year ended 30 June 2011 the 
applicable annual bonus financial targets for 
executive directors should again be 70% 
profit based with 30% attributable to monthly 
cash management targets. If performance  
on either measure exceeds budget then  
the bonus is calculated on a straight line 
basis, up to a predetermined target. Senior 
management are subject to similar targets 
which are applied to their respective divisional 
or business unit performance. The committee 
approved these annual bonus targets as the 
most effective means of aligning the Group’s 
short term executive incentive with improving 
the Group’s key financial metrics.
In the financial year to 30 June 2011, the 
Group demonstrably improved performance 
with a 34% increase in profit before tax and 
significantly exceeded cash management 
targets. On 1 July 2010 the committee 
introduced health, safety and environmental 
targets which impose a reduction in bonus  
for executive directors if the Group does  
not achieve externally measured targets 
formalised in a matrix. The matrix applied 
across the financial year, and its application 
resulted in a reduction of 3.5% of bonus.  
The executive directors’ net annual bonus  
for the financial year was 94% of basic salary, 
of which amount two thirds over 50% of 
participants’ basic salary will be allocated  
as shares deferred for three years. The 
committee has decided to make no changes  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
52
Remuneration report continued
to the annual bonus scheme for 2012, with 
the exception of applying clawback provisions.
All-employee
All staff throughout the Group participate  
in an annual bonus scheme, with targets 
linked to performance of their particular 
responsibilities or business unit. The scope 
and extent of these schemes vary between 
levels of management and business sector. 
The committee monitors the operation of 
these schemes to ensure fairness and 
compatibility with executive remuneration.  
All bonus schemes throughout the Group  
are subject to a 50% reduction in payment 
if Group profit before tax does not meet  
a predetermined threshold, whatever the 
performance of the individual businesses  
may have been. The health, safety and 
environmental matrix and principles applying 
to the executive directors have been adopted 
for all bonus schemes covering staff across 
the Group.
The Group separately operates an HM 
Revenue & Customs approved sharesave 
scheme for the benefit of all staff, including 
the executive directors. Under the scheme, 
participants make regular savings with a 
company nominated building society under 
three or five year contracts, and are granted 
an option to buy shares in the Company on 
contract completion. The option prices can 
reflect a discount of up to 20% of the market 
value at grant. There are no performance 
conditions attached to the options under the 
rules of the scheme. On 19 November 2010 
the Company made a further grant of options 
under the scheme at a discount of 10% of the 
then applicable market value.
Employee benefit trust and 
dilution
The Company continues to operate an 
Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) for the 
purposes of providing the shares required  
to satisfy its executive incentive plans, which 
are primarily settled using market purchase 
shares. During the financial year the EBT 
purchased a further 380,500 shares in the 
market at an average price of £4.06, which 
resulted in a balance held at 30 June 2011  
of 690,689 shares. The Company accordingly 
provided net additional funds to the EBT 
during the financial year of £1.556 million by 
extending the existing EBT loan facility. In not 
issuing any new shares during the financial 
year, and only 330 shares since, the Company 
has complied with dilution guidelines of the 
Association of British Insurers. Applying the 
guidelines, when adjusted to take account of 
the 2009 rights issue, the Group has 8.43% 
headroom against ‘the ten percent in ten 
years’ rule and 4.36% headroom against  
the ‘five percent in five years’ rule for 
discretionary plans.
Share retention policy
The Company continues to operate a share 
retention policy which requires executive 
directors to build a shareholding in the 
Company over a five year period equivalent  
in value to 100% of basic salary or, in the 
case of the Chief Executive, 150% of basic 
salary. As at 30 June 2011 both the executive 
directors met this policy requirement. The 
committee maintains that the policy remains 
appropriately aligned with shareholders’ 
interests, and commensurate with prevailing 
market practice.
Directors’ share interests
As at 30 June 2011, the then current directors 
held the following beneficial interests in the 
Company’s ordinary share capital:
 As at As at 
 30 June 2011 30 June 2010
Ian Coull 10,000  
a 
nil
Greg Fitzgerald  
b c 
748,285  664,610
Frank Nelson 
c 
162,440 162,440
Amanda Burton 17,885 17,885
Peter Rogers 27,083 27,083
Andrew Jenner 13,433 13,433
David Calverley 232,609 232,609
a 
As at the date of appointment on 8 November 2010.
b 
Greg Fitzgerald also has a beneficial interest in 425,402 
shares (2010: 425,402 shares) held by Crownway Builders 
Limited, a company in which he owns 37.5% of the issued 
share capital.
c 
Greg Fitzgerald and Frank Nelson also have respective 
beneficial interests in 47,286 and 30,306 shares held by 
the Galliford Try Employee Benefit Trust in connection the 
Group’s Annual Bonus Plan. The shares will vest, subject 
to the directors satisfying an associated employment 
condition, on 28 September 2013.
There were no changes in the directors’ 
interests from 30 June 2011 to the date  
of this report.
Directors’ service contracts
The service contracts and letters of 
appointment for the board directors serving 
since the end of the financial year and as at 
the date of this report are as follows:
 Contract  Notice 
 date  (months)
Non-executive  
directors
Ian Coull 8 November 2010 6
Amanda Burton 1 July 2005 6
Peter Rogers 1 July 2008 6
Andrew Jenner 1 January 2009 6
Executive directors  
Greg Fitzgerald 1 July 2003 12
Frank Nelson 15 September 2000 12
1 Contract dates shown are the directors’ initial contract  
as an executive director or non-executive director of the 
Company. Executive directors have a rolling notice period 
as stated. Non-executive appointments are reviewed after 
a period of three years, their appointment is subject to a 
rolling notice period as stated. As outlined in the corporate 
governance report, the board has determined that all 
serving directors will stand for re-election at the 2011 
Annual General Meeting and annually going forward.
2 There are no contractual provisions requiring payments to 
directors on loss of office or termination. The committee 
will seek to mitigate as and where appropriate.
Chairman appointment and 
non-executive fees
Ian Coull was appointed on 8 November 2010 
as an independent non-executive director and 
chairman designate, at an annual salary of 
£38,000. On 1 July 2011 he became Chairman, 
and was appointed as a member of the 
nomination and remuneration committees 
with immediate effect. At that time his annual 
salary rose to £105,000; he receives no other 
benefits in connection with his position.
The standard non-executive fee remained 
£38,000 per annum during the financial year, 
reflecting the 5% fee reduction agreed by  
the relevant directors in 2009. The 2009 fee 
reductions were reinstated with effect from  
1 July 2011. Amanda Burton receives a 
£4,000 fee supplement in recognition of  
her appointment as the Company’s senior 
independent director. The non-executives 
have been benchmarked against market 
rates during the financial year.
External directorships
With the prior written approval of the board  
in each case, executive directors are 
permitted to accept external appointments  
as a non-executive director and retain  
any associated fees. Greg Fitzgerald was 
appointed as a non-executive director of 
NHBC (the National House-Building Council) 
on 1 June 2010 for which he receives an 
annual fee of £33,600, during the year he 
received £33,600. Summary details of the 
non-executives’ other commitments are 
provided in their biographies on page 41. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
53 53
GOVERNANCE
Audited information
Directors’ remuneration
The remuneration of the directors serving during the financial year, and appointed as at the balance sheet date, was as follows:
    Salary Annual
    and fees bonus Benefits Pension Total 2011 Total 2010
Director    £000s £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive
Greg Fitzgerald    451 424 33 95 1,003 1,020
Frank Nelson    296 278 22 62 658 671
Non-executive
Ian Coull    25 – – – 25 –
Amanda Burton    42 – – – 42 42
Peter Rogers    38 – – – 38 38
Andrew Jenner    38 – – – 38 38
Former
David Calverley    100 – – – 100 101
The salary supplement paid to the directors by the Company in lieu of direct pension contributions is shown in the column headed “Pension”.
Directors’ interests in long term incentive plan
The directors’ interests over shares as a result of their participation in the Group Long Term Incentive Plan are:
        Financial
        value
    Shares Shares Shares Award of awards
   Award awarded vested lapsed quantum at vested Anticipated
  Market price quantum at during the during the during the 30 June during the vesting
Executive director Award date at award date 1 July 2010 financial year financial year financial year 2011 financial year date
Greg Fitzgerald 10.09.07 £10.61 45,409 – – 45,409 nil – n/a
 10.03.09 £2.50 172,316 – – – 172,316 – 10.03.12
 11.09.09 £5.07 107,105 – – – 107,105 – 11.09.12
 28.09.10 £3.025 nil 149,170 – – 149,170 – 28.09.13
T otals     149,170  45,409 428,591
Frank Nelson 10.09.07 £10.61 29,826  –  –  29,826 nil – n/a
 10.03.09 £2.50 113,184  –  –  – 113,184 – 10.03.12
 11.09.09 £5.07 70,345  –  –  – 70,345 – 11.09.12
 28.09.10 £3.025 nil  97,983  –  – 97,983 – 28.09.13
T otals     97,983    29,826 281,512  
All awards were granted under the Galliford Try plc 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, further information regarding which can be found on page 50.
Financial value of awards vested during the financial year would detail the equivalent gain made on vesting of the relevant award.
The Company’s share price performance during the financial year is summarised in the performance section above.
The award quantum and market price data shown for the 2007 and 2009 grants were previously adjusted in accordance with the rules of the plan to reflect the share consolidation and rights 
issue that took place in 2009. Further related information can be found in the 2010 remuneration report which is available on the Group website. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
54
Remuneration report continued
Directors’ interests in annual bonus plan
The directors’ interests over shares as a result of their participation in the Group Annual Bonus Plan are:
        Financial
        value
    Shares Shares Shares Award of awards
   Award awarded vested lapsed quantum at vested Anticipated
  Market price quantum at during the during the during the 30 June during the vesting
Executive director Award date at award date 1 July 2010 financial year financial year financial year 2011 financial year date
Greg Fitzgerald 28.09.10 £3.04 nil 47,286 – – 47,286 – 28.09.13
Totals    47,286   47,286  
Frank Nelson 28.09.10 £3.04 nil 30,306 – – 30,306 – 28.09.13
Totals    30,306   30,306  
All awards were granted under the Galliford Try plc 2007 Annual Bonus Plan, further information regarding which can be found on page 51.
Financial value of awards vested during the financial year would detail the equivalent gain made on vesting of the relevant award.
Shares awarded during the financial year were in respect of annual bonus for the year ending 30 June 2010, the value of which was included in the directors’ remuneration disclosures under 
annual bonus in the 2010 remuneration report.
Directors’ interests in Group sharesave scheme
The executive directors’ interests in the sharesave scheme as at 30 June 2011 were:
       Options 
      outstanding 
  Options     as at Grant Grant 
  outstanding as Granted Exercised in Lapsed 30 June exercisable exercisable Exercise
Executive director Date of grant at 1 July 2010 in the year the year in the year 2011 from to price
Greg Fitzgerald 19.11.10 n/a 1,700 – – 1,700 01.02.14 31.07.14 £2.71
Totals   1,700   1,700   
Frank Nelson 20.12.05 519 – – – 519 01.02.11 31.7.11 £4.96
 02.11.07 151 – – 151 nil n/a n/a n/a
 19.11.10 n/a 1,434 – – 1,434 01.02.14 31.07.14 £2.71
Totals  670 1,434  151 1,953   
The option grant and exercise prices shown for the 2005 and 2007 grants were previously adjusted in accordance with the rules of the scheme to reflect the share consolidation and rights issue 
that took place in 2009. Further related information can be found in the 2010 remuneration report which is available on the Group website.
For and on behalf of the board
Amanda Burton
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
14 September 2011 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
55 55
GOVERNANCE
Directors’ report  
and other statutory information
Directors’
report
The directors present their Annual Report and 
audited Financial Statements of the Group for 
the year ended 30 June 2011.
Principal activities
Galliford Try is a housebuilding and 
construction group primarily operating in the 
United Kingdom. Galliford Try plc, registered 
in England and Wales with company number 
00836539, is the Group parent company. 
More detailed information regarding the 
Group’s activities during the year under 
review, and its future prospects, is provided 
on pages 2 to 39. The principal subsidiaries 
and associates operating within the Group’s 
divisions are shown in note 12 to the financial 
statements on page 79.
Enhanced business review
The Group is required to include an enhanced 
Business Review within its directors’ report, 
which provides the information and further 
analysis required under s.417 Companies  
Act 2006. The directors consider that these 
requirements are fulfilled by the inclusion in 
this Annual Report and Financial Statements 
of the chief executive’s, finance and business 
reviews, the corporate governance report  
and the remuneration report, which all form 
part of this directors’ report by reference. The 
corporate governance report is a statement 
for the purposes of Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule 7.2.1. 
The Annual Report and Financial Statements 
use financial and non-financial key performance 
indicators wherever possible and appropriate.
Further information on the Group’s employees 
and employment practices, including its 
policies on equal opportunities for disabled 
employees and employee involvement,  
and its approach to health and safety, 
environmental, social and community 
matters, including a consideration of the 
impact of the Company’s business on the 
environment, is provided in the corporate 
responsibility section of the business  
review on pages 34 to 39. 
Results and dividends
The profit for the year, net of tax and 
exceptional items, of £32.8 million is shown  
in the consolidated income statement on 
page 60. The directors have recommended  
a final dividend of 11.5 pence per share, which 
together with the interim dividend of 4.5 pence 
declared in February results in a total dividend 
for the financial year of 16.0 pence. The total 
dividend for the financial year will distribute  
a total of £13.1 million. Subject to approval  
by shareholders in general meeting, the final 
dividend will be payable on 18 November 
2011, to shareholders on the register at  
close of business on 7 October 2011. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
56
Share capital, authorities  
and restrictions
The Company has one class of ordinary share 
capital, having a nominal value of 50 pence. 
The ordinary shares rank pari passu in respect 
of voting and participation. The shares are  
in registered form, are fully paid up and  
are listed for trading on the London Stock 
Exchange. At 30 June 2011, the Company 
had 81,849,466 ordinary shares in issue, 
which remained unchanged throughout the 
financial year. A further 330 shares have 
been issued in the current year, as at the 
date of this report. 
The directors are authorised on an annual 
basis to issue shares, to allot a limited 
number of shares in the Company for cash 
other than to existing shareholders, and to 
make market purchases of shares within 
prescribed limits. Resolutions to be proposed 
at the 2011 Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
will renew all three authorities, which are 
further explained in the Notice of AGM sent 
separately to shareholders. No shares have 
been purchased by the Company under the 
relevant authority either during the financial 
year or to the date of this report.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of  
the Company’s shares, with the exceptions 
that certain shares held by the Galliford  
Try Employee Benefit Trust (the EBT) are 
restricted for the duration of applicable 
performance periods under relevant Group 
share plans, and directors and persons 
discharging managerial responsibility are 
periodically restricted in dealing in the 
Company’s shares under the Group Dealing 
Code, which reflects the requirements of  
the Model Code published by the Financial 
Services Authority under its Listing Rules.  
In certain specific circumstances the directors 
are permitted to decline to register a transfer 
in accordance with the Company’s articles of 
association. There are no other limitations on 
the holding of securities, and no requirements 
to obtain the approval of the company, or 
other holders of securities in the Company, 
prior to share transfers. The Company is not 
aware of any agreements between holders  
of securities that may result in restrictions  
on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
There are no securities carrying special rights 
with regard to control of the Company, with 
the exception that the EBT holds shares in 
the Company in connection with Group share 
plans which have rights with regard to control 
of the Company that are not exercisable 
directly by the employee. The EBT abstains 
from voting in respect of any shares so held. 
0.84% of the issued share capital of the 
Company is currently held within the EBT 
for the purposes of satisfying employee  
share options or share awards.
Articles of association
The Articles of Association, which were 
adopted in 2009 to reflect provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006, set out the internal 
regulations of the Company, and define 
various aspects of the Company’s constitution 
including the rights of shareholders, procedures 
for the appointment and removal of directors, 
and the conduct of both directors and 
general meetings.
In accordance with the Articles, directors  
can be appointed or removed either by the 
board or shareholders in general meeting. 
Amendments to the Articles require the 
approval of shareholders in general meeting 
expressly by way of special resolution. 
Copies of the Articles are available by 
contacting the Company Secretary at the 
registered office.
Significant direct and indirect 
holdings
As at 14 September 2011, being the date  
of this report, the Company had been made 
aware, pursuant to the FSA’s Disclosure & 
Transparency Rules, of the following beneficial 
interests in 3% or more of the Company’s 
ordinary share capital:
Shareholder 
 Interest % capital
Standard Life  
Investments Ltd 11,497,801 14.05%
Aberforth Partners LLP 5,846,969 7.14%
F&C Asset Management 4,976,447 6.08%
Legal & General Group 2,912,212 3.55%
Change of control provisions
The Group has entered into certain 
agreements that potentially alter on a  
change of control. The only agreements likely 
to have a material impact on the Group’s 
operations in the event of any change relate 
to the £325 million Group revolving credit 
facility and the Group’s surety arrangements, 
details of which are discussed in the finance 
section of the Business Review and are 
detailed in the guarantees and contingent 
liabilities note to the financial statements  
on page 98.
All of the Group’s share plans contain 
provisions relating to a change of control.  
The respective plan rules permit outstanding 
awards and options to vest on a proportional 
basis and then become exercisable in the 
event of a change of control, subject to the 
satisfaction of any applicable performance 
conditions and the prior approval of the 
Company’s remuneration committee.
The agreements governing the Group’s joint 
ventures all have appropriate change of 
control provisions, individually none of which 
is material in the context of the wider group. 
No compensation is contractually payable to 
directors on loss of office on any change of 
control of the Company.
Board and directors’ interests
Summary biographies of the board directors 
as at the date of this report are on page 41. 
The Group Finance Director, Frank Nelson, 
has been appointed as the Group’s Senior 
Accounting Officer and Greg Fitzgerald, the 
Group Chief Executive, and Frank Nelson 
both act as the Group’s chief operating 
decision-makers, further details of which  
are provided in note 2 to the financial 
statements on page 69. Further information 
regarding changes to the board, and the 
governance policy determining directors’ 
appointment and replacement, both during 
and since the financial year, can be found  
in the board composition section of the 
Corporate Governance Report on page 42.
The interests of the directors in the share 
capital of the Company are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages  
48 to 54, where details of executive directors’ 
service contracts and non-executive directors’ 
letters of appointment can also be found.
The Company continues to operate a formal 
ongoing procedure for the disclosure, review 
and authorisation of directors’ actual and 
potential conflicts of interest in accordance with 
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2006.  
In addition, conflicts of interest are reviewed 
and further authorised, if appropriate, by the 
board on an annual basis.
Directors’ report  
and other statutory information continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
57 57
GOVERNANCE
Significant agreements
Excepting the agreements underpinning the 
Group’s recently refinanced revolving credit 
facility, there are no persons with whom it has 
contractual or other arrangements which are 
essential to its business.
Charitable and political donations
Contributions for charitable purposes  
during the year amounted to £57,000  
(2010: £91,000). Charities that benefited 
included those carrying out potential projects 
to assist homeless people, those providing 
benefit to workers in the industry who are in 
need, and a significant number of small local 
charities in the areas within which the  
Group operates. 
It is Group policy to avoid making political 
donations of any nature and accordingly 
none were made during the year. The Group 
notes the wide application of Part 14 of the 
Companies Act 2006, but does not consider 
the housebuilding and construction industry 
bodies of which it is a member to be political 
organisations for the purposes of the Act.
Creditor payment policy
Group policy regarding creditor payment is  
to agree payment terms contractually with 
suppliers and land vendors, ensure the 
relevant terms of payment are included in 
contracts, and to abide by those terms when 
satisfied that goods, services or assets have 
been provided in accordance with the agreed 
contractual terms. Galliford Try plc, as the 
Group parent company, did not have any 
amounts owing to trade creditors as at  
30 June 2011 (2010: nil). Trade creditors for 
the Group as at 30 June 2011 represented 
an average of 36 days (2010: 29 days).
Financial instruments
Further information regarding the Group’s 
financial instruments, related policies and  
a consideration of its liquidity and other 
financing risks can be found in the finance 
review on page 8, and in note 28 to the 
financial statements on page 88.
Important developments  
since year end 
There have been no material events or 
developments affecting the Company  
or any of its operating subsidiaries since  
30 June 2011.
Going concern 
In accordance with the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Guidance on Going Concern and 
Liquidity published in 2009, the requirements 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code and 
Listing Rule 9.8.6R (3), the directors have 
conducted a rigorous and proportionate 
assessment of the Group’s ability to continue 
in existence for the foreseeable future. This 
has been reviewed during the financial year, 
taking into account the successful refinancing 
of the Group’s core revolving credit facility in 
May, and the directors have concluded that 
there are no material uncertainties that may 
cast significant doubt on the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. 
Furthermore, the Group has adequate 
resources and visibility as to its future 
workload, as explained in this Annual  
Report. It is therefore justified in using the 
going concern basis in preparing these 
financial statements.
External auditor
Each of the directors at the date of approval 
of this report confirms that:
 • so far as the director is aware, there is  
no relevant audit information of which the 
auditor is unaware; and
 • the director has taken all steps that he 
ought to have taken as a director in order 
to make himself aware of any relevant  
audit information and to establish that  
the Company’s auditor is aware of that 
information.
This confirmation is given and should be 
interpreted in accordance with the provisions 
of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution is to be proposed at the 
forthcoming AGM for the re-appointment  
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditor  
of the Company, at a rate of remuneration to 
be determined by the audit committee.
AGM
The AGM will be held at the offices of  
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, 3rd Floor 
Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, 
London EC2M 4AA on 11 November 2011  
at 11.15 a.m. The notice convening the 
AGM, sent to shareholders separately, 
explains the items of business which are  
not of a routine nature.
Approval of report
This Directors’ Report, including by reference 
the Business Review from page 6 to 39 and 
the Corporate Governance and Remuneration 
Reports, was approved by the board of 
directors on 14 September 2011.
For and on behalf of the board
Richard Barraclough
Company Secretary
14 September 2011 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
58
Statement of directors’ 
responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report and the Group and parent company’s 
financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year. 
Under that law the directors have prepared 
the Group’s financial statements in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European 
Union, and the parent company financial 
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report in accordance with applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards, 
as adopted by the European Union and as 
applied in accordance of the Companies  
Act 2006. The Group and parent company 
financial statements are required by law to 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and parent company and of the 
profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements,  
the directors are required to:
 • select suitable accounting policies and 
then apply them consistently;
 • make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
 • state that the Group financial statements 
comply with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted  
by the European Union, and with regard to 
the parent company financial statements 
that applicable UK Accounting Standards 
have been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements; and
 • prepare the financial statements on  
the going concern basis, unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
  
The directors confirm that they have 
complied with the above requirements  
in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping 
proper accounting records that disclose with 
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 
position of the Group and the Company and 
to enable them to ensure that the Group 
financial statements comply with both the 
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the 
International Accountancy Standards 
Regulation; and that the parent company 
financial statements and the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of  
the Company and the Group and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the board directors (who are identified 
on pages 40 and 41) confirms that to the 
best of his and her knowledge:
 • the Group financial statements, set out on 
pages 60 to 98, which have been prepared 
in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted  
by the European Union, give a true and  
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group as taken 
as a whole; and
 • the Business Review contained in pages  
6 to 39 includes a fair review of the 
development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
The 2011 Annual Report and Financial 
Statements satisfy the requirement to  
prepare an annual financial report under  
the FSA’s Disclosure & Transparency Rules.
For and on behalf of the board
Ian Coull
Chairman
14 September 2011
Forward looking statements
Forward looking statements have been  
made by the directors in good faith using 
information up until the date on which they 
approved this report. Forward looking 
statements should be regarded with caution 
due to the uncertainties in economic trends 
and business risks. The Group’s businesses  
are generally not affected by seasonality.
Directors’ report  
and other statutory information continued Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
59
FINANCIALS
Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of Galliford Try plc
We have audited the financial statements of 
Galliford Try plc for the year ended 30 June 
2011 which comprise the consolidated 
income statement, consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income, Group and Company 
balance sheets, consolidated statements of 
changes in equity, Group and Company 
statements of cash flows and the related 
notes. The financial reporting framework  
that has been applied in their preparation 
is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted  
by the European Union and, as regards the 
parent company financial statements, as 
applied in accordance with the provisions  
of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of 
directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the statement  
of directors’ responsibilities set out on  
page 58, the directors are responsible for  
the preparation of the financial statements 
and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit  
and express an opinion on the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable  
law and International Standards on Auditing 
(UK and Ireland). Those standards require  
us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been 
prepared for and only for the Company’s 
members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006 and for no other purpose. We do not,  
in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any 
other person to whom this report is shown  
or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the  
financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are 
free from material misstatement, whether 
caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s and 
the parent company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately 
disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial 
and non-financial information in the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements 2011 to 
identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements. If we become 
aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion:
 • the financial statements give a true and  
fair view of the state of the Group’s and of 
the parent company’s affairs as at 30 June 
2011 and of the Group’s profit and Group’s 
and parent company’s cash flows for the 
year then ended;
 • the Group financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; 
 • the parent company financial statements 
have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by  
the European Union and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
 • the financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial 
statements, Article 4 of the lAS Regulation. 
Opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies  
Act 2006 
In our opinion: 
 • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly 
prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006;
 • the information given in the Directors’ 
Report for the financial year for which  
the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; 
and
 • the information given in the Corporate 
Governance Statement set out on  
page 42 with respect to internal control 
and risk management systems and about 
share capital structures is consistent with 
the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required 
to report by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of  
the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are 
required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 • adequate accounting records have not 
been kept by the parent company, or 
returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited  
by us; or 
 • the parent company financial statements 
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or 
 • certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration specified by law are not 
made; or 
 • we have not received all the information 
and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required  
to review: 
 • the directors’ statement, set out on  
page 57, in relation to going concern;
 • the parts of the Corporate Governance 
statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code specified 
for our review; and
 • certain elements of the report to 
shareholders by the Board on directors’ 
remuneration.
Pauline Campbell (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of  
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory 
Auditors
Uxbridge
14 September 2011 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 June 2011
60
     2011   2010
   Before   Before
   exceptional Exceptional  exceptional Exceptional 
   items items Total items items Total
  Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Continuing operations       
Group revenue  2 1,284.2 – 1,284.2 1,221.9 – 1,221.9
Cost of sales   (1,149.7) – (1,149.7) (1,104.6) 1.4 (1,103.2)
Gross profit   134.5 – 134.5 117.3 1.4 118.7
Administrative expenses   (98.2) 6.6 (91.6) (87.1) (8.3) (95.4)
Share of post tax profits/(losses) from joint ventures  13 0.5 – 0.5 (0.8) – (0.8)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs   36.8 6.6 43.4 29.4 (6.9) 22.5
Profit/(loss) from operations   2 43.6 6.6 50.2 35.2 (6.9) 28.3
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax    (5.8) – (5.8) (4.5) – (4.5)
Amortisation of intangibles   (1.0) – (1.0) (1.3) – (1.3)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs   36.8 6.6 43.4 29.4 (6.9) 22.5
Finance income  4 5.3 – 5.3 4.4 – 4.4
Finance costs  4 (7.0) – (7.0) (7.7) – (7.7)
Profit/(loss) before income tax  5 35.1 6.6 41.7 26.1 (6.9) 19.2
Income tax expense  6 (8.9) – (8.9) (8.0) (0.4) (8.4)
Profit/(loss) for the year  32 26.2 6.6 32.8 18.1 (7.3) 10.8
Earnings per share        
– Basic  8 32.2p  40.3p 24.6p  14.7p
– Diluted   8 31.5p  39.4p 24.6p  14.7p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 June 2011
      2011 2010
     Notes £m £m
Profit for the year      32.8 10.8
Other comprehensive income:
Actuarial gains recognised on retirement benefit obligations     33 12.7 4.8
Deferred tax on items recognised in equity     6 (3.3) (1.3)
Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax      9.4 3.5
Total comprehensive income for the year      42.2 14.3
The notes on pages 64 to 98 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
61
Consolidated balance sheet
at 30 June 2011
FINANCIALS
      Group  Company
     2011 2010 2011 2010
    Notes £m £m £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets    9 9.0 6.9 – –
Goodwill    10 115.0 115.0 – –
Property, plant and equipment    11 8.4 7.6 – –
Investments in subsidiaries    12 – – 192.3 191.8
Investments in joint ventures    13 1.9 2.1 – –
Financial assets       
– Available for sale financial assets    14 22.2 15.7 – –
Trade and other receivables    19 44.8 38.2 – –
Retirement benefit asset    33 3.2 – – –
Deferred income tax assets    27 5.5 11.2 0.8 0.3
Total non-current assets     210.0 196.7 193.1 192.1
Current assets
Inventories    16 0.2 1.1 – –
Developments    17 615.6 528.9 – –
Trade and other receivables    19 259.9 227.7 51.7 43.3
Current income tax assets    20 – – 0.1 0.4
Cash and cash equivalents    21 47.8 166.7 296.4 344.5
     923.5 924.4 348.2 388.2
Non-current assets classified as held for sale    15 – 0.5 – –
Total current assets     923.5 924.9 348.2 388.2
Total assets     1,133.5 1,121.6 541.3 580.3
      
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities 
– Borrowings    25 (11.5) (1.0) (0.6) (1.0)
– Derivative financial liabilities    28 (0.8) – (0.8) –
Trade and other payables    22 (624.5) (563.0) (119.1) (58.0)
Current income tax liabilities    23 (6.8) (5.9) – –
Provisions for other liabilities and charges    24 (2.5) (8.6) – –
Total current liabilities     (646.1) (578.5) (120.5) (59.0)
Net current assets     277.4 346.4 227.7 329.2
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities      
– Borrowings    25 – (89.2) – (89.2)
– Derivative financial liabilities    28 – (2.1) – (2.1)
Retirement benefit obligations    33 – (17.3) – –
Other non-current liabilities    26 (29.2) (10.7) – –
Provisions for other liabilities and charges    24 (3.1) (0.6) – –
Total non-current liabilities     (32.3) (119.9) – (91.3)
Total liabilities     (678.4) (698.4) (120.5) (150.3)
Net assets     455.1 423.2 420.8 430.0
Equity
Ordinary shares    29 40.9 40.9 40.9 40.9
Share premium    29 190.8 190.8 190.8 190.8
Other reserves    31 5.3 5.3 3.0 3.0
Retained earnings    32 218.1 186.2 186.1 195.3
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company     455.1 423.2 420.8 430.0
The notes on pages 64 to 98 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 60 to 98 were approved by the board on 14 September 2011 and signed on its behalf by:
Greg Fitzgerald  Frank Nelson    Galliford Try plc
Chief Executive  Finance Director    Registered number: 00836539 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
62
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 June 2011
   Share Share Other Retained Total
   capital premium reserves earnings equity
 Notes £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 July 2009  18.9 190.8 5.3 79.6 294.6
Profit for the year  – – – 10.8 10.8
Other comprehensive income  – – – 3.5 3.5
Transactions with owners:
Dividends 7 – – – (6.7) (6.7)
Share based payments 30 – – – 1.8 1.8
Purchase of own shares 32 – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Issue of shares 29 22.0 – – 97.3 119.3
At 1 July 2010  40.9 190.8 5.3 186.2 423.2
Profit for the year  – – – 32.8 32.8
Other comprehensive income  – – – 9.4 9.4
Transactions with owners:      
Dividends 7 – – – (11.2) (11.2)
Share based payments 30 – – – 2.5 2.5
Purchase of own shares 32 – – – (1.6) (1.6)
At 30 June 2011  40.9 190.8 5.3 218.1 455.1 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
63
FINANCIALS
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 30 June 2011
      Group  Company
     2011 2010 2011 2010
    Notes £m £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Continuing operations      
Profit before finance costs     43.4 22.5 0.6 11.8
Adjustments for:      
Depreciation and amortisation    11 & 9 3.3 3.3 – –
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment    5 – (0.1) – –
Profit on sale of investments in joint ventures and non-current assets held for sale  5 (1.1) (4.4) – –
Profit on sale of available for sale financial assets    5 (0.1) – – –
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings     – – (2.9) (13.1)
Share based payments    30 2.5 1.8 2.5 1.8
Share of post tax (profits)/losses from joint ventures    13 (0.5) 0.8 – –
Movement on provisions     (3.6) 8.5 – –
Other non-cash movements     (4.9) (5.5) 0.3 0.7
Net cash generated from operations before
pension deficit payments and changes in working capital    39.0 26.9 0.5 1.2
Deficit funding payments to pension schemes    33 (6.9) (7.3) – –
Net cash generated from operations before changes
in working capital     32.1 19.6 0.5 1.2
Decrease/(increase) in inventories     0.9 (0.2) – –
Increase in developments     (86.7) (25.1) – –
Increase in trade and other receivables     (37.3) (20.9) – –
Increase in payables     81.3 9.0 0.3 0.1
Net cash (used in)/generated from operations     (9.7) (17.6) 0.8 1.3
Interest received     1.1 3.6 – –
Interest paid *     (8.6) (4.6) (1.4) (2.0)
Income tax (paid)/received     (5.6) (7.5) 0.4 –
   
Net cash used in operating activities     (22.8) (26.1) (0.2) 0.7
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from joint venture    13 0.3 0.1 – –
Dividends received from subsidiary undertakings     – – 2.9 13.1
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash and borrowings acquired)    – (55.7) – –
Acquisition of investments in joint ventures    13 (0.1) (2.4) – –
Acquisition of available for sale financial assets    14 (0.3) (1.0) – –
Acquisition of non-current assets held for sale    15 – (0.5) – –
Proceeds from investments in joint ventures and non-current assets held for sale  13 & 15 2.1 16.5 – –
Proceeds from available for sale financial assets    14 0.5 0.2 – –
Purchase of intangible assets    9 (3.1) – – –
Loans from subsidiary companies     – – 60.8 4.6
Loans to subsidiaries     – – (8.4) (23.4)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment    11 (3.3) (1.6) – –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment     0.2 0.4 – –
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities    (3.7) (44.0) 55.3 (5.7)
Cash flows from financing activities
Net proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital     – 119.3 – 119.3
Purchase of own shares    32 (1.6) (0.1) (1.6) (0.1)
Repayment of borrowings    25 (90.4) (35.2) (90.4) (35.2)
Dividends paid to Company shareholders    7 (11.2) (6.7) (11.2) (6.7)
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities    (103.2) 77.3 (103.2) 77.3
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents    (129.8) 7.2 (48.1) 70.9
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 July    21 166.7 159.5 344.5 273.6
Cash and cash equivalents at 30 June    21 36.9 166.7 296.4 344.5
* Interest paid includes the new bank facility arrangement fee of £4.1 million
For the purpose of the cash flow statements, cash and cash equivalents are reported net of bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are excluded from 
the definition of cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
The notes on pages 64 to 98 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
64
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements
1 Accounting policies
General information
Galliford Try plc is a public limited company incorporated, listed and domiciled in England and Wales. The address of the registered office is 
Galliford Try plc, Cowley Business Park, Cowley, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL. Galliford Try is a construction and housebuilding group.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group 
operates. The amounts stated are denominated in millions (£m).
Basis of accounting
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU adopted International Accounting Standards (IASs), 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRS. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified  
by the revaluation of land and buildings, available for sale investments, retirement benefit obligations, share based payments, and financial assets 
and liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) at fair value through profit and loss. The Group has applied all accounting standards and 
interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee, and 
endorsed by the EU, relevant to its operations and effective on 1 July 2010.
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 to not present the parent company income 
statement. The profit for the Parent Company for the year was £1.1 million (2010: £11.2 million).
The only new amendments to standards that became mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 July 2010 was IFRIC 19 – 
‘Extinguishing liabilities with equity instruments’. This amendment has no impact on the Group’s results.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the current financial year and not early adopted are as follows:
– IAS 24 (revised), ‘Related party disclosures’
– Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures (effective 1 July 2011)
– Amendment to IFRS 1 on hyperinflation and fixed dates (effective 1 July 2011)
– Amendment to IAS 1,’Presentation of financial statements’ on OCI (effective 1 July 2012)
– Amendment to IFRIC 14, ‘Pre-payments of a Minimum Funding Requirement’
The new standard and amendments above are not anticipated to significantly impact the Group’s financial statements.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective and yet to be endorsed by the EU are as follows:
– IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’ (effective 1 January 2013)
– IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial statements’ (effective 1 January 2013)
– IFRS 11, ‘Joint arrangements’ (effective 1 January 2013)
– IFRS 12, ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ (effective 1 January 2013)
– IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ (effective 1 January 2013)
– IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee benefits’ (effective 1 January 2013)
– IAS 27 (revised 2011) ‘Separate financial statements’ (effective 1 January 2013)
– IAS 28 (revised 2011) ‘Associates and joint ventures’ (effective 1 January 2013)
– Amendment to IAS 12,’Income taxes’ on deferred tax (effective 1 January 2012)
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Group’s accounting for its financial 
assets. The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9’s full impact. However, initial indications are that it may affect the Group’s accounting for its debt 
available for sale financial assets, as IFRS 9 only permits the recognition of fair value gains and losses in other comprehensive income if they 
relate to equity investments that are not held for trading. Fair value gains and losses on available for sale debt investments, for example, will 
therefore have to be recognised directly in profit or loss.
IAS 19 (revised 2011) makes significant changes to the recognition and measurement of defined benefit pension expense and termination 
benefits, and to the disclosures for all employee benefits. The changes will affect the Group and may also increase the volume of disclosures.
The Group has yet to assess the full impact of the remainder of these new standards and amendments. Initial indications are that they will not 
significantly impact the financial statements of the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect 
 the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions  
are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which 
form the basis of making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities which are readily apparent from other sources. Actual 
results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting 
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and 
future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. 
Material estimates and assumptions are made in particular with regards to establishing the following policies: 
(i) Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
The determination of the value of any impairment of goodwill and intangible assets requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-
generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected from 
these cash-generating units including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs and requires the determination of a suitable discount  
rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows. Details of the goodwill impairment review calculations and sensitivity analysis performed  
are included in note 10. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
65
FINANCIALS
1 Accounting policies continued
(ii) Estimation of costs to complete
In order to determine the profit and loss that the Group is able to recognise on its developments and construction contracts in a specific period, 
the Group has to allocate total costs of the developments and construction contracts between the proportion completing in the period and the 
proportion to complete in a future period. The assessment of the total costs to be incurred requires a degree of estimation. However, Group 
management has established internal controls to review and ensure the appropriateness of estimates made.
(iii) Retirement benefit obligation valuations
In determining the valuation of defined benefit schemes assets and liabilities, a number of key assumptions have been made. The key assumptions, 
which are given below, are largely dependent on factors outside the control of the Group:
 • expected return on scheme assets
 • inflation rate
 • mortality
 • discount rate
 • salary and pension increases
Details of the assumptions used are included in note 33.
(iv) Shared equity receivables
Shared equity receivables largely have repayment dates that can vary and variable repayment amounts, provided as part of the sales transaction  
and are secured by a second legal charge on the related property. They are stated at fair value as described in note 14. In determining the fair value, 
the key assumptions, which are largely dependent on factors outside the control of the Group are:
 • date of final repayment of the receivable
 • house price inflation
 • discount rate
Details of the sensitivity analysis carried out in respect of the shared equity receivables are set out in note 28.
Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements incorporate the results of Galliford Try plc, its subsidiary undertakings and the Group’s share of the results of  
joint ventures. Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing 
whether the Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until  
the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
at the fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Costs directly 
attributable to the acquisition are expensed to the income statement. The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in the business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of any minority interest. 
The excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. 
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are  
also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries are changed  
where necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
In addition to total performance measures, the Group discloses additional information including performance before exceptional items, profit 
from operations and adjusted earnings per share. The Group believes that this additional information provides useful information on underlying 
trends. This additional information is not defined under IFRS, and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported 
by other companies. It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures of profit.
Exceptional items
Material non-recurring items of income and expense are disclosed in the income statement as “exceptional items”. Examples of items which 
may give rise to disclosure as exceptional items include gains and losses on the disposal of businesses, investments and property, plant and 
equipment, cost of restructuring and reorganisation of businesses, asset impairments and pension fund settlements and curtailments.
Segment reporting
Segment reporting is presented in the consolidated financial statements in respect of the Group’s business segments, which are the primary 
basis of segment reporting. The business segment reporting reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structure. Segment results 
include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Revenue and profit
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser. Revenue comprises the  
fair value of the consideration received or receivable net of rebates, discounts and value added tax. Sales within the Group are eliminated. 
Revenue also includes the Group’s proportion of work carried out under jointly controlled operations. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
66
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Revenue and profit are recognised as follows:
i) Housebuilding and land sales 
Revenue from private housing sales is recognised at legal completion, net of incentives. Revenue from land sales is recognised on the 
unconditional exchange of contracts. Profit is recognised on a site by site basis by reference to the expected result of each site. Contracting 
development sales for affordable housing are accounted for as construction contracts.
(ii) Facilities management contracts 
Revenue is recognised on an accruals basis once the service has been performed and with reference to value provided to the customer.  
Profit is recognised by reference to the specific costs incurred relating to the service provided.
(iii) Construction contracts 
Revenue comprises the value of construction executed during the year and contracting development sales for affordable housing.  
The results for the year include adjustments for the outcome of contracts, including jointly controlled operations, executed in both the  
current and preceding years.
(a) Fixed price contracts – Revenue is recognised based upon an internal assessment of the value of works carried out. This assessment  
is arrived at after due consideration of the performance against the programme of works, measurement of the works, detailed evaluation 
of the costs incurred and comparison to external certification of the work performed. The amount of profit to be recognised is calculated 
based on the proportion that costs to date bear to the total estimated costs to complete. Revenue and profit are not recognised in the 
income statement until the outcome of the contract is reasonably certain. Adjustments arise from claims by customers or third parties  
in respect of work carried out and claims and variations on customers or third parties for variations on the original contract. Provision for 
claims against the Group is made as soon as it is believed that a liability will arise, but claims and variations made by the Group are not 
recognised in the income statement until the outcome is virtually certain. Provision will be made against any potential loss as soon as it 
is identified.
(b)  Cost plus contracts – Revenue is recognised based upon costs incurred to date plus any agreed fee. Where contracts include  
a target price, consideration is given to the impact on revenue of the mechanism for distributing any savings or additional costs 
compared to the target price. Any revenue over and above the target price is recognised once the outcome is virtually certain.  
Profit is recognised on a constant margin throughout the life of the contract. Provision will be made against any potential loss as 
soon as it is identified.
Amounts recoverable on contracts and payments on account are calculated as cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses and cash 
received to date and are included in receivables or payables as appropriate.
(iv) Housing grants
Grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and the grants will 
be received. The grants are recognised as revenue or cost of sales, as appropriate, over the periods necessary to match them with the related 
costs which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis.
Bid costs for PFI/PPP contracts
Bid costs relating to PFI/PPP projects are not carried in the balance sheet as recoverable until the Group has been appointed preferred bidder  
or has received an indemnity in respect of the investment or costs, and regards recoverability of the costs as virtually certain. Costs that are 
carried on the balance sheet are included within amounts recoverable on contracts within trade and other receivables.
Rent receivable
Rental income represents income obtained from the rental of properties and is credited to the income statement on a straight line basis over the 
period of the lease within revenue.
Interest income and expense 
Interest income and expense is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Income tax 
Current income tax is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation recorded in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years or that are never taxable or deductible. The liability 
for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for all temporary differences between the carrying amount  
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is measured at the average tax 
rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax is accounted for on an undiscounted basis. A deferred tax 
asset is only recognised when it is more likely than not that the asset will be recoverable in the foreseeable future out of suitable taxable profits 
from which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted. 
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing  
of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the 
foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax is charged or credited through the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited through the 
statement of comprehensive income, when it is charged or credited there. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
67
FINANCIALS
1 Accounting policies continued
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the net assets acquired. 
It is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is a triggering event by considering the net present value 
of future cash flows. Any impairment is charged immediately to the income statement.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts following impairment 
tests. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been restated.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or 
groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets include brands, customer contracts and customer relationships acquired on acquisition of subsidiary companies and computer 
software developed by the Group. The intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is a triggering event. Intangible 
assets are stated at amortised cost less any impairment.
Intangible assets are being amortised over the following periods:       
(a) Brand – on a straight line basis over 4 to 10 years.       
(b) Customer contracts – in line with expected profit generation varying from 1 to 9 years.  
(c) Customer relationships – on a straight line basis over 3 years.
(d) Computer software – amortisation of these assets will commence once the software is fully operational.
Property, plant and equipment 
Land and buildings comprise mainly offices and are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. All other property, plant  
and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the items. 
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of each asset to estimated residual value over its expected useful life. Freehold land is not 
depreciated. The annual rates of depreciation are as follows: 
Freehold buildings 2% on cost
On cost or reducing balance:
Plant and machinery 15% to 33%
Fixtures and fittings 10% to 33%
In addition to systematic depreciation the book value of property, plant and equipment would be written down to estimated recoverable  
amount should any impairment in the respective carrying values be identified.
The asset residual values, carrying values and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted if appropriate at each balance  
sheet date.
Repairs and maintenance expenditure is expensed as incurred on an accruals basis.
Joint ventures
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint control with third parties. 
The Group’s interest in joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method. Under this method the Group’s share of profits less losses after 
taxation of joint ventures is included in the consolidated income statement and its interest in their net assets is included in investments in the 
consolidated balance sheet. Where the share of losses exceeds the Group’s interest in the entity and there is no obligation to fund these losses 
the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued. Future profits are not recognised until unrecognised 
losses are extinguished. Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed on consolidation where necessary to ensure consistency  
with policies adopted by the Group. Where joint ventures do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Group’s, results and 
net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Group’s accounting reference date.
Jointly controlled operations and assets
The Group accounts for jointly controlled operations and assets by recognising its share of profits and losses in the consolidated income 
statement. The Group recognises its share of associated assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. 
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date. 
On initial recognition the asset is recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. Available for sale financial assets are measured at subsequent 
reporting dates at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the asset is disposed of  
or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the net profit or loss  
for the period.
The Group operates schemes under which part of the agreed sales price for a residential property can be deferred for up to 25 years. The fair 
value of these assets is calculated by taking into account forecast inflation in property prices and discounting back to present value using the 
effective interest rate. Provision is also made for estimated default to arrive at the initial fair value. The unwind of the discount included on initial 
recognition at fair value is recognised as finance income in the year. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
68
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
1 Accounting policies continued
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Rentals 
under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Inventories and developments
Inventories and developments are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Work in progress is valued at the lower of cost, including 
direct costs and directly attributable overheads, and net realisable value. On initial recognition, land is included within developments at its fair 
value, which is its cost to the Group. Land inventory is recognised at the time a liability is recognised which is generally after the exchange of 
conditional contracts once it is virtually certain the contract will be completed.
Where a development is in progress net realisable value is assessed by considering the expected future revenues and the total costs to complete 
the development including direct costs and directly attributable overheads. To the extent that the Group anticipates selling a development in its 
current state then net realisable value is taken as its open market value at the balance sheet date less any anticipated selling costs.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less 
provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not 
be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that 
the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (typically more than 30 days overdue) are 
considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying 
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset 
is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within ‘cost of sales’. 
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the impairment provision for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of 
amounts previously written off are credited against ‘cost of sales’ in the income statement. Short term trade receivables do not carry any 
interest and are stated at their amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at nominal value. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash 
equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, including bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are  
also included as they are an integral part of the Group’s cash management.
Bank deposits with an original term of more than three months are classified as short term deposits where the cash can be withdrawn on 
demand and the penalty for early withdrawal is not significant. Cash held in escrow accounts is classified as a short term deposit where the 
escrow agreement allows the balance to be converted to cash if replaced by a bond repayable on demand.
Bank and other borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts and other loans are originally recognised at fair value net of transaction costs incurred. Such 
borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with the difference between initial fair value and redemption value recognised in the 
income statement over the period to redemption.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in  
the income statement using the effective interest rate method. Re-financing costs associated with new borrowing arrangements are included 
within the borrowing amount and amortised over the period of the loan.
Trade payables
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value. Trade payables on extended terms, particularly  
in respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate. The discount to nominal value is 
amortised over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the effective interest rate.
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Provisions for onerous leases and restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result  
of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated. 
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination costs and employee termination payments. Provisions are not recognised for future 
operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using the pre tax rate that 
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to  
the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense. 
Derivative financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provision  
of the instrument.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risks. In accordance with its treasury policy, the  
Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments, mainly comprising interest rate swaps, are initially accounted for and measured at fair value at the point  
the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value. The gain or loss on re-measurement is taken to the  
income statement.  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
69
FINANCIALS
1 Accounting policies continued
Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the income statement.
Retirement benefit obligations
For defined contribution schemes operated by the Group, amounts payable are charged to the income statement as they accrue.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit method.  
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the excess of the present value of scheme liabilities over the fair 
value of the schemes’ assets. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash  
flows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. 
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of comprehensive income. Gains and losses 
arising on curtailment and settlements are taken to the income statement as incurred.
Accounting for Employee Share Ownership Plan
Own shares held by the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust (“The Trust”) are shown, at cost less any permanent diminution in value, as a 
deduction from retained earnings. The charge made to the income statement for employee share awards and options is based on the fair  
value of the award at the date of grant spread over the performance period. Where such shares subsequently vest to the employees under  
the terms of the Group’s share option schemes or are sold, any consideration received is included in equity. 
Share based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange 
for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference  
to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions such as growth in earnings per share. 
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, 
the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates,  
if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium when 
the options are exercised.
Dividend policy
Final dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which 
the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of directly attributable incremental issue costs.
Consideration paid for shares in the Group held by the Employee Benefit Trust are deducted from total equity.
2  Segment reporting
Segment reporting is presented in the consolidated financial statements in respect of the Group’s business segments, which are the primary 
basis of segment reporting. The business segment reporting reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structure. Segment results 
include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. As the Group has no material 
activities outside the UK, segment reporting is not required by geographical region.  
The chief operating decision-maker (“CODM”) has been identified as the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director. The CODM review  
the Group’s internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources. Management has determined the operating segments 
based on these reports as Housebuilding, Building, Partnerships, Infrastructure and PPP Investments.
The CODM assess the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted earnings before finance costs, amortisation, 
exceptional items and taxation. This measurement basis excludes the effects of non-recurring expenditure from the operating segments, such as 
restructuring costs and impairments when the impairment is the result of an isolated, non-recurring event. Interest income and expenditure are 
included in the result for each operating segment that is reviewed by the CODM. Other information provided to them is measured in a manner 
consistent with that in the financial statements. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
70
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
2  Segment reporting continued
Primary reporting format – business segments
     Construction
 House-  Partner- Infra-  PPP  Central
 building Building ships structure Total  Investments costs Total
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Year ended 30 June 2011
Group revenue and share  
of joint ventures’ revenue 388.5 436.5 123.9 376.5 936.9 9.6 0.8 1,335.8
Share of joint ventures’ revenue (39.0) (0.1) – (11.2) (11.3) (1.3) – (51.6)
Group revenue 349.5 436.4 123.9 365.3 925.6 8.3 0.8 1,284.2
Segment result:
Profit/(loss) from operations before  
share of joint ventures’ profit 26.4 10.4 1.9 9.9 22.2 (2.1) (9.2) 37.3
Share of joint ventures’ profit  5.2 – – – – 1.1 – 6.3
Profit/(loss) from operations* 31.6 10.4 1.9 9.9 22.2 (1.0) (9.2) 43.6
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax  (4.6) (0.1) – – (0.1) (1.1) – (5.8)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs, amortisation, 
exceptional items and taxation 27.0 10.3 1.9 9.9 22.1 (2.1) (9.2) 37.8
Net finance (costs)/income (12.0) 1.0 (0.2) (0.5) 0.3 – 10.0 (1.7)
Profit/(loss) before amortisation, 
exceptional items and taxation 15.0 11.3 1.7 9.4 22.4 (2.1) 0.8 36.1
Amortisation of intangibles        (1.0)
Profit before exceptional items and taxation        35.1
Exceptional items        6.6
Income tax expense        (8.9)
Profit for the year        32.8
Year ended 30 June 2010
Group revenue and share of joint 
ventures’ revenue 316.0 445.3 93.8 397.4 936.5 3.5 0.4 1,256.4
Share of joint ventures’ revenue (21.8) (0.2) – (10.4) (10.6) (2.1) – (34.5)
Group revenue 294.2 445.1 93.8 387.0 925.9 1.4 0.4 1,221.9
Segment result:
Profit/(loss) from operations before  
share of joint ventures’ profit 15.2 10.6 1.3 10.7 22.6 1.3 (7.6) 31.5
Share of joint ventures’ profit  2.4 0.2 – – 0.2 1.1 – 3.7
Profit/(loss) from operations* 17.6 10.8 1.3 10.7 22.8 2.4 (7.6) 35.2
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax  (2.0) (0.2) – – (0.2) (2.3) – (4.5)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs, amortisation, 
exceptional items and taxation 15.6 10.6 1.3 10.7 22.6 0.1 (7.6) 30.7
Net finance (costs)/income (11.0) 0.8 – (0.4) 0.4 – 7.3 (3.3)
Profit/(loss) before amortisation, 
exceptional items and taxation 4.6 11.4 1.3 10.3 23.0 0.1 (0.3) 27.4
Amortisation of intangibles        (1.3)
Profit before exceptional items and taxation        26.1
Exceptional items        (6.9)
Income tax expense        (8.4)
Profit for the year        10.8
* Profit from operations is stated before finance costs, amortisation, share of joint ventures’ interest and tax, exceptional items and taxation.
Inter-segment revenue eliminated from Group revenue above amounted to £61.7 million (2010: £30.6 million) of which £14.0 million  
(2010: £3.5 million) was in Building, £31.9 million (2010: £25.8 million) was in Infrastructure, £14.6 million (2010: Nil) was in Housebuilding,  
and £1.2 million (2010: £1.3 million) in Central costs. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
71
FINANCIALS
2  Segment reporting continued
     Construction
 House-  Partner- Infra-  PPP  Central
 building Building ships structure Total  Investments costs Total
 Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Year ended 30 June 2011         
Assets    
Net cash/(debt) 21 (522.6) 138.4 24.9 53.4 216.7 (0.9) 343.1 36.3 
Other assets          1,080.2 
Borrowings 25        11.5 
Deferred income tax assets 27        5.5 
Total assets         1,133.5 
Year ended 30 June 2010
Assets
Net cash/(debt) 21 (467.9) 140.4 23.3 43.1 206.8 2.1 335.5 76.5 
Other assets          943.7 
Borrowings 25        90.2 
Deferred income tax assets 27        11.2 
Total assets         1,121.6
Other segment information
Year ended 30 June 2011
Investment in joint ventures  13 1.0  0.9  – – 0.9   – –  1.9
Contracting revenue 5.9 430.9 104.8 344.7 880.4 2.6 – 888.9
Capital expenditure
(including acquisitions)
–  Property, plant and equipment 11 0.4 – – 1.9 1.9 – 1.0 3.3 
Depreciation 11 0.1 0.1 – 1.2 1.3 – 0.9 2.3
Impairment of receivables 5 – 0.1 – – 0.1 – – 0.1
Share based payments 3 – 0.2 – 0.2 0.4 – 2.1 2.5
Acquisition of intangible assets 9 – – – – – – 3.1 3.1
Amortisation of intangible assets 9 1.0 – – – – – – 1.0
Year ended 30 June 2010
Investment in joint ventures  13 0.6 1.0 – – 1.0 0.5 – 2.1
Contracting revenue 24.0 437.6 93.8 385.6 917.0 – – 941.0
Capital expenditure
(including acquisitions)
–  Property, plant and equipment 11 0.1 – – 0.8 0.8 – 0.7 1.6
Depreciation 11 0.1 0.3 – 0.9 1.2 – 0.7 2.0
Impairment of receivables 5 – 0.4 – – 0.4 – – 0.4
Share based payments 3 0.1 0.2 – 0.3 0.5 – 1.2 1.8
Acquisition of intangible assets 9 – – – – – – – –
Amortisation of intangible assets 9 1.0 0.3 – – 0.3 – – 1.3 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
72
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
3  Employees and directors
     Group  Company
    2011 2010 2011 2010
Employee benefit expense during the year    £m £m £m £m
Wages and salaries    139.3 142.0 – 1.7 
Redundancy and termination costs    0.8 – – – 
Social security costs    15.0 15.1 0.2 0.2 
Retirement benefit costs (see note 33)    10.4 12.8 – 0.2
Share based payments (see note 30)    2.5 1.8 2.5 1.2 
    168.0 171.7  2.7  3.3 
    2011 2010 2011 2010
Average monthly number of people (including executive directors) employed Number Number Number Number
By business group:
Housebuilding    716 554 – – 
Building    964 1,020 – –
Partnerships    282 286 – –
Infrastructure    1,448 1,416 –  – 
Total Construction     2,694 2,722 – – 
PPP Investments    21 19 –  – 
Group     234 233 7 6
    3,665 3,528 7 6 
Remuneration of key management personnel
The key management personnel comprise the executive board and non-executive directors. The remuneration of the key management personnel  
of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures. Further information about  
the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
      2011 2010
      £m £m
Salaries and short term employee benefits      4.0  3.9 
Retirement benefit costs      0.2  0.3 
Share based payments      2.0  1.2 
       6.2   5.4  Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
73
FINANCIALS
4  Net finance costs
      2011 2010
Group      £m £m
Interest receivable on bank deposits      0.6 0.6
Interest receivable from joint ventures      1.7 2.4
Unwind of discount on shared equity receivables      1.3 0.4
Fair value profit on financing activities – interest rate swaps      1.3 0.7
Other      0.4 0.3
Finance income      5.3 4.4
      
Interest payable on borrowings      (5.0) (4.5)
Unwind of discounted payables      (1.3) (1.1)
Net finance cost on retirement benefit obligations      (0.5) (2.0)
Other      (0.2) (0.1)
Finance costs      (7.0) (7.7)
Net finance costs      (1.7) (3.3)
5  Profit/(loss) before income tax
The following items have been included in arriving at profit/(loss) before income tax:
      2011 2010
     Notes £m £m
Employee benefit expense     3 168.0 171.7
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment:  
– Owned assets     11 2.3 2.0
Amortisation of intangible assets     9 1.0 1.3
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment       – (0.1)
Profit on sale of investments in joint ventures and non-current assets held for sale  13 & 15 (1.1) (4.4)
Profit on sale of available for sale financial assets     14 (0.1) –
Other operating lease rentals payable:  
– Plant and machinery      29.5 29.7
– Property      4.5 3.8
Inventories recognised as an expense      8.7 7.1
Developments recognised as an expense      322.0 263.8
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment    0.7 0.8
Impairment of receivables     19 0.1 0.4
Exceptional items      (6.6) 6.9 
In addition to the above, the Group incurs other costs classified as cost of sales relating to labour, materials and subcontractors costs.
Exceptional items
On 24 March 2011 a Competition Appeal Tribunal judgement reduced the quantum of the fine imposed by the Office of Fair Trading in 2009  
for cover pricing between 2001 and 2004 from £8.3 million to £1.4 million. The net £6.6 million reduction, after costs, is reflected in the Group’s 
results as an exceptional item credited to profit before tax. The exceptional credit is non taxable as it is reversing the non deductible treatment of 
the exceptional loss in 2010.
The exceptional items in 2010 of £6.9 million comprised the original fine imposed by the Office of Fair Trading of £8.3 million and a net credit on 
reassessment due to market movements of the carrying value of housing related assets of £1.4 million where the original estimates were taken  
as an exceptional charge. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
74
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
5  Profit/(loss) before income tax continued
Services provided by the Group’s auditors and network firms
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at costs as detailed below:
       2011 2010
       £m £m
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements   0.2 0.2
The audit of financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation    0.3 0.3
Total audit services       0.5 0.5
Services relating to corporate matters       – 0.3
Services relating to taxation and accounting advice        0.1 0.3
Total non-audit services       0.1 0.6
Total       0.6 1.1
A description of the work of the audit committee in respect of auditors’ independence is set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
6  Income tax expense
   000 000000  2011  00000000  2010
   Before    Before
   exceptional Exceptional  exceptional Exceptional 
   items items Total items items Total
  Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Analysis of expense in year
Current year’s income tax       
Current tax   8.0 – 8.0 8.7 0.4 9.1
Deferred tax  27 1.8 – 1.8 (0.6) – (0.6)
Adjustments in respect of prior years       
Current tax   (1.5) – (1.5) (0.3) – (0.3)
Deferred tax  27 0.6 – 0.6 0.2 – 0.2
Income tax expense   8.9 – 8.9 8.0 0.4 8.4
Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income  
Deferred tax expense on retirement benefit obligations   3.3 – 3.3 1.3 – 1.3
Total taxation   12.2 – 12.2 9.3 0.4 9.7
The total income tax expense for the year of £8.9 million (2010: £8.4 million) is lower (2010: higher) than the year end standard rate of
corporation tax in the UK of 26% (2010: 28%). The differences are explained below:
   0000 00000   2011 000000000   2010 
   Before    Before
   exceptional Exceptional  exceptional Exceptional 
   items items Total items items Total
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
Profit/(loss) before income tax   35.1 6.6 41.7 26.1 (6.9) 19.2 
Profit/(loss) before income tax multiplied by the year end standard rate 
in the UK of 26% (2010: 28%)   9.1 1.7 10.8 7.3 (1.9) 5.4
Effects of:    
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes   0.3 – 0.3 2.7 2.3 5.0
Non taxable income   (0.1) (1.7) (1.8) (1.9) – (1.9)
Change in rate of current income tax   0.5 – 0.5 – – –
Adjustments in respect of prior years   (0.9) – (0.9) (0.1) – (0.1)
Income tax expense   8.9 – 8.9 8.0 0.4 8.4 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
75
FINANCIALS
6  Income tax expense continued
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 28% to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for this 
accounting period are taxed at an effective rate of 27.5% and will be taxed at 26% in the future.
In addition to the changes in rates of corporation tax disclosed above a number of further changes to the UK Corporation tax system were 
announced in the March 2011 UK Budget Statement. Legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 26% to 25% from 1 April 2012 
is expected to be included in the Finance Act 2011. Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 
23% by 1 April 2014. None of these further rate reductions had been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not 
included in these financial statements.
The effect of the changes expected to be enacted in the Finance Act 2011 would be to reduce the deferred tax asset provided at the balance 
sheet date by £0.2 million. This £0.2 million decrease in the deferred tax asset would decrease profit by £0.2 million with no change to other 
comprehensive income. This decrease in the deferred tax asset is due to the reduction in the corporation tax rate from 26% to 25% with effect 
from 1 April 2012.
The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per year to 23% by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately each 
year. The overall effect of the further changes from 25% to 23%, if applied to the deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date, would be to 
reduce the deferred tax asset by £0.4 million (being £0.2 million recognised in 2013 and £0.2 million recognised in 2014).    
7  Dividends
      2011  2010
      pence per  pence per
Group and Company     £m share £m share
Previous year final      7.5 9.2 4.0  7.6
Current period interim     3.7 4.5  2.7   3.3
Dividend recognised in the year      11.2 13.7 6.7  10.9 
The following dividends were declared by the Company in respect of each accounting period presented:
      2011  2010
      pence per  pence per
     £m share £m share
Interim      3.7   4.5   2.7 3.3 
Final      9.4  11.5   7.5 9.2 
Dividend relating to the year     13.1  16.0  10.2 12.5 
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2011 of 11.5p per share, bringing the total dividend 
in respect of 2011 to 16.0p per share (2010: 12.5p). The final dividend will absorb approximately £9.4 million of equity. Subject to shareholder 
approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 November 2011, the dividend will be paid on 18 November 2011 to shareholders who 
are on the register of members on 7 October 2011.
8 Earnings per share
a) Basic and diluted earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held by the Employee Share Trust (note 30), which are treated as cancelled.
Under normal circumstances, the average number of shares is diluted by reference to the average number of potential ordinary shares held  
under option in the period. The dilutive effect amounts to the number of ordinary shares which would be purchased using the aggregate 
difference in value between the market value of shares and the share option price. Only shares that have met their cumulative performance 
criteria are included in the dilution calculation. The Group has two classes of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: those share options granted to 
employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares during the year and the contingently 
issuable shares under the Group’s long term incentive plan. A loss per share cannot be reduced through dilution, hence this dilution is only 
applied where the Group has reported a profit. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
76
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
8 Earnings per share continued
The earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
 0000000   2011 0000000  2010
   Weighted   Weighted
   average  Per share  average Per share
 Earnings   number of amount Earnings  number of amount
 £m  shares pence £m shares pence
Basic EPS   
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 32.8  81,452,318 40.3 10.8 73,598,363 14.7
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options   1,797,030   –  –
Diluted EPS 32.8  83,249,348 39.4 10.8 73,598,363 14.7
b) Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted earnings per share based on the earnings before exceptional items of £6.6 million (2010: £7.3 million) for the year are set out below:
 0000000   2011 0000000  2010
   Weighted   Weighted
   average  Per share  average Per share
 Earnings   number of amount Earnings  number of amount
 £m  shares pence £m shares pence
Basic EPS
Adjusted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 26.2  81,452,318 32.2 18.1 73,598,363 24.6
Effect of dilutive securities:
Options   1,797,030    –  –
Diluted EPS 26.2  83,249,348 31.5 18.1 73,598,363 24.6
9  Intangible assets
   Computer  Customer Customer
   software Brand contracts relationships Total
Group   £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 July 2009 and 1 July 2010   – 10.8  2.9  0.4  14.1
Additions   3.1 – – – 3.1
At 30 June 2011   3.1 10.8 2.9 0.4 17.2
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 July 2009   – (2.9) (2.6) (0.4) (5.9)
Amortisation in year   – (1.0) (0.3) – (1.3)
At 1 July 2010   – (3.9) (2.9) (0.4) (7.2)
Amortisation in year   – (1.0) – – (1.0)
At 30 June 2011   – (4.9) (2.9) (0.4) (8.2)
Net book amount
At 30 June 2011   3.1 5.9 – – 9.0
At 30 June 2010   – 6.9 – – 6.9
All amortisation charges in the year have been included in administrative expenses. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
77
FINANCIALS
10 Goodwill
       £m
Cost
At 1 July 2009, 1 July 2010 and 30 June 2011       115.7
Accumulated amortisation and aggregate impairment at 1 July 2009, 1 July 2010 and 30 June 2011   (0.7)
Net book amount 
At 30 June 2011       115.0
At 30 June 2010       115.0
Impairment review of goodwill 
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) identified according to business segment.
The goodwill is attributable to the following business segments:
      2011 2010
      £m £m
Housebuilding      52.2 52.2
Building      17.9 17.9
Partnerships      5.8 5.8
Infrastructure      37.2 37.2
PPP Investments      1.9 1.9
      115.0 115.0
Key assumptions
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations. These calculations use pre tax cash flow projections  
based on future financial budgets approved by the Board based on past performance and its expectation of market developments. The key 
assumptions within these budgets relate to revenue growth and the future profit margin achievable. Future budgeted revenue is based on 
management’s knowledge of actual results from prior years, latest forecasts for the current year along with the existing secured work and 
management’s future expectation of the level of work available within the market sector and expected changes in selling volumes and prices  
for completed houses. In establishing future profit margins, the margins currently being achieved are considered in conjunction with expected 
inflation rates in each cost category and to reflect the current market value of land being acquired. Budgeted profit margins in housebuilding  
are in line with the expectation in the divisions expansion strategy, which is based on increasing the number of house completions from around  
3,000 in 2012 towards 4,000 at a sustainable rate thereafter.
Cash is monitored very closely on a daily, weekly and monthly basis for the purposes of managing both treasury and the business as a whole. 
Details of the Group’s treasury management are included within the Business Review on pages 10 and 11 of the Annual Report. The assumptions  
used are reviewed regularly and differences between forecast and actual results are closely monitored with variances being investigated fully.  
The knowledge gained from this past experience is used to ensure that the future assumptions used are consistent with past actual outcomes 
and are management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of each business unit.
Cash flows beyond the budgeted three year period are extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 3% per annum within building, 
partnerships and infrastructure and 2.5% per annum within housebuilding. The growth rate used is the Group’s estimate of the average long  
term growth rate for the market sectors in which the CGU operates. A pre tax discount rate of 14.3% (2010: 12.8%) in housebuilding, 10.9% 
(2010: 12.0%) in building, 11.2% (2010: 12.7%) in partnerships, 13.2% (2010: 13.1%) in infrastructure and 10.0% (2010: 11.8%) in investments 
has been applied to the future cash flows.
Sensitivities
The fair value of the goodwill in all CGU’s are substantially in excess of book value. Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken on each goodwill 
impairment review, by changing the discount rates, profit margins, growth rates and other variables applicable to each CGU. Taking into account 
current market conditions within the construction and housebuilding markets, none of these sensitivities, either individually or combined, resulted 
in the carrying value of these businesses being reduced to its recoverable amount.
The impairment review relating to Linden Homes goodwill, which is included within the housebuilding segment, could be impacted by the 
uncertainty over trading conditions within the housing market. The detailed sensitivity analysis indicates that an increase of more than 26%  
(2010: 33%) in the pre tax discount rate or a reduction of 27% (2010: 40%) in the forecast operating profits of the CGU would give rise  
to an impairment. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
78
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
11 Property, plant and equipment
    Land and  Plant and Fixtures and
    buildings machinery fittings Total
Group    £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 July 2009    3.4 4.8 8.1 16.3
Additions    – 0.7 0.9 1.6
Disposals    (0.2) (0.9) (0.1) (1.2)
At 1 July 2010    3.2 4.6 8.9 16.7
Additions     – 1.7 1.6 3.3 
Disposals    – (0.6) (0.5) (1.1)
At 30 June 2011    3.2 5.7 10.0 18.9
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2009    1.0 1.8 5.2 8.0
Charge for the year    0.1 0.9 1.0 2.0
Disposals    (0.2) (0.6) (0.1) (0.9)
At 1 July 2010    0.9 2.1 6.1 9.1
Charge for the year    0.1 0.9 1.3 2.3 
Disposals    – (0.4) (0.5) (0.9)
At 30 June 2011    1.0 2.6 6.9 10.5
Net book amount
At 30 June 2011    2.2 3.1 3.1 8.4
At 30 June 2010    2.3 2.5 2.8 7.6
There are no assets held under finance leases (2010: £Nil).
The cost of land and building primarily relates to freehold properties.
There has been no impairment of property, plant and equipment during the year (2010: £Nil). Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
79
FINANCIALS
12 Investments in subsidiaries
      2011 2010
Company      £m £m
Cost
At 1 July      193.4 192.8
Capital contribution relating to share based payment      0.5 0.6
At 30 June      193.9 193.4
Aggregate impairment       
At 30 June      1.6 1.6
Net book value
At 30 June      192.3 191.8
The capital contribution relating to share based payment relates to share options granted by the Company to employees of subsidiary 
undertakings in the Group (note 30).
The carrying value of investments has been reviewed and the directors are satisfied that there is no impairment.
The subsidiary undertakings that principally affected profits and net assets of the Group were:
Galliford Try Construction Limited *
Galliford Try Homes Limited * 
Galliford Try Infrastructure Limited **
Galliford Try Investments Limited *
Galliford Try Partnerships Limited
Galliford Try Services Limited *
Linden Limited
Linden South West Limited
Linden Midlands Limited
Linden North Limited
* Shares of these subsidiary companies are owned directly by the Company.
** Incorporated in Scotland.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings is available on request from the Company’s registered office.
13 Investments in joint ventures
      2011 2010
Group      £m £m
At 1 July 
– Net assets excluding goodwill      2.1 0.7
– Goodwill      – –
At 1 July       2.1 0.7
Additions
 (a)
– Net assets      0.1 2.4
Disposal
 (b)
      (0.5) (0.1)
Dividend received from joint ventures       (0.3) (0.1)
Share of post tax profit/(losses)      0.5 (0.8)
At 30 June       1.9 2.1 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
80
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
13 Investments in joint ventures continued
Joint ventures
At 30 June 2011 the Group held interests in the following joint ventures all of which are incorporated in England and Wales, except where stated:
  %
Name Year end shareholding Principal activity
Friern Park Limited 31 December 50% Building
Kingseat Development 2 Limited (Scotland) 30 June 50% Building
Projco (St Andrews Hospital) Limited (Scotland) 31 March  50% Construction and facilities management 
gbconsortium2 Limited 31 March  50% PPP Investment
Urban Vision Partnership Limited 31 December 30%* Infrastructure
The Piper Building Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Wates Homes BR1 Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Wates Linden (Cuckfield) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Linden Wates (Ridgewood) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Linden and Dorchester Limited 30 June 50% Housebuilding
Linden and Dorchester Portsmouth Limited 30 June 50% Housebuilding
Crest/Galliford Try (Epsom) LLP 31 October 50% Housebuilding
Linden/Downland Graylingwell LLP 31 March  50% Housebuilding
Wates Developments (Folders Meadow) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Linden Wates Dorking Limited 31 December  50% Housebuilding
Linden Homes Westinghouse LLP 31 March  50% Housebuilding
Wilmington Regeneration LLP 31 March  50% Housebuilding
Ramsden Regeneration LLP 31 March  50% Housebuilding
Linden Wates Developments (Chichester) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Linden Wates (West Hampstead) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
* Under the terms of the shareholders’ agreement and in relation to voting rights this investment is treated as a joint venture.
(a) Additions
On 30 September 2010, the Group subscribed for a further £0.1 million of subordianted debt in Projco (St Andrews Hospital) Limited.
(b) Disposals
On 17 December 2010, the Group disposed of its investment in WLHC ProjectCo Limited for £2.1 million giving rise to a profit of £1.1 million.  
As at 30 June 2010 it was the Group’s intention to sell only 50% of this investment hence, half of this investment was classified as held for sale 
(see note 15) with the remainder within investments in joint ventures. 
In relation to the Group’s interest in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below:
      2011 2010
      £m £m
Current assets      137.4 129.2
Non-current assets      31.9 28.3
Current liabilities      (67.4) (78.9)
Non-current liabilities      (100.0) (76.5)
      1.9 2.1
Amounts due from joint ventures      62.1 46.0
Amounts due to joint ventures      1.5 0.9
Revenue      51.6 34.5
Expenses      (45.3) (30.8)
      6.3 3.7
Finance cost      (5.9) (5.5)
Income tax      0.1 1.0
Share of post tax profits/(losses) from joint ventures      0.5 (0.8)
The Group’s share of unrecognised losses of joint ventures is £13.2 million (2010: £8.0 million). Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
81
FINANCIALS
13 Investments in joint ventures continued
As at 30 June 2011, amounts due from joint ventures of £62.1 million (2010: £46.0 million) were considered for impairment. The impairment 
reviews were based on future financial budgets based on past performance and expectation of market developments. The key assumptions  
used were consistent with those applied in the goodwill impairment reviews as described in note 10. No impairment has been provided for  
these balances in the year ended 30 June 2011 (2010: £Nil).
The Group has no commitments (2010: £0.1 million) to provide further subordinated debt to its joint ventures.
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed (2010: £Nil). The joint ventures had no capital 
commitments as at 30 June 2011 (2010: £Nil). Details of related party transactions with joint ventures are given in note 36.
14 Available for sale financial assets
      2011 2010
Group      £m £m
At 1 July       15.7 9.4
Additions      6.1 6.1
Unwind of discount on shared equity receivables      1.3 0.4
Impairment      (0.4) –
Disposals      (0.5) (0.2)
At 30 June      22.2 15.7
The available for sale assets comprise PPP/PFI investments and shared equity receivables. The shared equity receivables largely have 
repayment dates that can vary and variable repayment amounts, provided as part of the sales transaction and are secured by a second legal 
charge on the related property. The assets are recorded at fair value, being the estimated future receivable by the Group, discounted back to 
present values. The fair value of the future anticipated receipts takes into account the Directors’ view of future house price movements, the 
expected timing of receipts and credit risk. These assumptions are reviewed at the end of each financial reporting period. The difference between 
the anticipated future receipt and the initial fair value is credited over the estimated deferred term to finance income, with the financial asset 
increasing to its full expected cash settlement value on the anticipated receipt date. Credit risk, which is largely mitigated by holding a second 
charge over the property is accounted for in determining the fair values and appropraite discount rates are applied. The directors review the 
financial assets for impairment at each balance sheet date.
During the year the Group’s net investment in shared equity receivables increased by £6.2 million. £5.8 million related to new shared equity 
receivables and £1.3 million arose on the unwind of the discount applied on initial recognition of the receivables at fair value which has  
been shown as finance income in the income statement. The impairment of £0.4 million arose due to the variation in current assumptions 
compared to the original calculations. Disposals in the year of £0.5 million relating to the repayment of shared equity receivables generated a 
profit on disposal of £0.1 million. None of the financial assets are past their due dates (2010: Nil) and the directors expect an average maturity 
profile of 10 years.
Further disclosures relating to financial assets are set out in note 28.
During the year additional subordinated loans of £0.3 million were made to various PPP/PFI investments. The fair value of these unlisted 
investments is based on future expected cash flows discounted using an average rate of 10% (2010: 8.5%) based on the type of investment  
and stage of completion of the underlying assets held.
15 Non-current assets classified as held for sale
      2011 2010
Group      £m £m
At 1 July       0.5 12.1
Additions      – 0.5
Disposal      (0.5) (12.1)
At 30 June       – 0.5
On 17 December 2010, the Group disposed of its investment in WLHC ProjectCo Limited for £2.1 million giving rise to a profit of £1.1 million 
(see note 13). Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
82
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
16 Inventories
      2011 2010
Group      £m £m
Materials and consumables       0.2 1.1 
No inventories have been written off during the year.
17 Developments
      2011 2010
Group      £m £m
Land      408.6  364.1 
Work in progress      207.0  164.8 
      615.6  528.9
18 Construction contracts
      2011 2010
Group      £m £m
Contracts in progress at balance sheet date:
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts included in trade and other receivables   160.4 121.5
Payments received on account on construction contracts included in trade and other payables   (68.5) (59.1)
      91.9 62.4
The aggregate amount of cost incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all contracts in progress at the balance sheet date  
was £1,495.9 million (2010: £1,995.9 million).
Retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £38.8 million (2010: £37.0 million).
19 Trade and other receivables
     Group  Company
    2011 2010 2011 2010
    £m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due within one year:     
Trade receivables    51.5 82.6 – –
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables    (0.6) (0.9) – –
Trade receivables – net    50.9 81.7 – –
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts    160.4 121.5 – –
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings    – – 51.7 43.3
Amounts due from joint venture undertakings    21.9 8.9 – –
Other receivables    18.9 8.8 – –
Prepayments and accrued income    7.8 6.8 – –
    259.9 227.7 51.7 43.3
  
    2011 2010 2011 2010
    £m £m £m £m
Amounts falling due in more than one year:     
Trade receivables     0.1 – – –
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables    – – – –
Trade receivables – net    0.1 – – –
Amounts due from joint venture undertakings    40.2 37.1 – –
Other receivables    4.5 1.1 – –
    44.8 38.2 – – Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
83
FINANCIALS
19 Trade and other receivables continued
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows:
      2011 2010
      £m £m
At 1 July       (0.9) (0.5)
Provision for receivables impairment      (0.1) (0.4)
Unused amounts reversed      0.2 –
Utilised during year      0.2 –
At 30 June       (0.6) (0.9)
Provisions for impaired receivables have been included in ‘cost of sales’ in the income statement. Amounts charged to the impairment  
provision are generally written off, when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
Provisions for amounts due from joint venture undertakings are set out in note 13. The other classes within trade and other receivables  
do not contain impaired assets.     
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the book value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does 
not hold any collateral as security. None of the financial assets that are fully performing have been renegotiated in the last year.
Management believes that the concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the Group’s customer base  
being large and unrelated. Major water industry customers accounted for in total 10% (2010: 10%) of Group revenue in the year. However,  
the customers involved comprise a variety of entities including those both in the public and commercial sectors. In addition, within the 
commercial sector each customer has an unrelated ultimate parent company.
The maturity of non-current receivables is as follows:
      2011 2010
      £m £m
In more than one year but not more than two years      10.7 0.7
In more than two years but not more than five years      9.7 15.2
In more than five years      24.4 22.3
      44.8 38.2
Of the amounts due in more than five years £0.4 million (2010: £0.3 million) is due within 12 years (2010: 18 years) and £24.0 million  
(2010: £22.0 million) is due within 8 years (2010: 6 years). These amounts are unsecured and interest rates vary from bank base rate plus  
1.75% to 10%.
As of 30 June 2011, trade receivables of £10.8 million (2010: £7.3 million) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of 
independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default and there are no indications that they will not meet their payment 
obligations in respect of the trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet that are past due and unprovided. The ageing analysis of  
these trade receivables is as follows:
      2011 2010
      £m £m
Number of days past due date:
Less than 30 days      7.8 2.9
Between 30 and 60 days      0.2 1.2
Between 60 and 90 days      0.2 0.3
Between 90 and 120 days      0.7 0.3
Greater than 120 days      1.9 2.6
      10.8 7.3
As of 30 June 2011, trade receivables of £2.5 million (2010: £5.4 million) were considered for impairment. The amount provided for these 
balances was £0.6 million (2010: £0.9 million). The allocation of the provision is as follows:
      2011 2010
      £m £m
Number of days past due date:     
Greater than 120 days      0.6 0.9 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
84
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
20 Current income tax assets
      2011 2010
Company      £m £m
Current income tax assets      0.1  0.4
21 Cash and cash equivalents
     Group  Company
    2011 2010 2011 2010
    £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand    41.0 22.2  296.4 200.0 
Short term bank deposit    6.8 144.5  – 144.5 
Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts    47.8 166.7 296.4 344.5
Bank overdrafts (note 25)    (10.9) – – –
Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes    36.9 166.7  296.4 344.5
The short term bank deposit above includes £6.8 million (2010: £7.5 million) which is held in escrow. The effective interest rate received on cash 
balances is 1.5% (2010: 0.4%).
Group      2011 2010
Net cash      £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts      47.8 166.7
Current borrowings (note 25)      (11.5) (1.0)
Non-current borrowings (note 25)      – (89.2)
Net cash      36.3 76.5
22 Trade and other payables
     Group  Company
    2011 2010 2011 2010
    £m £m £m £m
Payments received on account on construction contracts    68.5  59.1 –  – 
Trade payables    124.1  94.9 –  –
Development land payables    80.2  58.8 – –  
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings    –  –  117.8  57.0
Amounts due to joint venture undertakings    1.5  0.9 –  –
Other taxation and social security payable    9.8  16.0 –  –
Other payables    17.7  19.1 –  –
Accruals and deferred income    322.7  314.2 1.3  1.0 
    624.5  563.0 119.1  58.0
23  Current income tax liabilities
      2011 2010
Group      £m £m
Current income tax liabilities      6.8 5.9 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
85
FINANCIALS
24 Provisions for other liabilities and charges
     Onerous
      leases Other  Total
Group     £m £m £m
At 1 July 2010     0.9  8.3  9.2
Charged to income statement:     
– Unused amounts reversed during the year     – (6.6) (6.6)
Reclassification of provisions     3.5 – 3.5
Utilised in year     (0.5) – (0.5)
At 30 June 2011     3.9 1.7 5.6
      
Analysis of total provisions      
Current     0.8 1.7 2.5
Non-current     3.1 – 3.1
At 30 June 2011     3.9 1.7 5.6
Onerous leases
The onerous lease provision relates primarily to properties that continue to be occupied by the Group. During the year £3.5 million was 
reclassified from other payables to better reflect its nature as an onerous lease provision. The provision will be utilised over the remaining term  
of the leases which expire between 2020 and 2021.
Other
As explained in note 5, on 24 March 2011 a Competition Appeal Tribunal judgement reduced the quantum of the fine imposed by the Office  
of Fair Trading in 2009 for cover pricing. The remaining provision is expected to be utilised within the next year.
25 Financial liabilities – borrowings
     Group  Company
    2011 2010 2011 2010
Current    £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts    10.9 – – –
Unsecured – Loan notes 
(i)
    0.6  1.0  0.6  1.0
    11.5 1.0 0.6 1.0
     Group  Company
    2011 2010 2011 2010
Non-current    £m £m £m £m
Bank loan – secured 
(ii)
    –  89.2 –  89.2
(i)  The unsecured loan notes are made up as follows:
(a)   £0.5 million (2010: £0.7 million) of loan notes were issued in 1997 and 2002 as part of the acquisition of Linden South West Limited 
and Linden Devon Limited respectively. They are redeemable in whole or in part by the holders at any time provided that 30 days’ 
notice is given of their intention to redeem the loan notes. Their interest rate is determined by reference to LIBOR and varies every  
three months. The final date for the redemption of these loan notes is April 2012 and July 2012 respectively. The loan notes are 
guaranteed by a bank.
(b)  £0.1 million (2010: £0.3 million) of loan notes were issued in 2007 as part of the acquisition of Linden Holdings plc. They are 
redeemable in whole or in part by the holders at six monthly intervals provided that 30 days’ notice is given of their intention to redeem 
the loan notes. Their interest rate is 5% per annum. The final date for the redemption of these loan notes is March 2012. The loan  
notes are guaranteed by a bank.
(ii) The bank loans and overdrafts are secured by a fixed charge over certain of the Group’s developments. They currently incur interest at 
2.25-2.6% (2010: 0.9%) over LIBOR. The Group has entered into interest rate swaps as set out in note 28. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
86
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
26 Other non-current liabilities
      2011 2010
Group      £m £m
Development land payables      27.0 6.8
Other payables      0.6 3.2
Accruals and deferred income      1.6 0.7
      29.2 10.7
27 Deferred income tax
Deferred income tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 26% (2010: 28%).
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against  
current income tax liabilities. The net deferred tax position at 30 June was:
     Group  Company
    2011 2010 2011 2010
    £m £m £m £m
Deferred income tax assets    6.4 11.2  0.8 0.3 
Deferred income tax liabilities    (0.9) – – –
    5.5 11.2  0.8 0.3
The movement for the year in the net deferred income tax account is as shown below:
     Group  Company
    2011 2010 2011 2010
    £m £m £m £m
At 1 July    11.2 (2.3) 0.3 0.1
Income statement      
Current year’s deferred income tax    (1.8) 0.6 0.5 0.2
Adjustment in respect of prior years    – (0.2) – –
Income recognised in equity    (3.3) (1.3) – –
Change in rate of deferred income tax    (0.6) – –
On acquisition of subsidiaries    – 14.4 – –
At 30 June     5.5 11.2 0.8 0.3 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
87
FINANCIALS
27 Deferred income tax continued
Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred income tax 
assets as it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below:
   Retirement   Accelerated
 Share based  benefit Fair value tax
Deferred income tax assets payments  obligations adjustments depreciation Other Total
Group £m  £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 July 2009 0.1  7.7  – – 4.2  12.0
Income/(expense) taken to income statement 0.2  (1.5) – – (0.1) (1.4)
Adjustment in respect of prior years –  – – – (0.1) (0.1)
Expense recognised in equity –  (1.3) – – – (1.3)
Transfer from deferred income tax liabilities –  – 2.0  – – 2.0
At 1 July 2010 0.3  4.9  2.0  – 4.0  11.2
Income/(expense) taken to income statement 0.5  – 2.1 – (2.6) –
Transfer (to)/from deferred income tax liabilities –  (4.9) – 0.1 – (4.8)
At 30 June 2011 0.8  – 4.1 0.1 1.4 6.4
   Retirement  Accelerated 
   benefit Fair value tax
Deferred income tax liabilities   obligations adjustments depreciation Other Total
Group   £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 July 2009   – (14.4) 0.2  (0.1) (14.3)
Income taken to income statement   – 2.0  – – 2.0 
Adjustment in respect of prior years   – – (0.1) – (0.1)
On acquisition of subsidiaries   – 14.4  – – 14.4 
Transfer to deferred income tax assets   – (2.0) – – (2.0)
At 1 July 2010   – – 0.1  (0.1) –
Income taken to income statement   (2.4) – – – (2.4)
Expense recognised in equity   (3.3) – – – (3.3)
Transfer from/(to) deferred income tax assets   4.9 – (0.1) – 4.8
At 30 June 2011   (0.8) – – (0.1) (0.9)
       Share based
Deferred income tax assets         payments
Company       £m
At 1 July 2009       0.1 
Income taken to income statement       0.2
At 1 July 2010       0.3 
Income taken to income statement       0.5
At 30 June 2011       0.8 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
88
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
28 Financial instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk), credit  
risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to 
minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
The Group operates within financial risk policies and procedures approved by the Board. It is, and has been throughout the year, the  
Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, 
as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial 
instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. The Group’s financial instruments principally 
comprise bank borrowings, cash and liquid resources, receivables and payables, and interest rate swaps that arise directly from its 
operations and its acquisitions.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide  
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to 
shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided 
by total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including ‘current and non-current borrowings’ as shown in the consolidated 
balance sheet) less cash and cash equivalents. The Group held net cash at 30 June 2011 hence gearing was nil at that time (2010: Nil).
Financial risk factors
(a) Market risk
(i)  Foreign exchange risk 
All material activities of the Group take place within the UK and consequently there is little direct exchange risk other than payments  
to overseas suppliers who require settlement in their currency. If there is any material foreign exchange exposure, the Group’s policy  
is to enter into forward foreign currency contracts. The Group has no material currency exposure at 30 June 2011 (2010: Nil).
(ii) Price risk 
The Group is affected by the level of UK house prices. These are in turn affected by factors such as mortgage availability, employment 
levels, interest rates, consumer confidence and availability of land with planning. Whilst it is not possible to fully mitigate such risks  
the Group continues to monitor its geographical spread within the UK concentrating its operations in areas that management believe 
minimise the effect of local microeconomic fluctuations. As at 30 June 2011, if UK house price inflation or the discount rate used had 
been 1% lower or higher respectively, and all other variables held constant, the Group’s house price linked financial instruments, which 
consist entirely of shared equity receivables held as available for sale financial assets, would decrease in value, excluding any effect of 
current or deferred tax by £1.6 milllion or £1.7 million respectively.
 The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk as investments held by the Group are classified on the consolidated balance 
sheet either as available for sale or at fair value through the income statement. The Group is not exposed to commodity price risk.
(iii) Interest rate risk 
The Group’s income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
 The Group’s interest rate risk arises from movement in cash and cash equivalents and long term borrowings. Borrowings issued at 
variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group policy is to accept a degree of interest rate risk as long as 
the effect of various changes in rates remains within prescribed ranges. Details of the interest rate swaps entered into by the Group  
are set out below.
 The Group analyses its interest rate exposure on a dynamic basis. On a regular basis the Group calculates the impact on the income 
statement of a defined interest rate shift on the Group’s borrowing position.
 Based on the forecasts performed, the impact on post tax profit and equity of a 1% decrease or increase in interest rates for a year 
would be a maximum increase of £1.0 million (2010: £0.7 million) or decrease of £1.6 million (2010: £1.1 million), respectively.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits 
and borrowings with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and 
committed transactions. The Group has a credit risk exposure to the providers of its banking facilities. These are primarily provided  
by HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, and Barclays Bank PLC, being three of the UK’s leading financial institutions. 
Further details of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 19. No credit limits were exceeded during  
the reporting period, and management does not expect any material losses from non-performance of any counterparties. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
89
FINANCIALS
28 Financial instruments continued
(c) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding through  
an adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury maintains 
flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings. The contracting operations of the Group 
generally generate cash. The housebuilding operations, however, utilise cash and any future downturn in the housebuilding market  
may require additional borrowings in addition to retained earnings to finance the maintenance of the land bank and associated work  
in progress. Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (which comprises undrawn borrowing facilities  
(see below) and cash and cash equivalents (note 21) on the basis of expected cash flow. This is generally carried out at local level  
in the operating companies of the Group in accordance with practices and limits set by the Group. These limits vary by location to  
take into account the liquidity of the market in which the entity operates. On a daily basis throughout the year, the bank balances or 
borrowings in all the Group’s operating companies are aggregated into a total cash or borrowings figure in order that the Group can 
obtain the most advantageous interest rate.
In accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded 
derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. No such 
embedded derivatives have been identified.
Financial liabilities – derivative financial liabilities
The fair value of interest rate swaps is detailed below:
        Liabilities
Group and Company       £m
At 30 June 2011
Current       (0.8)
At 30 June 2010
Non-current       (2.1)
The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 30 June 2011 was £33 million (2010: £45 million). At 30 June 
2011, the fixed interest rate is 5.7% (2010: 5.7%).
Fair values of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting expected  
future cash flows at the prevailing interest rate. The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amounts as the impact of discounting  
is not significant.
     000000 2011 000000000 2010
     Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
Fair value of non-current borrowings    Notes  £m £m £m £m
Long term borrowings    25 – – 89.2  86.9
Fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations:
Short term borrowings    25 11.5 11.5 1.0  1.0 
Trade and other payables    22 546.5 546.5 487.9  487.9 
Trade and other receivables    19 296.9 296.9 259.1  259.1 
Cash and cash equivalents    21 47.8 47.8 166.7  166.7 
Other non-current liabilities    26 29.2 29.2 9.1  9.1
Prepayments and accrued income are excluded from the trade and other receivables balances and statutory liabilities and payments received on 
account on construction contracts are excluded from trade and other payables balances, as this analysis is required only for financial instruments.
The effective interest rate used for fair valuing long term borrowings at June 2010 was 1.44% being the prevailing interest rate at that date.  
There are no long term borrowings at 30 June 2011. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
90
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
28 Financial instruments continued
Maturity of financial liabilities
The maturity profile of the carrying value of the Group’s non-current financial liabilities at 30 June was as follows:
   000000000  2011 000000000  2010
    Other   Other
    financial    financial 
   Borrowings   liabilities Total Borrowings  liabilities Total
   £m £m £m £m £m £m
In more than one year but not more than two years   – – – 89.2  – 89.2 
Borrowing facilities
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 June which are restricted by the value of developments 
available to be secured under the terms of the facility:
      2011 2010
      Floating rate Floating rate
      £m £m
Expiring:
Within one year      – 30.0
Between one and two years      – 258.7
In more than two years      302.4 –
      302.4 288.7
In May 2011 the Group successfully completed the refinancing of its core bank facility, agreeing a four year £325 million revolving credit facility 
with HSBC Bank plc, Barclays Bank PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc. The new facility provides long term finance and bonding facilities 
providing working capital with a comfortable margin for the Group’s projected requirements until 2015. The new facility is subject to covenants 
over interest cover, gearing, adjusted gearing taking account of land creditor debt and minimum consolidated tangible assets as well as security 
against the Group’s housebuilding development sites. Interest is calculated by aggregating margin, LIBOR and relevant costs. The refinancing 
extends the Group’s debt maturity profile substantially, from February 2012 to May 2015.
Fair value estimation
The table on page 91 analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows:
 • Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1).
 • Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly 
(that is, derived from prices) (level 2).
 • Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
91
FINANCIALS
28 Financial instruments continued
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 June 2011.
     Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets       
– Shared equity receivables     20.0 – 20.0
– Equity securities     2.2 – 2.2
Loans and receivables
– Trade and other receivables     – 296.9 296.9
– Cash and cash equivalents     – 47.8 47.8
Total     22.2 344.7 366.9
     Level 2 Level 3 Total
Liabilities
Liabilities at fair value through the income statement
– Derivatives used for hedging     0.8 – 0.8
Other financial liabilities
– Borrowings     – 11.5 11.5
– Trade and other payables     – 575.7 575.7
Total     0.8 587.2 588.0
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 June 2010.
     Level 2 Level 3 Total
Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets
– Shared equity receivables     13.7 – 13.7
– Equity securities     2.0 – 2.0
Loans and receivables
– Trade and other receivables     – 259.1 259.1
– Cash and cash equivalents     – 166.7 166.7
Total     15.7 425.8 441.5
     Level 2 Level 3 Total
Liabilities
Liabilities at fair value through the income statement
– Derivatives used for hedging     2.1 – 2.1
Other financial liabilities
– Borrowings     – 90.2 90.2
– Trade and other payables     – 498.6 498.6
Total     2.1 588.8 590.9
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using 
valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible  
on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instruments is included in level 3.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include:
 • Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments.
 • The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield curves.
 • Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
92
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
29 Share capital and premium
      Ordinary  Share 
     Number of shares premium Total 
Group and Company     shares £m £m £m
At 1 July 2009      37,776,677   18.9   190.8   209.7 
Proceeds from shares issued      44,072,789   22.0   –   22.0 
At 1 July 2010 and 30 June 2011      81,849,466   40.9   190.8   231.7 
At 30 June 2011 the total number of shares outstanding under the SAYE share option scheme was 1,079,230 (2010: 389,937) and under the 
long term incentive plans was 2,279,552 (2010: 1,573,506) as detailed below:
30 Share based payments
The Company operates performance related share incentive plans for executives, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report.  
The Company also operates savings related option schemes (“SAYE”). The total charge for the year relating to employee share based payment 
plans was £2.5 million (2010: £1.8 million), all of which related to equity settled share based payment transactions. After deferred tax, the total 
charge was £2.0 million (2010: £1.6 million).
The performance period for the awards made under the Company’s long term incentive plan on 10 March 2009 ended on 30 June 2011.  
This award was subject to a relative total shareholder return condition and two underpins based on cash performance and absolute share price 
performance. The Company achieved a 105% total shareholder return for the three year period placing it in first place against its peer group. 
It also significantly bettered its cash underpin targets for the period, however there was a 2% shortfall on the share price underpin target when 
measured on a three month average price basis, which was the assumed methodology when the IFRS 2 valuation for this award was carried out 
at the original grant date. Following consultation with major shareholders, the remuneration committee has exercised its discretion to alternatively 
use a 30 day average for the assessment of the share price target as this is consistent with the averaging period used for assessment of the 
relative total shareholder return condition. The share price underpin target was significantly exceeded on this basis which means that the awards 
will vest to the maximum level in March 2012. The decision to use an alternative averaging period to that originally envisaged in the grant date 
valuation gives rise to an additional IFRS 2 fair value accounting charge of £5.3 million in the financial year to 30 June 2012, which has no 
incremental effect on either cash or the balance sheet.
Savings related share options
The Company operates a HM Revenue and Customs approved savings related option scheme (“SAYE”) under which employees are granted  
an option to purchase ordinary shares in the Company at up to 20% less than the market price at grant, in either three or five years’ time, 
dependent on their entering into a contract to make monthly contributions into a savings account over the relevant period. These funds are  
used to fund the option exercise. This scheme is open to all employees. No performance criteria are applied to the exercise of SAYE options.
The options were valued using the binomial option-pricing model. The fair value per option granted, subsequent to November 2002, and the 
assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
         Employee
         turnover
  Share price Exercise Contract Expected Option life Risk free Dividend before Fair value
Grant date at grant date price date volatility years rate yield vesting per option
20.12.05 655p 496p 01.02.06 37% 5 4.3% 2.3% 10% 270p
09.11.06 1,086p 738p 01.01.07 33% 5 4.8% 1.7% 10% 501p
30.11.07 918p 912p 01.01.08 31% 5 4.6% 2.4% 10% 272p
19.11.10 280p 271p 01.01.11 55% 3 1.6% 4.5% 10% 93.5p
19.11.10 280p 271p 01.01.11 47% 5 2.4% 4.5% 10% 90p
Long term incentive plans
Shares 
awarded
Year of 
grant
Share price 
at grant
Vesting 
date
869,152 2009 250p 11.03.12
547,781 2010 507p 11.09.12
862,619 2011 329p 28.09.13
2,279,552
SAYE share option scheme
Shares 
under option
Year of 
grant
Exercise price 
per share
Exercise period 
ending
70,715 2006 496p 31.07.11
113,534 2007 738p 30.06.12
56,613 2008 912p 30.06.13
508,740 2011 271p 30.06.14
329,628 2011 271p 30.06.16
1,079,230 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
93
FINANCIALS
30 Share based payments continued
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility in the movement in the share price over the last three or five years up to the date of  
grant depending on the option life. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the yield on zero-coupon  
UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. A reconciliation of savings related share awards over the year to  
30 June 2011 is shown below:
   000  000   2011  2010
     Weighted  Weighted
     average  average
    Number exercise price Number exercise price
Outstanding at 1 July     389,937  759p 799,372  710p
Awards    849,767  271p – –
Forfeited    (316) 912p (15,200) 330p
Cancelled    (70,972) 672p (67,195) 350p
Expired    (89,186) 902p (327,040) 337p
Outstanding at 30 June     1,079,230  369p 389,937  759p
Exercisable at 30 June    70,715 496p – –
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was Nil (2010: Nil). There were no share options exercised during the year 
ended 30 June 2011 (2010: Nil). The weighted average remaining contractual life is 3 years 2 months (2010: 1 year 3 months).
Performance related long term incentive plans
The Company operates performance related share incentive plans for executives, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report.  
The awards that vest are satisfied by the transfer of shares for no consideration. The options were valued using a Monte Carlo model. The fair 
value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
    Vesting period/    
   Share price Option life Risk free Dividend Fair value
Grant date   at grant date months rate yield per option
10.09.07   1,061p 36  5.2% 1.5% 518p
10.03.09   250p 36  1.7% 2.5% 72p
11.09.09   507p 36  5.0% 2.1% 368p
28.09.10   328.5p 36  1.1% 3.8% 196p
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility in the movement in the share price of the Company and its comparator group and the 
correlations between them over the last three years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the yield  
on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. A reconciliation of performance related share awards 
over the year to 30 June is shown below:
      2011 2010
      Number Number
Outstanding at 1 July      1,573,506 1,041,336
Granted      862,619 547,781
Forfeited      (156,573) (15,611)
Outstanding at 30 June       2,279,552 1,573,506 
Exercisable at 30 June      – –
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 196p (2010: 579p). There were no options exercised during the year 
ended 30 June 2011 (2010: Nil). The weighted average remaining contractual life is Nil as the shares are exercised on the day that they vest 
(2010: Nil). Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
94
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
31 Other reserves
      Group Company
      Other Other
      reserves reserves
      £m £m
At 1 July 2009, 1 July 2010 and 30 June 2011      5.3  3.0
The Group other reserves relates to a merger reserve amounting to £4.7 million (2010: £4.7million) and the movement on available for sale 
financial assets amounting to £0.6 million (2010: £0.6 million).
32 Retained earnings
      Group Company
     Notes £m £m
At 1 July 2009      79.6 91.8
Profit for the year      10.8 11.2
Actuarial gains recognised in the retirement benefit obligations   33 4.8 –
Deferred tax on movements in equity     6 (1.3) –
Dividends paid      (6.7) (6.7)
Share based payments     30 1.8 1.8
Purchase of own shares      (0.1) (0.1)
Issue of shares       97.3 97.3
At 1 July 2010      186.2 195.3
Profit for the year      32.8 1.1
Actuarial gains recognised in the retirement benefit obligations   33 12.7 –
Deferred tax on movements in equity     6 (3.3) –
Dividends paid      (11.2) (11.2)
Share based payments     30 2.5 2.5
Purchase of own shares      (1.6) (1.6)
At 30 June 2011      218.1 186.1
The cumulative amount of goodwill arising on acquisition and written off directly against reserves is £9.5 million (2010: £9.5 million).
At 30 June 2011, the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust held 690,689 (2010: 310,189) shares. The nominal value of the shares held is  
£0.3 million (2010: £0.2 million). 380,500 shares were acquired during the year (2010: 101,772) at a cost of £1.6 million (2010: £0.1 million).  
The cost of funding and administering the Trust is charged to the income statement of the Company in the period to which it relates. The market 
value of the shares at 30 June 2011 was £3.6 million (2010: £1.0 million). No shareholders (2010: None) have waived their rights to dividends.
33  Retirement benefit obligations
The Group’s principal funded pension scheme is the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme (based on final pensionable salary) with assets 
held in separate trustee administered funds which was closed to all future service accrual on 31 March 2007. All staff employees are entitled to 
join the Galliford Try Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme established as a stakeholder plan, with a Company contribution based on  
a scale dependent on the employee’s age and the amount they choose to contribute. Since 1 April 2009, the Group has operated a pension 
salary sacrifice scheme which means that all employee pension contributions are paid as employer contributions on their behalf.
Pension costs for the schemes were as follows:
      2011 2010
      £m £m
Defined benefit schemes – (income)/expense recognised in the income statement    (0.9) 2.0
Defined contribution schemes      11.3 10.8
Total included within employee benefit expenses (note 3)      10.4 12.8
Of the total charge for all schemes £6.2 million (2010: £5.9 million) and £4.2 million (2010: £6.9 million) were included, respectively, within cost of 
sales and administrative expenses. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
95
FINANCIALS
33  Retirement benefit obligations continued
Defined benefit schemes
An independent actuary performs detailed triennial valuations together with periodic interim reviews. The most recent valuation of the Galliford 
Try Final Salary Pension Scheme was carried out as at 1 July 2009, using the projected unit method. The assumptions used which have the 
most significant effect on the results of the valuation were the investment return, which was assumed to be 5.4% per annum both in the period 
up to and after a member’s retirement, and the rate of price inflation (RPI), which was assumed to be 3.5% per annum. The assumptions for 
mortality were based on actuarial tables S1PMA, medium cohort with 1.25% underpin for males and S1PFA, medium cohort with 1% underpin 
for females. At the date of the last valuation, the value of accrued benefits was £165.2 million. The aggregate market value of the scheme’s 
assets at the valuation date was £117.2 million, representing 71% of the value of the benefits accrued. A deficit recovery funding plan was 
agreed with the Trustees to meet the funding shortfall which requires the Company to pay contributions of £583,333 per calendar month until  
31 July 2013, and then £416,667 per calendar month until 28 February 2019. The next valuation of the scheme is due to be carried out as at  
1 July 2012.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Galliford Group Special Scheme was prepared using the attained age method as at 1 April 2010.  
The assumptions used which have the most significant effect on the results of the valuation were the investment return, which was assumed  
to be 4.4% per annum, and the rate of price inflation (RPI), which was assumed to be 3.7% per annum. At the date of the last valuation, the 
value of accrued benefits was £5.2 million. The aggregate market value of the scheme’s assets was £4.6 million, representing 88% of the value 
of the benefits accrued. A deficit recovery funding plan was agreed with the Trustees to meet the funding shortfall which requires the Company  
to pay contributions of £16,000 per calendar month until 30 September 2013. The next valuation of the scheme is due to be carried out as  
at 1 April 2013.
The Kendall Cross (Holdings) Limited Scheme is funded and provides benefits based on final pensionable salaries. The scheme was closed to 
new members and to future accrual for existing members prior to the date of the acquisition by Galliford Try plc in November 2007. The most 
recent actuarial valuation of the Scheme was prepared using the projected unit method as at 14 November 2008. The assumptions used  
which had the most significant effect on the results of the valuation were the investment return, which was assumed to be 5.2% per annum  
on pre-retirement assets and 4.7% for post-retirement assets. The rate of increase in pensionable salaries was assumed to be 2.5% or 3.8%  
as appropriate. The valuation showed that the market value of the scheme’s assets was £4.9 million and that those assets represented 91%  
of the value of the benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for the expected future increases in pensionable salaries.
The valuation of the Group’s pension schemes have been updated to 30 June 2011 and all information is consolidated for disclosure purposes 
below. The principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the disclosure items are as follows:
      2011 2010
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries       n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment       3.55% 3.25%
Discount rate      5.50% 5.45%
Retail price inflation      3.65% 3.30%
Consumer price inflation      2.85% n/a
The assumptions for mortality are based on actuarial tables S1PMA, medium cohort with 1.25% underpin for males and S1PFA, medium cohort 
with 1% underpin for females (2010: S1PMA, medium cohort with 1.25% underpin for males and S1PFA, medium cohort with 1% underpin for 
females ). The average life expectancy at 65 for future male pensioners is 25.0 years (2010: 24.9 years) and for current male pensioners is 22.6 
years (2010: 22.5 years). The average life expectancy at 65 for future female pensioners is 25.9 years (2010: 25.8 years) and for current female 
pensioners is 24.0 years (2010: 23.9 years).
The fair value of the assets, long term rate of return expected and present value of the obligations at 30 June of the Group’s defined benefit 
arrangements are as follows:
    2011   2010
   Value   Value
  Return £m  Return £m
Equities  8.00% 41.6 26% 7.90% 51.3 35%
Gilts  4.00% 52.8 33% 3.90% 43.9 30%
Bonds  5.50% 50.4 32% 5.45% 46.0 31%
Cash and other * 0.50% – 5.90% 13.6 9% 5.45% 5.3 4%
   158.4 100%  146.5 100%
Present value of defined benefit obligations   (155.2)   (163.8) 
Surplus/(deficit) in scheme recognised as
non-current asset/(liability)   3.2   (17.3) 
* Other assets includes monies held within a deposit administration policy held with Legal and General.
Where investments are held in bonds and cash, the expected long term rate of return is taken to be the yields generally prevailing on such assets 
at the balance sheet date. A higher rate of return is expected on equity investments, which is based on more realistic future expectations than on 
the returns that have been available historically. The overall expected long term rate of return on assets is then the average of these rates taking 
into account the underlying asset portfolio of the pension scheme. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
96
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
33  Retirement benefit obligations continued
Sensitivity analysis of scheme liabilities
The sensitivity of the present value of scheme liabilities to changes in the principal assumptions is set out below.
 Change in assumption   Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase by 0.1%   Decrease by £3.3 million
Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1%   Decrease by £2.4 million
Increase in pension payments Increase by 0.05%   Increase by £0.5 million
Life expectancy Increase by one year   Increase by £3.7 million
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
      2011   2010
      £m £m
Gains on settlement (Enhanced Transfer Value)      (1.4) –
Finance cost       8.8 9.5 
Expected return on scheme assets      (8.3) (7.5)
Net finance costs      0.5 2.0 
(Income)/ expense recognised in the income statement       (0.9) 2.0 
The actual return on scheme assets was £19.0 million (2010: £22.5 million).
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
      2011 2010
      £m £m
Total amount of actuarial gains in the year      12.7  4.8 
Cumulative actuarial losses      (17.2) (29.9)
        
      2011 2010
Movement in present value of defined benefit obligations     £m £m
At 1 July       163.8 149.5 
Interest cost      8.8 9.5 
Experience gains/(losses)      0.6 (9.9)
Gains on settlements (Enhanced Transfer Value)      (10.1) –
Impact of change in assumptions      (2.6) 20.1 
Benefit payments      (5.3) (5.4)
At 30 June      155.2  163.8 
        
      2011 2010
Movement in fair value of scheme assets      £m £m
At 1 July       146.5  122.0 
Expected return on scheme assets      8.3  7.5 
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets      10.7  15.0 
Employer contributions      6.9  7.4 
Losses on settlements (Enhanced Transfer Value)      (8.7) –
Benefit payments      (5.3) (5.4)
At 30 June      158.4  146.5
The contributions expected to be paid to the defined benefit schemes during the year ended 30 June 2012 is £7.3 million. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
97
FINANCIALS
33  Retirement benefit obligations continued
Details of experience gains and losses in the year:   2011 2010 2009 2008 2007
Difference between the expected and actual return on assets:
Amount £m   10.7 15.0  (19.3) (15.8) 2.4 
Percentage of assets   7 10  (16) (11) 2 
Experience (gains) and losses on scheme liabilities:        
Amount £m   (0.6) 9.9  (1.6) 0.4  1.9 
Percentage of present value of defined benefit obligations   – 6 (1) – 1
Total amount recognised in statement of comprehensive income:      
Amount £m   12.7 4.8  (6.5) (11.8) 3.9 
Percentage of present value of liabilities   8 3  (4) (7) 2 
During the year the Company undertook an Enhanced Transfer Value (ETV) exercise in relation to deferred members of the Galliford Try Final 
Salary Scheme. The impact of the exercise has been recognised as a settlement gain of £1.4 million through the income statement with the 
amount recorded equal to the difference between the actual ETV payments made (£8.7 million) and the IAS 19 reserve discharge (£10.1 million).  
No special one-off contributions were made to the Scheme in relation to this exercise. As at 30 June 2011, around £3.8 million of the payments 
due were unpaid. The 30 June 2011 asset values therefore include a current liability of £3.8 million to reflect the payments due.
On 8 July 2010, the UK Government announced that the statutory measure to be used for indexing pensions payable for occupational pension 
schemes was to change from RPI to CPI. The Rules of the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme and the Kendall Cross (Holdings) Ltd 
Pensions and Assurance Scheme provide the deferred revaluation in line with the statutory provisions and hence benefits payable under these 
schemes will be revalued in deferment in line with CPI in the future. This change has led to a reduction in the Company’s obligations in respect  
of the Galliford Try and Kendall Cross pension schemes of £9.7 million and £0.25 million respectively at 30 June 2011, and the impact of the 
change has been recognised as an actuarial gain through Other Comprehensive Income. The increases provided to pensions in payment under 
Galliford Try’s three defined benefit pension arrangements are explicitly linked to RPI under the schemes’ Rules and are therefore not affected by 
the Government’s announcement.
34 Financial and capital commitments
      2011 2010
Group      £m £m
Commitments for:
Capital expenditure in subsidiaries      – –
Subordinated debt in joint ventures      – 1.6 
Subordinated debt in non-current assets classified as held for sale    – 1.5 
      – 3.1 
Galliford Try plc, together with certain of its subsidiaries, has entered into non-cancellable contracts for the operational leasing of land and 
buildings and plant and machinery. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The maximum commitments for 
payments under these contracts are as follows:
     2011  2010
     Vehicles, plant  Vehicles, plant
    Property and equipment Property and equipment
    £m £m £m £m
Amounts due:       
Within one year    3.7 7.7 3.7 6.4
Later than one year and less than five years    12.3 15.2 13.4 10.8
After five years    16.1 – 19.7 –
    32.1 22.9 36.8 17.2
Galliford Try plc, together with certain of its subsidiaries, has entered into arrangements with HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc  
and Barclays Bank PLC to guarantee the borrowings of Group companies. Fixed charges have been given to these banks over certain of the 
Group’s developments. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
98
Notes to the 
consolidated financial statements continued
35 Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Galliford Try plc has entered into financial guarantees and counter indemnities in respect of bank and performance bonds issued on  
behalf of Group undertakings, including joint arrangements and joint ventures, in the normal course of business amounting to £125.5 million  
(2010: £120.7 million).
Disputes arise in the normal course of business, some of which lead to litigation or arbitration procedures. The Directors make proper  
provision in the financial statements when they believe a liability exists. Whilst the outcome of disputes and arbitration is never certain,  
the Directors believe that the resolution of all existing actions will not have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial position.
36 Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not  
included within this note. Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and jointly controlled operations are disclosed as follows:
 Sales to Purchases from Amounts owed Amounts owed to
 related parties related parties by related parties related parties
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trading transactions
Joint ventures 12.6 14.8 0.3 0.1 16.5 7.0 1.5 0.8
Jointly controlled operations  19.3 36.0 16.0 0.2 – 1.8 – 0.3
 Interest income
 from loans to Loans to Loans from Injection of
 related parties related parties related parties equity funding
 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010
 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-trading transactions
Joint ventures 1.7 2.4 45.6 39.0 – – 0.1 1.9
Services are sold to related parties based on terms that would be available to unrelated third parties. Receivables are due within 8 years  
(2010: 6 years) and are unsecured and interest rates vary from bank base rate plus 1.75% to 10%. Payables are due within 1 year  
(2010: 1 year) and are interest free.
The Company has provided performance guarantees in respect of certain operational contracts entered into between joint ventures and a  
Group undertaking.
The Company has entered into a financial guarantee in respect of its joint venture Crest/Galliford Try (Epsom) LLP . The maximum amount  
payable under the terms of this guarantee is £13.75 million (2010: £13.75 million).
37 Post balance sheet events
No matters have arisen since the year end that require disclosure in the financial statements. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
99
FINANCIALS
Five year record
   2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
   £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue    1,409.7  1,831.9  1,461.2  1,221.9  1,284.2
Profit before exceptional items    53.0  71.8  24.5  26.1  35.1
Exceptional items    7.2  (11.5) (51.4) (6.9) 6.6
Profit/(loss) before taxation   60.2  60.3  (26.9) 19.2  41.7
Tax   (16.6) (17.8) 9.1  (8.4) (8.9)
Profit/(loss) after taxation attributable to shareholders   43.6  42.5  (17.8) 10.8  32.8
     
Fixed assets, investments in joint ventures and  
available for sale financial assets   15.4  24.1  18.4  25.4  32.5
Intangible assets and goodwill   121.2  125.2  123.2  121.9  124.0
Net current assets    312.0  321.6  269.2  346.4  277.4
Long term receivables    15.7  34.4  52.3  49.4  53.5
Long term payables and provisions   (157.7) (180.0) (168.5) (119.9) (32.3)
Net assets    306.6  325.3  294.6  423.2  455.1
Share capital    18.8  18.9  18.9  40.9  40.9
Reserves    287.8  306.4  275.7  382.3  414.2
Total equity    306.6  325.3  294.6  423.2  455.1
Dividends per share (pence)   21.7  21.7  10.9  12.5  16.0
Basic earnings per share (pence)   103.5  82.5  (34.4) 14.7  40.3
Diluted earnings per share (pence)   102.1  82.5  (34.4) 14.7  39.4
All dividend and earnings per share figures above, for the years 2007 to 2009, have been restated for the effect of the October 2009 share 
consolidation and rights issue. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
100
Shareholder information
Registered office
Galliford Try plc
Cowley Business Park
Cowley
Uxbridge UB8 2AL 
Registration
England and Wales 00836539
Stockbrokers
Peel Hunt LLP
RBS Hoare Govett
Financial advisers
Rothschild
 
Bankers
HSBC Bank plc
Barclays Bank PLC
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Financial calendar 2011
Half year results announced       23 February
Interim dividend paid        12 April
Full year results announced        14 September
Ex dividend date        5 October
Final dividend record date        7 October
Annual General Meeting       11 November
Final dividend payment        18 November
Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrars are Equiniti Limited. They will be pleased to deal with any questions regarding your shareholding or dividend payments. 
Please notify them if you change your address or other personal information. Call the shareholder contact centre on 0871 384 2030 or write to 
them at:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6ZX
You can find a number of shareholder services online via their website at www.shareview.co.uk, including the portfolio service which gives you 
access to more information on your investments such as balance movements, indicative share prices and information on recent dividends.  
You can also register your email address to receive shareholder information and Annual Report and Financial Statements electronically.
Low cost share dealing service
A telephone and internet dealing service is available through Equiniti which provides a simple way of buying and selling Galliford Try shares. 
Commission is currently 1.5% with a minimum charge of £25 for telephone dealing and 1% with a minimum charge of £20 for internet dealing. 
For telephone sales call 0845 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to www.shareview.co.uk/
dealing. You will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate. Share dealing services are also widely provided  
by other organisations. The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the code GFRD and the SEDOL and ISIN references are 
B3Y2J50 and GB00B3Y2J508.
Group website
You can find out more about the Group on our website www.gallifordtry.co.uk which includes a section specifically prepared for investors.  
In this section you can check the Company’s share price, find the latest Company news, look at the financial reports and presentations as well  
as search frequently asked questions and answers on shareholding matters. There is also further advice for shareholders regarding unsolicited  
boiler room frauds. 
The Company’s up to date share price can also be obtained by calling the voice activated Cityline on 09058 171690 (calls charged at 75p per 
minute from a landline).
Company contact
Contact with existing and prospective shareholders is welcomed by the Company. If you have any questions please contact the Company 
Secretary, either at the registered office or via email (richard.barraclough@gallifordtry.co.uk).
Analysis of shareholdings
at 30 June 2011
    % of Number of % of Number of 
Size of shareholding    holders holders shares shares
1 – 10,000      92 4,056 6  4,614,820
10,001 – 50,000      4 176 4  3,606,701
50,001 – 500,000       3  123 27 21,845,542
500,001 – Highest      1  39 63 51,782,403  www.gallifordtry.co.uk
Boxgrove Gardens is an attractive 
development of 199 homes in Guildford, 
Surrey that features varied streetscapes and  
a village green. Further details on page 18.
The restoration and creation of a luxury hotel 
and apartments from the iconic St Pancras 
Chambers in London was completed during 
the year. Further details on page 25.
Printed on Hello Matt, which is produced using  
wood fibre from fully sustainable forests, certified  
as well managed in accordance with the rules of the  
FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). All pulps used are  
Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) and are manufactured  
at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 and  
EMAS certificates for environmental management.  
The report has been printed by Quadracolor,  
an FSC approved printer.
  
Designed and produced by www.farraday.com Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the forty-seventh Annual 
General Meeting of Galliford Try plc will be held at the offices  
of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, 3rd Floor Conference 
Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA on Friday  
11 November 2011 at 11.15 a.m. The business of the Meeting 
will be to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 
resolutions. Resolutions 1 to 12 are proposed as ordinary 
resolutions, and Resolutions 13 to 15 are proposed as special 
resolutions: 
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS
1. To receive the directors’ report and the audited financial 
statements  for the year to 30 June 2011, together with the 
auditors’ report thereon.
2. To approve the directors’ remuneration report for the year  
to 30 June 2011.
3.  To declare a final dividend of 11.5 pence per ordinary share.
4. To re-appoint Ian Coull as a director of the Company.
5. To re-appoint Amanda Burton as a director of the Company.
6. To re-appoint Greg Fitzgerald as a director of the Company.
7. To re-appoint Andrew Jenner as a director of the Company.
8. To re-appoint Frank Nelson as a director of the Company.
9. To re-appoint Peter Rogers as a director of the Company.
10. To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors  
to the Company.
11. To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration  
of the auditors.
12. To authorise the directors generally and unconditionally 
pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to 
exercise all powers of the Company to allot shares in  
the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to 
convert any security into shares in the Company up to an 
aggregate nominal amount of £27,282,992 comprising:
(a) an aggregate nominal amount of £13,641,496 
(whether in connection with the same offer or issue  
as under (b) below or otherwise); and
(b) an aggregate nominal amount of £13,641,496 in the 
form of equity securities (within the meaning of section 
560(1) of the Companies Act 2006) in connection with 
an offer or issue by way of rights, open for acceptance 
for a period fixed by the directors, to holders of ordinary 
shares (other than the Company) on the register on any 
record date fixed by the directors in proportion (as nearly 
as may be) to the respective number of ordinary 
shares deemed to be held by them, subject to such 
exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may 
deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional 
entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any 
overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory 
body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever.
This authority shall expire (unless previously varied, revoked or 
renewed by the Company in general meeting) fifteen months 
after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the 
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 
2012, except that the Company may before such expiry make 
an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant 
securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may 
allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement 
as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS
13. To empower the directors pursuant to section 570 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities (as defined  
in section 560(1) of that Act) for cash pursuant to the 
general authority conferred on them by resolution 12 above 
and/or to sell equity securities held as treasury shares for 
cash pursuant to section 727 of that Act, in each case  
as if section 561(1) of that Act did not apply to any such 
allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to:
(a) any such allotment and/or sale of equity securities in 
connection with an offer or issue by way of rights or 
other pre-emptive offer or issue, open for acceptance 
for a period fixed by the directors, to holders of ordinary 
shares (other than the Company) on the register on 
any record date fixed by the directors in proportion (as 
nearly as may be) to the respective number of ordinary 
shares deemed to be held by them, subject to such 
exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may 
deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional 
entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any 
overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory 
body or stock exchange or any other matter 
whatsoever; and
(b) any such allotment and/or sale, otherwise than pursuant 
to sub-paragraph (a) above, of equity securities having, 
in the case of ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal 
amount or, in the case of other equity securities, 
giving the right to subscribe or convert into ordinary 
shares having an aggregate nominal amount, not 
exceeding the sum of £2,046,244.
This authority shall expire, unless previously revoked or renewed 
by the Company in general meeting, at such time as the general 
authority conferred on the directors by resolution 12 above 
expires, except that the Company may at any time before such 
expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might require 
equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held as 
treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the directors 
may allot equity securities and/or sell equity securities held as 
treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement  
as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired. 
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2011 Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011
14. Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members 
meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section 
have the right to require the Company to publish on a 
website a statement setting out any matter relating to:  
(i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the 
auditors’ report and the conduct of the audit) that are  
to be laid before the Annual General Meeting; or (ii) any 
circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company 
ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which 
annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with 
section 437 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company 
may not require the shareholders requesting any such 
website publication to pay its expenses in complying with 
sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006. Where 
the Company is required to place a statement on a website 
under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must 
forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not later 
than the time when it makes the statement available on  
the website. The business which may be dealt with at the 
Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the 
Company has been required under section 527 of the 
Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
15. Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask 
questions. The Company must cause to be answered  
any such question relating to the business being dealt  
with at the meeting but no such answer need be given  
if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation 
for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential 
information, (b) the answer has already been given on a 
website in the form of an answer to a question, or (c) it is 
undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good 
order of the meeting that the question be answered.
16. A copy of this Notice, and other information required by 
section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found  
at www.gallifordtry.co.uk. 
17. Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies 
Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements  
in those sections have the right to require the Company  
(i) to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive 
notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may 
properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the 
meeting and/or (ii) to include in the business to be dealt 
with at the meeting any matter (other than a proposed 
resolution) which may be properly included in the business. 
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may 
properly be included in the business unless (a) (in the  
case of a resolution only) it would, if passed, be ineffective 
(whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment  
or the Company’s constitution or otherwise), (b) it is 
defamatory of any person, or (c) it is frivolous or vexatious. 
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic 
form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be 
given or the matter to be included in the business, must  
be authorised by the person or persons making it, must  
be received by the Company not later than 30 September 
2011, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, 
and (in the case of a matter to be included in the business 
only) must be accompanied by a statement setting out  
the grounds for the request. 
18. The service agreements of the executive directors and 
copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive 
directors are available for inspection during normal 
business hours at the registered office of the Company 
and will be available for inspection for fifteen minutes prior 
to and immediately following the Annual General Meeting. 
19. Any electronic address, within the meaning of section  
334(4) of the Companies Act 2006, provided in this Notice, 
or any related documents including the proxy form, may 
not be used to communicate with the Company for any 
purpose other than those expressly stated. Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011
NOTES
1. Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or 
any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their 
behalf at the meeting. A shareholder may appoint more 
than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting 
provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the 
rights attached to a different share or shares held by that 
shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the 
Company. A proxy form which may be used to make such 
appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies  
this Notice. 
2. To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing 
a proxy must be either (a) deposited at the Company’s 
registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, 
Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZX so that it is received  
no later than 11.15 a.m. on 9 November 2011 (b) lodged 
using the CREST Proxy Voting Service – see paragraph  
9 below or (c) lodged electronically by visiting  
www.sharevote.co.uk – see paragraph 13 below.
3. The return of a completed proxy form, other such 
instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction (as described 
in paragraph 9 below) will not prevent a shareholder 
attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in  
person if he/she wishes to do so. 
4. Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person 
nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 
to enjoy information rights (a “Nominated Person”) may, 
under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder 
by whom he/she was nominated, have a right to be 
appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy 
for the Annual General Meeting. If a Nominated Person  
has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to 
exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, have  
a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the 
exercise of voting rights. 
5. The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation  
to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2  
above does not apply to Nominated Persons. The rights 
described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by 
shareholders of the Company. 
6. To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General 
Meeting (and for the purpose of the determination by the 
Company of the votes they may cast), shareholders must 
be registered in the Register of Members of the Company 
at 6.00 p.m. on 9 November 2011 (or, in the event of any 
adjournment, 6.00 p.m. on the date which is two days 
before the time of the adjourned meeting.). Changes to  
the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall 
be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to 
attend and vote at the meeting.
7. As at the date of this Notice the Company’s issued share 
capital consists of 81,849,796 ordinary shares of 50 pence 
each, carrying one vote each. Therefore, the total voting 
rights in the Company as at the date of this Notice are 
81,849,796. 
8. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies 
through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service 
may do so by using the procedures described in the 
CREST Manual. CREST personal members or other 
CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members 
who have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to 
their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s), who  
will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
9. In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using 
the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST 
message (a “CREST Proxy Instruction”) must be properly 
authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland 
Limited’s specifications, and must contain the information 
required for such instruction, as described in the CREST 
Manual (available via www.euroclear.com/CREST).  
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the 
appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the 
instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must,  
in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received  
by the issuer’s agent (ID 7RA01) by 11.15 a.m. on  
9 November 2011. For this purpose, the time of receipt  
will be taken to be the time (as determined by the time 
stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application 
Host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the 
message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed 
by CREST. After this time any change of instructions to 
proxies appointed through CREST should be 
communicated to the appointee through other means.
10. CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 
sponsors, or voting service providers should note that 
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available 
special procedures in CREST for any particular message. 
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply 
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is  
the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take 
(or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, 
or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service 
provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to 
ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the 
CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, 
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 
sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, 
to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning 
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
11. The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy 
Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation  
35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
12. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or 
more corporate representatives who may exercise on its 
behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they  
do not do so in relation to the same shares.
13. Shareholders may, if they wish, register the appointment of 
a proxy electronically by visiting www.sharevote.co.uk. To 
use this service a shareholder will need his reference number, 
card ID and account number printed on the accompanying 
proxy form. Full details of the procedure are given on the 
website at www.sharevote.co.uk. Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011
14. That the Company be and is generally and unconditionally 
authorised to make market purchases (as defined in 
section 693(4) of the Companies Act 2006) of its ordinary 
shares of 50 pence each provided that in doing so it:
(a) purchases no more than 8,184,979 ordinary shares  
of 50 pence each;
(b) pays not less than 50 pence (excluding expenses)  
per ordinary share of 50 pence each; and
(c) pays a price per share that is not more (excluding 
expenses) per ordinary share than the higher of  
(i) 5% above the average of the middle market 
quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the 
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five 
business days immediately before the day on which it 
purchases that share; and (ii) the price stipulated by 
Article 5(1) of the Buy-back and Stabilisation 
Regulation (EC 2273/2003).
This authority shall expire eighteen months after the date of the 
passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the 
Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012, 
except that the Company may, if it agrees to purchase ordinary 
shares under this authority before it expires, complete the 
purchase wholly or partly after this authority expires.
15. That a general meeting other than an Annual General 
Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear  
days’ notice.
By order of the board
Richard Barraclough
Company Secretary
14 September 2011
Registered office:
Cowley Business Park
Cowley 
Uxbridge
Middlesex 
UB8 2AL
Registered in England and Wales No. 00836539
EXPLANATION OF RESOLUTIONS
Resolution 1 – Annual Report and financial statements
The directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to 
present to the shareholders of the Company at a general 
meeting the reports of the directors and auditors, and the 
audited financial statements of the Company for the year  
ended 30 June 2011. The Annual Report including the audited  
financial statements has been approved by the directors,  
and the report of the auditors has been prepared by the 
auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 
Resolution 2 – Remuneration report
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to separately 
seek shareholder approval for the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report at the general meeting before which the Company’s 
annual accounts are laid. The Directors’ Remuneration Report  
is included in the Annual Report and Accounts, from page 48.  
If shareholders vote against the report the directors will still be 
paid, but the Remuneration Committee will reconsider its policy 
for future years. 
Resolution 3 – Declaration of dividend
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 11.5 pence 
per ordinary share, payable on 18 November 2011 to holders 
on the register as at 7 October 2011. The final dividend will  
not be paid without shareholder approval and the amount  
may not exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Resolution 4 – Re-appointment of director
The Company’s articles of association require any new  
director appointed by the board to hold office only until the  
next Annual General Meeting, at which meeting that director 
becomes eligible for re-appointment by shareholders. Ian Coull 
joined the Company as an independent non-executive director 
on 8 November 2010. The commercial skills and experience  
which he brings to the Company are both highly valued and 
complementary to the skills of other board members. He was 
appointed Chairman on 1 July 2011 and the formal performance 
evaluation carried out during the financial year confirmed his 
effective performance to date and commitment to his new role. 
Resolutions 5 to 9 – Re-appointment of directors
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that  
all directors of companies in the FTSE 350 stand for  
re-appointment on an annual basis and the board has resolved 
that all directors should stand for re-appointment in 2011, as 
explained in the policy developments section of the Corporate 
Governance report on page 42 of the Annual Report. The 
biographical details of the directors can be found on page 40  
of the Annual Report. A formal performance appraisal of each 
director has been undertaken in 2011 to evaluate directors’ 
respective performance, this year that process confirmed that 
each director continues to perform effectively and that their 
commitment to their roles continues.  Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011
Resolutions 10 & 11 – Auditors and their remuneration
The Companies Act 2006 requires that auditors be appointed at 
each general meeting at which accounts are laid, to hold office 
until the next such meeting. These resolutions seek shareholder 
approval for the reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP, in accordance with the recommendation of the directors, 
and permit the directors to determine the auditors’ remuneration 
for the audit work to be carried out by them in the next  
financial year. 
Resolution 12 – Allotment of shares
The Companies Act 2006 provides that the directors may  
only allot shares if authorised by shareholders to do so. 
Resolution 12 will, if passed, authorise the directors to allot  
the Company’s unissued shares up to a maximum nominal 
amount of £27,282,992, which represents an amount which is 
approximately equal to two-thirds of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company as at the date of this Notice of Meeting. 
As at 14 September 2011, the Company did not hold any 
treasury shares.
As provided in paragraph (a) of the resolution, up to half of this 
authority (equal to one-third of the issued share capital of the 
Company) will enable directors to allot and issue new shares  
in whatever manner (subject to pre-emption rights) they see fit. 
Paragraph (b) of the resolution provides that the remainder of 
the authority (equal to a further one-third) may only be used in 
connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders. 
As paragraph (a) imposes no restrictions on the way the authority 
may be exercised, it could be used in conjunction with paragraph 
(b) so as to enable the whole two-thirds authority to be used in 
connection with a rights issue. This reflects the best practice 
guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The authority will expire at the earlier of the date that is fifteen 
months after the date of the passing of the resolution and the 
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company. 
Passing resolution 12 will ensure that the directors continue to 
have the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, 
when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares. There are no 
current plans to issue new shares except in connection with 
employee share schemes. 
While the directors have separately committed to individually 
stand for re-appointment at the 2011 Annual General Meeting 
and annually going forward, as outlined in the policy developments 
section of the Corporate Governance report on page 42 of the 
Annual Report, they separately undertake to also automatically 
stand for re-appointment in the event that the whole two-thirds 
authority is used in connection with a rights issue in favour of 
ordinary shareholders.
Resolution 13 – Disapplication of statutory  
pre-emption rights
The Companies Act 2006 requires that, if the Company issues 
new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first 
offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their current 
holdings. It is proposed that the directors be authorised to issue 
shares for cash and/or sell shares from treasury (if any are  
so held) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £2,046,244 
(representing approximately 5% of the Company’s issued share 
capital as at 14 September 2011, being the date of this Notice 
of Meeting) without offering them to shareholders first, and to 
modify statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, regulatory 
or practical problems that may arise on a rights or other pre-
emptive offer or issue. If passed, this authority will expire at the 
same time as the authority to allot shares given pursuant to 
resolution 12. The directors do not intend to issue more than 
7.5% of the issued share capital on a non-pre-emptive basis  
in any rolling three-year period in accordance with related 
guidance of the Pre-Emption Group.
Resolution 14 – Purchase of own shares
This resolution seeks to renew the Company’s authority to 
purchase its own shares. It specifies the maximum number  
of shares which may be acquired as 10% of the Company’s 
issued ordinary share capital, and specifies the minimum and 
maximum prices at which shares may be bought. The directors 
will only use this authority if, in the light of market conditions 
prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such 
purchases will be to increase earnings per share, and that 
taking into account other investment opportunities, purchases 
will be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.  
Any shares purchased in accordance with this authority will  
be cancelled or held in treasury for subsequent transfer to  
an employee share scheme. The directors have no present 
intention of exercising this authority, which will expire at the 
earlier of the date that is eighteen months after the date of  
the passing of the resolution and the conclusion of the next 
Annual General Meeting of the Company. Under the Company’s 
share option and restricted share schemes, at 14 September 
2011, options and restricted share awards over a total of  
3,445,977 ordinary shares in the Company (of which 690,689 
shares are held by the Employee Share Trust), were outstanding 
representing 4.21% of the issued share capital. This would 
represent 4.68% of issued share capital if the proposed authority 
to purchase the Company's shares were exercised in full. 
Resolution 15 – Notice period for general meetings 
The Company must give at least 21 clear days’ notice of  
any general meeting, but is permitted to call meetings other 
than the Annual General Meeting on at least 14 clear days’ 
notice if annual shareholder approval is obtained beforehand.  
The Company must also offer, for any meeting held on less  
than 21 clear days’ notice, a facility to vote by electronic  
means that is accessible to all shareholders. The directors  
do not intend to call a meeting on less than 21 clear days’ 
notice unless they consider it would be to the advantage of 
shareholders as a whole. Galliford Try plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
