 Galliford Try plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
A strategy 
for success Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Galliford Try is a leading UK 
housebuilding and construction 
group. We are listed on the 
London Stock Exchange and 
are a member of the FTSE 250.
Our vision
Group structure
To be leaders in the 
construction of a 
sustainable future.
Our objective
T o generate a superior 
return for shareholders, 
maintain our position as a 
leading housebuilder and 
grow our construction 
business when 
markets allow.
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
Contents
Business review
01 Highlights 
02 At a glance
06 Chairman’s statement
08 Chief Executive’s 
 strategic review
14 Finance review
 Divisional review: 
18  Housebuilding
26  Construction
33  PPP Investments
34 Principal risks
36 Sustainability
Governance
46 Directors and 
 executive board
48 Governance
56 Remuneration policy
65 Directors’ report and other 
 statutory information
Financials
68 Independent auditors’ 
 report to the members of 
 Galliford Try plc
69 Consolidated income  
 statement
70  Consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income
71 Balance sheets
72 Consolidated statement 
 of changes in equity
72 Company statement of 
 changes in equity
73 Statement of cash flows
74 Notes to the consolidated 
 financial statements
110 Five year record
111  Shareholder information
Our activities are 
spread across 
two different but 
complementary 
businesses, 
housebuilding and 
construction. This 
hybrid model gives us 
distinct competitive 
advantages. See our 
business model on 
page 10 for more 
information. 
PPP Investments
Galliford Try Investments
Building
Galliford Try Building
Morrison Construction
Infrastructure
Galliford Try Infrastructure
Morrison Construction
Partnerships
Galliford Try Partnerships
Group Services 
Health, Safety & Environment
Human Resources
Finance & Corporate
Private 
Housing
Linden Homes
Affordable 
Housing
Galliford Try 
Affordable 
Housing & 
Regeneration
Corporate values 
Excellence, passion, integrity 
and collaboration
Galliford Try plc
Construction
Housebuilding
Front cover image
Water Colour combines the best of urban 
and country living. With the countryside 
on its doorstep, Water Colour is also close 
to Redhill and Reigate town centres, with 
good links to London and beyond. 01 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Highlights
Financial Year ended 30 June 2013
Group key 
performance 
indicators
Housebuilding
Construction
Group revenue
1
Down 2%
Earnings per share
Up 18%
Cash and capital management
Year end net debt
•	13.1%	housebuilding	margin	shows	 
strong performance	(2012: 11.8%);	
•	16%	increase	in	sales	currently	reserved,	contracted	
or completed	at	£405	million	(2012:	£350	million);
•	2,932	completions	(2012:	3,039);
•	86%	of 11,300	plot	landbank	now	acquired	 
at	current	market	values	(2012:	81%	of	10,500);
•	100%	of	land	required	for	2014	financial	year	 
in	place,	and 90% of	land	secured	for	2015.
•	1.7%	construction	margin	remained	robust	(2012:	2.0%);
•	Strong	year	end	construction	cash	balance	 
of	£145	million	(2012: £146	million);
•	£1.7	billion	current	construction	order	book	
(2012: £1.65 billion);	
•	87%	of	this	year’s	planned	revenue	secured	(2012:	86%).
1 Group revenue excludes share of joint ventures’ revenue of £92.1 million (2012: £72.2 million). Revenue where stated throughout the business review includes share of joint ventures.
£1,467m
71.7p
£14.4m
Profit	before	tax
Up 17%
Dividend per share
Up 23%
Health	&	Safety
Accident frequency rate
£7 4.1m
37.0p
0.10 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 02
Completions 
by sector
Private
Affordable
2,932
2,244
688
At a glance
Our divisions
Two	strong	
businesses…
Housebuilding
Operating through Linden Homes, we are 
a leading housebuilder. We develop individual 
homes in prime locations nationwide and 
have a strong presence in the south of 
England and the eastern counties. 
Creating distinctive homes that complement 
their local surroundings, we take pride in 
attention to detail and the quality of our 
houses and apartments. We typically build 
on brownfield sites and can take on the most 
complex developments by using the skills 
of our construction division, reinforcing our 
industry leading offering and differentiating 
us in the new homes market. 
With a keen focus on customer service, 
we have built our business on commitment 
to our customers. Our success has been 
demonstrated by our level of satisfied 
customers and this has been recognised by 
Linden Homes winning a host of high profile 
awards over the last 12 months.
Following a period of expansion over the three 
years to June 2012, the Group now delivers 
around 3,000 homes annually to customers in 
its chosen regions.
Key developments for the business in the 
financial year included King Harry Park and 
Mosaic in St Albans; Nash Mills Wharf in 
Hertfordshire; Cholsey Meadows at Cholsey, 
Oxfordshire; Burntwood Square in 
Brentwood, Essex; Milbury Reach in Exeter, 
Devon; Purifier House in Bristol; and Saint 
Nicholasgate in Beverley, East Yorkshire.
Forthcoming developments anticipated for 
2014 include Boyn Hill in Maidenhead and 
Oakbrook in Langley, both in Berkshire; 
Millbrook Park, Finchley and Ashlar Court, 
Hammersmith, both in London; Northfields in 
Colchester, Essex; Riverside in Goldalming, 
Surrey; City Glade, St Loyes in Exeter; and 
Oasis in Lincoln, Lincolnshire.
“Linden Homes has an 
excellent	reputation,	
award-winning	quality,	
delivering homes in prime 
locations and a sound 
strategy for disciplined 
growth	and	higher	
margins.”	
Greg Fitzgerald
Chief Executive
£640m
Revenue
Up £2.9m
Profit from operations
Up 11%
Profit margin
Up 11%
Landbank
Up 8%
Home completions
Down 107 units
£83.5m
13. 1%
11,300 2,932
2013	performance:	Housebuilding 
Linden Homes, our housebuilding business 
had a record year, with profits, average selling 
price, year end sales in hand and landbank 
all reaching new highs. The business enters 
the new financial year in excellent shape, 
with the prospect of further growth and 
higher margins.
Folders Meadow, West Sussex Business review
03 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Revenue by activity
Building
Partnerships
Infrastructure
£913m
£407m
£90m
£416m
Construction
Our construction division is a major UK 
contractor. We have a diversified workload in 
the public, regulated and private sectors, and 
look to develop long-term client relationships 
that allow us to work in partnership to deliver 
best value. We have a strong reputation for 
providing whole-life solutions, high standards 
of project delivery, an ability to innovate and 
the diversity of our activities.
Construction operates mainly under the 
Galliford Try and Morrison Construction 
brands, and is organised into building, 
partnerships and infrastructure divisions. 
Building serves clients in the health, 
education and commercial markets across 
the UK. Partnerships is our specialist 
affordable housing contractor, with a strong 
business in the south and north east and a 
growing presence elsewhere. Infrastructure 
carries out civil engineering projects, primarily 
for clients in the water, highways, remediation, 
oil and gas, and energy from waste markets.
The construction division also includes our 
multi-disciplined group of chartered 
surveyors; and our national piling specialists.
In addition, our Investments business invests 
in public private partnerships, creating 
construction and facilities management 
opportunities for the Group, while benefiting 
from our strong balance sheet.
“With our broad range of 
capability,	strong	regional	
positions,	long-term	
customer relationships 
and focus on risk 
management,	we	are	well	
placed	to	grow	when	
markets	improve.”	
Ken Gillespie
Construction Division Chief Executive
£913m
Revenue
Down 1.3%
Profit margin
On plan
Cash
Strong performance
Profit from operations
Down 20%
Order book
Maintained
1.7%
£145m
£15.1m
£1.7bn
2013	performance:	Construction 
Construction performed well in difficult 
markets. The business won a number of 
significant new contracts, allowing it to 
maintain its order book, and enters the new 
year with a solid position.
Tidemill School, Deptford Lounge and 
Resolution Studios, South East London Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 04
At a glance
Strength in diversity
…delivering a 
competitive 
advantage
An integrated service offering
Our internal trading charter encourages our divisions to 
work together, creating combinations of skills that are 
attractive to our clients and which keep profit within the 
Group. For example, construction is increasingly 
supporting housebuilding on complex and challenging 
sites and with building apartments. 
At Gresham Mill (pictured left) four construction business 
units worked with Linden Homes to rejuvenate a former 
printworks, creating 70 apartments and 18 townhouses, 
including a water turbine to produce 10% of the homes’ 
electricity needs. At Gloucestershire County Cricket Club 
(pictured below) our Building division is delivering nearly 
150 homes for housebuilding, as well as improvements to 
the cricket ground.
A construction business  
spread across markets
Construction benefits from the diversity of its markets. As the public 
sector market has become more difficult, the private sector has 
increased and regulated work has continued to come through. 
We are strong in the water sector, with recent projects including 
odour reduction at Beckton, Europe’s largest sewage treatment 
works (pictured below); and upgrades and extensions to Liverpool 
Wastewater Treatment Works (right). We were also recently 
reappointed to a major water and environmental management 
framework with the Environment Agency for 2013–17, with a 
significant future workload expected. Business review
05 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Benefits of a diverse Group
In recent years, construction has benefited from being 
part of a diverse Group. Our growth in housebuilding 
has allowed construction to be selective in difficult 
markets, helping it to manage risk and protect its 
margins by focusing on high-quality work, such as our 
contracts that helped London prepare for the 2012 
Olympic Games (pictured below).
A sophisticated affordable housing offer
The affordable housing market is evolving, with clients increasingly looking to form 
joint ventures and to share risk and returns on developments. Our combination of 
Linden Homes and affordable housing in housebuilding and our partnerships 
business in construction gives us a full suite of capabilities, making us an attractive 
partner to our clients. Connect at Haywards Heath (pictured below) and Roden 
Court in Crouch End, London (left), are just two of our many affordable housing 
projects. The developments utilised the strengths of Linden Homes and 
Partnerships respectively.
The diversity of our business and 
our divisions’	complementary	skills	
give	us	an	unique	set	of	competitive	
advantages,	allowing	us	to	create	
value	for	our	shareholders	and clients. 06 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chairman’s	statement
Enhanced shareholder value
Performance and dividend
The Group produced another strong financial performance, with 
record profits driven by growth in housebuilding. This demonstrates 
the success of the first year of our new housebuilding strategy, as 
well as the improving housing market which particularly benefited 
from the Government’s Help to Buy scheme from the start of April.
Our profit growth is especially notable given the difficult market 
conditions in construction, where we continue to pursue a prudent 
approach. Appropriate risk management and lower construction 
activity resulted in a fall in revenues, as we expected. Our financial 
position remains strong, giving us the resources we need to 
implement our strategy.
This year’s results are a credit to Greg Fitzgerald and his executive 
team. Greg’s judgement and strategic acumen have been hugely 
beneficial to us in recent years, as has the excellent operational 
delivery throughout the Group. 
Last year, the board introduced an enhanced dividend policy, 
which substantially increased our payout to shareholders. This 
year the board is recommending a final dividend of 25 pence per 
share, an increase of 19%. This will be paid on 29 November 
2013 to shareholders on the register at 18 October 2013. Together 
with the interim dividend, which increased by 33% to 12 pence per 
share, this gives a total dividend for the year of 37 pence, up 23%. 
With the Group having achieved an 18% increase in earnings per 
share to 71.7 pence, the total dividend is approximately 1.9 times 
covered by earnings.
Strategy
Our performance this year shows that the Group is following the 
right strategy in both its businesses. Housebuilding has remained 
focused on the regions and market segments where it has real 
expertise and where the market has been strongest. Its disciplined 
approach to growth is allowing it to focus on margin improvement, 
underpinning the Group’s cash generation and our higher dividend 
payout. The board continues to believe that this strategy will stand 
us in good stead.
Market conditions in construction are still challenging, so we 
remain focused on managing risk and selecting projects with the 
right margins and cash profiles, and where barriers to entry are 
high. Our construction business continues to outperform its peers 
and we are well placed to resume growth when markets recover.
Galliford Try has 
continued to deliver 
for shareholders.	This	
year’s	record	profit	
allows	us	to	further	
increase the dividend 
and	we	are well	placed	
to create more value 
in the	future.
Earnings per share
Up 18%
Dividend per share
Up 23%
71.7p
37.0p
Ian Coull / Chairman 07 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Overall, the Group’s performance demonstrates the continued 
benefits of our hybrid model and the board will continue to ensure 
the model develops to meet the changing business environment 
as well as delivering full value to shareholders. Operating both 
housebuilding and construction businesses has been highly 
successful for us, allowing us to deliver good performance at a 
Group level, even when one of our markets and the economy 
is tough. 
Governance
I am pleased to report that the standard of corporate governance 
in Galliford Try remains high and that we complied with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code throughout the year. Towards the 
year end, the board underwent its first external evaluation. This 
looked at the operation of the board and its three subcommittees, 
confirming that the board works effectively and that our non-
executive directors contribute hugely to the Group’s wellbeing.
The evaluation noted the effectiveness of the board but also 
highlighted areas where we could improve, notably by increasing 
clarity about succession and our long-term strategy. We are 
developing plans to address these. More information on governance 
generally can be found in the Governance Report on page 48.
The board also reviewed Greg Fitzgerald’s remuneration, reflecting 
our view that pay should reflect performance. After consultation 
with our largest shareholders and the Association of British 
Insurers, we have increased Greg’s base salary and potential 
bonus, to take into account the Group’s excellent results and the 
pay offered by comparable companies as well as rewarding future 
performance. We believe Galliford Try has the right pay structure 
to align our executives’ rewards with shareholders’ interests and 
the Group’s long-term success. The remuneration policy and 
implementation review on pages 56 to 64 sets out the details 
of our remuneration arrangements.
People
The foundations of our success are the skill and hard work of 
our people. Housebuilding’s continued growth and our relative 
strength in construction are testament to their dedication. I thank 
them all on the board’s behalf.
The last 12 months have seen considerable change to our senior 
management. Frank Nelson retired as finance director at the end 
of September 2012, having made a significant contribution to the 
Group. Graham Prothero took up the role on 1 February 2013, 
joining us from Development Securities plc, where he had been 
finance director since 2008.
We were greatly saddened by Ian Baker’s sudden ill health, 
which forced him to step down in December from his positions as 
Group Managing Director of Housebuilding and a member of our 
Executive Board. Ian was a highly valued member of the team and 
we wish him well in his recovery. Andrew Richards moved from his 
role as Managing Director of our PPP Investments business to 
become Group Managing Director of Housebuilding on 1 July 
2013. Ken Gillespie, who leads our construction division, joined 
the board on 1 March.
On behalf of the board I would like to thank both Frank Nelson and 
Ian Baker for their contribution to the Group.
These changes mean there were several months when two of our 
most senior management positions were unfilled. Many people 
stepped up to the mark to see us through and enable us to achieve 
the strong performance we had promised investors. The board is 
very grateful for their efforts.
Conclusion and outlook
Our strategy has continued to deliver for shareholders and we 
expect to make further progress from here. The Group remains 
well financed, has an unique business model and has 
demonstrated its competitive strengths across its operations.
Ian Coull / Chairman
Summary	of	governance
What has the board 
achieved during 
the year?
Leadership
The board ensured the Group 
has the right leadership, through 
a number of senior management 
appointments. We also 
continued to consider 
succession planning and 
board diversity.
Effectiveness
The first external board 
evaluation built on the strong 
processes developed in our 
internal performance 
evaluations. It confirmed that 
the board and its committees 
operate effectively.
Strategy
The board focused the 
Group on its strategy of margin 
enhancement for housebuilding 
and margin protection for 
construction. This included 
developing our delegated 
authority and internal 
control frameworks.
Risk
We continued to refine 
our internal audit and risk 
management programmes, 
while improving performance 
and procedures in areas 
spanning contingency 
planning, fraud awareness 
and on site processes.
Shareholders
We prioritise effective 
relationships with shareholders. 
The chairman, chief executive 
and finance director met existing 
and prospective institutional 
shareholders. The board also 
consulted major shareholders on 
succession and remuneration.
For more information please 
refer	to	Governance	from	page	48
      Risk                           Shareholders                      Leadership                     Effectiveness
 
              Strategy  08 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chief	Executive’s	strategic	review
Excellent progress
Continuing strategic progress
This was another year of excellent progress. Our new 
housebuilding strategy delivered what we expected and we also 
benefited from better market conditions, with improving mortgage 
availability and a boost from the Government’s Help to Buy 
scheme from 1 April. As a result, housebuilding ended the year 
with a number of records. It achieved record profit before tax, its 
highest ever year end sales in hand and its largest ever landbank 
at 11,300 units, with opportunities to buy more land at attractive 
prices in a favourable land market.
A key aim of our housebuilding strategy is to increase our 
operating margin to 17–18% by 2018. We expect around half 
the margin increase to come from higher hurdle rates on land 
purchases and the benefits of our strategic land development, 
and the other half to come from operating more efficiently. 
We have made solid progress towards this goal, with an 11% 
increase in operating margin in the year.
Construction continues to perform well in difficult conditions, with 
a number of good project wins. Its order book remained strong at 
£1.7 billion and we have already secured most of construction’s 
planned revenue for 2014. The business, which operates across 
the UK, was helped by its leading position in Scotland, where 
Morrison Construction is one of the largest contractors and the 
market remains stronger. We also have significant operations in 
London, which is the strongest commercial market in England. 
Work in the regulated sector also continues to come through as 
planned. Overall, we are seeing an improvement in the number of 
construction opportunities but pricing levels remain competitive.
Our strategic priorities
Housebuilding and construction have distinct strategies but we 
have several common strategic priorities across the Group. In 
particular, we look to:
•	 deliver disciplined profit growth by focusing on the quality of 
business rather than the level of revenue, and by exploiting the 
synergies between housebuilding and construction to offer 
combined capabilities that no other group can match
•	 manage cash carefully in both businesses and take advantage 
of their complementary financial profiles
•	 embed the highest standards of sustainability across the 
Group, and in particular health & safety, recognising the 
financial and operational benefits of working sustainably and 
the upside for our stakeholders
•	 attract, develop and retain the best people, as they differentiate 
us from our competitors
More information about our Group’s strategic progress can be 
found on page 12. Our housebuilding and construction strategies 
are set out on pages 20 and 28 respectively.
Our performance 
this	year	shows	that	
we	have	the	right	
strategy	to	succeed.	
We	are	in	excellent	
shape,	giving	us	
good momentum as 
we	enter	the	new	
financial	year.
Revenue
Down 1%
Full Year Results interview 
with Greg Fitzgerald available 
at www.gallifordtry.com/
investors
Profit	from	operations
Up 9%
£1 ,559m
£84.1m
Greg Fitzgerald / Chief Executive 09 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Revenue by activity (£million)
12 13 12 13
925
913
637
640
  Housebuilding
  Construction
Sustainability
Health & Safety remains the Group’s first priority and I am 
particularly pleased that we further improved our health & safety 
record this year. The Group accident frequency rate reduced from 
0.16 to 0.10, a reflection of our tough internal measures. This 
performance is notwithstanding a tragic fatality of a subcontractor 
at one of our sites during the year.
As a business, we deliver environmentally and socially responsible 
projects. We also continue to embed sustainability into our 
operations. This makes us more efficient, while benefiting our 
customers, people, suppliers, communities and the environment. 
Sustainability also contributes to our ability to win work in 
construction, where clients often take account of sustainability 
when assessing bids.
Our overall performance is shown by our membership of the 
FTSE4Good index. We were also ahead of schedule in reaching 
our 15% carbon reduction target and launched a new campaign 
to encourage employees to further reduce our fossil fuel use, 
potentially saving us millions of pounds over the coming years 
while cutting our contribution to climate change.
Working closely with local communities is an important part of our 
sustainability efforts. We do a considerable amount across the 
Group but we have not always recorded this centrally. We are 
therefore putting processes in place to log our community 
activities, so we can share the full scope of what we are doing 
and spread good practice. 
Having the right supply chain is also crucial to sustainability. We 
are carefully monitoring the financial health of our subcontractors, 
particularly in construction where market conditions are taking 
their toll. We aim to pay suppliers in agreed timescales and to work 
collaboratively to help them succeed.
People and culture
Our people give us our competitive advantage. To maintain that 
advantage, our HR strategy aims to develop a committed and 
flexible workforce that wants to learn new skills and take on new 
tasks, and is able to do so. Our Academy provides structured 
training and career opportunities for our trainees and graduates, 
and our management development framework offers learning and 
development for staff at each stage of their career. We agree these 
needs during each employee’s annual review.
Through its Linden Homes Foundation, the Group is actively 
encouraging subcontractor apprentices to learn a trade, and is 
providing workplace opportunities through and following their 
training. In the year to June 2013, four apprentices joined the 
Foundation and more are expected in future years.
Galliford Try has a distinct culture. We deliver the best for our 
customers by working with them in an open and honest way, and 
by committing to strong ethical standards. We look to live up to 
our values of excellence, passion, integrity and collaboration, 
which underpin our relationships with employees and our other 
stakeholders. Our culture of personal care extends throughout the 
business, which is why so many of our employees have been with 
us for so long, with many having more than 25 years of service.
I would like to thank everyone in Galliford Try for their contribution 
to our success this year. The Group is well positioned and I believe 
it is an excellent place for our people to further their careers. On a 
personal note, I want to thank Ian Baker for his contribution as 
Group Managing Director of Housebuilding, and to wish him well 
as he recovers from the illness that forced him to step down 
from his role.
Outlook
Each of our businesses has a clear strategy and strong 
leadership team, and both are well placed to further benefit from 
the improving outlooks in their markets.
Following an encouraging summer our housebuilding business 
had record sales in hand of £405 million as at 1 September 2013. 
The business also has a record landbank with all the land it 
needs for 2014 and, following a decision to increase land buying to 
take into account continuing stable conditions, currently has 90% 
of its 2015 requirements.
Construction enjoys good levels of visibility following a number of 
major project wins. The business currently has secured 87% of its 
projected workload for 2014, whilst maintaining its order book at 
£1.7 billion.
Both businesses are, against a background of some labour and 
supply challenges, maximising production to respond to 
strengthening customer demand and improved conditions.
The board is optimistic that the improved opportunities being 
experienced will continue through into 2014. We will continue 
our strategy of disciplined growth, to benefit from the opportunity 
to strengthen our market position and performance in both 
sectors. The prospects for both businesses are encouraging 
for the next financial year. 
Greg Fitzgerald / Chief Executive
Delivering in partnership
Greg Fitzgerald visits ‘The Regent’ 
development in Battersea to complete a 
dedicated health, safety and environment 
review. Nine Group businesses came together 
to regenerate a brownfield site and create 68 
private and 32 affordable homes. 10 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chief	Executive’s	strategic	review
Our business model
Harnessing our 
competitive 
strengths.
Combining our skills
Graylingwell Park in West 
Sussex (top right), Wispers 
Park in Surrey (bottom left) 
and The Regent in Battersea 
(bottom right) are benefiting 
from the combined offering 
of our housebuilding and 
construction divisions. 
Complementary businesses
Our hybrid business model, comprising housebuilding 
and construction businesses, gives us a competitive 
advantage. We can offer a complete package to our 
development partners, with our construction division 
able to remediate land, enable the site infrastructure and 
build public and commercial buildings. Housebuilding 
can then develop homes on the same site, such as our 
development at the new Gloucestershire County Cricket 
ground in Bristol.
Construction and housebuilding are also increasingly 
working together, enabling us to build homes on 
attractive but complex sites, as well as mixed-use 
projects with significant commercial elements. 
Housebuilding also benefits from construction services 
such as the piling and remediation that prepare sites 
for development.
Strategic	strengths
Reduced reliance on any one market
Housebuilding and construction serve different 
customers who receive their financing from 
different sources. This makes us less reliant 
on any one market.
Complementary financial profiles
Construction generates cash from clients’ 
regular payments, while housebuilding requires 
cash to buy land and pay for development, 
until the homes can be sold. Together, the 
businesses minimise our need for external debt.
Reduced impact of economic cycles
Housebuilding is early cycle, adapting quickly 
to economic changes, while long contracts 
and lead times make construction late cycle. 
When one of our businesses turns down, the 
other remains strong, reducing the impact on 
the Group. 11 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Housebuilding
Prime locations
Our success in housebuilding 
is based on our ability to 
identify and acquire the best 
land. We have built a sizeable 
landbank in prime locations 
with the potential to become 
prestigious and sustainable 
developments, with good 
local amenities and transport 
links. We identify the housing 
needs of each area to create 
communities where people 
aspire to live, in some of the 
country’s most desirable 
locations.
Individual design
We create bespoke designs, 
meaning that every one of 
our projects starts with a 
blank sheet of paper. We 
complement the local style 
and collaborate with some 
of the industry’s leading 
architects, to create 
distinctive homes with 
unique attention to detail.
Construction
Managing risk
We have well-developed 
systems of risk management, 
which help us to choose the 
right projects and to deliver 
them effectively. Our hybrid 
business model also allows 
us to be selective about the 
work we take on.
Supply	chain	and	
community relationships
We build relationships with 
our suppliers and work 
closely with them to improve 
service quality for our clients, 
increase our efficiency and 
address key areas such as 
health, safety and the 
environment. We also develop 
strong relationships with the 
communities around our 
sites. Being welcomed as a 
good neighbour helps us to 
work effectively in the area.
Quality build
Our homes are renowned 
for their expert build and 
high specification, and 
for encouraging a more 
sustainable way of living. 
We use up-to-date building 
methods and materials, and 
the latest advances in energy 
efficiency and lifestyle 
technology, aiming to reduce 
both the running costs for our 
homeowners and each 
development’s overall 
carbon footprint.
Customer focus
We believe in treating our 
customers the way we would 
like to be treated. We strive 
to improve service across 
the business and ask every 
customer for feedback, so we 
can see how we are doing 
and where we can improve.
Quality build
We are recognised for our 
high standards of project 
delivery and have won 
prestigious awards for our 
work. Delivering the best for 
our clients enhances our 
reputation and helps us to 
win new work.
Customer focus
We aim to become our 
clients’ valued partner. This 
allows us to align our clients’ 
needs on each project with 
their long-term ambitions. We 
aim to become an extension 
of their teams, giving us a 
deep understanding of their 
project targets.
Value chain
Construction Housebuilding
         Customer focus
         Customer focus
           Prime locations
            Managing risk
           Individual design
    community relationships
                  Quality build
                  Quality build
          Supply chain and 12 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Chief	Executive’s	strategic	review
Our group strategy
Strategic	priority: Progress in the year:
• Achieved record Group profits
• Delivered higher margins in housebuilding and protected margins 
in construction
• Introduced an internal trading charter, to promote and monitor 
trading between our businesses and keep profit within the Group
• Continued to control the increasing capital invested 
in housebuilding developments
• Maintained construction cash balances at satisfactory levels, 
despite the expected reduction in revenues
• Continued to deliver excellent levels of health & safety, our number 
one priority
• Exceeded our 15% carbon reduction target ahead of schedule
• Recycled more than 90% of construction materials waste
• Exceeded our Considerate Constructors Scheme target 
• Joined the FTSE4Good index
• Delivered 11,142 training days
• Undertook our annual employee survey, with 91% of those 
responding stating that they cared about Galliford Try’s future
• Rolled out equality, diversity and anti-bribery training
• Exceeded our target for the percentage of employees attending 
the Chief Executive’s roadshow
• Achieved 18% growth in earnings per share
• Increased the total dividend for the year to 37 pence, up 23%
Disciplined	growth
We	aim	to	deliver	disciplined	profit	growth	
by	focusing	on	the	quality	of	opportunities	
rather	than	the	level	of	revenue,	and	by	
leveraging	the	synergies	between	our	
housebuilding and construction businesses
Cash management
We	actively	manage	cash,	keeping	the	
Group’s	net	debt	down	by	maximising	cash	
flows	from	construction	and	minimising	
the capital tied up in housebuilding
Sustainability
We look to embed the highest standards of 
sustainability	in	our	businesses	and,	in	
particular,	to	achieve	industry	leading	
levels of health & safety
People
We	want	to	attract,	retain	and	develop	the	
best	people,	and	engage	them	so	they	
offer excellent	service	to	our	customers
Shareholder	return
The ultimate aim of our strategy is 
to deliver superior returns to our 
shareholders 13 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
2011
90
60
30
35.1
2013
74.1
2012
63.1
2011
60
40
20
36.3
2013
(14.4)
2012
22.5
2011
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.19
2013
0.10
2012
0.16
2011
12
8
4
8.7
2013
11.5
2012
9.4
2011
90
60
30 32.2
2013
71.7
2012
60.9
2011
60
40
20
16.0
2013
37.0
2012
30.0
Key performance indicators:
Profit	before	tax
Profit on ordinary activities in £m, excluding 
exceptional items and tax
Cash and capital management
Group net cash or debt at the year end, 
in £m
Accident	frequency	rate
The total number of reportable accidents 
in the year per 100,000 hours worked
Staff	churn
The number of employees who voluntarily 
leave the Group during the year, as a 
percentage of the average number of 
employees in the year.
Earnings per share
Earnings per share in pence, based on profit 
attributable to ordinary shareholders before 
exceptional items, divided by the average 
number of shares in issue during the year.
Dividend per share
The sum of the interim dividend and 
the proposed final dividend, in pence 
per share.
Comment
Housebuilding profits continue to grow, 
more than offsetting the expected small 
reduction in construction.
Comment
The balance sheet remains strong 
with construction cash of £145 million 
and increased investment in 
housebuilding, resulting in net Group 
debt of £14.4 million.
Comment
An encouraging health & safety 
performance in the year, as described 
further on pages 38 to 39.
Comment
Staff churn was considered acceptable 
given current market conditions.
Comment
The growth in housebuilding profits was 
the main contributor to the increase in 
earnings per share.
Comment
The increase reflects increased profits 
and our progressive and sustainable 
dividend policy. 14 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financial	review
Strong financial performance
Introduction
Our record results and impressive return on capital employed 
are a product of our business model, as described in the Chief 
Executive’s strategic review, and our strong financial base. The 
strength of our balance sheet and funding arrangements have 
supported the continued growth in our housebuilding division, 
whilst allowing us to proactively manage our construction division 
through the current challenging market.
All businesses constantly face a range of different risks, but our 
financial strength and strong internal policies and controls mean 
that we are able to manage these effectively and look forward to 
the future with confidence.
Results
Revenue including joint ventures was 1% lower at £1,559 million 
(2012: £1,576 million) largely due to the expected reduction in 
construction revenues. Group revenue excluding our share of joint 
ventures fell by 2% to £1,467 million (2012: £1,504 million). 
Profit from operations, which is stated before finance costs, tax 
and our share of joint ventures’ interest and tax, rose 9% to £84.1 
million (2012: £77.1 million), driven by higher housebuilding profits. 
This contributed to record profit before tax of £74.1 million, up 17% 
from £63.1 million in 2012.
Galliford Try 
delivered another 
strong	financial	
performance.	The	
improvement in 
housebuilding 
margins helped us 
to achieve record 
profits,	while	
we managed	the	
construction 
business carefully 
to protect margins 
and	cash.
Graham Prothero / Group Finance Director
Net debt
Strong cash performance
Return on capital
Increased in year
£14.4m
16.6% 15 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Financial highlights
•	 Profit	before	tax	up	17%	to	£74.1	million
•	 Robust	cash	performance,	with	a	construction	cash	balance	of	£145.1 million	
and Group	net	debt	of £14.4	million	at	the	year	end
•	 Equity	up	by	£23.0	million	to	£501.4	million
•	 Net	tangible	assets	up	by	6%	to	£373.0	million
•	 Investment	in	housebuilding	developments,	including	joint	ventures,	grew	to	
£820 million,	with	net	capital	employed increased	to £621	million
Capital structure and funding
The Group’s working capital requirement is variable, according to 
the timing of investment and sales in the housebuilding division, 
and the profile of our construction contracts. The average net 
debt during the period was £134 million. The board maintains a 
conservative level of gearing and headroom within our covenants.
Since early 2013 the Group has been steadily increasing 
investment in both land and work-in-progress in the housebuilding 
division. This reflects our stated aims to capitalise on the improving 
market for house sales, to increase our landbank whilst the land 
market remains sensibly priced, and to relax slightly our very taut 
development model. This will result in a modest increase in our 
working capital, but considerably improve our operational 
efficiency, thereby enhancing profitability and returns.
The Group is funded with a single class of ordinary shares, retained 
profits and a single bank facility of £325 million, provided by HSBC, 
Barclays and The Royal Bank of Scotland. Our hybrid model 
continues to thrive, with our construction business maintaining 
average cash balances of £93 million during the year, reducing the 
need for external finance in our housebuilding business. Joint 
venture activity is partly funded by our own equity and partly by 
bank debt, secured against the assets of the joint venture entity.
The bank facility is due for refinancing in May 2015. Our banks 
have shown a long term commitment both to our marketplace 
and to Galliford Try, and relationships remain strong. We have 
commenced refinancing discussions with a view to concluding 
new arrangements well in advance of the maturity of the current 
facility. These negotiations are proceeding well, and we will 
update the market in due course.
Net Capital Employed in Housebuilding
£m
700
650
600
550
500
450
 
2009 2010 201 1 2012 2013 400
Average Net Debt
£m
150
120
90
30
60
 
2009 2010 201 1 2012 2013 0 16 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Housebuilding
operating margin (%) 
11 12 13
13.1
8.1
11.8
Earnings per share (p)
11 12 13
71.7
32.2
60.9
11 12 13
1.7
2.4
2.0
Construction 
operating margin (%)
Dividend per share (p)
11 12 13
37.0
16.0
30.0
Financial	review
continued
Earnings and dividend
Earnings per share increased by 18% to 71.7 pence (2012: 60.9 
pence). Details of the calculation of earnings per share can be 
found in note 8 to the accounts, on page 87.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 25 pence per 
share which, subject to approval at the annual general meeting, 
will be paid on 29 November 2013 to shareholders on the register 
at 18 October 2013.
With the interim dividend of 12 pence per share paid in April, this will 
result in a total dividend of 37 pence per share, an increase of 23% 
over the previous year. The cost of the final dividend is £20.5 million, 
resulting in a total relating to the year of £30.2 million.
Cash	and	equity
We continued our rigorous focus on cash management. After 
increasing the investment in land in our housebuilding division, we 
finished the year with net debt of £14.4 million (2012: net cash of 
£22.5 million).
Cash balances in construction remained robust at £145.1 million at 
30 June 2013 (2012: £145.5 million).
Housebuilding requires net investment and the net year end 
capital employed in developments and housebuilding joint 
ventures was £621 million (2012: £545 million).
Total equity increased by £23.0 million to £501.4 million, while 
tangible net assets increased by £21.4 million to £373.0 million. 
This represented net assets per share at 30 June 2013 of £6.12 
(2012: £5.84) and tangible net assets per share of £4.55 
(2012: £4.30).
Group return on net assets, which is profit before tax, finance 
costs and amortisation, divided by average net assets, increased 
to 16.6% from 15.5%.
Segmental	analysis
Housebuilding revenues remained steady at £639.6 million 
(2012: £636.7 million), as we successfully implemented our new 
strategy, consolidating our recent growth and focusing on 
margin improvement.
During the year we generated £17 .9 million of revenue from land 
sales (2012: £24 million, including a significant one-off sale). Including 
land sales, we achieved a gross margin in housebuilding of 19.6%, 
compared with 17 .6% in 2012.
Profit from operations in housebuilding increased by 11% to 
£83.5 million (2012: £75.1 million). The operating margin, including 
land sales, was 13.1% (2012: 11.8%). Return on net assets was 
16.5% (2012: 15.1%).
Our construction business remains focused on protecting its 
margin and generating cash in continuing difficult market 
conditions. In line with our strategy, revenue during the year fell 
by 1.3% to £912.7 million (2012: £924.8 million), while profit from 
operations was £15.1 million (2012: £18.9 million), representing a 
margin of 1.7% (2012: 2.0%). These reductions are in line with our 
expectations at the start of the financial year.
Building contributed profit from operations of £6.5 million 
(2012: £8.4 million), with a margin of 1.6% (2012: 2.3%). Partnerships 
achieved profit from operations of £2.2 million (2012: £1.7 million), at 
an increased margin of 2.4% (2012: 1.9%). Infrastructure contributed 
profit from operations of £6.4 million (2012: £8.8 million), and saw its 
margin decline to 1.5% (2012: 1.9%).
PPP Investments reported a loss from operations of £3.2 million 
(2012: loss of £1.1 million), reflecting costs of bidding activity. The 
result in 2012 benefited from the sale of our remaining interest in 
the St Andrew’s health project.
Taxation
The effective tax rate was 21.5% (2012: 21.9%) compared to a 
standard rate of 23.75%. We believe this rate will reduce marginally 
over the next three years in line with changes in the headline rate 
of corporation tax. 17 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Pension and share scheme costs
The total cost of pensions charged to the income statement in the 
financial year was £12.8 million (2012: £14.3 million).
Under IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ there is a surplus in the Group’s 
final salary pension schemes. This was calculated at 30 June 2013 
by an independent, qualified actuary. The gross surplus recognised 
on the balance sheet is £0.5 million (2012: deficit of £0.2 million). The 
change in the year mainly reflects increased discount rates.
The last valuation of the Galliford Try Final Salary scheme, at 1 July 
2009, showed a deficit of £48.0 million. The latest valuations of the 
Group’s other schemes showed a deficit of £2.2 million. The 
Company made annual deficit funding payments of £7.0 million 
and £0.3 million respectively to these schemes. Contributions for 
the new financial year remain under negotiation and are expected 
to reduce from these levels. Further details of the Group’s pension 
arrangements can be found in note 31 on page 105.
Amounts charged to the income statement in respect of employee 
share schemes during the year amounted to £3.8 million. Further 
details can be found in the remuneration report on page 56 and in 
note 28 on page 103.
Treasury	management	and	financial	instruments
The Group operates under treasury policies and procedures 
approved by the board. Our financial instruments principally 
comprise bank borrowings, together with cash and liquid 
resources that arise directly from our operations. We do not trade 
in financial instruments.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained 
profits and bank borrowings. We have rigorous controls in place to 
ensure we maintain borrowings at an acceptable level. On a daily 
basis, we aggregate the bank balances or borrowings in all the 
Group’s operating companies into a total cash or borrowing figure, 
so we can obtain the most advantageous offset arrangements and 
interest rate.
Construction maintains significant cash balances, while 
housebuilding requires net investment. Combined, the two 
businesses minimise the need for external finance.
The Group’s bank facility is subject to covenants over interest 
cover, gearing, adjusted gearing taking account of land creditor 
debt, and minimum consolidated tangible assets. We continue to 
operate well within these covenants. The facility takes security 
against certain of the Group’s housebuilding development sites.
The main risk arising from our financial instruments is interest rate 
risk. Whilst our policy is to accept a degree of interest rate risk, 
in 2012 the Group entered into a five year swap agreement to fix 
the interest rate of £75 million of borrowings. All of our material 
activities take place in the United Kingdom, and the Group has 
no material foreign currency exposure at 30 June 2013.
Maximum	credit	risk	exposure
The directors consider that the maximum credit risk exposure in 
each class of financial asset is represented by the carrying value 
as at 30 June 2013. Further information can be found in notes 18 
and 26 to the financial statements.
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are described in note 33 to the Group 
financial statements. The directors ensure that these risks are 
appropriately documented and monitored, and that the risk of 
actual liabilities crystallising is restricted as far as possible.
Going concern
The Group’s statement of going concern, together with further 
related information, can be found in the Directors’ Report on page 
66. The key risks and uncertainties that could affect the Group’s 
future financial performance are detailed on pages 34 to 35.
Critical accounting policies and assumptions
The Group’s principal accounting policies are set out in note 1 to 
the financial statements, together with a description of the key 
estimates and judgements affecting the application of those 
policies and amounts reported in the financial statements. There 
were no significant changes to the Group’s critical accounting 
policies or assumptions in the year.
Graham Prothero / Group Finance Director 18 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Sales in Hand 
by activity
Private
Affordable
£313m
£192m
£121m
Divisional	review
Housebuilding
Award-winning	quality	
“Linden Homes continues to 
deliver	high-quality,	desirable	
homes.	We	are	carefully	
managing	our	growth, so	we	
can increase	our	efficiency	and	
deliver	an	industry	leading	quality	
of homes and service to 
our customers.”
Revenue
Up £2.9m
Completions
Down 107 units
£640m
2,932
Greg Fitzgerald / Chief Executive
Performance
A differentiated business
Our ability to convert existing buildings into high-quality 
homes is one of the many factors that differentiate us from 
our peers. At Burntwood Square, Essex (pictured above 
and right), we have turned a Victorian hospital into a 
superb development that retains the existing character 
of the period buildings. 19 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 20 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Divisional	review
Our housebuilding strategy
Strategic	priority: Progress in the year:
• Reduced our execution risk, having improved turnover and 
profit from a similar number of completions as in 2012
• Grew housebuilding revenue by £2.9 million, reflecting the 
focus on margin performance
• Average selling price up by 5%
• Level of completions maintained at circa 3,000 per annum
• Made good progress towards our margin target
• Increased efficiency by standardising processes, improving 
procurement and launching The Linden Way, which shares best 
practice across our business units
• Adopting higher hurdle rates for land purchases and our 
development of strategic land
• Affordable housing achieving higher revenues
• Continued to deliver high levels of customer satisfaction
• Won a number of industry awards, reflecting the quality of our 
offering and earning us recognition and profile
• Preserved the proportion of revenues coming from the stronger 
south east market
• Increased our landbank by acquiring sites in prime locations 
whilst maintaining an appropriate product mix
• Made further progress developing our strategic land
We	aim	to	deliver	disciplined	growth	
while reducing	the	execution	risk	
of our developments
We aim to increase our housebuilding 
operating	margin to 17–18%	by 2018,	
by	maximising	the	efficiency	and	
effectiveness of our operations
We look to leverage our Linden 
Homes brand,	which	is	recognised	
for high-quality,	individually	
designed developments
We focus on prime sites in prime 
locations, predominantly	in	the	
southern	market;	aim	to	boost	our	
strategic	land	development	activities;	
and try to minimise our reliance on 
consortium	or	major	greenfield	sites 21 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
2011
6000
4000
2000 2,170
2013
2,932
2012
3,039
2011
90
60
30 31.6
2013
83.5
2012
75.1
2011
120
80
40
95
2013
93
2012
94
2011
1200
800
400
678
2013
820
2012
795
2011
12,000
8,000
4,000
10,250
2013
11,300
2012
10,500
2011
15
10
5
8.1
2013
13.1
2012
11.8
Following	three	highly	successful	years,	
in which	we	achieved	our	aim	of	doubling	
the size	of	the business,	we	outlined	a	new	
housebuilding strategy to guide us through 
the	next	stage	of	our	development.	Our	
strategy	remains	one	of	disciplined	growth,	
with	a	focus	on	improving	margins.
Key performance indicators:
Revenue/Completions
Income generated from the total 
number of homes that have been legally 
completed, including our share of 
completions by joint ventures
Profit from operations
Profit on ordinary activities in £ million, 
stated before finance costs, exceptional 
items, amortisation and our share of 
joint ventures’ interest and tax
Operating profit margin
Profit from operations as a percentage 
of revenue
Customer satisfaction
The percentage of our home buyers 
who would recommend us to their 
family or friends
Investment in developments
Total investment in developments and 
housebuilding joint ventures, in £ million
Landbank
The total number of owned and 
controlled plots in the landbank
Comment
Revenue in line with 2012 despite a small 
reduction in unit completions.
Comment
Profit increased substantially from 
similar levels of revenue in 2012.
Comment
The strong margin performance is 
helped by land acquired at current 
market prices.
Comment
Continue to generate very high levels of 
customer satisfaction.
Comment
Increased level of investment, taking 
advantage of current market 
opportunities.
Comment
Record landbank, with 100% of land 
required for 2014 in place and 90% of 
land for 2015. 22 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
1
2
Private
Affordable
2,932
by sector 
2,244
688
1
2
Post July 2008
Legacy
2,932
by landbank 
2,395
537
1
2
South
Midlands/East
2,932
by area of operation 
2,160
772
Divisional	review
Housebuilding
Market
Demographic changes drive long-term housing demand, with 
the UK’s population increasing and living longer, and more single-
person households. Demand is stronger where the economy is 
performing well and jobs are available. The availability and terms of 
mortgages for individuals and financing for affordable housing 
providers also affect demand.
Housing supply is relatively constrained. Development land is finite 
and competition for alternative use is highest where the economy 
is strongest. Despite the UK housing shortage, completions have 
been well below the required level in recent years. 
Government policy affects both demand and industry regulation. 
The process for securing planning consents for housing 
developments is complex, lengthy and expensive.
The UK housing market improved during the year. Mortgage 
availability and affordability steadily increased, and the 
Government introduced its Help to Buy scheme on 1 April 2013, to 
expand the supply of new housing. Help to Buy is a shared-equity 
scheme which gives buyers Government loans of up to 20% of the 
purchase price, allowing them to buy new-build homes worth up 
to £600,000 with a minimum 5% deposit. Unlike the previous First 
Buy scheme, which was restricted to first-time buyers, Help to Buy 
is open to all.
We had previously only promoted shared-equity schemes for sites 
where houses were harder to sell, so as not to tie up our capital. 
Help to Buy requires no capital from us, making it suitable for all our 
developments. We have seen a marked uplift in reservations since 
1 April, with around a third of our customers using Help to Buy.
The south east remains the strongest market and has led 
pricing growth. However, we are seeing improving demand in 
some regional centres. We expect to see consumer confidence 
slowly increase.
In affordable housing, registered providers are required to deliver 
homes under their programmes with the HCA. As a result, they 
have been bringing schemes forward and looking for other 
schemes to close off their delivery risk.
The Government’s spending review resulted in a positive 
settlement for affordable housing as one of the few areas where 
public expenditure is set to rise, and this, coupled with clarity of 
future rents, will continue to support our work in this market.
One of the 
UK’s leading	
housebuilders
Overview
Galliford Try develops homes under the Linden Homes brand, 
predominantly across the south and east of England. Our activities 
encompass housing for sale to the public and developments for 
affordable housing providers. We also carry out large scale 
regeneration projects, many in partnership with the Homes and 
Communities Agency (HCA).
Housebuilding operates regionally, with local management 
teams that have in-depth knowledge of their markets. We produce 
distinctive designs that meet local needs and set the standard in 
their area.
  2013 2012
Revenue (£m) 639.6 636.7
Profit from operations (£m) 83.5 75.1
Operating profit margin (%) 13.1 11.8
Completions 2,932 3,039
Completions
Further analysis
as at 30 June 2013 23 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Driving efficiency 
The Linden Way is our new initiative to further 
improve levels of customer satisfaction, while 
increasing our operational efficiency 
and operating margins.
Individual design 
‘be:’ in Newhall (pictured above) recently claimed 
the ‘Supreme Award’ at the Housing Design Awards, 
adding to its raft of accolades which includes a Building 
for Life award, multiple What House? awards and a 
Housebuilding Innovation award. The scheme 
showcases contemporary architecture and cutting-
edge new-build techniques.
Recognised	quality
Our Tremorvah Heights development in 
Falmouth (pictured above) won a What 
House? award in the category for Best House. 
Tremorvah Heights is in a prime position, with 
spectacular sea views.
Strong	southern	
focus 
Marley Mead, near Dorking 
(pictured right), is just one of 
our many sites in the south 
of England. It is in an ideal 
location on the edge of the 
town, with easy access to 
the Surrey hills.
Profit	from	operations
Up 11%
£83.5m 24 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Divisional	review
Housebuilding
The improved margin resulted from greater efficiency, including 
standardising processes, better procurement and introducing 
The Linden Way initiative, which pulls together best practice from 
across our business. We are also benefiting from our strategic 
land development and our requirement for a higher hurdle rate 
for land acquisitions. Our focus on disciplined growth also allows 
us to spend time optimising our plans for each site, to achieve 
better returns.
Important developments in the year included opening a new 
office for the east of England, in Chelmsford. We are also working 
more closely with the construction division, with a number of 
flagship schemes typically involving apartments and complex 
build. For example, our Building business in the south west is 
delivering 147 apartments for housebuilding at Gloucestershire 
County Cricket Club, where it is also carrying out improvements 
to the cricket ground.
At 30 June 2013, our landbank was a record 11,300 plots. 
This represents the total number of plots owned and controlled, 
including sites under option, but excluding longer term strategic 
options. Of this, 86% was held at current market prices, compared 
with 81% at June 2012. The gross development value of our 
landbank increased 14% to £2.76 billion (2012: £2.43 billion). Our 
strategic land holdings stood at 1,522 acres at the year end (2012: 
1,285 acres). We see opportunities to acquire land at improved 
margins and we are continuing to invest in the south and south 
east, as well as looking at key regional centres.
We regularly commission independent customer satisfaction 
surveys. This year, 93% of our customers said they would 
recommend us (2012: 94%).
We were delighted that the industry also recognised the quality of 
our homes. Awards included Best Large Housebuilder 2012 from 
‘What House?’ and Housebuilder of the Year 2013 in the Ideal 
Homes Show ‘Blue Ribbon’ Awards.
Market supporting 
strategy 
The Group is benefiting 
from an improving housing 
market, with strong demand 
for our developments in 
prime locations, such as 
South Sands, Torquay.
Excellence	in	
affordable 
housing 
Evolve in Plymouth 
replaced dilapidated flats 
and houses with 350 
high-quality properties, 
approximately 40% of 
which are affordable. It won 
a Silver Award in the ‘Best 
Brownfield Development’ 
category at the What House? 
Awards 2012.
HCA	direct	funding	award
£17m
Performance
Revenue increased by £2.9 million to £639.6 million, with 
completions of 2,932 from 3,039 in 2012 remaining in line with 
our targeted 3,000 units per annum. Excluding our joint venture 
partners’ share, completions were 2,679, compared to 2,788 
in 2012. 
Private housing completions accounted for 2,244 of the total 
(2012: 2,272). The average selling price rose by 5% to £262,000. 
Affordable housing completions totalled 688 (2012: 767), with an 
average selling price of £119,000 (2012: £104,000).
We had 89 active selling sites (2012: 87), with sales per site per 
week up from 0.50 in 2012 to 0.55. Cancellation rates remained 
broadly level at 17% (2012: 18%). We finished the year with sales 
in hand at a record £313 million (2012: £273 million).
Our gross margin improved from 17.6% to 19.6%, leading to an 
operating margin up from 11.8% to 13.1%.  25 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
1 2 11,300
Post July 2008
Legacy
9,740
1,560
by acquisition period
1 2 11,300
Private
Affordable
9,100
2,200
by sector 
1
2
by area of operation 
South
Midlands/East
8,461
2,839
11,300
Affordable housing and regeneration
Our affordable housing business had a good year. We continued 
to deliver under the HCA’s Affordable Homes Programme, meeting 
all of its targets for the midpoint of the programme, which runs to 
2015. This reflects our strong client relationships and active 
management of our £17 million direct funding award, and has 
further enhanced our reputation with the HCA. During the year we 
established Linden First as a for-profit provider registered with the 
HCA. This gives the Group additional flexibility to respond to 
funding opportunities in the affordable housing sector.
The Delivery Partner Panel (DPP) is the route by which the HCA, 
Government departments and local authorities dispose of surplus 
public land. We had a number of key wins in all regions under 
the first phase of the DPP, increasing the gross development 
value of the sites we have acquired to around £450 million 
(2012: £225 million), with the potential to create nearly 2,000 
units (2012: 1,250 units).
We were delighted to have been reappointed to the DPP in all 
clusters under the DPP 2 reprocurement. DPP 2 runs from April 
2013 to March 2017. We were also selected by the Greater London 
Authority to join the new London Development Panel, which will 
manage releases of public land in London.
Our work with financially strong clients across a portfolio of 
schemes continues to provide strategic advantage. During the 
year we entered into arrangements with the Guinness Partnership, 
to assist with delivery of its affordable housing programme across 
a number of sites.
Joint ventures are increasingly significant to our clients, as they 
look to participate in sales risk to cross-subsidise their future 
investment programmes. Our housebuilding and partnership 
expertise is an attractive offering. Opal Land, our joint venture 
with Thames Valley Housing Association, made good progress in 
the year and is now proceeding with schemes in Southwark and 
Slough. We are in discussions with other registered providers and 
have established a number of joint ventures where we can build 
strong relationships which share risk and return, and build on our 
housebuilding brand.
Outlook
Linden Homes has started the financial year in an excellent 
position, with a record year end sales in hand. Mortgage 
availability and affordability continues to improve, while the 
Government’s Help to Buy initiative is further increasing demand. 
This gives us the opportunity for controlled growth in completions 
and to improve our margins as planned. We will accelerate our 
build programmes on all our sites capable of an increased level of 
construction but will continue to remain focused on improving the 
margins we earn.
The housing market remains strong in the south east and there are 
also positive signs in some regional markets. Overall, we expect 
the market to remain healthy into the medium term.
In affordable homes, we continue to be a sector leader in engaging 
with the HCA. Our unique offering of construction and development 
is welcomed by the sector and we will increasingly see affordable 
housing clients sharing risk and returns on developments. Our 
sophisticated offering plays well to this market.
Further analysis
as at 30 June 2013
11 ,300
Landbank 26 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Revenue by activity
Building
Infrastructure
Partnerships
£913m
£407m
£416m
£90m
Divisional review
Construction
A business based 
on long-term 
relationships
“Working in partnership 
with our clients is at the 
heart of our approach. 
We get to know their 
businesses inside out, 
so we can deliver greater 
value and build long-term 
relationships that secure 
work for us for years 
to come.”
Revenue
Down 1.3%
Cash
Strong performance
£913m
£145m
Ken Gillespie / Construction Division Chief Executive
Performance
A first in Scotland
We were the first delivery 
partner to be selected for the 
new public sector hub model 
in Scotland. We have a 49% 
share and are a tier one 
contractor appointed to 
the South East and South 
West hubs respectively. 
Haddington Infants School 
pictured provides facilities 
that are second to none, and 
was delivered under 
the model. 27 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 28 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Divisional review
Our construction strategy
Strategic priority: Progress in the year:
• Maintained our focus on risk management, choosing projects 
with acceptable returns and building strong relationships with 
clients, which enable us to add value and win future work
• Continued to secure work under long-term frameworks in the 
regulated sector
• Benefited from our strong positions in Scotland and London
• Increased our work for the housebuilding division, which 
provides profitable projects for us while also keeping profit 
within the Group
• Benefited from our strategic decision to develop our 
Partnerships business
• Looked to ensure our supply chain remained robust, by 
working collaboratively with our subcontractors
• Maintained a good level of cash in construction, despite the 
expected reduction in revenue
• Continued to win work in the public sector, private sector and 
regulated markets
• Maintained our order book
• Secured 87% of planned revenue for 2014
We aim to protect our margin 
through robust risk management 
and selecting the right projects, 
accepting that revenue will be lower 
in current market conditions
We prioritise cash management, 
to maintain the financial strength 
of the business
We aim to maintain coverage 
and core skills to grow when 
markets allow 29 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
2011
24
16
8
22.2
2013
15.1
2012
18.9
2011
3.0
2.0
1.0
2.4
2013
1.7
2012
2.0
2011
1,200
800
400
936.9
2013
912.7
2012
924.8
2011
300
200
100
216.7
2013
145.1
2012
145.5
2011
3.0
2.0
1.0
1.75
2013
1.7
2012
1.65
Our strategy in construction reflects 
the market conditions we have faced in 
recent years, as we look to protect the 
business and be prepared for growth 
when markets improve.
Key performance indicators:
Profit from operations
Profit on ordinary activities in £ million, 
stated before finance costs, exceptional 
items, amortisation and our share of 
joint ventures’ interest and tax
Operating profit margin
Profit from operations as a percentage 
of revenue
Revenue
Value of work carried out in the year, 
in £ million
Cash
Net cash/debt at the year end, 
in £ million
Order book
The total revenue expected to be 
generated from orders received, 
in £ billion
Comment
Profit from operations reduced as 
expected in a challenging market.
Comment
Construction performed well in difficult 
markets, delivering a margin that was in 
line with our expectations.
Comment
Reduction was in line with our strategy 
to only accept work that meets our 
acceptable criteria. 
Comment
The business continued to deliver strong 
cash balances throughout the year.  The 
year end balance was similar to 2012.
Comment
We continued to win work across all 
our businesses and ended the year 
with an order book that was in line with 
our expectations. 30 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Commercial
Education
Facilities management
Health
Other
£635m
Building 
£327m
£115m
£113m
£57m
£23m
£494m
Partnerships 
Affordable housing
Health
Other
£450m
£29m
£15m
£579m
Infrastructure 
Water
Transport
Communication
Other civil engineering
Waste
£298m
£235m
£18m
£23m
£5m
Divisional review
Construction
Market
The construction market is driven by our clients’ 
investment programmes.
Public sector work depends on the need to improve the country’s 
infrastructure and the Government’s ability to finance it, either 
directly or by attracting private sector funds. Many infrastructure 
projects, such as major road schemes, provide work for several 
years. Other public sector programmes drive expenditure through 
bodies such as the Environment Agency, with which we have a 
long-term framework.
Regulated utilities invest to deliver agreed service levels to their 
customers and to meet the demands of regulators and European 
policy. Much of this is done through long-term asset management 
programmes and provides steady work for chosen contractors 
such as Galliford Try.
Private sector work depends on companies having the confidence 
to invest, which is linked to the strength of the economy and related 
factors such as consumer spending and the availability of finance.
Our markets remained tough during the year. While we continued 
to perform well, many companies struggled and some pulled out 
of construction altogether.
The public sector market remains difficult as a result of 
government spending cuts. While the economic benefits of 
infrastructure investment are well known, central government 
remains focused on deficit reduction. Given the timescale to 
procure large projects, this is likely to lead to a thinner medium-
term public sector pipeline. Affordable housing, through our 
Partnerships business, is seeing increasing activity. The public 
sector market in Scotland remains stronger, with the Scottish 
Government continuing to invest and creating opportunities which 
we benefit from.
The regulated market remains active as a result of the utility 
companies’ five-year expenditure plans. Work continues to come 
through as expected and Galliford Try has a strong position.
The private sector is becoming more important and is showing 
initial signs of slowly improving. Leisure and hotel companies 
are leading the way and we are also seeing more housing 
developments. More generally, businesses remain cautious for 
reasons ranging from concerns about consumer spending to the 
ability to finance their projects.
Overview
Our construction business offers the full spectrum of building and 
infrastructure services, covering a project’s whole life cycle. The 
business operates mainly under the Galliford Try and Morrison 
Construction brands and is organised into building, partnerships 
and infrastructure divisions.
Building provides a UK-wide service to the health, education and 
private commercial markets from centres in London, the south 
west, the midlands, the north of England and Scotland.
Partnerships, our specialist affordable housing contractor, has 
strong businesses in the south east and north east, and a growing 
presence across the rest of the country.
Infrastructure carries out civil engineering projects, primarily in 
the water, highways, remediation, oil and gas and renewable 
energy markets, through sector-focused businesses operating 
across the UK.
  2013 2012
Revenue (£m) 912.7 924.8
Profit from operations (£m) 15.1 18.9
Operating profit margin (%) 1.7 2.0
Order book (£bn) 1.7 1.65
A robust and 
well-balanced 
business
Order book
Further analysis
as at 30 June 2013 31 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Performance
We have maintained our core skills and protected margins, 
delivering profits while managing our planned reduction in turnover. 
Our focus on projects with appropriate returns enabled us to deliver 
a margin of 1.7% (2012: 2.0%). While we won important new 
contracts, as discussed below, revenue was marginally down by 
1.3% to £912.7 million, in line with our expectations. We managed 
our cash carefully and ended the year with construction cash 
balances of £145 million, representing 16% of revenue.
At year end, our order book was £1.7 billion, compared with £1.65 
billion at 30 June 2012. Of this, 41% was in the public sector, 38% 
was in regulated industries and 21% was in the private sector. 
Importantly, 53% of our order book is in frameworks and 58% has 
been secured on a basis other than price competition, showing the 
continued success of our strategy.
We continued to deliver high levels of client satisfaction, with 
overall satisfaction standing at 83%, compared with 82% in the 
previous year.
Building
  2013 2012
Revenue (£m) 406.4 363.5
Profit from operations (£m) 6.5 8.4
Operating profit margin (%) 1.6 2.3
Order book (£m) 635 471
Building’s most successful markets continued to be in southern 
England, the midlands and in Scotland, where we have a 
significant presence and strong track record.
During the year, we reached financial close on an £89 million 
contract with Genting UK to build a major leisure and retail 
development at the National Exhibition Centre in Birmingham. 
We also continued to secure numerous other projects around the 
country. These included contracts to construct retail and leisure 
facilities, hotels, office space, apartments and education centres.
Alongside our Investments business, Building won ‘Sustainable 
Project of the Year’ for The Hive in Worcester, at the Building 
Awards 2012.
Long-term 
relationships 
Our relationship with the All 
England Lawn Tennis and 
Croquet Club dates back to 
1973. In that time, we have 
delivered 28 major 
improvement schemes, 
helping to maintain 
Wimbledon’s reputation 
as a world-class venue.
Strong regional 
positions 
Morrison Construction is 
one of Scotland’s leading 
contractors, enabling us to 
take part in major projects 
such as the £790 million 
Queensferry Crossing, the 
largest single project let by 
Transport Scotland to date.
Work secured for new year
87%
Order book
£1.7bn 32 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Divisional review
Construction
Partnerships
  2013 2012
Revenue (£m) 90.0 90.4
Profit from operations (£m) 2.2 1.7
Operating profit margin (%) 2.4 1.9
Order book (£m) 494 368
The Partnerships division continued to secure new work around 
the country.
Major new wins in the year included a £52 million contract with the 
Greater London Authority to redevelop the old St Clements Hospital 
site in east London, which includes the construction of 223 new 
homes, and a £38 million contract to regenerate the Brook House 
site in North London, on behalf of Newlon Housing Trust.
As part of the S4B consortium, Partnerships was appointed 
preferred bidder for the £100 million Brunswick regeneration 
scheme, which aims to transform the Brunswick area of east 
Manchester. The scheme includes 522 new homes, associated 
community facilities and extensive infrastructure works.
Partnerships was also appointed preferred bidder for a wide range 
of other contracts. These will see it develop affordable homes and 
other facilities on the same sites, such as retail and commercial 
units, for clients across England.
Partnerships won ‘Main Contractor of the Year’ (over £40 million) 
at the Builder & Engineer Awards 2012, demonstrating its high 
standing in the industry. It also received ‘Most Innovative Use of 
Renewable Technology’ at the Housing Innovation Awards 2013, 
for Sinclair Meadows, and ‘Best Designed Project’ for Finchley 
Memorial Hospital, at the Partnerships Bulletin Awards 2013.
Outlook
We expect our markets to recover slowly, although pricing remains 
under pressure. We continue to benefit from our strong positions 
in Scotland and London, and from the steady flow of work in the 
regulated sector. In the medium term, there is a risk of a thinner 
pipeline of public sector contracts in England, unless the 
Government increases its infrastructure investment.
We will continue to keep overheads tight, maintain our focus on 
risk and ensure the business is in good shape so it can grow again 
when market conditions allow.
Infrastructure
  2013 2012
Revenue (£m) 416.3 470.9
Profit from operations (£m) 6.4 8.8
Operating profit margin (%) 1.5 1.9
Order book (£m) 579 811
Our Infrastructure division continued to deliver work for regulated 
businesses during the year and also has a number of major UK 
projects in progress.
Our four-party consortium constructing the new Queensferry 
Crossing is making good progress, with the bridge pier foundation 
work and the north and south approaches under way. We are 
progressing work on the £80 million A380 South Devon link road 
for Devon County Council and Torbay Council, with the contract 
due to be completed in 2015. The Group was also appointed to 
Manchester Airports Group’s £500 million Capital Delivery 
Programme in June.
During the year, Morrison Construction was awarded a £28 million 
contract to upgrade flood defences at Forres in northern Scotland. 
The project is part of the wider Moray Flood Alleviation scheme 
which aims to solve flooding issues across Moray. The contract 
is due to complete in spring 2015.
Our joint venture with Black & Veatch also secured one of 
six places on part of the Environment Agency’s Water and 
Environment Management framework 2013–17. This will see us 
serving the Environment Agency’s flood and coastal erosion risk 
management function, as well as being available to flood risk 
management authorities, Defra delivery bodies, local authorities, 
internal drainage boards and the Welsh government.
We were pleased that the M74 Completion Project won the Saltire 
Society Civil Engineering Award.
Regionally 
significant schemes
We are pleased to have 
secured new work in the 
leisure and hotel sectors, 
both of which have improving 
prospects. Our contract to 
construct Resorts World at the 
National Exhibition Centre for 
Genting will include a casino, 
hotel, spa, conference 
facilities, retail outlets and 
a cinema.
Success in 
Partnerships 
Watermill Lane in 
Enfield is one of the 
numerous successful 
projects undertaken 
by our Partnerships 
business, which is 
seeing increasing 
demand for its skills 
in constructing 
affordable housing. 33 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Divisional review
PPP Investments
Our success is based on our ability to partner with all our 
stakeholders, including clients, consortium members and advisers. 
We also have a full range of resources and experience within 
Galliford Try, as well as a developed and professional supply chain.
We have arranged and funded two of the largest multi-school PPP 
projects in the UK, have award-winning capabilities in health and 
have delivered one of the world’s most sustainable public 
buildings, The Hive in Worcester.
  2013 2012
Revenue (£m) 6.7 13.8
Profit/(loss) from operations (£m) (3.2) (1.1)
Directors’ valuation (£m) 4.5 4.9
Strategy
Our strategy is to bid for PPP projects that create investment 
opportunities and offer the chance to secure construction and 
maintenance contracts for the Group. To date, we have arranged 
and financed 30 PPP projects, with a total funding requirement in 
excess of £1.9 billion.
Market
The PPP market in England is limited. While the Government has 
announced its intention to invest in infrastructure, its focus is on 
deficit reduction and substantial levels of investment cannot be 
expected until after the next general election. One exception is the 
Priority Schools Building Programme, which is a £700 million 
procurement project to address the condition of schools in most 
urgent need of repair. We are reviewing the programme and 
expect to be active participants.
The market in Scotland remains positive and there are a number of 
PPP projects in the pipeline.
Performance
During the year, we sold our remaining equity interest in the Ealing 
Care Homes project. The directors’ valuation of our PPP portfolio 
at 30 June 2013 was £4.5 million, compared to a value invested of 
£2.9 million (2012: valuation £4.9 million; value invested £2.9 million). 
The valuation is carried out using discounted cash flows.
We have a 49% share of the £300 million hub South East Scotland 
and are making good progress with a number of ‘design and build’ 
and ‘design, build, finance, maintain’ projects. To date, more 
than £40 million of projects have been completed or are under 
construction, and we are developing solutions with the client for 
more than £110 million of further projects.
We were pleased that our Alliance Community Partnerships 
consortium with Equitix Holdings Ltd, Kier Projects Investments 
Ltd and John Graham Holdings Ltd, reached financial close on the 
hub South West Scotland initiative, to deliver £600 million of public 
sector infrastructure projects over the next ten years. We are also 
in joint venture with Balfour Beatty and Carillion, as one of three 
bidders for the £550 million Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route.
Outlook
The outlook for the PPP market in England is limited but prospects 
continue in Scotland. The lending market remains restricted but 
the strength of the Group’s balance sheet means that we expect 
to secure the funding we need for our projects.
Galliford Try is an 
industry leader in 
arranging public private 
partnerships (PPPs). 
We draw on a broad 
range of project 
management skills, 
as well as the Group’s 
financial strength.
Outstanding quality
The Hive has been delivered by 
our Building division, working 
closely with Investments. Its 
many awards include 
‘Sustainable Project of the Year’ 
at the Building Awards 2013 and 
a Public Private Partnership 
Award for ‘Best Sustainability in 
a Project’ 34 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Principal risks
Management of risk
We have policies and procedures throughout our 
operations that enable us to identify, evaluate and 
manage risk, embedded within our management 
structure and operating processes. We maintain 
registers at Group, divisional and business unit level 
that detail identified risks, relate them to the Group’s 
objectives and rate them based on their likelihood and 
their potential impact should they materialise. This is 
then linked to how the risk is managed, the 
responsibility for its management and the way in which 
this is monitored. The registers show the levels of 
residual risk, enabling the board to judge acceptability. 
We regularly update the registers as risks change. In 
addition we carry out an annual review of market 
developments, Group strategy and projects being 
secured in the context of our risk management 
processes, to ensure they adapt to changing 
requirements. Carrying out this exercise, in co-
ordination with the board’s annual review of internal 
controls and their effectiveness, helps to ensure that 
our management of risk remains up to date and 
relevant. Details of the work undertaken in this area 
during the year are given in the Governance report on 
page 48.
Identifying, 
evaluating and 
managing our 
principal risks and 
uncertainties is 
integral to the way 
we do business.
Type of Risk   Impact   Strategic implications   Mitigating actions
             
Health, safety & environmental   Group  
Incidents on our sites affect our employees, all others who work on our sites 
and members of the public. Incidents affect our reputation and have a direct 
financial impact on the business and our management resources.
 
We prioritise the need to provide a safe working environment and promote 
health, safety and environmental issues, and have a comprehensive policy 
and framework to manage these risks.
People   Group  
Attracting, developing and retaining talented individuals at all levels of the 
business is crucial to our success.
 
Our human resources policies are based on the Investors in People 
principles, under which we are accredited. We carry out annual succession 
planning and have a training and development programme designed to 
optimise career satisfaction.
Availability of financing   Group  
The Group requires funding to finance its development, project and working 
capital requirements.
 
Funding is provided by equity and bank borrowings. We constantly monitor 
levels of available funding and compliance with our bank covenants, and 
have facilities in place until May 2015. Our focus on margin enhancement, 
construction cash resources and using existing landbanks should also help 
us to generate increased cash flows within the business.
Group brand portfolio & 
maintenance
  Group  
The Group increasingly relies on its established portfolio of brands within its 
markets, supply chain and wider environments. Materially detrimental events 
will damage the brands leverage and impinge on financial performance.
 
The Group’s key brands and intellectual property (IP) are subject to rigorous 
protection. We constantly monitor the market place to ensure no 
contravention of our IP rights or misuse of our brands.
Sustainability   Group  
Failure to meet increasing sustainability regulations on homes for sale, or 
being unable to deliver sustainable solutions in line with our construction 
clients’ requirements, will affect our ability to sell homes or secure projects.
 
We have a programme to develop sustainable homes in accordance with 
projected requirements and a strategy to improve our understanding of 
construction clients’ changing aspirations.
Other Group factors   Group  
Group risks include stakeholder risks, legal and regulatory obligations, 
optimising insurance cover, non availability of key assets, risk of failure of IT or 
financial management systems, and pensions.
 
The board takes responsibility for, and prioritises management of, all 
stakeholder interests. Each functional team has policies and procedures 
designed to identify and manage risks appropriate to their remit. Regular 
board meetings facilitate cross-functional communication of anticipated 
potential issues. The Group also operates contingency and disaster recovery 
policies to mitigate any potential financial or reputational damage.
Changes to the UK housing 
market and the economic cycle
  Housebuilding  
The state of the economy and the global financial system affect consumer 
confidence and the housing market. This influences the price that our 
purchasers are prepared to pay for their homes and, by deducting the building 
and all other costs of development, the price and terms under which the 
Group purchases land for development.
 
We monitor Government and industry data on housing prices, sales volumes 
and construction commencement data, enabling us to anticipate market 
changes and adjust our land acquisition plans, build programmes, sales 
releases and purchaser incentives accordingly.
Land acquisition   Housebuilding  
Acquiring land at the wrong price, or underestimating development costs, 
could affect our financial return from development projects.
 
We have a rigorous pre-acquisition site appraisal process with strict 
authority levels covering purchase, construction and sales, enabling us to 
alter plans and adapt to changes where necessary.
Availability of mortgage finance   Housebuilding  
The availability, cost and terms under which our purchasers can secure 
mortgage finance affects both their ability to purchase and the price they 
can pay.
 
We monitor published statistics on mortgage approvals and lending, 
analysing the impact on potential customers across the different market 
sectors and the prices of properties we sell. We then adjust our development 
plans and our purchaser incentives, such as part exchange facilities and 
shared equity. We also monitor other influences on the mortgage market, 
such as Government initiatives to improve mortgage availability and 
affordability.
Availability of development land   Housebuilding  
A healthy land market provides us with the raw material on which to build. A 
sustained reduction in the value of land affects land owners’ willingness to sell. 
Delay and uncertainty in the planning system reduces our ability to obtain the 
required supply of developable land, although restrictions are gradually being 
lifted and more flexibility introduced as a result of the implementation of the 
National Planning Policy Framework.
 
We maintain a landbank that balances plots with full planning consent, with 
outline consent and zoned for residential development. We also have 
strategic land held primarily under options to purchase in the future. We 
monitor public sector planning strategies both nationally and locally and 
adjust our development plans accordingly.
The level of public sector 
spending
  Construction  
Public sector spending and the investment programmes of the regulated 
infrastructure sectors affect the amount of work available and the degree of 
competition for that work, potentially affecting both the level of revenues and 
profit margins achievable.
 
We gather published and informal intelligence on our markets, and closely 
monitor our order book and pipeline of opportunities. Our business planning 
process forecasts market trends, enabling us to match resources to 
projected workloads.
Confidence and the availability 
of project finance
  Construction  
Confidence in the economy, combined with our private sector clients’ ability to 
secure development finance, affects their spending on construction projects.
 
Our business planning and annual budgeting process analyses data on 
forthcoming projects. We also monitor the spending programmes of our 
major clients, adapting our approach to those sectors and clients where we 
see the best opportunities.
Securing contracts   Construction  
We take commercial risk on each construction contract, which includes credit 
and counterparty risk, pricing and the technical ability to deliver. Failing to 
secure construction contracts at a price and on terms that deliver an 
acceptable return for the risk undertaken could cause potentially serious 
financial and resource allocation issues. We require a pipeline of suitable 
opportunities and need to ensure that we reach financial and contractual 
agreements without significant delays.
 
We have a rigorous approach to contract selection through an authorities 
matrix linking our capabilities and resources, as well as the terms under 
which we carry out the work. Further specific risk management assessments 
are undertaken for all major infrastructure projects.
Project delivery   Construction  
Failure to deliver projects on time, quality or budget, or contractual disputes 
and supply chain issues that can arise over the scope and/or valuation of 
contracts, make the ultimate outcome of contracts uncertain and could lead to 
financial and reputational damage for the Group. Some of our projects take 
significant time to complete, which means that the cost of supplies may rise or 
suppliers may become insolvent while the project is in progress.
 
We have business information systems providing profit margin and cash 
forecasting by contract. We monitor construction progress against 
programme in order to re-plan and reassess resources where applicable, 
and select our supply chain carefully. 35 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Type of Risk   Impact   Strategic implications   Mitigating actions
             
Health, safety & environmental   Group  
Incidents on our sites affect our employees, all others who work on our sites 
and members of the public. Incidents affect our reputation and have a direct 
financial impact on the business and our management resources.
 
We prioritise the need to provide a safe working environment and promote 
health, safety and environmental issues, and have a comprehensive policy 
and framework to manage these risks.
People   Group  
Attracting, developing and retaining talented individuals at all levels of the 
business is crucial to our success.
 
Our human resources policies are based on the Investors in People 
principles, under which we are accredited. We carry out annual succession 
planning and have a training and development programme designed to 
optimise career satisfaction.
Availability of financing   Group  
The Group requires funding to finance its development, project and working 
capital requirements.
 
Funding is provided by equity and bank borrowings. We constantly monitor 
levels of available funding and compliance with our bank covenants, and 
have facilities in place until May 2015. Our focus on margin enhancement, 
construction cash resources and using existing landbanks should also help 
us to generate increased cash flows within the business.
Group brand portfolio & 
maintenance
  Group  
The Group increasingly relies on its established portfolio of brands within its 
markets, supply chain and wider environments. Materially detrimental events 
will damage the brands leverage and impinge on financial performance.
 
The Group’s key brands and intellectual property (IP) are subject to rigorous 
protection. We constantly monitor the market place to ensure no 
contravention of our IP rights or misuse of our brands.
Sustainability   Group  
Failure to meet increasing sustainability regulations on homes for sale, or 
being unable to deliver sustainable solutions in line with our construction 
clients’ requirements, will affect our ability to sell homes or secure projects.
 
We have a programme to develop sustainable homes in accordance with 
projected requirements and a strategy to improve our understanding of 
construction clients’ changing aspirations.
Other Group factors   Group  
Group risks include stakeholder risks, legal and regulatory obligations, 
optimising insurance cover, non availability of key assets, risk of failure of IT or 
financial management systems, and pensions.
 
The board takes responsibility for, and prioritises management of, all 
stakeholder interests. Each functional team has policies and procedures 
designed to identify and manage risks appropriate to their remit. Regular 
board meetings facilitate cross-functional communication of anticipated 
potential issues. The Group also operates contingency and disaster recovery 
policies to mitigate any potential financial or reputational damage.
Changes to the UK housing 
market and the economic cycle
  Housebuilding  
The state of the economy and the global financial system affect consumer 
confidence and the housing market. This influences the price that our 
purchasers are prepared to pay for their homes and, by deducting the building 
and all other costs of development, the price and terms under which the 
Group purchases land for development.
 
We monitor Government and industry data on housing prices, sales volumes 
and construction commencement data, enabling us to anticipate market 
changes and adjust our land acquisition plans, build programmes, sales 
releases and purchaser incentives accordingly.
Land acquisition   Housebuilding  
Acquiring land at the wrong price, or underestimating development costs, 
could affect our financial return from development projects.
 
We have a rigorous pre-acquisition site appraisal process with strict 
authority levels covering purchase, construction and sales, enabling us to 
alter plans and adapt to changes where necessary.
Availability of mortgage finance   Housebuilding  
The availability, cost and terms under which our purchasers can secure 
mortgage finance affects both their ability to purchase and the price they 
can pay.
 
We monitor published statistics on mortgage approvals and lending, 
analysing the impact on potential customers across the different market 
sectors and the prices of properties we sell. We then adjust our development 
plans and our purchaser incentives, such as part exchange facilities and 
shared equity. We also monitor other influences on the mortgage market, 
such as Government initiatives to improve mortgage availability and 
affordability.
Availability of development land   Housebuilding  
A healthy land market provides us with the raw material on which to build. A 
sustained reduction in the value of land affects land owners’ willingness to sell. 
Delay and uncertainty in the planning system reduces our ability to obtain the 
required supply of developable land, although restrictions are gradually being 
lifted and more flexibility introduced as a result of the implementation of the 
National Planning Policy Framework.
 
We maintain a landbank that balances plots with full planning consent, with 
outline consent and zoned for residential development. We also have 
strategic land held primarily under options to purchase in the future. We 
monitor public sector planning strategies both nationally and locally and 
adjust our development plans accordingly.
The level of public sector 
spending
  Construction  
Public sector spending and the investment programmes of the regulated 
infrastructure sectors affect the amount of work available and the degree of 
competition for that work, potentially affecting both the level of revenues and 
profit margins achievable.
 
We gather published and informal intelligence on our markets, and closely 
monitor our order book and pipeline of opportunities. Our business planning 
process forecasts market trends, enabling us to match resources to 
projected workloads.
Confidence and the availability 
of project finance
  Construction  
Confidence in the economy, combined with our private sector clients’ ability to 
secure development finance, affects their spending on construction projects.
 
Our business planning and annual budgeting process analyses data on 
forthcoming projects. We also monitor the spending programmes of our 
major clients, adapting our approach to those sectors and clients where we 
see the best opportunities.
Securing contracts   Construction  
We take commercial risk on each construction contract, which includes credit 
and counterparty risk, pricing and the technical ability to deliver. Failing to 
secure construction contracts at a price and on terms that deliver an 
acceptable return for the risk undertaken could cause potentially serious 
financial and resource allocation issues. We require a pipeline of suitable 
opportunities and need to ensure that we reach financial and contractual 
agreements without significant delays.
 
We have a rigorous approach to contract selection through an authorities 
matrix linking our capabilities and resources, as well as the terms under 
which we carry out the work. Further specific risk management assessments 
are undertaken for all major infrastructure projects.
Project delivery   Construction  
Failure to deliver projects on time, quality or budget, or contractual disputes 
and supply chain issues that can arise over the scope and/or valuation of 
contracts, make the ultimate outcome of contracts uncertain and could lead to 
financial and reputational damage for the Group. Some of our projects take 
significant time to complete, which means that the cost of supplies may rise or 
suppliers may become insolvent while the project is in progress.
 
We have business information systems providing profit margin and cash 
forecasting by contract. We monitor construction progress against 
programme in order to re-plan and reassess resources where applicable, 
and select our supply chain carefully. 36 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Sustainability
Constructing a sustainable future
Health & safety is the first priority and the 
focus for everyone involved with the Group, 
for themselves and their colleagues.
Our ‘Challenging Beliefs, Affecting 
Behaviour’ initiative complements our 
training room based safety courses and 
extends it to anywhere where people are 
working together to encourage the use of 
safer working practices.
Delivering our projects inevitably 
means using materials, fossil fuels 
and other resources. 
This has environmental impacts, so we 
aim to cut waste and energy use to reduce 
these and to save money. We report our 
waste and carbon performance quarterly, 
to ensure visibility in the business and to 
help us continually improve. 
Maintaining our innovative approach 
requires an effective training and 
development programme, including 
investing in developing tools such as 
e-learning. We also develop talent for the 
future, through the Galliford Try Academy 
and graduate trainees.
“ Nothing is more important 
than protecting our people 
and subcontractors.”
“ My responsibility as a 
project manager is to 
deliver successful 
schemes while protecting 
and improving the 
environment.”
“ Thanks to the support 
from Galliford Try, I have 
developed new skills and 
made progress in my 
chosen career.”
Accident Frequency Rate (target 0.17) Reduction in our carbon footprint since 
2008 (target 15%)
Number of training days delivered 
(target 8,000) 
Rob Amson
Health & Safety Adviser
Paul Marshall
Senior Site Agent
Natalie Armstrong 
Graduate Trainee Assistant Site Manager
0.10 26% 11,142
We place the highest priority 
on health & safety.
We aim to protect the 
environment and plan for its 
improvement.
We are committed to 
developing our people by 
investing in their careers.
Health & Safety Environment & Climate Change Our People 37 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Our business benefits society by providing 
the homes, buildings and infrastructure we 
all depend on. However we can only do this 
if our communities support our work. We 
take time to consult with our stakeholders 
to understand and address their needs, 
and have our site performance 
independently assessed by the 
Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Our customers want well-designed 
projects that deliver high performance and 
are efficient to construct and use. Efficiency 
helps us to remain competitive and secure 
the orders that make us economically 
sustainable. It also means delivering energy 
efficient schemes that are free from defects 
and secure repeat business.
We ensure our supply chain partners’ skills, 
and the materials they supply, meet our 
customers’ expectations and our 
environmental and social standards. 
We set high standards for our preferred 
suppliers and encourage our 
subcontractors to buy from them as well, 
to maintain these high standards.
“ I am encouraged to make 
a positive impact in our 
communities by engaging 
with local stakeholders 
and understanding 
their needs.”
“ Customers get the highest 
standard of service 
throughout their sale, 
purchase and aftercare 
process with Linden 
Homes.”
“ Active engagement with 
our supply chain is the key 
to promoting our principles 
and practices and 
delivering an improved 
product.”
Average Considerate Constructors 
Score (target 35/50) 
(scoring system changed in 2013)
Customer Satisfaction, Linden 
Homes (target 90%)
Timber supplied with Chain of 
Custody Certification
Stevie Forster 
Site Manager
Daniel Rowland 
Sales Executive
Simon Stone 
Divisional Procurement Manager
37 93% 89%
Our objective is to make 
a positive impact in the 
communities in which 
we operate.
We give total commitment 
and high standards to all our 
customers.
We actively engage with our 
supply chain, to promote our 
principles and practices.
Community Customers Supply Chain
The long term future of Galliford Try 
relies on the positive management of the 
fundamentals of sustainable business. We 
recognise six fundamental responsibilities 
that ensure we are economically sustainable, 
while embracing our duty to society and the 
environment.
02
05
03 01
04 06 38 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Actual
2013
Target
2013
Target
2014
Target
2015
Accident Frequency Rate
Down 37.5%
Performance under the Health & Safety Executive’s latest Reporting of Injuries, 
Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations guidance, further information 
on page 45.
0.10
0.10
0.17
0.10
Actual
2013
Target
2013
Target
2014
Target
2015
Accident Incidence Rate
Down 42.9%
Performance reects number of accidents across the Group per 1,000 employees.
3.73
3.53
3.93
2.33
Our sustainability activities
Health & Safety
Our number one priority
In the last 20 years, health & safety across the construction industry 
has been transformed, leading to continued improvement in 
accident frequency rates. Galliford Try has an excellent record of 
reducing its accident frequency rate year-on-year but we cannot 
ever assume the job is done. This was starkly illustrated by a fatality 
on one of our sites in 2012.
Our investment in health & safety continues through our 
‘Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour’ programme, and is 
supported by a team of over 50 health, safety and environment 
advisers. We aim to reach everyone within and connected to our 
business, whether they are an employee or subcontractor, office 
or site based. This requires committed leadership. Ken Gillespie, 
Construction Division Chief Executive, is the executive board 
member responsible. 
The executive board and business unit managing directors show 
commitment and leadership through dedicated health, safety and 
environment reviews on site each year. We completed 77 audits 
during the year, against our target of 80.
Safe behaviour discussions
Our managing directors also lead in delivering safe behaviour 
discussions (SBDs), one of the key tools in our behavioural 
programme. In an SBD, our staff work with operatives on site to 
constantly identify an operation’s risks and agree the steps to 
make it safer. By challenging unsafe acts and reinforcing safe 
working methods, this partnership approach encourages 
ownership and embeds behaviours more effectively than just 
issuing instructions. We have a target of 10,000 SBDs each year 
and completed 55,654 in the year.
Behavioural change
We also continue to deliver our behavioural change workshops, 
with 84 taking place in the year with 1,022 attendees. As well as 
general awareness workshops, we provide focused training for 
our safety coaches. During the year, we aimed to identify and train 
600 safety coaches. We achieved 530, which means that almost 
one-fifth of our employees are now superusers of our behavioural 
toolkit, able to champion Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour 
and embed the new culture of health & safety across all 
our workplaces. 
Our approach during 2012 has reduced our accident frequency 
rate (AFR) to 0.10, compared to 0.16 last year, and accident 
incidence rate (AIR) to 2.33 from 4.08 using the Reporting of 
Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 
(RIDDOR) definition. Galliford Try recognises that every accident is 
significant and has monitoring processes to investigate all injuries 
and lost time incidents. We base our targets on these reporting 
processes which are more stringent than RIDDOR and illustrate 
them in the performance graph. Using our more stringent 
requirements our AFR was 0.13, and our AIR was 3.01.
Improving our 
health & safety 
performance.
02
05
03 01
04 06
Safety Coaches
We are supporting more of our 
staff with the skills to be a safety 
coach. The programme is 
designed to influence behaviours, 
not just to reinforce processes, 
and to get even greater 
collaboration across our 
business and supply chain. 39 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Changing how we think about health & safety
Galliford Try’s AFR performance suggests that Challenging Beliefs, 
Affecting Behaviour is working. In our employee survey, we ask 
two questions in particular to gauge staff perceptions and our 
success. The first asks if we place a high priority on health & 
safety, with 95% of our employees agreeing. The second and 
more significant question showed that 82% of our people 
understand the initiative and their role in it. These surveys show 
how successful the launch and development programme has 
been. With more of our office based staff due to go through the 
Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour programme, we are 
confident of increasing staff engagement in this critical area.
We also monitor our performance on prosecutions, prohibitions 
and enforcements by the Health & Safety Executive (HSE) and 
other statutory bodies. Our target is always zero and we achieved 
this, receiving no prohibitions and enforcements while having 45 
visits from HSE. However, during the year, there were two 
prosecutions relating to historical accidents in 2006 and 2010.
Exemplary performance
Our focus on health & safety has seen exemplary performance 
across many projects. During the year, a number reached 
significant milestones by working accident free for millions of 
hours. Three schemes alone achieved nearly six million hours or 
3,000 working years of safe and successful delivery. At Laggan 
Tormore Gas Plant, Shetland, Galliford Try contributed over 
700,000 accident free hours. MGJV, our partnership with Morrison 
Utility Services, has achieved over two million hours without any 
lost time accidents. GCA, a joint venture in which Galliford Try is a 
partner, has just reached three million hours without a lost time 
accident, while working on United Utilities’ AMP5 framework. We 
expect these high standards to improve further, as Challenging 
Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour embeds itself across the business.
Tackling road safety
We want to deal positively with health & safety on site and in the 
office. We also recognise that many of our employees travel some 
distance to and from work, as well as between our offices, sites 
and to meetings with clients, which are all spread across the UK. 
Galliford Try already gives comprehensive guidance to drivers on 
safe motoring and recently trialled driver training, which we propose 
to introduce across the Group. This training encourages safer and 
more fuel efficient driving, thereby having a double benefit for our 
business. We are also increasing the visibility and ownership of 
driving safety, by including Motoring Accident Incidence and 
Frequency rates in reports to business units and the 
executive board. 
Accident free hours worked at Laggan 
Tormore Gas Plant 
Safe Behaviour Discussions to reinforce 
safer working methods
700,000
55,654
Health & Safety – Key Statistics
Percentage of employees 
agreeing that we place a high 
priority on Health & Safety
Staff now trained 
as Safety Coaches
Number of executive led 
safety audits completed
Percentage of employees 
that understand their role 
in our Safety Leadership 
programme
95% 530 
77 82%
Always working safely
We are currently delivering Laggan Tormore 
Gas Plant, a major infrastructure project on 
Shetland, for ultimate client Total. Galliford 
Try’s exemplary health & safety performance 
contributed over 700,000 hours to a total of 
one million hours worked by principal 
contractor Petrofac, with no three-day lost 
time accidents.  40 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Actual
2012
Target
2012
Actual
2011
Actual
2010
Actual
2009
Waste Diverted from Landﬁll
Excluding Soil and Stones
79.2%
59.5%
55.4%
90.0%
92.3%
Actual
2012
Actual
2011
Actual
2010
Actual
2009
Waste Per £100,000 turnover 
(tonnes)
All data calendar year end.
19.6
25.0
20.8
11.5
Our sustainability activities
Environment and Climate Change
Our focus on reducing waste and carbon emissions
We focus on reducing our waste and carbon dioxide emissions 
to minimise our environmental impact and reduce costs.
Our Regional Environmental Advisers support our HSE Advisers, 
ensuring we comply with environmental legislation through a 
planned schedule of inspections and audits. They also train 
employees and subcontractors, to improve performance. This 
framework supports our independently verified and ISO 14001 
compliant environmental management system. Our HSE Team 
also helps our senior management with environmental reviews of 
our activities.
During the year, 56 people attended our four-day training course, 
‘Managing Environmental Responsibilities’. We delivered another 
255 training days internally. Galliford Try received no environmental 
prosecutions or fixed penalties in 2012/13.
Reducing waste
Recycling waste cuts our landfill tax bill. During the calendar year 
2012, we created 900,000 tonnes of construction material waste 
and recycled over 92% excluding soil and stones, beating our 
target. Of this, we reused 600,000 tonnes of materials, saving 
significant costs. However, the challenge is to reduce waste 
relative to turnover. In 2012, we produced less than 12 tonnes per 
£100,000 of turnover, a reduction of 41% on 2011.
During 2013/14, we aim to continue to divert more than 90% of 
construction material waste from landfill, and to keep waste per 
£100,000 of turnover below 20 tonnes. We cannot improve our 
waste performance on our own, so we train our subcontractors, 
and we have also carefully selected the right waste-management 
partners and choose suppliers with take-back schemes. 
Cutting our carbon footprint
During 2013 we launched our ‘Cutting Carbon Should Be 
Everyone’s Business’ campaign, encouraging employees to be 
energy efficient, reducing our emissions and saving us millions of 
pounds over the next few years.
We revised our carbon management plan to deal with our two 
main sources of emissions over the next five years. Our cutting 
carbon campaign has an element focused on site activities and 
we have agreed with our plant and generator suppliers to procure 
their most energy-efficient equipment.
We have also capped permitted emissions from company cars, 
incentivising employees to choose lower emitting vehicles. While 
our car fleet has grown by nearly 23% since 2009, emissions have 
remained stable. We now include costs and emissions data in the 
chief executive’s quarterly review with every managing director, to 
ensure visibility.
Saving money and 
reducing our 
environmental impact.
Delivering our strategic target
Our efforts have significantly reduced our carbon footprint since 
2008, from 3.8 tonnes to 2.83 tonnes per £100,000 of turnover. Our 
target was a 15% reduction relative to turnover and by the end of 
the calendar year 2012 we delivered a 26% reduction.
Our aim is now for our businesses to maintain their gains and 
reduce further where possible. We will publish a new strategy to 
cover the period to 2018 later in the year.
Carbon Disclosure Project submissions 
(metric tonnes carbon dioxide)
Year
1
Fleet
Site and 
Office 
Energy
2
Site and 
Office 
Electricity
Total 
Emission Intensity
3
2012 10,074 22,566 8,143 40,783 2.83
2011 9,039 30,150 7,773 46,962 3.41
2010 10,036 22,904 11,656 44,596 3.63
2009 10,907 27,877 10,205 48,989 3.74
2008 10,361 46,797 8,160 65,318 3.82
1 Calendar year end
2 Excluding electricity
3 Metric tonnes carbon dioxide per £100,000 turnover
02
05
03 01
04 06 41 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Actual
2013
Target
2013
Actual
2012
Training Days
Number of training days delivered
8,837
8,000
11,142
Our sustainability activities
Our People
Enhancing our capabilities
Galliford Try needs a well-trained and engaged workforce. 
We want employees who are happy to work for us and who feel 
they can progress. We therefore focus on providing opportunities 
throughout their careers, and aim to deliver the equivalent of at 
least two training days each per annum. Training is driven by 
individual needs, identified through annual personal 
development reviews.
During the year we completed mandatory training on the Bribery 
Act as well as equality and diversity training. This was delivered 
through e-learning, which saves significant costs and time.
Successful businesses draw on diverse talent but we recognise 
that our sector has a lower rate of gender and ethnic diversity than 
society as a whole. To begin to address this, to raise awareness 
and challenge pre-conceptions about peoples’ suitability for 
employment we have rolled out equality and diversity training. Our 
training is not limited to compliance based issues, but also looks to 
develop the wider skill set needed by a multidisciplinary company, 
such as health, safety and environment, technical, commercial, 
information technology and planning.
Developing new talent
A healthy business needs an appropriate level of employee 
turnover and this year our churn rate was 11.45%, against a target 
of less than 10%, which we review each year. We look to replace 
and promote from within and our graduate and trainee programme 
is a key element. We invest significant time and money in training 
our future leaders, who can progress through our six-step 
management development framework. 
Understanding our people’s views
Our annual survey helps us to understand if we are meeting 
employees’ expectations. We aim to maintain, and in some 
areas improve, our performance each year. We made significant 
changes to our 2012 survey to gain better insight, so the results 
are not comparable with 2011. However we believe these changes 
will provide a more robust benchmark for us in the future.
We have also started to monitor employee sickness and 
absence rates, which should be lower in a satisfied workforce. 
This allows us to identify trends and offer help through our 
employee support programme. 
Keeping our people informed
Communicating with employees helps them to understand and 
question our business model, performance and strategy. Our 
channels include news alerts, our magazine, staff briefings and, 
most significantly, our chief executive’s roadshow. We encourage 
as many employees as possible to attend, with 33% being our 
minimum target. This year we achieved 38%, enabling nearly 1,500 
employees to listen to and question our chief executive. 
Engaging our 
employees through 
development.
Encouraging the Next Generation
Paul Mills started his career with Galliford Try 13 years ago, 
as a management trainee. We encouraged him to study and he 
completed a post graduate Diploma in Construction Management 
in 2002. His continued progress has been recognised and he was 
named Project Manager of the Year at the Builder & Engineer 
Awards 2012. Paul (pictured on the left receiving his award) 
said ‘This was all possible because of the opportunities that 
Galliford Try has provided and is testament to the way that 
Galliford Try fosters talent by investing in people.’
Galliford Try Academy Enrolments 
– Trainees/Graduates
(Target is >2% of the workforce or 80 employees)
147
02
05
03 01
04 06 42 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Actual
2012
Target
2012
Actual
2013
Target
2013
Considerate Constructors Scheme
Improved performance
At the end of 2012 the Scheme scoring was revised from base 40 to base 50. 
32.0/40
35/50
37/50
33.7/40
Our sustainability activities
Community
Considerate construction
Across the UK, Galliford Try interacts with thousands of people 
who live near our projects. We take our responsibility seriously to 
make a contribution to the communities in which we are working. 
We are an Associate Member of the Considerate Constructors 
Scheme (CCS) and follow its Code of Considerate Practice. The 
CCS independently assesses our sites. Each division reports its 
scores at its monthly board meetings, with Group scores notified 
in the monthly Executive board Corporate Responsibility report. 
We have a Group target for our average score of 35/50 and 
exceeded this score with 37/50 in the first six months of 2013.
Listening to our communities
Galliford Try creates sustainable communities through the 3,000 
plus homes and numerous schools, hospitals and infrastructure 
projects we deliver every year. To do this, we must listen to and 
respect the views of local communities and other stakeholders. 
This allows us to develop projects sympathetic to local needs and 
minimise the risk of planning delays or refusal.
Giving something back
Our operational sites contribute to their communities. They boost 
the local economy, create employment in our supply chain, raise 
awareness of careers in construction via school engagement and 
national events, and directly support good causes. 
Supporting young people through apprenticeships
The construction industry relies on skilled trades but the economic 
downturn has made apprenticeships less common, contributing to 
a worsening skills shortage amongst young people. To address this, 
we aim to provide 500 subcontractor apprenticeships by 2016 and 
together with our subcontractors have recruited over 100 to date. 
It is also vital to encourage the next generation of recruits to join the 
industry. We participate in Open Doors, the UK Contractors Group 
initiative. It aims to attract talent into the industry by raising its 
profile, challenging stereotypes, encouraging greater engagement 
with the public and local communities, and making construction 
sites accessible to the public.
We are also sponsoring the new South Devon University Technical 
College which will offer a new way of learning for up to 600 young 
people aged 14 to 18. Its focus will be on engineering, water and 
the environment reflecting both the natural environment in Devon 
and the needs of local employers in these industries, including 
Galliford Try, as there is a lack of technicians available. Locally, 
apprenticeship numbers in science, engineering and 
manufacturing are half the regional average and nationally the 
technician deficit is estimated to reach 450,000 by 2020.
Making a positive 
impact.
Supporting good causes
Galliford Try is a patron of CRASH, the homelessness 
charity created by the construction industry which prevents 
hundreds of people having to sleep without shelter across 
the UK. We encourage our employees to volunteer and this 
year supported CRASH at Ecobuild, which provided a 
platform to promote the charity’s work in partnership with 
patrons and supporters.
Donations to good causes
This is direct contributions and also in kind from time and materials donated.
£108,000
02
05
03 01
04 06 43 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Actual
2013
Target
2013
Actual
2012
Actual
2011
Actual
2010
Customer Satisfaction – Linden Homes
Percentage who said they would recommend us to a friend
Survey conducted by an independent company.
94%
95%
97%
90%
93%
Our sustainability activities
Customers
Delivering results for our diverse customers
Galliford Try has two customer types, people who buy our homes 
and those who use the buildings, infrastructure and other projects 
we deliver. We apply the same values to all our work and aim to 
deliver high-quality products. 
Housebuilding
The 2012 Building Awards recognised Linden Homes as the 
‘Best Housebuilder of the Year’ but the real test is whether our 
customers would recommend us to a friend. Last year, 93% said they 
would. We have targeted 90% satisfaction and launched The Linden 
Way, a major initiative to improve customers’ experience and the quality 
of our homes, increasing satisfaction and allowing us to target 
five-stars in the National House-Building Council (NHBC) survey. 
We are also working to reduce defects per plot. Our aim is a rate 
of 0.25 defects per plot by the end of 2013, in line with the NHBC 
average. We are committed to responding to issues within ten 
working days. We have also newly targeted a net promoter score 
of 65% and achieved 47% in the financial year.
We built approximately 3,000 homes during the year, of which 
52% complied with Level 3 of the Code for Sustainable Homes, 
or equivalent. We adopt a fabric-first approach to designing and 
building energy efficient homes and research the most cost-
effective ways to do so, including post-occupancy monitoring.
Construction
Our construction businesses have differing client bases, project 
delivery models and sustainability plans. Each business contributes 
to our Group Corporate Responsibility Plan and also has more 
specific measures in place to address the needs and concerns of 
our diverse customer base. We have two main measures of success 
within construction: customer satisfaction and the conversion rate 
from work tendered to work won.
The benefits of our collaborative approach to working with clients 
and other partners were recognised when the Hive in Worcester, 
the UK’s first fully integrated public and university library, was 
crowned ‘Sustainable Project of the Year’ at the Building Awards.
To guarantee quality, our construction division has an ISO 9001 
certified Business Management System. This is vital, given the 
diversity and complexity of our projects. We are developing our 
approach to Building Information Modeling (BIM), an increasingly 
common requirement on public sector funded schemes. We see 
BIM as a major advantage in delivering more complex and efficient 
projects more quickly, while reducing waste. 
Committed to quality.
Repeat Business for 
Construction clients
52%
02
05
03 01
04 06
Excellence through collaboration
The Hive is an iconic building which, for the first time in 
Europe, combines a public and university library under one 
roof, while also offering council and conference facilities.
In accordance with our client’s specification, it is built 
from low environmental impact materials with excellent 
performance specifications, leading to its BREEAM 
Outstanding rating, and is temperature controlled using an 
innovative system relying on water from the River Severn.
It achieved a BREEAM score of 86.4%, the highest ever for 
a public library. 44 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Our
Supply
Chain
Principles
Health & Safety
Ethos
Sustainable Procurement
Value Creation
Our sustainability activities
Supply Chain 
Managing supply-chain risk
Galliford Try manages numerous supply chain risks. These include 
ensuring we receive the right materials, that our subcontractors 
are financially stable and deliver safely, and that our projects meet 
the required standards and functions. Our approach is about 
managing these risks, selecting suppliers who are aligned with 
our business principles and identifying efficiencies.
As this risk profile constantly shifts, we need to review our 
approach. During the year, we made the following changes:
•	 Introducing a preference for purchasing responsibly and 
ethically sourced products and materials. 
•	 Ensuring all timber meets Forest Stewardship Council or 
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification standards. 
•	 In 2012 89.4% of timber was procured with full chain of custody in 
compliance with our policy.
•	 99.5% was legally and sustainably sourced in line with the UK 
Contractors Group (UKCG) policy and as defined by the UK 
Government Central Point of Expertise on Timber. 
•	 Working with our Preferred Group suppliers (PGSs) to develop 
an enhanced sustainable product and services offering.
•	 Commenced benchmarking of all PGSs against our sustainability 
matrix, to identify PGSs with values consistent with ours and 
where we need to work together to improve performance.
Encouraging suppliers and subcontractors to work together
We encourage subcontractors to use PGSs for materials, ensuring 
they maintain the agreed standards. When a subcontractor uses 
another supplier, we expect them to demonstrate that the required 
standards are being achieved. 
Maintaining two-way relationships
Once we have agreed standards with our suppliers, the best results 
come from stable relationships and regular communication that 
allow us to work better together. We have a Group team of supply 
chain managers responsible for our strategic relationships with all 
PGSs. Each business unit also has a procurement team, to 
administer the central trading agreements and local purchasing. 
These teams host several procurement forums each year, involving 
our technical, commercial and construction staff and our supply 
chain partners. To encourage engagement, our supply chain 
partners often host these forums. This allows senior management 
from both sides to discuss adding value to the relationship and 
improves business process and communication. 
Supporting small and medium-sized businesses
We spend more than 59% of our turnover with subcontractors, 
most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises. They 
benefit significantly from our business, just as we benefit from our 
close working relationships with them. A UK Contractors Group 
study showed that every £1 spent in construction generated £2.84 
in economic activity.
We select suppliers 
and subcontractors 
that align with our 
business principles.
02
05
03 01
04 06
Supporting local supply chains
Our investment stretches beyond bricks and 
mortar, our projects provide homes for 
families, jobs for local businesses and 
opportunities for new apprentices. To 
demonstrate what this means for 
communities, a residential scheme in Ogwell 
Brook, South Devon provided a significant 
boost to the local economy as two-thirds of 
the subcontractors were based within 30 miles 
of the site, three-quarters of the suppliers were 
based within the region and the project 
created 73 jobs on site during construction, 
and 11 apprenticeships. We estimate that the 
development represents a total investment in 
the local economy equivalent to £19.4 million. 45 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business review
Our sustainability activities
Key Performance Indicators 2013
 
 
 Target
 
Achieved
 
Comment and Future Targets
1. Health & Safety
     
 Accident Frequency Rate 0.17 0.13 Our KPI measurement is more stringent than RIDDOR guidance 
and hence captures more accidents. Under RIDDOR guidance 
our target reduces to 0.10 next year
 Accident Incidence Rate 3.93 2.33 The target reduces to 3.73 next year
 Executive Led Safety Assessments 80 77 Maintain performance 2013/14
 Safe Behaviour Discussions 10,000 55,654 2013 performance reflects successful delivery of site based 
safety initiatives
 Safety coaches trained 600 530 We will continue to provide training to maintain the number of 
coaches
 Employee Survey Health & Safety question:
 My business gives Health & Safety a high priority.
95% 95% Maintain performance 2013/14
 Employee Survey Health & Safety question:
 I understand the Group’s initiative ‘Challenging
 Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour’ and my part in it.
80% 82% Our target for the employee survey in 2013/14 is 85%. We 
continue to prioritise Health & Safety
2. Environment and Climate Change
     
 Waste diverted from landfill 90% 92.3% Maintain performance above target >90% in 2013/14
 Waste (tonnes) per £100,000 turnover <20 tonnes/ 
£100,000
11.5 tonnes 
/ £100,000
Maintain performance below target 20 tonnes in 2013/14
 Carbon footprint (tonnes) per £100,000 turnover 15% reduction 
relative to 
turnover
26% 
reduction 
relative to 
turnover
We have reduced emissions to 2.83 tonnes £100,000 since 
2008, a 26% reduction.  Maintain performance in 2013. 
Prepare new divisional targets for 2013/14
 Number attending environmental training No target 56 We will continue to support our employees and partners by 
providing specialised environmental training
3. Our People
     
 Employees attending Chief Executive’s Roadshow 33% of 
workforce
38% of 
workforce
Maintain performance in 2013/14
 Training days 8,000 per 
annum 
(equivalent)
11,142 We aim to deliver the equivalent of two days per employee per 
annum. The days delivered represents an investment of £2.4 
million
 Trainees/graduates In 2012 the 
target was 80
147 The target is recast annually but is calculated as >2% workforce.  
3.7% achieved
 Churn rate 10% 11.45% We review this target annually
4. Community
     
 Number of subcontractor apprentices recruited 500 by 2016 >100 in 
2013
We remain on course to deliver our target
 Charitable and good cause donations No target £108,000 Includes time, in kind and donation of resources
 Considerate Constructors Scheme score 35/50 37/50 Replaces 32/40 which was the target under the former scoring 
regime. Maintain performance in 2013/14
5. Customers
     
 Linden Homes – Defects 0.25 0.46 Achieve NHBC Reportable Items average per plot of 0.25
 Linden Homes – Net promoter score 65% 47% We are targeting Five Star status for future NHBC surveys
 Linden Homes – Customer satisfaction 90% 93% Target 90% of our customers would recommend us to a friend 
as assessed by an independent survey
 Construction – Client satisfaction 80% 83%
 
 Construction – Forward order book No target £1.7 billion Construction order book was £1.65 billion in 2012
 Construction – Repeat work No target 52%
 
6. Supply Chain
     
 Timber supplied with FSC/PEFC 100% 89% 100% of all timber procured was legal and sustainable as 
defined by CPET
  Engagement process to identify best performing 
Preferred Group suppliers
Begin process 
in 2013
Under way To identify and encourage performance in lines with our values 
against a range of environmental and social criteria
For more information visit 
www.gallifordtry.co.uk 46 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Directors and executive board
1 / 
7 / 
5 / 6 / 4 / 
8 / 9 / 
2 / 3 /  47 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
1/ Ian Coull FRICS 
‡
Non Executive Chairman
Ian Coull was appointed to the board on 8 
November 2010 and became Chairman on 
1 July 201 1. Until 28 April 201 1 Ian was Chief 
Executive of SEGRO plc. He was previously 
a main board director of J Sainsbury plc and 
also a non-executive director of Pendragon 
plc until 28 January 2013. He is a non-
executive director of London Scottish 
International Limited, a Senior Adviser 
to Oaktree Capital Management, and to 
Stonehaven Search and a member of the 
Government’s Property Advisory Panel. 
Age 63.
4/ Peter Rogers CBE 
† ‡
Chair of the Nomination Committee
Non Executive Director
Peter Rogers was appointed to the board in 
July 2008. He is currently Chief Executive of 
Babcock International Group plc. Prior to 
joining Babcock in 2002, he was a director of 
Courtaulds and Acordis BV, having earlier 
held senior executive positions in the Ford 
Motor Company. Age 65.
7/ Ken Gillespie FRICS 
*
Construction Division Chief Executive
Ken joined the Group and its executive 
board in March 2006 on the acquisition of 
Morrison Construction, having been its 
Managing Director. He joined Morrison in 
1996 having spent the previous 13 years 
holding senior positions with George 
Wimpey. Previously Group Managing 
Director, Construction, with effect 1 March 
2013 Ken was appointed to his current role 
as Construction Division Chief Executive and 
as an executive director of Galliford Try plc. 
Ken was appointed as a non-executive 
director of the Scottish Contractors Group 
Limited in 2013. Age 48.
2/ Greg Fitzgerald
Chief Executive
Greg was appointed to the board in July 
2003 and was Managing Director for the 
Housebuilding Division before being 
appointed Chief Executive on 1 July 2005. He 
was a founder of Midas Homes in 1992 and 
its Managing Director when it was acquired in 
1997 , subsequently chairing Midas Homes 
and Gerald Wood Homes. He is a non-
executive Director of NHBC, the National 
House-Building Council. Age 49.
5/ Amanda Burton 
† ‡
Senior Independent Director
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Amanda Burton was appointed to the board 
in July 2005. She is currently Chief Operating 
Officer at Clifford Chance LLP . She was 
previously a non-executive director of Fresca 
Limited, and a director of Meyer International 
plc and Chairman of its timber group. Amanda 
is also a trustee of Battersea Dogs and Cats 
Home. Age 54.
8/ Kevin Corbett CEng MICE MIStructE 
*
Company Secretary and Legal Director 
Kevin Corbett joined the executive board of 
Galliford Try plc on 1 February 2012 and was 
appointed Group Company Secretary and 
Legal Director on 1 March 2012. Kevin was 
previously Chief Counsel Global for AECOM. 
Age 53.
3/ Graham Prothero
Finance Director
Graham joined Galliford Try as Group 
Finance Director on 1 February 2013. 
Graham was previously with Development 
Securities plc, where he was Finance 
Director from November 2008. From 2001 
until 2008 Graham was a partner with Ernst 
& Young. Graham is a member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants and was 
previously Finance Director of Blue Circle 
Properties and Taywood Homes. Age 51.
Frank Nelson retired from the board on 30 
September 2012.
6/ Andrew Jenner ACA 
† ‡
Chair of the Audit Committee
Non Executive Director
Andrew Jenner was appointed to the board 
in January 2009. He is currently Finance 
Director of Serco Group plc. Prior to joining 
Serco in 1996 he worked for Unilever and 
Deloitte & Touche LLP . Age 44.
9/ Andrew Richards 
*
Group Managing Director, Housebuilding
Andrew Richards was appointed Group 
Managing Director of Housebuilding 
Division, Linden Homes and joined the 
executive board in July 2013. Andrew was 
promoted from Managing Director of the 
PPP Investments division having joined the 
Group through the acquisition of Morrison 
Construction in March 2006. Andrew had 
been with Morrison Construction since 2000 
having previously worked for Dresdner 
Kleinwort from 1997 . Age 41.
Ian Baker stepped down as an executive 
board member and resigned from the Group 
in December 2012 due to serious ill-health.
* The executive board comprises the chief executive, 
finance director and the executives listed.
† Member of the audit committee.
‡ Member of the remuneration and 
nomination committees. 48 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Non-executives 4
Executives 3
7
Balance of non-executive 
and executive directors
Board membership
7
Chairman 1
Senior independent director 1
Non-executives 2
Executive directors 3
Length of appointment
7
0–2 years 2
2–5 years 3
5–10 years  2
10+ years  nil
Diversity
Gender balance
Male 6
Female 1
7
Governance
Demonstrating effective leadership
I am particularly pleased to report that the Group again remained 
compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout 
the year under review. 
Against the backdrop of the strong performance achieved, and 
full compliance, the 2013 financial year was not without several 
governance challenges for the board.
This report has been restructured this year. It now includes a 
bespoke governance focused review, primarily to give shareholders 
and other stakeholders a better perspective on key governance 
events in the financial year, and also related board decisions taken 
to mitigate risk. The review also extends to a summary of a number 
of governance initiatives the Group has either successfully 
completed, or has under way, in this vitally important area in 2013. 
The board looks forward to potential opportunities in 2013/14 
and beyond with a newly focused executive management team 
expected to deliver continued success against strategy. Further 
improving returns for shareholders in line with strategy will be a 
priority, underpinned by a continuing commitment to the highest 
standards of corporate governance.
Group performance 
has continued to 
exceed the board’s 
expectations, for 
which the executive 
team is to be 
congratulated.
Board composition
Introduction: Ian Coull / Chairman 49 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
Board: composition
Biographical summaries for each of the directors, their respective 
committee responsibilities and their external directorships are set 
out on page 47.
All directors will stand for re-election at the 2013 annual general 
meeting and all continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Frank Nelson retired on 30 September 2012 and Graham Prothero 
was appointed as Group Finance Director with effect 1 February 
2013. Ken Gillespie was promoted to the position of Construction 
Division Chief Executive and an executive director of Galliford Try 
plc with effect 1 March 2013. There have been no other changes 
to the board, either during or since the financial year.
Chairman and chief executive
The chairman and chief executive continue to work closely 
together on all aspects of the Group’s performance and strategy. 
Their roles within the Group remained unchanged from the 
summary disclosed in the 2012 governance report throughout the 
financial year, with the exception that the chief executive assumed 
interim executive responsibility for the Housebuilding division in 
December 2012 and until 30 June 2013 following the resignation 
of Ian Baker due to ill-health.
Senior independent director
Amanda Burton remains the Group’s senior independent director 
and is available to shareholders in accordance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code (the Code). She was not contacted 
in this capacity during the year.
Non-executive directors
The roles and responsibilities of each of the non-executives, 
which are detailed in their individual letters of appointment, have 
not changed from the previous financial year. The letters of 
appointment are available for inspection on request at the 
Company’s registered office and immediately prior to the annual 
general meeting.
2013 Governance Review
     
Governance Risk – Succession 
and Change.
Explanation Governance Implications Mitigating Action Result
         
Absence of Group Finance Director 
October 2012 to February 2013
Frank Nelson retired from the 
board and Group in September 
2012 following over 24 years’ 
service. A rigorous selection 
process for his replacement 
followed, which included internal 
and external candidates. Graham 
Prothero, the Group’s chosen 
successor, was not available to 
join as Finance Director until 2013 
due to contractual commitments.
Both the plc and executive boards 
operated without a formally 
appointed executive Finance 
Director between October 2012 
and 1 February 2013.
In the absence of a Group 
Finance Director, the Group 
Financial Controller and both 
Divisional Finance Directors 
reported directly to the Chief 
Executive for the interim period. 
All three also attended executive 
board meetings for six months 
from October to March 2013.
This approach, endorsed by the 
plc board, successfully mitigated 
the risks associated to the 
absence of a Group Finance 
Director. Since joining in February 
2013, Graham has quickly 
established an effective working 
relationship with all three 
individuals, who now combine to 
form the Group’s most senior 
financial decision making group.
Sudden illness of Group Managing 
Director, Housebuilding
In late 2012 the Group Managing 
Director, Housebuilding, Ian 
Baker, stepped down as a 
member of the Group’s executive 
board with immediate effect for 
reasons of serious ill-health. Ian 
subsequently resigned from 
the Group.
Loss of Managing Director, 
Housebuilding
In response the Chief Executive 
Greg Fitzgerald assumed overall 
responsibility for the division until 
a successor was found. In May 
2013, the board announced the 
appointment of Andrew Richards 
as Group Managing Director, 
Housebuilding with effect 
1 July 2013.
These board decisions combined 
to put in place effective 
contingency arrangements to 
cover the immediate absence of 
the Group Managing Director at 
executive board level. Two internal 
divisional appointments further 
strengthened divisional 
succession plans.
Appointment of Construction 
Division Chief Executive, as an 
executive director
Recognising his contribution 
to the performance of the 
Construction & Investments 
division through the financial 
downturn the board promoted 
Ken Gillespie to his current 
position of Construction Division 
Chief Executive.
Diversity and non-executive and 
executive independence ratios 
impacted.
The board are keeping under 
review the composition of the 
board in accordance with best 
practice and guidance.
Ken was also appointed as an 
executive director of Galliford Try 
plc with effect March 2013.
Independence of Senior 
Independent Director from 
July 2014
Amanda Burton, currently the 
Group’s senior independent 
director and Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, will 
have served as a director of the 
Company for nine years in July 
2014. Amanda will therefore no 
longer be considered 
independent under the criteria 
required by the UK Corporate 
Governance Code during the next 
financial year.
The board recognises that the 
independence criteria established 
by the Code is important, in 
particular for the position of senior 
independent director.
The composition of the board 
including the positions of senior 
independent director and chairs 
of board committees will be 
reviewed during the course of the 
financial year.
  50 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
continued
2013 Review: strategy implementation
Following delivery of the three year housebuilding growth plan in 
the three years to June 2012, the board successfully refocused 
the Group in 2012/13 on the new primary strategy of margin 
enhancement for housebuilding and margin protection for 
construction. More information on the board’s strategy can be 
found in the Business Review on pages 01 to 45.
The refocused strategy necessarily entailed certain changes to the 
Group’s approach to governance, in particular further developing 
its delegated authority and internal control frameworks as 
discussed in more detail on page 54. This recalibration was 
achieved early in the financial year to support delivery of the new 
strategy, evidenced and supported in particular by the subsequent 
adoption of the Linden Way housebuilding divisional initiative and 
clear progress with Group wide Oracle implementation as 
discussed on this page of the Report.
2013 Review: diversity
As stated in the 2012 governance report, the Group is aware of 
its responsibilities to diversity. The gender balance at board level 
fell marginally during the financial year, from 17 to 14%, reflecting 
Ken Gillespie’s appointment as an additional executive director in 
March. The addition of Ken Gillespie to the board was considered 
an appropriate appointment and the board is satisfied that the 
appointment does not conflict with its stated commitment 
to diversity. 
The board actively considered a diverse range of applicants 
including shortlisting female applicants when searching for a 
replacement for Frank Nelson who retired as Group Finance 
Director in September 2012. A final decision to appoint Graham 
Prothero, with effect February 2013, as the outstanding candidate 
reflected the board’s ultimate determination to recruit on merit. 
With respect to board composition, the nomination committee 
continues to undertake to actively consider a diverse range 
of candidates for board positions when they become available, 
whilst basing any final recruitment decision on merit. The Group 
has not currently set a defined target or deadline for improving 
levels of diversity at board level, reflecting in part the construction 
facing industries in which it operates and stable current 
membership. The aim will be to improve the board’s diversity 
including gender balance towards the 25% recommended by the 
Davies Report ‘Women on Boards’ when appropriate and possible 
to do so.
2013 Review: Governance initiatives
External Performance Evaluation 
The board’s first external performance evaluation was successfully 
completed in spring 2013 using the services of Armstrong 
Bonham-Carter LLP, a recognised independent consultant. This 
evaluation built on the strong processes previously established by 
the board’s internal performance evaluation. The 2013 evaluation 
was centred on rigorous personal interviews conducted between 
all appointed board directors, selected executive management 
and two of Armstrong Bonham-Carter’s established board 
advisers. The evaluation covered all aspects of the Group’s 
operations, performance, governance and strategy. A thorough 
review of the Group’s internal processes was also completed. The 
findings and recommendations were presented to, and approved 
by, the board in May 2013.
Extension of Internal Performance Evaluation 
In conjunction with the board’s first external performance 
evaluation, the Group’s internal board performance evaluation 
processes have been successfully extended to the Group’s 
executive, housebuilding and construction divisional boards 
in 2013. The extended processes broadly confirmed strong 
continuing levels of governance across the Group’s most senior 
management groups, and identified specific areas for further 
collective focus by each board in 2013/14.
Electronic Papers 
A project has been initiated to introduce electronic papers for all 
board, committee and executive board meetings with the aim of 
improving overall efficiencies, and streamlining related approval 
processes and administration. It is envisaged that the project will 
be extended through the Group’s governance structures to 
divisional, regional and business unit boards in due course.
Oracle and Hyperion Implementation 
The Group is well advanced in its planning, deployment 
and integration of Oracle and Hyperion financial management 
software, which will replace its existing financial systems across 
the Group and divisional operations. The project is expected to 
generate performance efficiencies for the Group, reflecting the 
significant investment made. Oracle and Hyperion will also 
improve governance processes, data integrity and security 
at Group and project levels.
Structure Simplification 
In parallel to Oracle implementation, a project to simplify the 
Group’s legal structure has generated an approximate 25% 
reduction in the number of corporate entities registered and 
operated by the Group. The project is continuing to identify further 
potential rationalisations and opportunities to generate other 
structural efficiencies.
Contingency Planning 
A Business Continuity Planning Forum has been established by 
the Group, led by the Finance Director, to improve continuity 
arrangements and awareness for non-operational elements of 
Group and divisional activities.
Ethics & Compliance Committee 
In response to the continuing relevance of the Bribery Act 
and increasing levels of regulation more widely, the Group has 
established an Ethics & Compliance committee, incorporating 
the work of the Group’s Anti-Money Laundering committee. The 
revised and refreshed committee oversees and supports all 
aspects of the Group’s ethical and regulatory conduct.
Whistleblowing Processes
A revised whistleblowing policy, updated guidance and reporting 
was also made available across the Group to strengthen internal 
control procedures in 2013.
Revised Induction 
Revised processes, in line with guidance issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators in June 2012, were 
developed in advance of the appointment of both Graham 
Prothero and Ken Gillespie to the board in early 2013.  51 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
Board: attendance
The above attendance table provides further information. Meetings 
were led by the chairman, without the executives present, including 
a specific performance assessment day at which individual 
appraisals were completed. The company secretary was in 
attendance for part of those meetings. The senior independent 
director separately led a meeting of the non-executives to assess 
performance of the chairman without him being present.
Board: remit
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for prior 
authorisation by the board, the specifics of which have not 
materially changed from those disclosed in 2012. The schedule is 
available on the Group’s website. The board held its annual strategy 
away day in October 2012, and specifically approved the Group 
Business Plan for 2013-16 in line with the current group strategy. 
Calendar of 2012/13 plc board activities 
and areas of focus
Month Activity or area of focus
July 2012 Site Visit – Finchley Memorial Hospital
Corporate Responsibility Performance Review
Approval of 2012/13 Group Budget
September Full Year Results Statement & Annual Report
Presentation & Review: Galliford Try Partnerships
October Strategy Meeting
November Annual General Meeting
December Health, Safety & Environment Performance Review
Presentation & Review: Affordable Housing & Regeneration
Approval of Business Plan 2013–2016
February 2013 Half Year Results Statement & Report
Presentation & Review: Galliford Try Infrastructure & 
International
March Presentation & Review: Galliford Try Building
April Site Visit – Mosaic, St Albans
Housebuilding Divisional Presentation & Review
May Presentation & Review: Group Sustainability
Presentation & Review: Group Risks & Internal Control 
Framework
June Presentation & Review: Oracle Implementation
Presentation & Review: Galliford Try Investments
The board continues to benefit from its established reporting 
mechanisms, which ensure crucial management and project 
specific information, and all significant group-wide developments, 
are reported quickly and accurately. The reporting mechanisms 
facilitate prompt approval of further actions. Throughout the 
year the board also received regular Group, divisional and 
project specific presentations covering all aspects of the 
Group’s operations.
Board: information, advice, insurance and indemnity
Well established board procedures covering timely provision of 
information in advance of all board and committee meetings, and 
for the provision of independent professional advice remained in 
operation throughout the financial year. These procedures are 
expected to be further improved by the 2013 initiatives described 
in the governance review on page 50. 
All directors have access to the advice and services of the 
company secretary. No director sought independent advice during 
the financial year.
Executive board report
Membership of the executive board is detailed on page 47. 
Executive management is the responsibility of the chief executive 
who chairs the executive board, which in turn takes responsibility 
for the operational management of the Group under terms of 
reference delegated by the main board. The board has further 
delegated responsibility for making recommendations to the main 
board on all items included in the formal schedule of matters 
reserved for board authorisation. There are regular performance 
and operational related reports and presentations from divisional 
management. The assistant company secretary acts as secretary 
to the executive board. 
The executive board meets on a monthly basis, and additional 
meetings are convened when necessary to consider and authorise 
specific operational or project matters.
2012/13 Board Attendance Table
  Board Executive Board Audit Nomination Remuneration
Number of Meetings 10 12 3 2 5
Ian Coull
Chairman
10 n/a by invitation 2 5
Amanda Burton
Senior Independent Director
10 n/a 3 2 5
Peter Rogers
Non-executive
9 n/a 3 2 5
Andrew Jenner
Non-executive
10 n/a 3 2 5
Greg Fitzgerald
Chief Executive
10 12 by invitation n/a n/a
Graham Prothero
Finance Director
Appointed February 2013
5 5 by invitation n/a n/a
Ken Gillespie
Construction Division Chief Executive
Appointed March 2013
4 12 n/a n/a n/a
Kevin Corbett
Company Secretary & Legal Director
10 12 3 2 5
Frank Nelson
Finance Director
Retired September 2012
3 3 by invitation n/a n/a
Ian Baker
Group Managing Director, Housebuilding
Resigned December 2012
n/a 2 n/a n/a n/a 52 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
continued
Audit committee: composition and attendance
Membership of the audit committee is detailed on page 47. 
The chairman, chief executive, finance director and company 
secretary and legal director attend all committee meetings by 
invitation. Andrew Jenner, who is committee chair, has a strong 
financial background which satisfies the code requirement that 
the committee’s membership has recent and relevant 
financial experience.
Audit committee: remit
The committee meets at least three times a year, this number 
being deemed appropriate to the audit committee’s role and 
responsibilities. The committee’s delegated authorities and 
calendar of prioritised work have not changed substantially from 
those disclosed on pages 46 to 47 of the 2012 Annual Report and 
Financial Statements and include:
•	 delegated responsibility for financial reporting; 
•	 monitoring external audit, internal audit, risk and controls; and 
•	 reviewing instances of whistleblowing. 
The authorities and calendar of work remain in line with the 
requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code. The 
committee also continues to meet with the internal and external 
audit teams in the absence of executive management. The terms 
of reference are available on the Group website.
No significant non-audit related services were provided during the 
financial year. Policies and review mechanisms both governing the 
provision of material non-audit services, and safeguarding the 
objectivity and independence of the external auditor, remained in 
force throughout the financial year. The committee is satisfied that 
the incumbent external auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
remains fully independent, and accordingly has recommended to 
the board that a resolution to reappoint PwC is proposed at the 
2013 annual general meeting. 
The board notes that the UK Corporate Governance Code 
recommends the external audit be put to tender every ten years 
from October 2012, and the Competition Commission’s future 
requirement for five year audit tenders published in July. PwC were 
originally appointed as the Group’s auditors on engagement in 
January 2001. The committee therefore intends to tender the 
engagement following the rotation date of the current lead partner, 
Pauline Campbell, which is scheduled to be in September 2014.
Further information on the Group’s internal controls can be found 
in the consideration of audit, risk and internal control matters 
on page 54.
Improvements have again been 
made in a year of consolidation 
for the Group’s internal control 
environment. Key accounting 
policies and assumptions, 
business and risk management 
systems, and compliance with 
banking covenants have again 
been the committee’s focus.
Introduction: Andrew Jenner /  
Audit Committee Chair
Audit committee report 2013
The Group operates a strong system of internal controls, and has 
effective checks and balances in place to safeguard the interests 
of all stakeholders.
The director of risk and internal audit continues to refine the 
Group’s robust internal audit and risk management programmes, 
and with selective use of a now established team of external risk 
consultants from Deloitte is applying related methodologies to 
improving performance and procedures in areas spanning 
contingency planning, fraud awareness and on site processes.
The committee considers that the report is clear and concise in its 
summary of performance in the financial year. All material matters 
of interest to shareholders and external stakeholders have been 
reported to provide the information required to assess the Group’s 
performance, business model and strategy. There were no 
significant accounting issues in the report or financial results that 
required the committee to question or overrule the judgement of 
executive management. 53 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
Nomination committee report 2013
Nomination committee: composition and attendance
Membership of the nomination committee is detailed on page 47, 
which was chaired by Peter Rogers, an independent non-
executive director, throughout the financial year.
Nomination committee: remit
The committee took direct responsibility for the processes which 
led to the appointment of Graham Prothero as Group Finance 
Director in February. A detailed job specification was prepared by 
the committee and external consultants appointed to provide advice 
on the availability of suitable external candidates. The committee 
carried out a formal, rigorous and transparent selection process, 
which included considering a shortlist of diverse potential 
candidates, before recommending the final appointment to 
the board. 
The committee also oversaw and approved the appointment of Ken 
Gillespie as Construction Division Chief Executive and an executive 
director of Galliford Try plc in March. Both directors completed 
personalised Group induction programmes on appointment. Further 
background to both appointments, together with the board’s agreed 
position on diversity in accordance with the requirements of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, can be found in the governance 
review commencing on page 50. 
The committee oversaw 
thorough recruitment and 
review processes for the board 
appointments effective in early 
2013, and continues to monitor 
the composition of the board 
and its committees to ensure 
all are optimally composed.
Introduction: Peter Rogers CBE /  
Nomination Committee Chair
Board composition and progress made by potential internal 
candidates for key executive roles remains subject to continuous 
review by the committee. The authorities otherwise delegated to 
the committee by the board comprise:
•	 reviewing the size, structure and composition of the board
•	 evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on 
the board including the impact of new appointments
•	 overseeing and recommending the recruitment of any new 
directors
•	 ensuring appointments are appropriately made against 
objective criteria and
•	 keeping the leadership and succession requirements of the 
Group under review.
The committee remains wholly independent in accordance 
with the requirements of provision B.2.1 of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. External consultants, The Zygos Partnership 
(Zygos), have been engaged to advise on all prospective board 
appointments, and the appropriateness of open advertising and 
other recruitment methodologies. There is no other connection 
between Zygos and the Group. The terms of reference can be 
found on the Group website. 54 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
continued
Remuneration committee report 2013
Remuneration committee: composition and attendance
Membership of the remuneration committee is detailed on page 
47. The committee was chaired by Amanda Burton, the senior 
independent director, throughout the financial year.
Remuneration committee: remit
The authorities delegated to the committee by the board include 
determining all elements of remuneration of the executive directors 
and senior management, and overseeing all aspects of performance 
related elements of executive remuneration. Further information 
regarding the work of the committee during the financial year can be 
found in the reformatted 2013 remuneration report on page 56.
Governance policies
The Group continues to operate a suite of governance and risk 
management policies, procedures and training programmes, all 
of which address obligations arising under the relevant legislation. 
The policies have been further strengthened by the initiatives 
further described in the governance review on page 50. Bribery 
Act awareness training was rolled out to all staff under the 
Group’s e-learning platform during the financial year. The Group’s 
Whistleblowing policy was also refreshed and updated together with 
associated guidance being issued during the course of the year.
The Group corporate and finance manuals, which summarise the 
policies, procedures and authority matrices by which the central 
functions and divisions operate, were reviewed and updated 
during the financial year. 
Shareholder relations
The Company continues to prioritise maintaining effective 
relationships with all its shareholders and accordingly seeks to 
engage appropriately with all interested parties. The board, and 
in particular the chairman, chief executive and finance director, 
continue to organise a range of meetings with existing and 
prospective institutional shareholders. The chairman, and senior 
independent director and Remuneration Committee chair, held 
specific meetings to consult with major shareholders on succession 
and remuneration matters during the course of the year.
Specific reports regarding shareholder views generally are 
regularly reported to the board for analysis and discussion. The 
Group welcomed the numerous proxy and institutional updates on 
voting guidance received during the financial year, together with 
related communications, and recognises the increasing attempts 
by the investor community to meet the expectations of the UK 
Stewardship Code. The board, and non-executive directors, are 
available to attend meetings with shareholders and address any 
significant concerns stakeholders may have.
The Group’s annual general meeting, traditionally held in 
November each year, continues to be a popular means for private 
shareholders to receive personal updates on performance from 
board members and share opinions on progress. All directors of 
the company were in attendance at the 2012 annual general 
meeting and all arrangements for the meetings followed the 
requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and related 
best practice.
Reporting, risk, internal audit and controls
The governance review commencing on page 50 details the 
specific initiatives undertaken by the Group during the financial 
year, including those with a risk management and internal audit 
focus. The board’s approach to risk and internal audit and the 
material controls of the Group’s established internal control 
framework comprise:
•	 organisational structure; each division has its own management 
board and each business unit is led by a managing director 
and team;
•	 contractual review and commitments; the Group has clearly 
defined policies and procedures for entering into contractual 
commitments which apply across its business units and 
operations and are enforced through the Group’s legal 
authorities matrix;
•	 investment in land and development; land expenditure is 
approved subject to clearly defined policies and procedures, 
significant investments are approved at executive and plc 
board levels under divisional policies and procedures;
•	 operational activity; there are established frameworks to 
manage and control all site operations including health, safety 
and environmental procedures, regular performance 
monitoring, and external accountability to site stakeholders;
•	 financial planning framework; the Group reviews and 
redevelops its business plan on an annual basis, following 
specific board meetings held to consider strategy. A detailed 
annual budget is prepared for each financial year which is 
approved by the board;
•	 operational and financial reporting; improvements have been 
made to the Group’s reporting and financial systems as a result 
of implementation of both Oracle and Hyperion systems. An 
exacting profit and cash reporting and forecasting regime is in 
place across the Group. As well as the emphasis placed on 
cash flow, income and balance sheet reporting, health, safety 
and environmental matters are prioritised within monthly 
operational reports;
•	 pension plan administration; the administration of the Group’s 
fully closed final salary and defined contribution pension plans 
are outsourced to professional service providers. Each of the 
final salary schemes have an independent scheme secretary 
and a proportion of independent trustees to provide additional 
layers of external scrutiny;
•	 assurance provided by non-audit functions; a number of other 
Group functions provide assurance in areas including, but not 
limited to, health, safety and environment; legal contract review 
and compliance; and construction industry regulation.  55 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
plc Board
Directors: 7
Meetings annually: 10
Executive Board
Directors: 5
Meetings annually: 12
Audit Committee
Directors: 3
Meetings annually: 3
Nomination Committee
Directors: 4
Meetings annually: 2
Executive Housebuilding
Divisional Board
Directors: 7
Meetings annually: 10
Construction & Investments
Divisional Board
Directors: 6
Meetings annually: 6
Housebuilding
Divisional Board
Directors: 19
Meetings annually: 6
Infrastructure Board
Directors: 7
Meetings annually: 11
Partnerships Board
Directors: 9
Meetings annually: 8
Building Board
Directors: 6
Meetings annually: 8
Other group and 
functional steering
committees and
forums
Remuneration 
Committee
Directors: 4
Meetings annually: 4
The Group’s governance reporting structure shown here clarifies 
the effective Group, divisional and operational board structures 
upon which the delegated authorities matrices and corporate and 
finance manuals are overlaid. 
The board reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the 
material internal controls during the financial year and has taken 
any necessary action to remedy any significant weaknesses or 
findings identified. During the financial year, a programme of 
17 internal audits was completed across the Group’s operations 
and progress checks were completed against previous 
recommendations. All significant internal control failings or 
weaknesses, including compliance with the provisions of the 
Group corporate and finance manuals, have been rectified either 
during the financial year or to the date of this report.
Group Governance Reporting Structure 2013
Compliance statement
The Group believes the highest standards of corporate 
governance are integral to the delivery of its strategy, providing 
the means by which the board manages the expectations of 
stakeholders to optimise sustainable performance as summarised 
in this report.
The UK Corporate Governance Code, applicable to all premium 
listed companies, is the governance code to which the Group 
is subject. The Group remains complaint with the UK Listing 
Authority’s Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7.2.6 and related 
information can be found in the Directors’ Report on page 65.
As a member of the FTSE 350 indices, Galliford Try has committed 
to complying in full with all provisions of the Code and in doing so 
seeks to both support and foster the highest standards of 
corporate governance. The Group complied in full with all 
provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
For and on behalf of the board
Kevin Corbett / Company Secretary & Legal Director 56 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
2013
2012
2011
Group market capitalisation (£ million)
up 47.9%
423.2 
517.3 
765.1 
Remuneration policy
Framework & Implementation
It is the committee’s belief that clear delivery against stretching 
targets and industry and stock market outperformance merits 
corresponding reward. The committee also acknowledges it is 
important that executive rewards are aligned with pay and 
conditions across the wider workforce. 
There have been a number of changes to the senior management 
team this year, with the succession process managed smoothly. 
During the year we have recruited a new finance director, Graham 
Prothero, and promoted from within the Group a new construction 
division chief executive, Ken Gillespie. Both directors will be 
subject to the pre-existing remuneration policy and there have not 
been any ‘sign-on’ payments in either case.
Performance during the year under review and during the last 
few years has been excellent. Further details are provided in the 
implementation section of this report. The committee is comfortable 
that this management team and our chief executive in particular 
should be rewarded well for this performance. Accordingly annual 
bonus payments to executive directors for the year under review 
were 141%, 83% and 83% of salary for Greg Fitzgerald, Graham 
Prothero and Ken Gillespie (against a possible maximum of 150%, 
100% and 100% respectively).
The committee specifically reviewed the market comparability of 
pay and conditions beyond the executive population and across 
the Group more widely this year. Against difficult market 
conditions in the sector, pay increases were awarded by the 
executive board at a level above inflation for those staff who 
earned less than £23,000 per annum, and other staff benefited 
from salary uplifts appropriate to the markets, performance and 
prospects of their businesses. 
In a year when various succession issues were satisfactorily 
managed and resolved the committee also considered and revised 
the remuneration of the Group’s chief executive. In consultation 
with our major institutional shareholders we have increased Greg 
Fitzgerald’s base salary by 9.9% and increased his annual bonus 
potential from 100% to 150% of base salary, with effect from the 
2012/13 financial year. This is in recognition of his outstanding 
contribution to the performance of the business, the increasing 
complexity of his role (as a consequence of recent management 
changes) and to ensure that his remuneration remains broadly 
competitive with the market.
A single advisory resolution on the adoption of the remuneration 
report will be proposed at this year’s annual general meeting, before 
moving to a binding vote on our policy at next year’s meeting. In the 
meantime the board will take into consideration shareholders’ views 
on our policy and I will be happy to discuss with any shareholders 
our remuneration policy at this year’s meeting. 
The committee encourages you to endorse the further progress 
made by the Group in 2012/13 by voting in favour of the 
remuneration report this year.
Amanda Burton / Chair of the Remuneration Committee
Galliford Try is not required to comply with the new regulations 
until next year. However, the committee has considered the impact 
of the changes both in terms of the evolution of our remuneration 
policy and how we disclose directors’ remuneration in this year’s 
annual report. In relation to disclosure the Group has applied the 
majority of the standards of the new regulations, recognising that 
some aspects of best practice around the regulations are yet to be 
finalised by investors and companies.
The Group’s approach to remuneration continues to be defined 
by the strong links between corporate strategy and remuneration 
policy. Those links have enabled the Group to retain, recruit and 
promote key executives during the financial year, and incentivise 
the executive and senior management teams to deliver the 
outstanding corporate performance witnessed over recent years.
Letter from the Committee Chair
The debate regarding UK 
remuneration reporting and 
practice has moved forward 
considerably in the past 12 
months. The publication of new 
regulations by the Department 
of Business, Innovation & Skills 
on the disclosure of and 
voting process for executive 
remuneration has reshaped 
expected standards. 57 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
Remuneration Policy & Framework
Remuneration: Strategy
The Group’s remuneration strategy is to appropriately incentivise 
future executive performance, reward successful performance 
delivery and to ensure that we recruit and retain talented and 
experienced executives.
Remuneration: Policy
During the year, the committee reviewed and maintained the 
policy, which is:
•	 to ensure that remuneration packages are structured so that 
they can attract, retain and motivate the executives required to 
achieve the Company’s strategic objectives
•	 to engender a performance culture which will position Galliford 
Try as an employer of choice and deliver shareholder value
•	 to deliver a significant proportion of total executive pay through 
performance-related remuneration and in share-based form
•	 to position performance related elements of remuneration so 
that upper quartile reward may be achieved in circumstances 
where outstanding results and peer sector outperformance 
have been delivered
•	 to ensure that failure is not rewarded.
The policy is shaped by environmental, social and governance 
factors, which help determine the design of incentive structures 
to ensure that irresponsible behaviour is not encouraged. 
Furthermore, recognising that even well designed incentives 
cannot cater for all eventualities, should any unforeseen issues 
arise that would make any payments unjustifiable the committee 
would use its discretion to address such outcomes, in particular 
by scaling back payments.
The committee operates clawback provisions within both the 
Annual Bonus and Long Term Incentive Plans, which facilitate 
the retrieval of payments made to directors and executive 
management in circumstances of error, financial misstatement 
or misconduct.
Consideration of senior management remuneration
The committee reviews and has delegated responsibility for 
making recommendations concerning the remuneration of the 
level of senior management immediately below the executive 
directors. To ensure executive remuneration is considered in the 
context of the Group as a whole, the committee also reviews the 
policy on the pay and benefit structure, including bonus schemes, 
for all employees of the Group. The views of divisional and 
business unit management across the Group are sought as a 
matter of process when completing the annual salary review.
Salary, benefits and pension
At the 2013 salary review completed in May, the directors carefully 
scrutinised pay and employment conditions across the Group. The 
dual need to retain staff in specific areas of the Group’s divisional, 
and in particular housebuilding operations, and to also reward key 
contributions to recent strong performance were particular 
priorities this year.
Average increases of between 1.5% and 3% across the Group’s 
divisions were accordingly approved, with discretionary increases 
awarded for selected higher performing staff. In a policy change 
for 2013, the committee also ratified above inflation pay 
increases to staff who earned less than £23,000 per annum to 
retain, motivate and incentivise these targeted groups of staff 
most likely to have been affected by the current economic climate.
After careful consideration and following advice received from the 
committee’s independent advisers the committee decided to review 
the remuneration of the Group’s chief executive, Greg Fitzgerald. 
The committee also held extensive discussions with the company’s 
significant shareholders. On the basis of the outstanding 
performance of the Group, the delivery of significant value to 
shareholders and the personal contribution of Greg Fitzgerald the 
committee approved a salary increase of 9.9% to £535,000 per 
annum and an increase in the potential annual bonus of 100% to 
150%. The revised salary level was effective 1 January 2013.
Ken Gillespie’s salary was set at £330,000 on his appointment as 
an executive director on 1 March 2013. With effect from 1 July 
2013 Graham Prothero, who joined the Group in February 2013, 
and Ken Gillespie were awarded an increase of 1%. 
The executive directors approved increases of 2% to the standard 
non-executive fee. Following independent research, and based on 
performance since taking up the chairmanship, the executive 
directors separately approved an increase to the chairman’s fee 
to take effect from July 2013. Further details are given in the 
implementation section of this report.
The committee’s policy on salary increases for executive 
directors permits increases broadly in line with the average 
across the workforce generally, unless as a reward for exceptional 
performance or there is a promotion or material change in role, in 
which cases increases may be higher. The committee reserves the 
right to reduce salary levels (and has done so in the past) if 
circumstances warrant.
Benefits provided to executive directors comprise entitlements to 
a company car or cash equivalent allowance, private medical and 
permanent health insurance and life assurance. 
The executive directors each receive salary supplements equivalent 
to 20% of basic salary in lieu of company pension contributions.
Policy: Performance related remuneration
Executive Annual Bonus Plan
The Annual Bonus Plan enables executive directors and a selected 
senior management population, subject to invitation and approval 
by the committee, to earn a maximum annual bonus of 100% of 
basic salary dependent on the achievement of specified financial 
targets. As discussed and agreed with significant shareholders 
in early 2013, the annual bonus opportunity for Greg Fitzgerald 
is 150% of base salary with effect from the 2012/13 annual 
bonus plan.
Where the bonus earned and payable equates to over 50% of the 
recipient’s basic salary in any one financial year, two thirds of the 
bonus earned in excess of that 50% salary threshold is required 
to be deferred into restricted shares. 58 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Remuneration policy
continued
Executive Long Term Incentive Plans
Under the rules of the 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), the 
committee is authorised to grant awards to invited participants 
annually. The maximum value of a base award that may be granted 
in any financial year to any individual will not exceed 100% of their 
basic annual salary as at the award date, except in the event of 
outstanding performance where there is the potential to achieve 
super vesting of up to 200% of the base award (i.e. 200% of base 
salary at grant).
The vesting of any base award depends on the achievement of 
performance conditions linked to specific grants over an 
associated three year plan cycle. Performance conditions applying 
to awards granted between September 2009 and 2012 are 
summarised in the table below.
Executive shareholding guidelines
The Company’s share retention policy requires executive directors 
to build and maintain a shareholding over a five year period 
equivalent in value to 100% of basic salary or, in the case of the 
chief executive, 150% of base salary.
All employee schemes
All staff throughout the Group participate in an annual bonus 
scheme, with targets linked to performance of their particular 
responsibilities or business unit. The scope and extent of these 
schemes vary between levels of management and business 
sector. All bonus schemes throughout the Group are subject to a 
50% reduction in payment if Group profit before tax does not meet 
a pre-determined threshold, whatever the performance of the 
individual businesses may have been. The health, safety and 
environmental matrix applying to the executive directors applies 
to all bonus schemes covering staff across the Group.
Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Conditions
Date of Grant
Performance Conditions, vesting of up to 200% of base awards dependent on 
achievement Comparator Group
September 2009 •	 Vested	based	on	TSR	and	earnings	per	share	performance	for	the	three	year	period	
to 30 June 2012
•	 Performance	determined	that	186.05%	of	awards	vested	to	participants
•	 The	awards	vested	on	26	September	2012	at	a	share	price	of	£7.33
Balfour Beatty plc, Barratt Developments plc, Bellway 
plc, The Berkeley Group Holdings plc, Henry Boot plc, 
Bovis Homes Group plc, Carillion plc, T Clarke plc, 
Costain Group plc, M J Gleeson plc, Kier Group plc, 
Morgan Sindall Group plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc, 
Taylor Wimpey plc
September 2010 •	 Vesting	based	on	TSR	and	EPS	performance	for	three	year	period	to	30	June	2013
•	 Vesting	of	up	to	50%	of	the	base	award	subject	to	EPS	performance.	15%	of	the	
award	vests	if	there	is	aggregate	EPS	of	126p	over	the	period	increasing	to	50%	
vesting	for	aggregate	EPS	of	154p
•	 Vesting	of	up	to	75%	of	the	base	award	is	subject	to	TSR	performance	relative	
to	a	comparator	group	of	housebuilding	companies.	7.5%	of	the	award	vests	if	
the	Company’s	TSR	is	median	increasing	to	25%	vesting	if	TSR	is	upper	quartile.	
Vesting	can	increase	to	a	maximum	of	75%	of	the	base	award	for	100th	percentile	
performance,	although	any	vesting	above	25%	also	requires	maximum	EPS	to	have	
been achieved
•	 Vesting	of	up	to	75%	of	the	base	award	is	subject	to	TSR	performance	relative	to	a	
comparator group of construction companies on the same basis as for housebuilding 
companies
Housebuilding:
Barratt Developments plc; Bellway plc; The Berkeley 
Group Holdings plc; Bovis Homes Group plc; Persimmon 
plc; Redrow plc; Taylor Wimpey plc
Construction:
Balfour Beatty plc; Carillion plc; Costain Group plc; 
Henry Boot plc; Keller Group plc; Kier Group plc; M J 
Gleeson Group plc; Morgan Sindall Group plc
September 2011 •	 Vesting	based	on	TSR	and	EPS	performance	for	the	three	year	period	to	30	June	2014
•	 Performance	conditions	are	the	same	as	for	awards	granted	in	September	2010	
except	that	the	minimum	aggregate	EPS	target	is	171	pence	and	the	maximum	EPS	
target is 209 pence
Same as the September 2010 grant above, except that 
M J Gleeson Group plc was re-classified as a member of 
the Housebuilding comparator group in 2013
September 2012 •	 Vesting	based	on	TSR	and	EPS	performance	over	the	three	year	period	to	30	June	2015
•	 Vesting	of	up	to	50%	of	the	base	award	will	be	based	on	EPS	performance.	15%	will	
vest	if	aggregate	earnings	per	share	of	203	pence	over	the	period	increasing	to	50%	
vesting	for	aggregate	earnings	per	share	of	248	pence
•	 Vesting	of	up	to	75%	of	the	base	award	will	be	based	on	achieving:	7.5%	for	median	
performance	against	the	housebuilding	comparator	group,	increasing	to	25%	vesting	
if	the	Company’s	TSR	is	24%	(8%	per	annum)	higher	than	that	of	the	median	ranked	
comparator	company.	Vesting	can	increase	to	a	maximum	of	75%	of	base	award	
(25%	per	annum)	for	achieving	a	TSR	that	is	75%	(25%	per	annum)	higher	than	the	
median	ranked	comparator	company.	Any	vesting	above	25%	also	requires	the	
maximum eps target to have been achieved
Housebuilding:
Barratt Developments plc, Bellway plc, The Berkeley 
Group Holdings plc, Bovis Homes Group plc, M J Gleeson 
plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc, Taylor Wimpey plc
Construction:
Balfour Beatty plc, Carillion plc, Costain Group plc, 
Henry Boot plc, Keller Group plc, Kier Group plc, Morgan 
Sindall Group plc
September 2013 •	 Vesting	based	on	TSR	and	EPS	performance	over	the	three	year	period	to	30	June	2016
•	 Vesting	of	up	to	50%	of	the	base	award	will	be	based	on	EPS	performance.	15%	will	
vest	if	aggregate	earnings	per	share	of 287	pence	over	the	period	increasing	to	50%	
vesting	for	aggregate	earnings	per	share	of 315	pence. Vesting	of	up	to	75%	of	the	
base award based on the same TSR and EPS conditions for 2012 awards
Same as for the September 2012 grant with the addition 
of Crest Nicholson Holdings plc to the Housebuilding 
comparator	group	(to	total	nine)
Following a review we discovered an inconsistency in the comparator peer group placing for the 2012 award. This discrepancy was also disclosed in the remuneration report in 
the 2011 and 2012 Annual Reports whereby MJ Gleeson plc (‘MJ Gleeson’) was included as a member of construction peer group despite being a member of FTSE Household 
Goods & Home Construction classification. Although the committee made a decision to reclassify MJ Gleeson as a member of the housebuilding peer group, this change was 
not formalised until March 2013.
Although beneficially held by the participants, the allocated 
restricted shares are legally retained by the trustee of the Galliford 
Try Employee Benefit Trust for a period of three years, and are 
subject to forfeiture provisions, unless otherwise agreed by the 
committee in certain clemency situations. Subject to continued 
employment, the restricted shares are legally transferred to 
participants on the third anniversary of allocation.
The committee has decided that for the financial year to 30 June 
2014, the existing bonus structure remains appropriately aligned 
to corporate strategy and will remain in its current form. However, 
awards granted to Housebuilding and Construction Executive 
board members will be based 80% on divisional performance 
and 20% on group performance. 59 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
The Group also operates an HM Revenue & Customs approved 
sharesave scheme for the benefit of all staff. The directors 
anticipate making a further grant under the scheme in 2014.
Directors’ service contracts and exit payments
The service contracts and letters of appointment for the board 
directors serving or appointed since the end of the financial year 
and as at the date of this report are detailed below: 
  Contract date
Notice 
(months)
Non-executive directors    
Ian Coull 8 November 2010 6
Amanda Burton 1 July 2005 6
Peter Rogers 1 July 2008 6
Andrew Jenner 1 January 2009 6
Executive directors    
Greg Fitzgerald 1 July 2003 12
Graham Prothero 18 June 2012 12
Ken Gillespie 19 February 2013 12
1 Contract dates shown are the directors’ initial contract as an executive director or 
non-executive director of the Company. Executive directors have a rolling notice 
period as stated. Non-executive appointments are reviewed after a period of three 
years; their appointment is subject to a rolling notice period as stated. All serving 
directors will stand for re-election at the 2013 annual general meeting.
2 There are no contractual provisions requiring payments to directors on loss of 
office or termination, other than payment of notice periods. The committee will 
seek to mitigate as and where appropriate.
For executive directors, at the company’s discretion a sum 
equivalent to 12 months’ salary may be paid in lieu of notice. In 
the contracts of Graham Prothero and Ken Gillespie there are 
provisions to pay any such lump sum in monthly instalments, 
subject to offset against earnings elsewhere.
Policy for payments to departing Executive Directors
For the purpose of our policy the committee has classified three 
main categories of leaver: ‘Good Leaver’, ‘Bad Leaver’ and 
‘Departure on Agreed Terms’.
Criteria for ‘Bad Leaver’ situations include normal resignation from 
the Group or termination for cause (e.g. gross misconduct).
Criteria for ‘Departure on Agreed Terms’ covers a wide range of 
circumstances, including business re-organisation, changes in 
reporting lines, change in need for role, termination as a result of 
failure to be re-elected at an annual general meeting, and generally 
where the executive is no longer the right person for the role and is 
asked to leave at the Group’s instigation.
Criteria for ‘Good Leaver’ situations include an executive departure 
for compassionate reasons such as death in service, serious 
illness, injury, disability, or retirement.
The overriding principle will be to honour contractual remuneration 
entitlements and determine on an equitable basis the appropriate 
treatment of deferred and performance-related elements of 
remuneration, taking into account the circumstances. Failure will 
not be rewarded.
Further details of the policy are set out below:
Policy for payments to departing Executive Directors
  Bad leaver Departure on agreed terms Good leaver
Salary (after 
cessation of 
employment)
Nil Up to one year’s base salary paid in equal 
monthly instalments subject to offset against 
earnings from elsewhere during the notice 
period
Company may pay in lieu of notice an amount 
equivalent to 12 months salary
Nil
Pension & benefits Nil Up to one year’s benefits and pension Nil
Bonus Nil
Deferred bonus shares from prior years’ 
bonuses lapse
For the proportion of the financial year worked, 
bonus may be payable pro-rata at the discretion 
of the Committee
No bonus payment in respect of any period of 
notice not worked
Deferred bonus shares vest early
For the proportion of the financial year worked, 
bonus may be payable pro rata at the discretion 
of the Committee
Deferred bonus shares vest early
Long Term 
Incentive Plan
All awards, including those which have vested 
but are unexercised will lapse immediately upon 
cessation of employment
Awards will lapse upon cessation of 
employment unless the Committee decides 
otherwise in which case awards may vest
Where employment ends before the vesting 
date awards may vest at the normal time 
(other	than	by	exception)	to	the	extent	that	the	
performance conditions have been satisfied
The level of vested award will be reduced 
pro-rata based upon the period of time after 
the grant date and ending on the date of 
cessation of employment relative to the three 
year performance period unless the Committee, 
acting fairly and reasonably, decides that 
such a scaling back is inappropriate in any 
particular case
Awards may be exercised within 12 months of 
the vesting date
Where employment ends before the vesting 
date awards may be exercised at the normal 
vesting	time	(other	than	by	exception)	and	only	
to the extent that the performance conditions 
have been satisfied
The level of vested award will be reduced 
pro-rata based upon the period of time after 
the grant date and ending on the date of 
cessation of employment relative to the three 
year performance period unless the Committee, 
acting fairly and reasonably, decides that 
such a scaling back is inappropriate in any 
particular case
Other payments Depending upon circumstances the Committee 
may consider payments in respect of an unfair 
dismissal award, outplacement support and 
assistance with legal fees 60 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
£000m £000m £000m
1
4
2
1
2
1
3
4
2
Salary
Pension
Annual Bonus
LTIP potential 
Other 
Salary
Pension
Annual Bonus
LTIP potential 
Other 
£511k
£102k
£766.5k
£903k
£28k
Salary
Pension
Annual Bonus
LTIP potential 
Other 
£322k
£58k
£318k
£589k 
£13k
£140k
£28k
£140k
£n/a 
£2k
Greg Fitzgerald Ken Gillespie Graham Prothero
Remuneration policy
continued
The committee may make use of the flexibility provided in the 
Listing Rules to make such awards outside the existing Long Term 
Incentive Plan if it deems such an award to be appropriate in the 
circumstances to replace forfeited deferred variable pay, securing 
the preferred candidate, relocation expenses, recruitment from 
abroad or for any other reason.
For internal promotions to executive director positions, the 
committee’s policy is for legacy awards or incentives to be 
capable of vesting on their original terms or, at the discretion of the 
committee, they may be amended to bring them into line with the 
policy for executive directors.
Policy: reward, potential and mix
The committee’s objective is to design performance related 
elements of pay that account for a significant proportion of total 
pay, at a targeted level of performance. Individualised potential 
executive reward charts demonstrate application of the policy 
in 2013/14:
External Directorships
With prior written approval of the board in each case, executive 
directors are permitted to accept external appointments as a 
non-executive director and retain any associated fees. Greg 
Fitzgerald serves as a non-executive director of NHBC (the 
National House-Building Council), for which he receives and 
retains an annual fee of £33,600. During the year Ken Gillespie 
became a non-fee earning director of the Scottish Contractors 
Group, a non-profit making industry body.
Policy: Shareholder consultation and voting analysis
The committee actively consults with relevant institutional 
shareholders regarding and in advance of substantial changes to 
remuneration policy or individual executive salary packages. 
During the year the committee approached the Group’s largest 
shareholders to seek opinions on, and approval for, the proposed 
changes to the chief executive’s remuneration package detailed 
above. All views were taken into account in the committee’s 
formulation of the revised package.
The implementation policy report which follows from page 61 
onwards has been subject to audit.
Policy on recruitment
In cases where the Company recruits a new executive director, the 
committee will aim to align the new executive’s remuneration 
package with the approved remuneration policy. In arriving at a 
value for the package the committee will take into account the 
skills and experience of the candidate, the market rate for a 
candidate of that experience as well as the importance of securing 
the preferred candidate. In exceptional circumstances the 
committee will award additional remuneration in excess of policy 
at appointment, primarily to replace lost reward or benefits. Details 
of the policy are set out below:
Element General Policy Specifics
Salary At a level required 
to attract the most 
appropriate candidate
Discretion to pay lower 
base salary with 
incremental increases as 
new appointee becomes 
established in the role
Pension & benefits In line with policy for 
Executive Directors
 
Bonus In line with existing 
schemes
Specific targets could be 
introduced for an individual 
where necessary within the 
annual bonus limit (150% of 
base salary for Chief 
Executive and 100% for 
other directors)
Pro rating applied as 
appropriate for intra year 
joiners
Long term Incentive 
Plan
In line with Company 
policies and LTIP rules
An award may be made in 
the year of joining or, 
alternatively, the award can 
be delayed until the 
following year, within the 
exceptional circumstances 
limit under the plan rules 
(200% of salary). Targets 
would normally be the 
same as for awards to other 
directors
Other Share awards The Committee may make 
an incentive award to 
replace deferred pay 
forfeited by an executive 
leaving a previous 
employer.
Awards would, where 
possible, be consistent 
with the awards forfeited in 
terms of structure, value, 
vesting periods and 
performance conditions 61 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
£000m £000m £000m
1
4
2
1
2
1
3
4
2
Salary
Pension
Annual Bonus
LTIP actual
Other 
The market value of shares vesting to Greg Fitzgerald and Ken Gillespie during the financial year 
were £1.46m and £953k respectively.
Salary
Pension
Annual Bonus
LTIP actual
Other 
£511k
£102k
£754k
£841k
£28k
Salary
Pension
Annual Bonus
LTIP actual
Other 
£322k
£58k
£266k
£548k 
£13k
£140k
£28k
£116k
£n/a 
£2k
Greg Fitzgerald Ken Gillespie Graham Prothero
Total Shareholder Return
Source: Thomson Reuters
Galliford Try plc
FTSE 250
FTSE All Share
500
400
300
200
100
 
2008 2009 2010 2011 2013 2012 0
This graph shows the value, by 30 June 2013, of £100 invested in Galliford Try plc
on 30 June 2008 compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index 
or FTSE All Share Index on the same date. The other points plotted are the values 
at intervening nancial year-ends.
Implementation of our policy & framework in 2012/13
Committee: composition
The committee is chaired by Amanda Burton, the senior 
independent director, and during the financial year the other 
members comprised Peter Rogers, Andrew Jenner and the 
chairman Ian Coull. The company secretary acts as secretary 
to the committee and the chief executive has a standing invitation 
to attend all committee meetings. No director, or the company 
secretary, is present when his or her own remuneration is 
being considered.
During the financial year, the committee prioritised the following 
calendar of key activities and areas of focus:
Calendar of 2012/13 committee activities and 
areas of focus
Month Activity or area of focus
July 2012 Approach to shareholder consultation regarding Frank 
Nelson’s retirement and remuneration
Update on Group total shareholder return performance to 
30 June 2012
Preparatory approval of 2012–13 Annual Bonus Plan targets 
and metrics
September Approval of 2012 grants under the Annual Bonus & Long 
Term Incentive Plans
Approval of 2012 sharesave grant
December Review of market comparability of Chief Executive’s 
remuneration and institutional shareholder opinion
Approval of proposed remuneration for Construction Division 
Chief Executive
Update on the Association of British Insurer’s ‘Principles 
of Remuneration’ 2012–13
March 2013 Proposed remuneration for Group Managing Director, 
Housebuilding appointment
Revision of Chief Executive’s remuneration following 
shareholder consultation
Review of 2011 & 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan comparator 
groupings
Employee Benefit Trust projected share requirements
Ad hoc administrative matters, primarily relating to the rules 
of the Group incentive plans
Review of the Department of Business, Information and Skills 
remuneration reporting requirements
May Group & Senior Management Remuneration Review
Preparatory approval of 2013–14 Annual Bonus Plan targets 
and metrics
Performance
The Company has continued the strong financial performance 
established in 2011/12. The closing mid-market quotation for the 
Company’s shares on 30 June 2013 was £9.345 (2012: £6.32). The 
range high and low during the financial year were £9.99 and £6.06 
respectively (2012: £6.53 and £3.8375).
Comparative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance across 
the financial year, reflecting share price movements plus dividends 
reinvested, ranked the Company as 49.8% and 130.4% above 
median, equivalent to between first and second and first places, 
against its established dual comparator groups drawn from the 
housebuilding and construction industries.
The Group’s TSR over the last five financial years relative to the 
FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share indices, based on the 30 trading day 
average values, is shown below:
Profit before Tax, earnings per share and total dividend per share 
growth over the 2012/13 financial year represented increases of 
17%, 18% and 23% against the prior year respectively. Those 
increases compare to a 6.4% annualised increase in total Group 
remuneration to £192.5 million for the year ended 30 June 2013.
Individual Executive Directors’ actual reward and mix
For the year ended 30 June 2013, performance related executive 
remuneration represented approximately 65% of total reward. 
This ratio represented a slight decrease to the 77% mix in 2012, 
reflecting the higher proportion of Long Term Incentive Plan 
awards achieving ‘super vesting’ in comparison to March 2012 but 
also the impact of changes to the executive directors during the 
year. Further detail is given in the following individualised total 
remuneration charts for 2013: 62 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration of the directors serving during the financial year was as follows:
Director
Salary and 
fees 
£000
Annual 
bonus 
£000
Benefits
£000
Pension
£000
Total
2013
£000
Total
2012
£000
Executive            
Greg Fitzgerald 511 754 28 102 1,395 1,016
Graham Prothero 140 116 2 28 286 n/a
Ken Gillespie 322 266 13 58 659 n/a
Frank Nelson 426 n/a 47 10 483 611
Non-executive            
Ian Coull 105 – – – 105 105
Amanda Burton 44 – – – 44 44
Peter Rogers 40 – – – 40 40
Andrew Jenner 40 – – – 40 40
The salary supplement paid to the directors by the Company in lieu of direct pension contributions is shown in the column 
headed ‘Pension’.
Implementation of policy on exit payments in year
As disclosed in this report in 2012, the Group reached an agreement with Frank Nelson, following over 24 years’ service, under which 
he would be contractually entitled to take early retirement at the age of 62 with effect from 30 September 2012. Contractual payments 
were made in September 2012 in full and final settlement of all cash amounts payable under that agreement. In accordance with the 
committee’s policy on exit payments, the agreement reached reflected his individual circumstances and significant contribution to the 
Group in over 24 years’ service. 
The total remuneration received by Frank Nelson for the 2013 financial year, payable as salary and under the Group’s share plans, is 
disclosed in both the Directors’ remuneration table above and the Directors’ interests in share plans table which follows. The taxable 
value attributed to the entitlement to his company car awarded at retirement is included in the ‘Benefits’ column in the remuneration 
table. As a good leaver Frank Nelson retains entitlement to an outstanding award granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan in 2011, 
scaled back to reflect the proportion of the three year performance period completed. 
Annual bonus plan
The committee considered the performance in line with the targets set for the profit before tax, cash flow and other performance 
metrics set at the start of the year, and looked at a broader assessment of management and business performance. Recognising the 
outstanding management performance in delivering a very successful outcome for shareholders, including profit towards the top end of 
the target range and success on a number of strategic fronts, all notwithstanding the impact of the unexpected loss through ill health of 
the managing director of housebuilding early in the financial year, the Committee determined that bonuses should be payable to Greg 
Fitzgerald of 141% of salary (out of a maximum of 150%), Graham Prothero 83% of salary (out of a maximum of 100%, pro-rata from 
1 February 2013) and Ken Gillespie of 83% of salary (out of a maximum of 100%). The Committee is comfortable that this outcome 
represents a robust link between reward and performance.
Remuneration policy
continued 63 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to the average change in the workforce
 
2012/13 
Change
2013/14 
Change
% increase in Chief Executive’s fixed remuneration
1
12.6% n/a
% average increase in Group fixed remuneration 2.7%  2.5%
1 The increase in the Chief Executive’s remuneration reflects salary increases of 2.54% effective 1 July 2012 and 9.9% effective 1 January 2013. 
Relative importance of spend on pay
 
2012/13
1
2012/13
2
Percentage change in Group profit before tax
 1 
and full year dividend
2
17% 23%
Group income tax expense 2013
1
, and effective tax rate
2
£15.9m 21.5%
Total
1 
(and percentage change in
2
) overall spend on pay £192.5m 6.4%
The equivalent total overall spend on pay in 2012 is disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements on page 84. The total overall spend on pay equates to average remuneration 
per staff member of £48,500 per annum as at 30 June 2013 (2012: £46,800).
Directors’ share plan interests
Long term incentive plan
Further detail regarding the proportion of awards subject to the three year performance period ending 30 June, and vesting in 
September 2013, is given in the Policy on Executive Long Term Incentive Plans table on page 58. Outstanding awards held by executive 
directors are detailed in the following table:
Executive director Plan Date
Value at 
grant
Base award 
quantum at 1 
July 2012 Awarded
Vested 
(186.05% of 
base awards)
Base award 
quantum 
at 30 June 
2013
Value of 
awards 
vested during 
financial year 
£000
Anticipated 
vesting date
Greg Fitzgerald Long Term Incentive Plan 11.09.09 n/a 107,105 – 199,274 – £1,461 n/a
  Long Term Incentive Plan 28.09.10 £3.02 149,170 – – 149,170 – 28.09.13
  Long Term Incentive Plan 22.09.11 £4.21 112,826 – – 112,826 – 22.09.14
  Long Term Incentive Plan 26.09.12 £6.67 – 73,013 – 73,013 – 26.09.15
  Annual Bonus Plan 28.09.10 £3.04 47,286 – – 47,286 – 28.09.13
  Annual Bonus Plan 22.09.11 £4.5725 30,117 – – 30,117 – 22.09.14
  Annual Bonus Plan 26.09.12 £7. 10 – 17, 133 – 17, 133 – 26.09.15
  Sharesave 19.11.10 Exercise
price	£2.71
1,700 – – 1,700 – 01.02.14 – 
31.07. 14
Graham Prothero Long Term Incentive Plan 01.02.13 £6.67 – 40,458 – 40.458 – 26.09.15
Ken Gillespie Long Term Incentive Plan 11.09.09 n/a 69,902 – 130,056 – £953 n/a
  Long Term Incentive Plan 28.09.10 £3.02 97,355 – – 97,355 – 28.09.13
  Long Term Incentive Plan 22.09.11 £4.21 73,634 – – 73,634 – 22.09.14
  Long Term Incentive Plan 26.09.12 £6.67 – 47,646 – 47,646 – 26.09.15
  Annual Bonus Plan 28.09.10 £3.04 23,317 – – 23,317 – 28.09.13
  Annual Bonus Plan 22.09.11 £4.5725 13,834 – – 13,834 – 22.09.14
  Annual Bonus Plan 26.09.12 £7. 10 – 6,942 – 6,942 – 26.09.15
  Sharesave 19.11.10 Exercise
price	£2.71
2,876 – – 2,876 – 01.02.16	–	
31.07. 16
Directors’ share interests
As at 30 June 2013, the directors held the following beneficial, legal and unvested share plan interests in the Company’s ordinary 
share capital:
 
Legally Beneficially
1
 
Director
As at
1 July 2012
As at
30 June 2013
As at
1 July 2012
As at
30 June 2013 Total
Ian Coull 10,000 10,000 – – 10,000
Greg Fitzgerald 880,542 676,193 77,403 94,536 770,729
Graham Prothero nil nil – – nil
Ken Gillespie 133,190 195,596 37,151 44,093 239,689
Amanda Burton 17,885 17,855 – – 17,855
Peter Rogers 27,083 27,083 – – 27,083
Andrew Jenner 13,433 13,433 – – 13,433
1 Greg Fitzgerald and Ken Gillespie’s respective beneficial interests are held by the Galliford Try Employee Benefit Trust in connection with the Group’s Annual Bonus Plan. 
Further details are provided in the share plans table above.
There were no changes in the directors’ interests from 30 June 2013 to the date of this report. 64 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Compliance with executive shareholding policy
As at 1 July 2013, Greg Fitzgerald and Ken Gillespie were both 
compliant with the policy, having legally held shareholdings 
representing 847% and 549% of their respective base salaries. 
Following his appointment in February 2013, Graham Prothero has 
five years to acquire the required holding and has undertaken to 
retain future shares vesting to him under the long term incentive 
plan for this purpose.
Chairman and non-executive fees
The chairman, Ian Coull, received a fee of £105,000 per annum for 
the 2012/13 financial year. Following an independent benchmarking 
exercise against a comparator group of similar FTSE 250 groups 
completed in May 2013, and taking into account performance since 
taking up the chairmanship, the executive directors separately 
approved an increase to the chairman’s fee to £150,000 for 2013/14. 
This places the chairman’s fee broadly in line with, but no higher 
than, comparable businesses. Ian otherwise received no other 
benefits in connection with his position.
The standard non-executive fee was £40,000 per annum 
during the financial year. Amanda Burton receives a £4,000 fee 
supplement in recognition of her appointment as the Company’s 
senior independent director.
Employee benefit trust and dilution
The Company’s Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) is the primary 
mechanism by which shares required to satisfy the executive 
incentive plans are provided. During the financial year the EBT 
purchased a further 400,000 shares in the market at an average 
price of £9.47, which resulted in a balance held at 30 June 2013 
of 878,353 shares.
The Company accordingly provided net additional funds to the 
EBT during the financial year of £3.79 million by extending the 
existing EBT loan facility. 
In only issuing 23,048 new shares during or since the financial 
year, the Company has complied with the dilution guidelines of the 
Association of British Insurers. Applying the guidelines, the Group 
has 7.21% headroom against ‘the 10% in ten years’ rule and 5% 
headroom against the ‘5% in ten years’ rule for discretionary plans.
Remuneration policy
continued
Remuneration advice and advisers
The Committee is informed of key developments and best practice 
in the field of remuneration and regularly obtains advice from 
independent external consultants when required on individual 
remuneration packages and on executive remuneration packages 
in general.
New Bridge Street (NBS) are appointed as the committee’s sole 
remuneration consultant, and representatives of NBS were in 
attendance at one committee meeting during the financial year. 
Services provided to the committee by NBS encompassed 
remuneration market analysis and benchmarking, committee 
presentation and guidance, design of recruitment and retention 
packages, regulatory guidance and share plan related 
consultancy. Fees paid to NBS for services provided to the 
committee during the financial year were £73,291.
NBS do not provide any other services to the Group, although 
NBS is part of the AON Corporation (‘Aon’). Aon were engaged 
during the financial year, and continue to provide advice to the 
Group specifically relating to group private medical insurance 
policies. The committee is satisfied that these services do not 
impinge on the independence of NBS.
The company secretary also advises the committee as necessary 
and makes arrangements for the committee to receive independent 
legal advice at the request of the committee chair.
Shareholder voting on the directors’ remuneration report
The committee takes account of annualised shareholder voting 
trends in connection with the remuneration report advisory vote. 
Votes cast in support of the annual resolution to approve the 
remuneration report over the previous five years are: 99.16% (2012), 
87.66% (2011), 95.38% (2010), 97.10% (2009) and 97.68% (2008).
Remuneration: Compliance and audited information
The remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts 
and Reports) Regulations 2008 and the Financial Services 
Authority’s Listing Rules. The auditors are required to report on the 
remuneration data disclosed in the Implementation section of the 
report and state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report 
has been properly prepared in accordance with relevant provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006 (as amended).
The committee is governed by formal terms of reference agreed 
by the board and is composed solely of non-executive directors. 
The latest terms of reference are available on the Group website.
For and on behalf of the board
Amanda Burton / Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
17 September 2013  65 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
Directors’ report
and other statutory information
Share capital, authorities & restrictions
The Company has one class of ordinary share capital, having a 
nominal value of 50 pence. The ordinary shares rank pari passu in 
respect of voting and participation and are listed for trading on the 
London Stock Exchange. At 30 June 2013, the Company 
had 81,870,095 ordinary shares in issue (2012: 81,853,259). 
The directors are authorised on an annual basis to issue shares, 
to allot a limited number of shares in the Company for cash other 
than to existing shareholders, and to make market purchase shares 
within prescribed limits. Resolutions to be proposed at the 2013 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) will renew all three of the authorities 
which are further explained in the Notice of AGM sent separately 
to shareholders. Other than usual activity in connection with the 
Group’s share plans, no shares have been issued or purchased by 
the Company under the relevant authorities either during the 
financial year or to the date of this report.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Company’s shares, 
with the exceptions that certain shares held by the Galliford Try 
Employee Benefit Trust (EBT) are restricted for the duration of the 
applicable performance periods under relevant Group share plans, 
and directors and persons discharging managerial responsibility 
are periodically restricted in dealing in the Company’s shares 
under the Group Dealing Code, which reflects the requirements of 
the Model Code published by the UK Listing Authority under its 
Listing Rules. In certain specific circumstances the directors are 
permitted to decline to register a transfer in accordance with the 
Company’s articles of association. There are no other limitations 
on the holding of securities, and no requirements to obtain the 
approval of the Company, or other holders of securities in the 
Company, prior to share transfers. The Company is not aware of 
any agreements between holders of securities that may result in 
restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
There are no securities carrying specific rights with regard to 
control of the Company, with the exception that the EBT holds 
shares in the Company in connection with Group share plans 
which have rights with regard to control of the Company that are 
not exercisable directly by the employee. The EBT abstains from 
voting in respect of any shares so held. 1.32% of the issued share 
capital of the Company is currently held within the EBT for the 
purposes of satisfying employee share options or share awards 
(2012: 1.27%).
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association, adopted in 2009 to reflect the 
Companies Act 2006, set out the internal regulations of the 
Company, and define various aspects of the Company’s 
constitution including the rights of shareholders, procedures for 
the appointment and removal of directors, and the conduct of both 
directors and general meetings.
In accordance with the Articles, directors can be appointed or 
removed either by the board or shareholders in general meeting. 
Amendments to the Articles require the approval of shareholders 
in general meeting expressly by way of special resolution. Copies 
of the Articles are available by contacting the company secretary 
and legal director at the registered office.
Significant direct & indirect holdings
As at 17 September 2013, being the date of this Report, the 
Company had been made aware, pursuant to the FSA’s Disclosure 
& Transparency Rules, of the following beneficial interests in 3% or 
more of the Company’s ordinary share capital:
Shareholder Interest % capital
Standard Life Investments 8,171,113 9.98
F&C Asset Management 4,976,447 6.08
Old Mutual Global Investors 3,677,763 4.49
Aberforth Partners LLP 3,535,408 4.32
Norges Bank 2,546,040 3.11
There were no material changes in any of the significant holdings between financial 
year end and the date of this report.
The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial 
statements for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2013.
Principal activities
Galliford Try is a housebuilding and construction group primarily 
operating in the United Kingdom. Galliford Try plc, registered in 
England and Wales with company number 00836539 is the group 
parent company. More detailed information regarding the Group’s 
activities during the year under review, and its future prospects, 
is provided on pages 01 to 45. The principal subsidiaries and 
associates operating within the Group’s divisions are shown in 
note 12 to the financial statements on page 91.
Enhanced business review
The Group is required to include an enhanced business review 
within its Directors’ Report, which provides the information and 
further analysis required under s.417 Companies Act 2006. The 
directors consider that these requirements are fulfilled by the 
inclusion in this Annual Report and Financial Statements of the 
business review, the corporate governance report and the 
remuneration report, which all form part of this Directors’ Report 
by reference. The Corporate Governance Report is a statement 
for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.1. 
The Annual Report and Financial Statements use financial and 
non-financial key performance indicators wherever possible 
and appropriate.
Further information on the Group’s employees and employment 
practices and its approach to environmental, social and community 
matters, including a consideration of the impact of the company’s 
business on the environment, is provided in the sustainability 
section of the business review on pages 36 to 45. 
Results and dividends
The profit for the year, after tax, of £58.2 million is shown in the 
consolidated income statement on page 69. The directors have 
recommended a final dividend of 25.0 pence per share, which 
together with the interim dividend of 12.0 pence declared in 
February results in a total dividend for the financial year of 
37.0 pence. The total dividend for the financial year will distribute 
a total of £30.2 million. Subject to approval by shareholders at the 
annual general meeting, the final dividend will be payable on 29 
November 2013, to shareholders on the register at close of 
business on 18 October 2013. 66 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Change of control provisions
There has been no change in the Group’s contractual change 
of control provisions during the financial year, further related 
information can be found in the related disclosure on page 58 
of the 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Board and directors’ interests
Summary biographies of the board directors as at the date of this 
report are on pages 46 to 47. The Group Finance Director, Graham 
Prothero, was appointed as the Group’s Senior Accounting Officer 
with effect from his appointment on 1 February 2013 and Greg 
Fitzgerald, the Group Chief Executive, and Graham Prothero both 
act as the Group’s chief operating decision-makers, further details 
of which are provided in note 2 to the financial statements on 
page 81. 
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company 
are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report on pages 56 to 
64, where details of executive directors’ service contracts and 
non-executive directors’ letters of appointment can also be found.
The Company continues to operate a formal ongoing procedure 
for the disclosure, review and authorisation of directors’ actual and 
potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the Companies 
Act, 2006. In addition, conflicts of interest are reviewed, and as 
necessary further authorised, by the board on an annual basis.
Significant agreements
Excepting the agreements underpinning the Group’s four year 
revolving credit facility, which will require renewal by 2015, there 
are no persons with which it has contractual or other 
arrangements which are essential to its business.
Charitable and political donations
Contributions for charitable purposes during the year amounted 
to £108,000 (2012: £80,000). Charities that benefited continued to 
include those carrying out potential projects to assist homeless 
people, those providing benefit to workers in the industry who are 
in need, and a significant number of small local charities in the 
areas within which the Group operates. 
It is Group policy to avoid making political donations of any nature 
and accordingly none were made during the year. However, the 
Group notes the wide application of Part 14 of the Companies Act 
2006, but does not consider the housebuilding and construction 
industry bodies of which it is a member to be political 
organisations for the purposes of the Act.
Creditor payment policy
Group policy regarding creditor payment is to agree payment 
terms contractually with suppliers and land vendors, ensure the 
relevant terms of payment are included in contracts, and to abide 
by those terms when satisfied that goods, services or assets have 
been provided in accordance with the agreed contractual terms. 
Galliford Try plc, as the group parent company, did not have any 
amounts owing to trade creditors as at 30 June 2013 (2012: Nil). 
Trade creditors for the Group as at 30 June 2013 represented an 
average of 41 days (2012: 35 days).
Financial instruments
Further information regarding the Group’s financial instruments, 
related policies and a consideration of its liquidity and other 
financing risks can be found in the finance review on page 14, 
and in note 26 to the financial statements on page 99.
Important developments since year end 
There have been no material events or developments affecting the 
Company or any of its operating subsidiaries since 30 June 2013.
Going concern 
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Council’s Guidance on 
Going Concern and Liquidity published in 2009, the requirements 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rule 9.8.6R (3), 
the directors have conducted a rigorous and proportionate 
assessment of the Group’s ability to continue in existence for the 
foreseeable future. This has been reviewed during the financial 
year, taking into account the Group’s continuing access to its core 
revolving credit facility agreed in 2011, and the directors have 
concluded that there are no material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern. Furthermore, the Group has adequate resources and 
visibility as to its future workload, as explained in this Annual 
Report. It is therefore justified in using the going concern basis in 
preparing these financial statements.
Independent auditor
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this Report 
confirms that:
•	 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the auditor is unaware; and
•	 the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a 
director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is 
aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the 
re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditor of 
the Company, at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the 
audit committee.
AGM
The AGM will be held at the offices of Royal Bank of Scotland, 3rd 
Floor Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA 
on 19 November 2013 at 11am. The notice convening the AGM, 
sent to shareholders separately, explains the items of business 
which are not of a routine nature.
Approval of report
This Directors’ Report, including by reference the Business 
Review on page 08 to 45 and the Corporate Governance and 
Remuneration Reports, was approved by the board of directors 
on 17 September 2013.
For and on behalf of the board
Kevin Corbett / Company Secretary & Legal Director
17 September 2013
Directors’ report
continued 67 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance
Directors’ report
Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration 
policy comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They 
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Each of the directors, whose and functions are listed on pages 46 
and 47, confirm that, to the best of his and her knowledge:
•	 the Group financial statements, set out on pages 69 to 109, 
which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as 
adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
•	 the Business Review contained in pages 08 to 45 includes a 
fair review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Group, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces. 
For and on behalf of the board
Ian Coull / Chairman
17 September 2013
Forward looking statements
Forward looking statements have been made by the directors 
in good faith using information up until the date on which they 
approved this Report. Forward looking statements should be 
regarded with caution due to uncertainties in economic trends and 
business risks. The Group’s businesses are generally not affected 
by seasonality.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
the remuneration policy and the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors 
have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under company law 
the directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of 
the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
•	 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 
prudent;
•	 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures 
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will 
continue in business. 68 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
We have audited the financial statements of Galliford Try plc for 
the year ended 30 June 2013 which comprise the consolidated 
income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, Group and Company balance sheets, consolidated 
statement of changes in equity, Company statement of changes 
in equity, Group and Company statements of cash flows and the 
related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in their preparation is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union and, as regards the parent company financial 
statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ 
responsibilities set out on page 67, the directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is 
to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply 
with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to 
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save 
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 
the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 
in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 to identify 
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If 
we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 
inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of 
the Group’s and of the Company’s affairs as at 30 June 2013 
and of the Group’s profit and Group’s and Company’s cash 
flows for the year then ended;
•	 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union;
•	 the parent company financial statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union and as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the lAS 
Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
•	 the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has 
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006;
•	 the information given in the directors’ report for the financial 
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
•	 the information given in the corporate governance statement 
set out on page 54 with respect to internal control and risk 
management systems and about share capital structures is 
consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
directors’ remuneration report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
•	 the directors’ statement, set out on page 66, in relation to going 
concern;
•	 the parts of the corporate governance statement relating to the 
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
•	 certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on 
directors’ remuneration.
Pauline Campbell (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
17 September 2013
Independent auditors’ report to the members of Galliford Try plc 69 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
  Notes
2013
£m
2012
£m
Group revenue 2 1,467.3 1,504.1
Cost of sales (1,288.4) (1,320.7)
Gross profit 178.9 183.4
Administrative expenses (105.4) (115.8)
Share of post tax profits from joint ventures 13 6.9 3.7
Profit before finance costs 80.4 71.3
 Profit from operations 2 84.1 77.1
 Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax (2.7) (4.8)
 Amortisation of intangibles (1.0) (1.0)
 Profit before finance costs 80.4 71.3
Finance income 4 4.0 2.6
Finance costs 4 (10.3) (10.8)
Profit before income tax 5 74.1 63.1
Income tax expense 6 (15.9) (13.8)
Profit for the year 30 58.2 49.3
Earnings per share
– Basic 8 71.7p 60.9p
– Diluted 8 69.8p 59.7p
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 30 June 2013 70 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
  Notes
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit for the year 58.2 49.3
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
Actuarial (losses) recognised on retirement benefit obligations 31 (6.5) (10.7)
Deferred tax on items recognised in equity that will not be reclassified 6 1.7 3.7
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (4.8) (7.0)
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Movement in fair value of derivative financial instruments: 26
– Movement arising during the financial year 0.2 (1.6)
– Reclassification adjustments for amounts included in profit or loss 0.3 –
Reclassification adjustment for gains on available for sale financial assets 14 (0.5) –
Deferred tax on items recognised in equity that may be reclassified 6 0.3 –
Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 0.3 (1.6)
Other comprehensive (expense) for the year net of tax (4.5) (8.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year 53.7 40.7
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 30 June 2013 71 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
    Group Company
  Notes
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Assets
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 9 13.4 11.8 – –
Goodwill 10 115.0 115.0 – –
Property, plant and equipment 11 9.7 10.0 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 12 – – 195.9 192.6
Investments in joint ventures 13 6.0 5.4 – –
Financial assets
 – Available for sale financial assets 14 26.8 26.5 – –
Trade and other receivables 18 45.2 35.9 – –
Retirement benefit asset 31 0.5 – – –
Deferred income tax assets 25 2.7 7.7 2.7 2.5
Total non-current assets 219.3 212.3 198.6 195.1
Current assets
Inventories 15 0.4 0.4 – –
Developments 16 748.2 719.8 – –
Trade and other receivables 18 300.6 281.6 78.1 62.2
Current income tax assets 21 – – 1.6 –
Cash and cash equivalents 19 57.9 95.8 349.9 358.8
Total current assets 1,107.1 1,097.6 429.6 421.0
Total assets 1,326.4 1,309.9 628.2 616.1
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
 – Borrowings 23 (72.3) (73.3) (73.1) (72.5)
Trade and other payables 20 (648.6) (660.6) (186.9) (147.9)
Current income tax liabilities 21 (6.6) (8.8) – –
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 22 (0.6) (0.7) – –
Total current liabilities (728.1) (743.4) (260.0) (220.4)
Net current assets 379.0 354.2 169.6 200.6
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
– Derivative financial liabilities 26 (1.1) (1.6) (1.1) (1.6)
Retirement benefit obligations 31 – (0.2) – –
Deferred income tax liabilities 25 (2.1) (0.2) – –
Other non-current liabilities 24 (91.2) (83.0) – –
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 22 (2.5) (3.1) – –
Total non-current liabilities (96.9) (88.1) (1.1) (1.6)
Total liabilities (825.0) (831.5) (261.1) (222.0)
Net assets 501.4 478.4 367.1 394.1
Equity
Ordinary shares 27 40.9 40.9 40.9 40.9
Share premium 27 190.9 190.8 190.9 190.8
Other reserves 29 4.8 5.3 3.0 3.0
Retained earnings 30 264.8 241.4 132.3 159.4
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company 501.4 478.4 367.1 394.1
The notes on pages 74 to 109 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 69 to 109 were approved by the board on 17 September 2013 and signed on its behalf by: 
     
Greg Fitzgerald
Chief Executive
Graham Prothero
Finance Director
Galliford Try plc
Registered number: 00836539
Balance sheets
at 30 June 2013 72 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
  Notes
Ordinary 
shares
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
shareholders’ 
equity
£m
At 1 July 2011   40.9 190.8 5.3 218.1 455.1
Profit for the year   – – – 49.3 49.3
Other comprehensive (expense)   – – – (8.6) (8.6)
Total comprehensive income for the year   – – – 40.7 40.7
Transactions with owners:            
Dividends 7 – – – (16.8) (16.8)
Share-based payments 28 – – – 8.5 8.5
Purchase of own shares 30 – – – (9.1) (9.1)
At 1 July 2012   40.9 190.8 5.3 241.4 478.4
Profit for the year   – – – 58.2 58.2
Other comprehensive (expense)   – – (0.5) (4.0) (4.5)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year   – – (0.5) 54.2 53.7
Transactions with owners:            
Dividends 7 – – – (26.9) (26.9)
Share-based payments 28 – – – 3.8 3.8
Purchase of own shares 30 – – – (7.7) (7.7)
Issue of shares 27 – 0.1 – – 0.1
At 30 June 2013   40.9 190.9 4.8 264.8 501.4
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 June 2013
  Notes
Ordinary 
shares
£m
Share 
premium
£m
Other 
reserves
£m
Retained 
earnings
£m
Total 
shareholders’ 
equity
£m
At 1 July 2011   40.9 190.8 3.0 186.1 420.8
(Loss) for the year   – – – (8.9) (8.9)
Other comprehensive (expense)   – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Total comprehensive (expense)   – – – (9.3) (9.3)
Transactions with owners:            
Dividends 7 – – – (16.8) (16.8)
Share-based payments 30 – – – 8.5 8.5
Purchase of own shares 32 – – – (9.1) (9.1)
At 1 July 2012   40.9 190.8 3.0 159.4 394.1
Profit for the year   – – – 3.0 3.0
Other comprehensive income   – – – 0.7 0.7
Total comprehensive income   – – – 3.7 3.7
Transactions with owners:            
Dividends 7 – – – (26.9) (26.9)
Share-based payments 28 – – – 3.8 3.8
Purchase of own shares 30 – – – (7.7) (7.7)
Issue of shares 27 – 0.1 – – 0.1
At 30 June 2013   40.9 190.9 3.0 132.3 367.1
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 June 2013 73 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
  Notes
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
Company
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash flows from operating activities          
Continuing operations          
Profit/(loss) before finance costs   80.4 71.3 0.9 (9.4)
Adjustments for:          
Depreciation and amortisation 11 & 9 3.8 3.5 – –
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 5 – (0.1) – –
Profit on sale of investments in joint ventures and non-current assets held 
for sale 5 – (2.6) – –
Profit on sale of available for sale financial assets 5 (0.8) (0.1) – –
Share-based payments 28 3.8 8.5 3.5 8.2
Share of post tax profits from joint ventures 13 (6.9) (3.7) – –
Movement on provisions   (0.7) (1.8) – –
Other non-cash movements   (1.8) (6.4) (6.7) –
Net cash generated from/(used in) operations before pension deficit 
payments and changes in working capital   77.8 68.6 (2.3) (1.2)
Deficit funding payments to pension schemes 31 (7.3) (7.3) – –
Net cash generated from/(used in) operations before changes in 
working capital   70.5 61.3 (2.3) (1.2)
(Increase) in inventories   – (0.2) – –
(Increase) in developments   (28.4) (104.2) – –
(Increase) in trade and other receivables   (28.3) (12.8) – –
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables   (3.8) 89.1 1.3 (0.8)
Net cash generated from/(used in) operations   10.0 33.2 (1.0) (2.0)
Interest received   2.0 1.1 – –
Interest paid   (8.6) (8.0) – –
Income tax (paid)/received   (9.2) (10.1) 1.3 –
Net cash (used in)/generated from operating activities   (5.8) 16.2 0.3 (2.0)
Cash flows from investing activities          
Dividends received from joint ventures 13 6.3 0.3 – –
Acquisition of investments in joint ventures 13 – (0.1) – –
Acquisition of available for sale financial assets 14 (0.6) – – –
Proceeds from investments in joint ventures and non-current assets held 
for sale 13 – 2.6 – –
Proceeds from available for sale financial assets 14 2.9 0.9 – –
Purchase of intangible assets 9 (2.6) (3.8) – –
Capital contribution to subsidiary companies   – – 3.0 –
Loan from subsidiary companies   – – 37.7 28.8
Loans to subsidiaries   – – (15.9) (10.4)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 11 (3.2) (4.5) – –
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment   0.7 0.5 – –
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities   3.5 (4.1) 24.8 18.4
Cash flows from financing activities          
Purchase of own shares 30 (7.7) (9.1) (7.7) (9.1)
(Repayment of)/increase in borrowings 23 (1.0) 72.7 0.6 71.9
Dividends paid to Company shareholders 7 (26.9) (16.8) (26.9) (16.8)
Net cash (used in)/generated from financing activities   (35.6) 46.8 (34.0) 46.0
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents   (37.9) 58.9 (8.9) 62.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 July 19 95.8 36.9 358.8 296.4
Cash and cash equivalents at 30 June 19 57.9 95.8 349.9 358.8
The notes on pages 74 to 109 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Statement of cash flows
for the year ended 30 June 2013 74 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
1 Accounting policies
General information
Galliford Try plc (the Company) is a public limited company incorporated, listed and domiciled in England and Wales. The address of the 
registered office is Galliford Try plc, Cowley Business Park, Cowley, Uxbridge, UB8 2AL. Galliford Try is a construction and 
housebuilding group (the Group).
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which 
the Group operates. The amounts stated are denominated in millions (£m).
Basis of accounting
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with EU adopted International Accounting Standards (IASs), 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to 
companies reporting under IFRSs. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as 
modified by the revaluation of land and buildings, available for sale investments, retirement benefit obligations, share-based payments, 
and financial assets and liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) at fair value through profit and loss. The Group has applied 
all accounting standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial 
Reporting Interpretations Committee, and endorsed by the EU, relevant to its operations and effective on 1 July 2012. 
The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 to not present the Company income 
statement. The profit for the Company for the year was £3.0 million (2012: loss £8.9 million).
New amendments to standards that became mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 July 2012 were as follows. 
The new amendment had no significant impact on the Group’s results.
– Amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’ as it relates to other comprehensive income
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective or yet to be endorsed by the EU are as follows:
– IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’
– IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ 
– IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’
– IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’
– IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ 
– IAS 19 (revised 2011) ‘Employee benefits’ 
– IAS 27 (revised 2011) ‘Separate financial statements’ 
– IAS 28 (revised 2011) ‘Associates and joint ventures’ 
– Amendment to IAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ on deferred tax 
– Amendment to IFRS 1, ‘First time adoption’
– Amendment to IFRS 7 on Financial instruments: asset and liability offsetting
– Amendments to IFRS 10, 11 & 12 on transition guidance
– Amendments to IFRS 10, 12 & IAS 27 on consolidation for investment entities
– Amendment to IAS 32 on Financial instruments: asset and liability offsetting 
– IFRIC 20 ‘Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine’
– Other changes recommended in ‘Annual Improvements 2011’
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Group’s accounting for its 
financial assets. The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9’s full impact. However, initial indications are that it may affect the Group’s accounting 
for its available for sale financial assets, as IFRS 9 only permits the recognition of fair value gains and losses in other comprehensive 
income if they relate to equity investments that are not held for trading. Fair value gains and losses on available for sale debt 
investments, for example, will therefore have to be recognised directly in profit or loss.
IAS 19 (revised 2011) makes significant changes to the recognition and measurement of defined benefit pension expense and 
termination benefits, and to the disclosures for all employee benefits. The changes will affect the Group, although this is not expected 
to be significant, and may also increase the volume of disclosures.
The Group has yet to assess the full impact of the remainder of these new standards and amendments. Initial indications are that they 
will not significantly impact the financial statements of the Group.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 75 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
1 Accounting policies continued
Critical accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that 
affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, 
the results of which form the basis of making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities which are not readily apparent 
from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only 
that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. 
Material estimates and assumptions are made in particular with regards to establishing the following policies: 
(i) Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets
The determination of the value of any impairment of goodwill and intangible assets requires an estimation of the value in use of the 
cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows 
expected from these cash-generating units including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs and requires the determination of 
a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows. Details of the goodwill impairment review calculations and 
sensitivity analysis performed are included in note 10.
(ii) Estimation of costs to complete and contract provisions
In order to determine the profit and loss that the Group is able to recognise on its developments and construction contracts in a specific 
period, the Group has to allocate total costs of the developments and construction contracts between the proportion completing in the 
period and the proportion to complete in a future period. The assessment of the total costs to be incurred requires a degree of estimation. 
However, Group management has established internal controls to review and ensure the appropriateness of estimates made on an 
individual contract basis.
(iii) Retirement benefit obligation valuations
In determining the valuation of defined benefit schemes assets and liabilities, a number of key assumptions have been made. The key 
assumptions, which are given below, are largely dependent on factors outside the control of the Group:
•	 expected return on scheme assets
•	 inflation rate
•	 mortality
•	 discount rate
•	 salary and pension increases
Details of the assumptions used are included in note 31.
(iv) Shared equity receivables
Shared equity receivables are largely with repayment dates that can vary and variable repayment amounts, provided as part of the sales 
transaction and are secured by a second legal charge on the related property. They are stated at fair value as described in note 14. In 
determining the fair value, the key assumptions, which are largely dependent on factors outside the control of the Group are:
•	 date of final repayment of the receivable
•	 house price inflation
•	 discount rate
Details of the sensitivity analysis carried out in respect of the shared equity receivables are set out in note 26.
Basis of consolidation 
The Group financial statements incorporate the results of Galliford Try plc, its subsidiary undertakings and the Group’s share of the 
results of joint ventures. Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies. 
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether 
the Group controls another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group until the 
date that control ceases. 76 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
1 Accounting policies continued
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition 
is measured at the fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of 
exchange. Costs directly attributable to the acquisition are expensed to the income statement. The identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in the business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, 
irrespective of any non-controlling interest. The excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable 
net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. 
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised 
losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of acquired subsidiaries 
are changed where necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group.
In addition to total performance measures, the Group discloses additional information including profit from operations and, if applicable, 
performance before exceptional items and adjusted earnings per share. The Group believes that this additional information provides 
useful information on underlying trends. This additional information is not defined under IFRS, and may therefore not be comparable 
with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies. It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures 
of profit.
Exceptional items
Material non-recurring items of income and expense are disclosed in the income statement as ‘exceptional items’. Examples of items which 
may give rise to disclosure as exceptional items include gains and losses on the disposal of businesses, investments and property, plant 
and equipment, cost of restructuring and reorganisation of businesses, asset impairments and pension fund settlements and curtailments. 
No such items arose in 2013 or 2012.
Segmental reporting
Segmental reporting is presented in the consolidated financial statements in respect of the Group’s business segments, which are the 
primary basis of segmental reporting. The business segmental reporting reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structure. 
Segmental results include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. 
Revenue and profit
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the purchaser. Revenue comprises 
the fair value of the consideration received or receivable net of rebates, discounts and value added tax. Sales within the Group are 
eliminated. Revenue also includes the Group’s proportion of work carried out under jointly controlled operations.
Revenue and profit are recognised as follows:
(i) Housebuilding and land sales
Revenue from private housing sales is recognised at legal completion, net of incentives. Revenue from land sales is recognised on the 
unconditional exchange of contracts. Profit is recognised on a site by site basis by reference to the expected result of each site. 
Contracting development sales for affordable housing are accounted for as construction contracts, as set out under (iii) below.
(ii) Facilities management contracts 
Revenue is recognised on an accruals basis once the service has been performed with reference to value provided to the customer. 
Profit is recognised by reference to the specific costs incurred relating to the service provided.
(iii) Construction contracts
Revenue comprises the value of construction executed during the year and contracting development sales for affordable housing. 
The results for the year include adjustments for the outcome of contracts, including jointly controlled operations, executed in both the 
current and preceding years. 
(a) Fixed price contracts – Revenue is recognised based upon an internal assessment of the value of works carried out. This 
assessment is arrived at after due consideration of the performance against the programme of works, measurement of the works, 
detailed evaluation of the costs incurred and comparison to external certification of the work performed. The amount of profit to 
be recognised is calculated based on the proportion that costs to date bear to the total estimated costs to complete. Revenue and 
profit are not recognised in the income statement until the outcome of the contract is reasonably certain. Adjustments arise from 
claims by customers or third parties in respect of work carried out and claims and variations on customers or third parties for 
variations on the original contract. Provision for claims against the Group is made as soon as it is believed that a liability will arise, 
but claims and variations made by the Group are not recognised in the income statement until the outcome is virtually certain. 
Provision will be made against any potential loss as soon as it is identified.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 77 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
1 Accounting policies continued
(b) Cost plus contracts – Revenue is recognised based upon costs incurred to date plus any agreed fee. Where contracts include 
a target price consideration is given to the impact on revenue of the mechanism for distributing any savings or additional costs 
compared to the target price. Any revenue over and above the target price is recognised once the outcome is virtually certain. 
Profit is recognised on a constant margin throughout the life of the contract. Provision will be made against any potential loss as 
soon as it is identified.
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts and payments on account on construction contracts are calculated as cost plus 
attributable profit less any foreseeable losses and cash received to date and are included in receivables or payables as appropriate.
(iv) Housing grants 
Grants are recognised when there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and the 
grants will be received. The grants are recognised as revenue or cost of sales, as appropriate, over the periods necessary to match 
them with the related costs which they are intended to compensate, on a systematic basis.
Bid costs for PFI/PPP contracts
Bid costs relating to PFI/PPP projects are not carried in the balance sheet as recoverable until the Group has been appointed preferred 
bidder or has received an indemnity in respect of the investment or costs, and regards recoverability of the costs as virtually certain. 
Costs that are carried on the balance sheet are included within amounts recoverable on construction contracts within trade and 
other receivables.
Rent receivable 
Rental income represents income obtained from the rental of properties and is credited to the income statement on a straight line basis 
over the period of the lease within revenue.
Interest income and expense
Interest income and expense is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Income tax
Current income tax is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation recorded in the income 
statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years or that are never taxable or 
deductible. The liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for all temporary differences between the carrying 
amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is measured 
at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on rates 
and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred income tax is accounted for on an 
undiscounted basis. A deferred tax asset is only recognised when it is more likely than not that the asset will be recoverable in the 
foreseeable future out of suitable taxable profits from which the underlying temporary differences can be deducted. 
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the 
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax is charged or credited through the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited through 
the statement of comprehensive income, when it is charged or credited there.
Goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the net assets 
acquired. It is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is a triggering event by considering 
the net present value of future cash flows. For purposes of testing for impairment, the carrying value of goodwill is compared to its 
recoverable amount, which is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less costs to sell. Any impairment is charged immediately 
to the income statement. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts following 
impairment tests. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been restated.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating 
units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose. 78 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
1 Accounting policies continued
Intangible assets
Intangible assets include brands, customer contracts and customer relationships acquired on acquisition of subsidiary companies 
and computer software developed by the Group. The intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is a 
triggering event. Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment. Cost is determined at the time of 
acquisition as being directly attributable costs or, where relevant, by using an appropriate valuation methodology.
Intangible assets are being amortised over the following periods:
(a) Brand – on a straight line basis over four to ten years.
(b) Customer contracts – in line with expected profit generation varying from one to nine years.
(c) Customer relationships – on a straight line basis over three years.
(d) Computer software – once the software is fully operational, amortisation is on a straight line basis up to ten years.
Property, plant and equipment 
All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Cost includes expenditure that is 
directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Land and buildings comprise mainly offices.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of each asset to estimated residual value over its expected useful life. Freehold land is not 
depreciated. The annual rates of depreciation are as follows: 
Freehold buildings 2% on cost
On cost or reducing balance:
Plant and machinery 15% to 33%
Fixtures and fittings 10% to 33%
In addition to systematic depreciation the book value of property, plant and equipment would be written down to estimated recoverable 
amount should any impairment in the respective carrying values be identified.
The asset residual values, carrying values and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted if appropriate at each balance 
sheet date.
Repairs and maintenance expenditure is expensed as incurred on an accruals basis.
Joint ventures
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group undertakes an economic activity that is subject to joint control with third 
parties. The Group’s interest in joint ventures is accounted for using the equity method. Under this method the Group’s share of profits 
less losses after taxation of joint ventures is included in the consolidated income statement and its interest in their net assets is included 
in investments in the consolidated balance sheet. Where the share of losses exceeds the Group’s interest in the entity and there is no 
obligation to fund these losses the carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued. Future profits are 
not recognised until unrecognised losses are extinguished. Accounting policies of joint ventures have been changed on consolidation 
where necessary to ensure consistency with policies adopted by the Group. Where joint ventures do not adopt accounting periods that 
are coterminous with the Group’s, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Group’s accounting 
reference date.
Jointly controlled operations and assets
The Group accounts for jointly controlled operations and assets by recognising its share of profits and losses in the consolidated 
income statement. The Group recognises its share of associated assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Available for sale financial assets
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other 
categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the 
balance sheet date. On initial recognition the asset is recognised at fair value plus transaction costs. Available for sale financial assets 
are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in 
equity, until the asset is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in 
equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 79 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
1 Accounting policies continued
The Group operates schemes under which part of the agreed sales price for a residential property can be deferred for up to 25 years. 
The fair value of these assets is calculated by taking into account forecast inflation in property prices and discounting back to present 
value using the effective interest rate. Provision is also made for estimated default to arrive at the initial fair value. The unwind of the 
discount included on initial recognition at fair value is recognised as finance income in the year. 
Leases
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. 
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. 
Inventories and developments
Inventories and developments are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Work in progress is valued at the lower of 
cost, including direct costs and directly attributable overheads, and net realisable value. On initial recognition, land is included within 
developments at its fair value, which is its cost to the Group. Land inventory is recognised at the time a liability is recognised which is 
generally after the exchange of conditional contracts once it is virtually certain the contract will be completed.
Where a development is in progress net realisable value is assessed by considering the expected future revenues and the total costs to 
complete the development including direct costs and directly attributable overheads. To the extent that the Group anticipates selling a 
development in its current state then net realisable value is taken as its open market value at the balance sheet date less any anticipated 
selling costs.
Trade receivables 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, 
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the 
Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the 
debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments (typically 
more than 30 days overdue) are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired. The amount of the provision is the 
difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective 
interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is 
recognised in the income statement within ‘cost of sales’. 
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the impairment provision for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of 
amounts previously written off are credited against ‘cost of sales’ in the income statement. Short-term trade receivables do not carry 
any interest and are stated at their amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at nominal value. For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and 
cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, including bank deposits with original maturities of three months or less. Bank 
overdrafts are also included as they are an integral part of the Group’s cash management.
Bank deposits with an original term of more than three months are classified as short-term deposits where the cash can be withdrawn 
on demand and the penalty for early withdrawal is not significant. Cash held in escrow accounts is classified as a short-term deposit 
where the escrow agreement allows the balance to be converted to cash if replaced by a bond repayable on demand.
Bank and other borrowings
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts and other loans are originally recognised at fair value net of transaction costs incurred. Such 
borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with the difference between initial fair value and redemption value recognised in 
the income statement over the period to redemption.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals 
basis in the income statement using the effective interest rate method. Refinancing costs associated with new borrowing arrangements 
are included within the borrowing amount and amortised over the period of the loan.
Trade payables
Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value. Trade payables on extended terms, 
particularly in respect of land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate. The discount to 
nominal value is amortised over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the effective interest rate. 80 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
1 Accounting policies continued
Provisions for liabilities and charges
Provisions for onerous leases and restructuring costs are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a 
result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably 
estimated. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination costs and employee termination payments. Provisions are not 
recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using the pre-tax rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision 
due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense. 
Derivative financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provision 
of the instrument.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate risks. In accordance with its treasury policy, the 
Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges, mainly comprising interest rate swaps, are 
measured at fair value. The effective portion of changes in the fair value is recognised directly in reserves. Amounts accumulated in 
equity are recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged items will affect profit or loss. Any gains or losses relating 
to an ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. 
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge 
accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast 
transaction occurs.
Derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are initially accounted for and measured at fair value at the 
point the derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the 
income statement. 
Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the 
income statement.
Retirement benefit obligations
For defined contribution schemes operated by the Group, amounts payable are charged to the income statement as they accrue.
For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected 
unit method. The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the excess of the present value of scheme 
liabilities over the fair value of the schemes’ assets. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the 
estimated future cash flows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms 
of the related pension liability. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur in the statement of 
comprehensive income. Gains and losses arising on curtailment and settlements are taken to the income statement as incurred.
Accounting for Employee Share Ownership Plan
Own shares held by the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust (the Trust) are shown, at cost less any permanent diminution in value, as a 
deduction from retained earnings. The charge made to the income statement for employee share awards and options is based on the 
fair value of the award at the date of grant spread over the performance period. Where such shares subsequently vest to the employees 
under the terms of the Group’s share option schemes or are sold, any consideration received is included in equity. 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 81 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
1 Accounting policies continued
Share-based payments
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans. The fair value of the employee services received in 
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense over the vesting period. The total amount to be expensed over the 
vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting 
conditions such as growth in earnings per share. Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of 
options that are expected to vest. 
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact 
of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium 
when the options are exercised. The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary 
undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
Dividend policy
Final dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in 
which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received net of directly attributable incremental issue costs. 
Consideration paid for shares in the Group held by The Trust are deducted from total equity.
Investments in subsidiaries
Investments in subsidiaries, held by the Company, are recorded at cost less any impairment in the Company’s balance sheet. 
The directors review the investments for impairment annually.
2 Segmental reporting
Segmental reporting is presented in the consolidated financial statements in respect of the Group’s business segments, which are 
the primary basis of segmental reporting. The business segmental reporting reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting 
structure. Segmental results include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable 
basis. As the Group has no material activities outside the UK, segment reporting is not required by geographical region.
The chief operating decision-makers (CODM) have been identified as the Group’s chief executive and finance director. The CODM 
review the Group’s internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources. Management has determined the operating 
segments based on these reports as housebuilding, building, partnerships, infrastructure and PPP investments. The Group’s internal 
reporting structure and determination of operating segments is kept under review and changed when a new structure is more appropriate. 
In particular, the Group is currently reviewing the reporting structure of our partnerships and affordable homes business.
The CODM assess the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of adjusted earnings before finance costs, 
amortisation, exceptional items and taxation. This measurement basis excludes the effects of non-recurring expenditure from the 
operating segments, such as restructuring costs and impairments when the impairment is the result of an isolated, non-recurring event. 
Interest income and expenditure are included in the result for each operating segment that is reviewed by the CODM. Other information 
provided to them is measured in a manner consistent with that in the financial statements. 82 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
2 Segmental reporting continued
Primary reporting format – business segments
    Construction      
 
Housebuilding
£m
Building
£m
Partnerships
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Total 
£m
PPP 
Investments
£m
Central 
costs
£m
Total
£m
Year ended 30 June 2013
Group revenue and share of joint 
ventures’ revenue 639.6 406.4 90.0 416.3 912.7 6.7 0.4 1,559.4
Share of joint ventures’ revenue (76.8) (0.1) – (10.5) (10.6) (4.7) – (92.1)
Group revenue 562.8 406.3 90.0 405.8 902.1 2.0 0.4 1,467.3
Segment result:
Profit/(loss) from operations before share 
of joint ventures’ profit 74.3 6.4 2.2 6.3 14.9 (3.4) (11.3) 74.5
Share of joint ventures’ profit 9.2 0.1 – 0.1 0.2 0.2 – 9.6
Profit/(loss) from operations
1
83.5 6.5 2.2 6.4 15.1 (3.2) (11.3) 84.1
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax (2.6) (0.1) – – (0.1) – – (2.7)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs, 
amortisation and taxation 80.9 6.4 2.2 6.4 15.0 (3.2) (11.3) 81.4
Net finance (costs)/income (33.2) 0.7 (0.1) 0.8 1.4 (0.1) 25.6 (6.3)
Profit/(loss) before amortisation and 
taxation 47.7 7.1 2.1 7.2 16.4 (3.3) 14.3 75.1
Amortisation of intangibles (1.0)
Profit before taxation 74.1
Income tax expense (15.9)
Profit for the year 58.2
Year ended 30 June 2012
Group revenue and share of joint 
ventures’ revenue 636.7 363.5 90.4 470.9 924.8 13.8 1.0 1,576.3
Share of joint ventures’ revenue (62.8) (0.1) – (9.3) (9.4) – – (72.2)
Group revenue 573.9 363.4 90.4 461.6 915.4 13.8 1.0 1,504.1
Segment result:
Profit/(loss) from operations before share 
of joint ventures’ profit 66.8 8.2 1.7 8.8 18.7 (1.1) (15.8) 68.6
Share of joint ventures’ profit 8.3 0.2 – – 0.2 – – 8.5
Profit/(loss) from operations
1
75.1 8.4 1.7 8.8 18.9 (1.1) (15.8) 77.1
Share of joint ventures’ interest and tax (4.7) (0.1) – – (0.1) – – (4.8)
Profit/(loss) before finance costs, 
amortisation and taxation 70.4 8.3 1.7 8.8 18.8 (1.1) (15.8) 72.3
Net finance (costs)/income (37.5) 0.7 0.1 0.5 1.3 (0.1) 28.1 (8.2)
Profit/(loss) before amortisation and 
taxation 32.9 9.0 1.8 9.3 20.1 (1.2) 12.3 64.1
Amortisation of intangibles (1.0)
Profit before taxation 63.1
Income tax expense (13.8)
Profit for the year 49.3
1 Profit from operations is stated before finance costs, amortisation, share of joint ventures’ interest and tax and taxation.
Inter-segment revenue eliminated from Group revenue above amounted to £54.7 million (2012: £51.5 million) of which £26.6 million 
(2012: £22.0 million) was in building, £25.8 million (2012: £27.3 million) was in infrastructure, £1.0 million was in PPP Investments 
(2012: £Nil), £Nil million (2012: £1.0 million) was in housebuilding, and £1.3 million (2012: £1.2 million) was in central costs.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 83 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
2 Segmental reporting continued
      Construction      
  Notes
Housebuilding
£m
Building
£m
Partnerships
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Total 
£m
PPP 
Investments
£m
Central 
costs
£m
Total
£m
Year ended 30 June 2013
Assets
Net (debt)/cash 19 (514.2) 94.8 13.0 37.3 145.1 (1.4) 356.1 (14.4)
Other assets 1,265.8
Borrowings 23 72.3
Deferred income tax assets 25 2.7
Total assets 1,326.4
Year ended 30 June 2012
Assets
Net (debt)/cash 19 (469.5) 88.1 15.0 42.4 145.5 0.6 345.9 22.5
Other assets 1,206.4
Borrowings 23 73.3
Deferred income tax assets 25 7.7
Total assets 1,309.9
      Construction      
  Notes
Housebuilding
£m
Building
£m
Partnerships
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Total 
£m
PPP 
Investments
£m
Central 
costs
£m
Total
£m
Other segmental 
information
Year ended 30 June 2013
Investment in joint ventures 13 4.8 1.0 – – 1.0 0.2 – 6.0
Contracting revenue 63.5 406.3 90.0 405.5 901.8 – – 965.3
Capital expenditure
– Property, plant and equipment 11 0.1 – 0.1 2.2 2.3 – 0.8 3.2
Depreciation 11 0.2 0.1 0.1 1.5 1.7 – 0.9 2.8
Impairment of receivables 5 – – – – – – – –
Share-based payments 3 – – – – – – 3.8 3.8
Acquisition of intangible assets 9 – – – – – – 2.6 2.6
Amortisation of intangible 
assets 9 1.0 – – – – – – 1.0
Year ended 30 June 2012
Investment in joint ventures 13 4.4 1.0 – – 1.0 – – 5.4
Contracting revenue 21.3 363.4 90.4 458.1 911.9 6.9 – 940.1
Capital expenditure
– Property, plant and equipment 11 0.3 – – 3.3 3.3 – 0.9 4.5
Depreciation 11 0.2 0.1 0.1 1.2 1.4 – 0.9 2.5
Impairment of receivables 5 – 0.1 – 0.1 0.2 – – 0.2
Share-based payments 3 – 0.1 – 0.2 0.3 – 8.2 8.5
Acquisition of intangible assets 9 – – – – – – 3.8 3.8
Amortisation of intangible 
assets 9 1.0 – – – – – – 1.0 84 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
3 Employees and directors
    Group Company
Employee benefit expense during the year Notes
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Wages and salaries   160.9 143.6 – –
Social security costs   18.8 14.6 2.1 1.2
Retirement benefit costs 31 12.8 14.3 – –
Share-based payments 28 3.8 8.5 3.5 8.2
    196.3 181.0 5.6 9.4
Average monthly number of people (including executive directors) employed
 
2013
Number
2012
Number
2013
Number
2012
Number
By business group:        
Housebuilding 863 802 – –
        –
Building 1,029 938 – –
Partnerships 303 273 – –
Infrastructure 1,468 1,542 – –
Total Construction 2,800 2,753 – –
PPP Investments 21 23 – –
Group 289 291 7 7
  3,973 3,869 7 7
Remuneration of key management personnel
The key management personnel comprise the executive board and non-executive directors. The remuneration of the key management 
personnel of the Group is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures. Further 
information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the audited part of the directors’ remuneration report.
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Salaries and short-term employee benefits 3.8 4.3
Retirement benefit costs 0.1 0.2
Share-based payments 2.0 4.7
  5.9 9.2
4 Net finance costs
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
Interest receivable on bank deposits 0.4 0.2
Interest receivable from joint ventures 1.2 –
Unwind of discount on shared equity receivables 1.8 1.6
Fair value profit on financing activities – interest rate swaps 0.2 –
Other 0.4 0.8
Finance income 4.0 2.6
Interest payable on borrowings (9.5) (8.4)
Unwind of discounted payables (0.5) (1.9)
Net finance cost on retirement benefit obligations (0.2) (0.1)
Other (0.1) (0.4)
Finance costs (10.3) (10.8)
Net finance costs (6.3) (8.2)
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 85 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
5 Profit before income tax 
The following items have been included in arriving at profit before income tax:
  Notes
2013
£m
2012
£m
Employee benefit expense 3 196.3 181.0
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 11 2.8 2.5
Amortisation of intangible assets 9 1.0 1.0
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment   – (0.1)
Profit on sale of investments in joint ventures and non-current assets held for sale 13 – (2.6)
Profit on sale of available for sale financial assets 14 (0.8) (0.1)
Operating lease rentals payable   19.0 30.4
Inventories recognised as an expense   10.1 8.0
Developments recognised as an expense   458.7 476.3
Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment   0.6 0.6
Impairment of receivables 18 – 0.2
In addition to the above, the Group incurs other costs classified as cost of sales relating to labour, materials and subcontractors’ costs.
Services provided by the Group’s auditors and network firms
During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors at costs as detailed below: 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Fees payable to Company’s auditor for the audit of Parent Company and consolidated financial statements    
Total audit services 0.2 0.2
     
The audit of financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries 0.3 0.3
Services relating to corporate matters 0.1 0.1
Services relating to taxation and accounting advice 0.1 0.1
Total other services 0.5 0.5
Total 0.7 0.7
A description of the work of the audit committee in respect of auditors’ independence is set out in the governance report.  86 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
6 Income tax expense
Group Note
2013
£m
2012
£m
Analysis of expense in year      
Current year’s income tax      
 Current tax   12.6 15.9
 Deferred tax expense/(income) 25 3.4 (0.8)
Adjustments in respect of prior years      
 Current tax   (5.6) (3.8)
 Deferred tax 25 5.5 2.5
Income tax expense   15.9 13.8
Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income      
Deferred tax (credit) for share-based payments 25 – (1.2)
Deferred tax (credit) on derivative financial instruments and AFS assets   (0.3) –
Deferred tax (credit) on retirement benefit obligations 25 (1.7) (2.5)
Total deferred tax   (2.0) (3.7)
Total taxation   13.9 10.1
The total income tax expense for the year of £15.9 million (2012: £13.8 million) is lower (2012: lower) than the year end standard rate of 
corporation tax in the UK of 23% (2012: 24%). The differences are explained below:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Profit before income tax 74.1 63.1
Profit before income tax multiplied by the year end standard rate in the UK of 23%(2012: 24%) 17.0 15.1
Effects of:    
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.1 0.7
Non-taxable income (0.2) (0.2)
Joint ventures (1.4) (1.5)
Change in rate of current income tax 0.5 1.0
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.1) (1.3)
Income tax expense 15.9 13.8
The standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK changed from 26% to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for 
the accounting period to 30 June 2012 were taxed at an effective rate of 25.5%. The standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK changed 
from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013. Accordingly, the Group’s profits for the accounting period to 30 June 2013 are taxed at an 
effective rate of 23.75% and will be taxed at 23% in the future. The relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured.
In addition to the changes in rates of Corporation tax disclosed above, further reductions in the main corporation tax were substantially 
enacted as part of the Finance Bill 2013 on 2 July 2013. These included reductions in the main rate of corporation tax from 23% to 21% 
from 1 April 2014 and by a further 1% to 20% by 1 April 2015. Neither of these further rate reductions had been substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these financial statements. 
The changes enacted in the Finance Act 2013 would have no material effect on the deferred tax asset provided at the balance sheet 
date or on profit or other comprehensive income.  
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 87 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
7 Dividends
  2013 2012
Group and Company £m
pence per 
share £m
pence per 
share
Previous year final 17.2 21.0 9.4 11.5
Current period interim 9.7 12.0 7.4 9.0
Dividend recognised in the year 26.9 33.0 16.8 20.5
The following dividends were declared by the Company in respect of each accounting period presented:
  2013 2012
  £m
pence per 
share £m
pence per 
share
Interim 9.7 12.0 7.4 9.0
Final 20.5 25.0 17.2 21.0
Dividend relating to the year 30.2 37.0 24.6 30.0
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2013 of 25 pence per share, bringing the total 
dividend in respect of 2013 to 37 pence per share (2012: 30 pence). The final dividend will absorb approximately £20.5 million of equity. 
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 November 2013, the dividend will be paid on 29 
November 2013 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 18 October 2013.
8 Earnings per share
Basic and diluted earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, excluding those held by the Employee Share Trust, which are treated as cancelled.
Under normal circumstances, the average number of shares is diluted by reference to the average number of potential ordinary shares 
held under option in the period. The dilutive effect amounts to the number of ordinary shares which would be purchased using the 
aggregate difference in value between the market value of shares and the share option price. Only shares that have met their cumulative 
performance criteria are included in the dilution calculation. The Group has two classes of potentially dilutive ordinary shares: those 
share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company’s ordinary shares 
during the year and the contingently issuable shares under the Group’s long-term incentive plan. A loss per share cannot be reduced 
through dilution, hence this dilution is only applied where the Group has reported a profit. 
The earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below.
  2013 2012
 
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
Per share 
amount 
pence
Earnings 
£m
Weighted 
average 
number of 
shares
Per share 
amount 
pence
Basic EPS            
Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 58.2 81,184,221 71.7 49.3 80,919,341 60.9
Effect of dilutive securities:            
Options   2,182,343     1,643,319  
Diluted EPS 58.2 83,366,564 69.8 49.3 82,562,660 59.7 88 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
9 Intangible assets
Group
Computer 
software 
£m
Brand 
£m
Customer 
contracts 
£m
Customer 
relationships 
£m
Total 
£m
Cost
At 1 July 2011 3.1 10.8 2.9 0.4 17.2
Additions 3.8 – – – 3.8
At 1 July 2012 6.9 10.8 2.9 0.4 21.0
Additions 2.6 – – – 2.6
At 30 June 2013 9.5 10.8 2.9 0.4 23.6
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 July 2011 – (4.9) (2.9) (0.4) (8.2)
Amortisation in year – (1.0) – – (1.0)
At 1 July 2012 – (5.9) (2.9) (0.4) (9.2)
Amortisation in year – (1.0) – – (1.0)
At 30 June 2013 – (6.9) (2.9) (0.4) (10.2)
Net book amount
At 30 June 2013 9.5 3.9 – – 13.4
At 30 June 2012 6.9 4.9 – – 11.8
At 30 June 2011 3.1 5.9 – – 9.0
All amortisation charges in the year have been included in administrative expenses. Amortisation of computer software will commence 
once the software is fully operational, which is expected to be during the financial year ending 30 June 2014. 
10 Goodwill
Group £m
Cost
At 1 July 2011, 1 July 2012 and 30 June 2013 115.7
Accumulated amortisation and aggregate impairment at 1 July 2011, 1 July 2012 and 30 June 2013 (0.7)
Net book amount
At 30 June 2013 115.0
At 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011 115.0
Impairment review of goodwill 
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (CGUs) identified according to business segment.
The goodwill is attributable to the following business segments:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Housebuilding 52.2 52.2
Building 17.9 17.9
Partnerships 5.8 5.8
Infrastructure 37.2 37.2
PPP Investments 1.9 1.9
115.0 115.0
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 89 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
10 Goodwill continued
Key assumptions
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations. These calculations use pre tax cash flow 
projections based on future financial budgets approved by the board based on past performance and its expectation of market 
developments. The key assumptions within these budgets relate to revenue growth and the future profit margin achievable. Future 
budgeted revenue is based on management’s knowledge of actual results from prior years, latest forecasts for the current year along 
with the existing secured work and management’s future expectation of the level of work available within the market sector and 
expected changes in selling volumes and prices for completed houses. In establishing future profit margins, the margins currently being 
achieved are considered in conjunction with expected inflation rates in each cost category and to reflect the current market value of land 
being acquired. 
Cash is monitored very closely on a daily, weekly and monthly basis for the purposes of managing both treasury and the business as 
a whole. Details of the Group’s treasury management are included within the finance review on pages 14 and 17 of the Annual Report. 
The assumptions used are reviewed regularly and differences between forecast and actual results are closely monitored with variances 
being investigated fully. The knowledge gained from this past experience is used to ensure that the future assumptions used are 
consistent with past actual outcomes and are management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of each business unit. 
Cash flows beyond the budgeted three year period are extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2% per annum within building, 
partnerships, infrastructure and housebuilding. The growth rate used is the Group’s estimate of the average long-term growth rate for 
the market sectors in which the CGU operates. No long-term growth rate has been applied to PPP Investments. A pre tax discount rate 
of 11.8% (2012: 13.3%) in housebuilding, 11.5% (2012: 10.5%) in building, 9.8% (2012: 10.4%) in partnerships and 11.9% (2012: 12.2%) in 
infrastructure has been applied to the future cash flows. 
Sensitivities
The recoverable value of all CGUs are substantially in excess of the carrying value of goodwill. Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken 
on each goodwill impairment review, by changing the discount rates, profit margins, growth rates and other variables applicable to each 
CGU. Taking into account current market conditions within the construction and housebuilding markets, none of these sensitivities, 
either individually or combined, resulted in the fair value of the goodwill being reduced to below its current book value amount.
The impairment review relating to Linden Homes goodwill, which is included within the housebuilding segment, could be impacted by 
a deterioration in trading conditions within the housing market. The detailed sensitivity analysis indicates that an increase of more than 
46% (2012: 21%) in the pre tax discount rate or a reduction of 45% (2012: 16%) in the forecast operating profits of the CGU could give 
rise to an impairment. 
Similarly, an increase of more than 20% (2012: 35%) in the pre tax discount rate or a reduction of 35% (2012: 45%) in the forecast 
operating profits of the infrastructure CGU, or a doubling of the pre tax discount rate or a reduction of over 50% in the forecast 
operating profits of the building CGU, could give rise to an impairment. The goodwill in partnerhips and PPP investments is less 
sensitive to the detailed assumptions used. 90 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
11 Property, plant and equipment
Group
Land and 
buildings
£m
Plant and
machinery
£m
Fixtures and
fittings
£m
Total
£m
Cost
At 1 July 2011 3.2 5.7 10.0 18.9
Additions 0.1 3.3 1.1 4.5
Disposals – (1.0) (0.7) (1.7)
At 1 July 2012 3.3 8.0 10.4 21.7
Additions – 2.2 1.0 3.2
Disposals (0.7) (0.2) (0.1) (1.0)
At 30 June 2013 2.6 10.0 11.3 23.9
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2011 (1.0) (2.6) (6.9) (10.5)
Charge for the year (0.1) (1.0) (1.4) (2.5)
Disposals – 0.6 0.7 1.3
At 1 July 2012 (1.1) (3.0) (7.6) (11.7)
Charge for the year (0.1) (1.5) (1.2) (2.8)
Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3
At 30 June 2013 (1.1) (4.4) (8.7) (14.2)
Net book amount
At 30 June 2013 1.5 5.6 2.6 9.7
At 30 June 2012 2.2 5.0 2.8 10.0
At 30 June 2011 2.2 3.1 3.1 8.4
There are no assets held under finance leases (2012: £Nil).
There has been no impairment of property, plant and equipment during the year (2012: £Nil)
The Company has no property, plant or equipment.
12 Investments in subsidiaries
Company
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cost
At 1 July 194.2 193.9
Capital contributions 3.3 0.3
At 30 June 197.5 194.2
Aggregate impairment
At 1 July 1.6 1.6
At 30 June 1.6 1.6
Net book value
At 30 June 195.9 192.6
The capital contributions relate to a £3.0 million (2012: £Nil) contribution from the Company to Galliford Try Investments Limited and a 
£0.3 million (2012: £0.3 million) contribution related to share-based payments for share options granted by the Company to employees 
of subsidiary undertakings in the Group (note 28). 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 91 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
12 Investments in subsidiaries continued
The carrying value of investments has been reviewed and the directors are satisfied that there is no impairment.
The subsidiary undertakings that principally affected profits and net assets of the Group were: 
Galliford Try Construction Limited
1
Galliford Try Homes Limited
1
Galliford Try Infrastructure Limited
2
Galliford Try Investments Limited
1
Galliford Try Partnerships Limited
Galliford Try Services Limited
1
Linden Limited
Linden South West Limited
Linden Midlands Limited
Linden North Limited
1 Shares of these subsidiary companies are owned directly by the Company.
2 Incorporated in Scotland. 
Unless otherwise stated, each subsidiary operates as a construction or housebuilding company, is incorporated in England & Wales and 
100% of shares are held by the Group. Galliford Try Services Limited operates as central administration company to the Group.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings is available on request from the Company’s registered office.
13 Investments in joint ventures
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 July 5.4 1.9
Additions (a)
– Net assets – 0.1
Disposal (b) – –
Dividend received from joint ventures (6.3) (0.3)
Share of post tax profit 6.9 3.7
At 30 June 6.0 5.4 92 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
13 Investments in joint ventures continued
Joint ventures
At 30 June 2013 the Group held interests in the following joint ventures all of which are incorporated in England and Wales or in Scotland: 
Name Year end % shareholding Principal activity
Kingseat Development 2 Limited (Scotland) 30 June 50% Building
Wispers Developments LLP 28 February 50% Building
Evolution Gateshead Developments LLP 31 March 50% Building
gbconsortium2 Limited 31 March 50% PPP Investment
HUB South East Scotland Limited 31 March 50% PPP Investment
Urban Vision Partnership Limited 31 December 30%
1
Infrastructure
Opal Land LLP 31 March 50% Housebuilding
The Piper Building Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Linden Wates (Ravenscourt Park) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Linden Wates (Ridgewood) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Linden and Dorchester Limited 30 June 50% Housebuilding
Linden and Dorchester Portsmouth Limited 30 June 50% Housebuilding
Crest/Galliford Try (Epsom) LLP 31 October 50% Housebuilding
Linden/Downland Graylingwell LLP 31 March 50% Housebuilding
Linden Wates Developments (Folders Meadow) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Linden Wates (Dorking) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Linden Homes Westinghouse LLP 31 March 50% Housebuilding
Wilmington Regeneration LLP 31 March 50% Housebuilding
Ramsden Regeneration LLP 31 March 50% Housebuilding
Linden Wates Developments (Chichester) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
Linden Wates (West Hampstead) Limited 31 December 50% Housebuilding
1 Under the terms of the shareholders’ agreement and in relation to voting rights this investment is treated as a joint venture.
(a) Additions 
During 2012 the Group invested a further £0.1 million in gbconsortium2 Limited. 
(b) Disposals
In July 2011 the Group disposed of its investment in Projco (St Andrews Hospital) Limited (Scotland) for £2.6 million giving rise to a profit 
of £2.6 million.
In relation to the Group’s interests in joint ventures, the assets, liabilities, income and expenses are shown below:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current assets 132.3 91.6
Non-current assets 23.0 21.7
Current liabilities (83.2) (53.6)
Non-current liabilities (66.1) (54.3)
  6.0 5.4
Amounts due from joint ventures 72.0 74.9
Amounts due to joint ventures 6.8 5.3
Revenue 92.1 57.7
Expenses (82.5) (49.2)
  9.6 8.5
Finance cost (1.8) (5.1)
Income tax (0.9) 0.3
Share of post tax profits from joint ventures 6.9 3.7
The Group’s share of unrecognised losses of joint ventures is £15.3 million (2012: £13.1 million).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 93 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
13 Investments in joint ventures continued
As at 30 June 2013, amounts due from joint ventures of £72.0 million (2012: £74.9 million) were considered for impairment. The 
impairment reviews were based on future financial budgets based on past performance and expectation of market developments. The 
key assumptions used were consistent with those applied in the goodwill impairment reviews as described in note 10. No impairment 
has been provided for these balances in the year ended 30 June 2013 (2012: £Nil).
The Group has no commitments (2012: £Nil) to provide further subordinated debt to its joint ventures. 
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed (2012: £Nil). The joint ventures had no capital 
commitments as at 30 June 2013 (2012: £Nil).
Details of related party transactions with joint ventures are given in note 34.
14 Available for sale financial assets
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 July 26.5 22.2
Additions 2.6 5.2
Unwind of discount on shared equity receivables 1.8 1.6
Impairment (1.5) (1.7)
Disposals (2.6) (0.8)
At 30 June 26.8 26.5
The available for sale assets comprise equity securities, being PPP/PFI investments, and shared equity receivables. The shared equity 
receivables largely have repayment dates that can vary and variable repayment amounts, provided as part of the sales transaction 
and are secured by a second legal charge on the related property. The assets are recorded at fair value, being the estimated future 
receivable by the Group, discounted back to present values. The fair value of the future anticipated receipts takes into account the 
directors’ view of future house price movements, the expected timing of receipts and credit risk. These assumptions are reviewed at 
the end of each financial reporting period. The difference between the anticipated future receipt and the initial fair value is credited 
over the estimated deferred term to finance income, with the financial asset increasing to its full expected cash settlement value on 
the anticipated receipt date. Credit risk, which is largely mitigated by holding a second charge over the property, is accounted for in 
determining the fair values and appropriate discount rates that are applied. The directors’ review the financial assets for impairment at 
each balance sheet date. 
During the year the Group’s net investment in shared equity receivables increased by £0.6 million (2012: £4.3 million). There were 
£1.8 million new shared equity receivables and £1.8 million arose on the unwind of the discount applied on initial recognition of the 
receivables at fair value which has been shown as finance income in the income statement. An impairment of £1.5 million arose due 
to the variation in current assumptions compared to the original calculations. There were disposals in the year of £1.5 million (2012: 
£0.8 million) relating to the repayment of shared equity receivables, generating a profit on disposal of £0.3 million (2012: £0.1 million).
None of the financial assets are past their due dates (2012: Nil) and the directors expect an average maturity profile of ten years.
Further disclosures relating to financial assets are set out in note 26.
During the year additional subordinated loans of £0.8 million (2012: £Nil) were made to its PPP/PFI investments, and the Group disposed 
of an interest held at £1.1 million, generating a profit on disposal of £0.5 million including the reclassification of previous £0.5 million 
revaluation gains from other reserves. The fair value of these unlisted investments is based on future expected cash flows discounted 
using an average rate of 9% (2012: 9%) based on the type of investment and stage of completion of the underlying assets held. 94 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
15 Inventories
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
Materials and consumables 0.4 0.4
No inventories have been written off during the year. 
16 Developments
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
Land 521.8 503.3
Work in progress 226.4 216.5
  748.2 719.8
17 Construction contracts
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
Contracts in progress at balance sheet date:    
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts included in trade and other receivables 105.1 119.3
Payments received on account on construction contracts included in trade and other payables (33.4) (63.3)
  71.7 56.0
The aggregate amount of cost incurred plus recognised profits (less recognised losses) for all contracts in progress at the balance sheet 
date was £1,574.8 million (2012: £1,143.5 million). 
Retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £32.0 million (2012: £37.0 million). 
18 Trade and other receivables
  Group Company
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts falling due within one year:        
Trade receivables 110.8 93.1 – –
Less: Provision for impairment of receivables (0.7) (0.7) – –
Trade receivables – net 110.1 92.4 – –
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts 105.1 119.3 – –
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings – – 78.1 62.2
Amounts due from joint venture undertakings 27.3 39.2 – –
Other receivables 30.9 15.9 – –
Prepayments and accrued income 27.2 14.8 – –
  300.6 281.6 78.1 62.2
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Amounts falling due in more than one year:        
Amounts due from joint venture undertakings 44.7 35.7 – –
Other receivables 0.5 0.2 – –
  45.2 35.9 – –
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 95 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
18 Trade and other receivables continued
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivable are as follows:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 July (0.7) (0.6)
Provision for receivables impairment – (0.2)
Unused amounts reversed – 0.1
At 30 June (0.7) (0.7)
Provisions for impaired receivables have been included in ‘cost of sales’ in the income statement. Amounts charged to the impairment 
provision are generally written off, when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
Provisions for amounts due from joint venture undertakings are set out in note 13. The other classes within trade and other receivables 
do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the book value of each class of receivable mentioned above, along with the 
Group’s investment in shared equity receivables (note 14). The Group does not hold any collateral as security. 
Management believes that the concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the Group’s customer base 
being large and unrelated. Major water industry customers accounted for in total 12% (2012: 11%) of Group revenue in the year. 
However, the customers involved comprise a variety of entities including those both in the public and commercial sectors. In addition, 
within the commercial sector each customer has an unrelated ultimate Parent Company. 
The maturity of non-current receivables is as follows:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
In more than one year but not more than two years 12.7 0.2
In more than two years but not more than five years 4.9 9.6
In more than five years 27.6 26.1
  45.2 35.9
Of the amounts due in more than five years £0.4 million (2012: £0.4 million) is due within ten years (2012: 11 years) and £27.2 million 
(2012: £25.7 million) is due within six years (2012: seven years). These amounts are unsecured and interest rates vary from bank base 
rate plus 1.75% to 10%.
As of 30 June 2013, trade receivables of £12.6 million (2012: £22.8 million) were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of 
independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default and there are no indications that they will not meet their payment 
obligations in respect of the trade receivables recognised in the balance sheet that are past due and unprovided. The ageing analysis of 
these trade receivables is as follows:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Number of days past due date    
Less than 30 days 7.8 18.2
Between 30 and 60 days 0.5 0.5
Between 60 and 90 days – 0.1
Between 90 and 120 days 0.2 0.1
Greater than 120 days 4.1 3.9
  12.6 22.8
As of 30 June 2013, trade receivables of £4.0 million (2012: £2.5 million) were considered for impairment. The amount provided for 
these balances was £0.7 million (2012: £0.7 million). The allocation of the provision is as follows:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Number of days past due date    
Greater than 120 days 0.7 0.7
  0.7 0.7 96 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
19 Cash and cash equivalents
  Group Company
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash at bank and in hand 56.0 95.8 – 358.8
Short-term bank deposit 1.9 – 349.9 –
Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes 57.9 95.8 349.9 358.8
Cash at bank above includes £2.0 million (2012: £Nil million) which is held in escrow and £0.8 million (2012: £0.3 million) of other 
restricted cash. The effective interest rate received on cash balances is 0.8% (2012: 0.5%).
Group
Net (debt)/cash
2013
£m
2012
£m
Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 57.9 95.8
Current borrowings (note 23) (72.3) (73.3)
Net (debt)/cash (14.4) 22.5
20 Trade and other payables 
  Group Company
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Payments received on account on construction contracts 33.4 63.3 – –
Trade payables 159.4 137.8 – –
Development land payables 111.4 168.3 – –
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings – – 184.3 146.6
Amounts due to joint venture undertakings 6.8 5.3 – –
Other taxation and social security payable 9.1 15.6 – –
Other payables 24.5 25.7 – –
Accruals and deferred income 304.0 244.6 2.6 1.3
648.6 660.6 186.9 147.9
21 Current income tax liabilities
Group
2013
£m
2012
£m
Current income tax liabilities 6.6 8.8
The Company has a current income tax asset of £1.6 million (2012: £Nil).
22 Provisions for other liabilities and charges
Group
Onerous 
leases 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 July 2012 3.8 3.8
Utilised in year (0.7) (0.7)
At 30 June 2013 3.1 3.1
Analysis of total provisions
Current 0.6 0.6
Non-Current 2.5 2.5
At 30 June 2013 3.1 3.1
The onerous lease provision relates primarily to properties that continue to be occupied by the Group. The provision will be utilised over 
the remaining term of the leases which expire between 2020 and 2021.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 97 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
23 Financial liabilities – borrowings
  Group Company
Current
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Bank loans (i) 72.2 72.9 73.0 72.1
Unsecured – Loan notes (ii) 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.4
72.3 73.3 73.1 72.5
(i) The bank loans and overdrafts are secured by a fixed charge over certain of the Group’s developments. They currently incur interest 
at 2.25% to 2.6% (2012: 2.25% to 2.6%) over LIBOR. The Group has entered into interest rate swaps as set out in note 26.
(ii) The unsecured loan notes are made up as follows:
(a) £Nil (2012: £0.3 million) of loan notes that were issued in 2002 as part of the acquisition of Linden Devon Limited. They were 
redeemable in whole or in part by the holders at any time provided that 30 days notice was given of their intention to redeem the loan 
notes. Their interest rate was determined by reference to LIBOR and varied every three months. The final date for the redemption of 
these loan notes was April 2013 and they were repaid at that time. The loan notes were guaranteed by a bank.
(b) £0.1 million (2012: £0.1 million) of loan notes were issued in 2007 as part of the acquisition of Linden Holdings plc. They are 
redeemable in whole or in part by the holders at six monthly intervals provided that 30 days notice is given of their intention to 
redeem the loan notes. Their interest rate is 5% per annum. The final date for the redemption of these loan notes is March 2014. The 
loan notes are guaranteed by a bank. 
24 Other non-current liabilities
  Group Company
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Development land payables 87.4 81.2 – –
Other payables 0.8 0.4 – –
Accruals and deferred income 3.0 1.4 – –
91.2 83.0 – –
The maturity profile of other non-current liabilities, based on due date, is as follows:
  Group
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Between one and two years 43.9 36.1
In more than two years 47.3 46.9
91.2 83.0 98 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
25 Deferred income tax 
Deferred income tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 23% (2012: 24%). 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against 
current income tax liabilities. The net deferred tax position at 30 June was:
  Group Company
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Deferred income tax assets 2.7 7.7 2.7 2.5
Deferred income tax liabilities (2.1) (0.2) – –
  0.6  7.5 2.7 2.5
The movement for the year in the net deferred income tax account is as shown below:
  Group Company
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 July 7.5 5.5 2.5 0.8
Income statement        
Current year’s deferred income tax (3.4) 0.8 0.1 0.6
Adjustment in respect of prior years (5.2) (2.1) – –
Income recognised in equity 2.0 3.7 0.2 1.2
Change in rate of deferred income tax (0.3) (0.4) (0.1) (0.1)
At 30 June 0.6 7.5 2.7 2.5
Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred 
income tax assets as it is probable that these assets will be recovered.
Movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below:
Deferred income tax assets 
Group
Share-based 
payments
£m
Fair value 
adjustments
£m
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 July 2011 0.8 4.1 0.1 1.4 6.4
Income/(expense) taken to income statement 0.5 0.9 (0.2) (1.2) –
Income recognised in equity 1.2 – – – 1.2
Transfer to deferred income tax liabilities – – 0.1 – 0.1
At 30 June 2012 2.5 5.0 – 0.2 7.7
Income taken to income statement – – – 0.2 0.2
Adjustment in respect of prior years – – – (0.4) (0.4)
Income recognised in equity – – – 0.2 0.2
Transfer to deferred income tax liabilities – (5.0) – – (5.0)
At 30 June 2013 2.5  – – 0.2  2.7
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 99 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
25 Deferred income tax continued
Deferred income tax liabilities
Group
Fair value
£m
Retirement 
benefit 
obligations
£m
Accelerated 
tax 
depreciation
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 July 2011 – (0.8) – (0.1) (0.9)
Expense taken to income statement – (1.7) – – (1.7)
Adjustment in respect of prior years – – – – –
Income recognised in equity – 2.5 – – 2.5
Transfer from deferred income tax assets – – (0.1) – (0.1)
At 30 June 2012 – – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
Expense taken to income statement (2.0) (1.8) (0.1) – (3.9)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (4.6) – (0.2) – (4.8)
Income recognised in equity – 1.7 – 0.1 1.8
Transfer from deferred income tax assets 5.0 – – – 5.0
At 30 June 2013 (1.6) (0.1) (0.4) – (2.1)
Deferred income tax assets 
Company    
Other
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Total
£m
At 1 July 2011     – 0.8 0.8
Income taken to income statement     – 0.5 0.5
Income recognised in equity     – 1.2 1.2
At 30 June 2012     – 2.5 2.5
Income recognised in equity     0.2 – 0.2
At 30 June 2013     0.2 2.5 2.7
26 Financial Instruments
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk, price risk and interest rate 
risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets 
and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. 
The Group and Company operate within financial risk policies and procedures approved by the board. It is, and has been throughout 
the year, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken. The board provides written principles for overall 
risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of 
derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. The Group’s and Company’s 
financial instruments principally comprise bank borrowings, cash and liquid resources, receivables and payables, available for sale 
financial assets and interest rate swaps that arise directly from its operations and its acquisitions. 
Capital risk management 
The Group’s and Company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in 
order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the 
cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group and Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, 
return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt 
divided by total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including ‘current and non-current borrowings’ as shown in the 
consolidated balance sheet) less cash and cash equivalents. The Group held net debt at 30 June 2013 and had gearing of 3%. 
The Group held net cash at 30 June 2012 hence gearing was nil at that time.  100 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
26 Financial Instruments continued
Financial risk factors
(a) Market risk
(i) Foreign exchange risk
All material activities of the Group take place within the UK and consequently there is little direct exchange risk other than payments to 
overseas suppliers who require settlement in their currency. If there is any material foreign exchange exposure, the Group’s policy is to 
enter into forward foreign currency contracts. The Group and Company have no material currency exposure at 30 June 2013 (2012: Nil). 
(ii) Price risk
The Group is affected by the level of UK house prices. These are in turn affected by factors such as mortgage availability, employment 
levels, interest rates, consumer confidence and availability of land with planning. Whilst it is not possible to fully mitigate such risks the 
Group continues to monitor its geographical spread within the UK concentrating its operations in areas that management believe 
minimise the effect of local microeconomic fluctuations. As at 30 June 2013, if UK house price inflation or the discount rate used had 
been 1% lower or higher respectively, and all other variables held constant, the Group’s house price linked financial instruments, which 
consist entirely of shared equity receivables held as available for sale financial assets, would decrease in value, excluding any effect of 
current or deferred tax by £1.6 million or £1.5 million respectively.  
The Group is not exposed to equity securities price risk as investments held by the Group are classified on the consolidated balance 
sheet as available for sale. The Group and Company are not exposed to commodity price risk.  
(iii) Interest rate risk
The Group’s income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
The Group’s interest rate risk arises from movement in cash and cash equivalents and long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at 
variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group policy is to accept a degree of interest rate risk as long as the 
effect of various changes in rates remains within prescribed ranges. Details of the interest rate swaps entered into by the Group are set 
out below. 
The Group analyses its interest rate exposure on a dynamic basis. On a regular basis the Group calculates the impact on the income 
statement of a defined interest rate shift on the Group’s borrowing position. 
Based on the forecasts performed, the impact on post tax profit and equity of a 1% decrease or increase in interest rates for a year 
would be a maximum increase of £1.2 million (2012: £0.8 million) or decrease of £1.2 million (2012: £0.8 million), respectively. 
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments, deposits 
and borrowings with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables 
(including shared equity receivables) and committed transactions. The Group has a credit risk exposure to the providers of its banking 
facilities. These are primarily provided by HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Barclays Bank plc, being three of the 
UK’s leading financial institutions. Further details of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 18. No credit 
limits were exceeded during the reporting period, and management does not expect any material losses from non-performance of any 
counterparties including in respect of receivables not yet due.
(c) Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding through 
an adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury maintains 
flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings. The contracting operations of the Group 
generally generate cash. The housebuilding operations, however, utilise cash and any future downturn in the housebuilding market may 
require additional borrowings in addition to retained earnings to finance the maintenance of the land bank and associated work in 
progress. Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve which comprises undrawn borrowing facilities (see 
below) and cash and cash equivalents (note 19) on the basis of expected cash flow. This is generally carried out at local level in the 
operating companies of the Group in accordance with practices and limits set by the Group. These limits vary by location to take into 
account the liquidity of the market in which the entity operates. On a daily basis throughout the year, the bank balances or borrowings in 
all the Group’s operating companies are aggregated into a total cash or borrowings figure in order that the Group can obtain the most 
advantageous interest rate.
In accordance with IAS 39, ‘Financial instruments: recognition and measurement’, the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded 
derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard. No such 
embedded derivatives have been identified.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 101 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
26 Financial Instruments continued
Financial liabilities – derivative financial liabilities
The fair value of interest rate swaps is detailed below:
Group and Company
Liabilities
£m
At 30 June 2013
Non-current (1.1)
At 30 June 2012
Non-current (1.6)
During the year ending 30 June 2012 the Group entered into a five year interest rate swap contract. The notional principal amount of the 
outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 30 June 2013 was £75 million (2012: £75 million). At 30 June 2013, the fixed interest rate is 
1.5% (2012: 1.5%). The five year swap is designated as a hedge and changes in fair value are recognised directly in reserves. 
Fair values of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities
Where market values are not available, fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities have been calculated by discounting 
expected future cash flows at the prevailing interest rate. The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amounts as the 
impact of discounting is not significant.
Fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities Note
Book value
£m
2013
Fair value
£m
Book value
£m
2012
Fair value
£m
Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations:
Short-term borrowings 23 72.3 72.3 73.3 73.3
Available for sale financial assets 14 26.8 26.8 26.5 26.5
Trade and other payables 20 606.1 606.1 581.7 581.7
Trade and other receivables 18 273.4 273.4 266.8 266.8
Cash and cash equivalents 19 57.9 57.9 95.8 95.8
Other non-current liabilities 24 91.2 91.2 83.0 83.0
Prepayments and accrued income are excluded from the trade and other receivables balances and statutory liabilities and payments 
received on account on construction contracts are excluded from trade and other payables balances, as only this analysis is required 
for financial instruments.
There is no difference between the book value and the fair value of the Company’s other financial assets and financial liabilities.
Borrowing facilities
The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 June which are restricted by the value of 
developments available to be secured under the terms of the facility:
 
2013
Floating rate
£m
2012
Floating Rate
£m
Expiring:
Between one and two years 250.6 –
In more than two years – 237.7
250.6 237.7
In May 2011 the Group agreed a four year £325 million revolving credit facility with HSBC Bank plc, Barclays Bank plc and The Royal 
Bank of Scotland plc. The facility provides long-term finance and bonding facilities and is subject to covenants over interest cover, 
gearing, adjusted gearing taking account of land creditor debt and minimum consolidated tangible assets as well as security against 
the Group’s housebuilding development sites. Interest is calculated by aggregating margin, LIBOR and relevant costs. 102 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
26 Financial Instruments continued
Fair value estimation
The following table presents the Group’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 June:
 
2013
Total
£m
2012
Total
£m
Assets
Available-for-sale financial assets
– Level 3: Shared equity receivables 24.9 24.3
– Level 2: Equity securities 1.9 2.2
Total 26.8 26.5
     
Liabilities
Liabilities at fair value through income statement
– Level 2: Derivatives used for hedging  1.1 1.6
Total 1.1 1.6
In the current year the Group has reviewed the fair value hierarchy applied to the measurement of the fair value of our available for sale 
financial assets and concluded that the assets should be classified as Level 3 rather than as Level 2, as previously classified. The 
previous year has been restated to reflect this.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments are defined as:
•	 Level 1 – Quoted market prices or dealer quotes in active markets for similar instruments.
•	 Level 2 – The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on 
observable yield curves. 
•	 Level 3 – Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial 
instruments. The fair value of available for sale financial assets is set out in note 14.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by 
using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as 
little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is 
included in level 2. If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.  
The Company’s only liabilities that are measured at fair value are derivatives used for hedging, as shown in the table above. 
27 Ordinary shares and share premium
Group and Company
Number of
shares
Ordinary 
shares
£m
Share
premium
£m
Total
£m
At 1 July 2011 81,849,466 40.9 190.8 231.7
Allotted under share option schemes 3,793 – – –
At 1 July 2012 81,853,259 40.9 190.8 231.7
Allotted under share option schemes 16,836 – 0.1 0.1
At 30 June 2013 81,870,095 40.9 190.9 231.8
Number of shares refers to 50 pence ordinary shares, which are issued and fully paid. There are no shares issued but not fully paid. 
At 30 June 2013 the total number of shares outstanding under the SAYE share option scheme was 1,300,745 (2012: 823,916) and under 
the long-term incentive plans was 2,038,384 (2012: 2,124,645) as detailed below:
SAYE share option scheme   Long-term incentive plans
Shares under 
option Year of grant
Exercise price per 
share
Exercise period 
ending   Shares awarded Year of grant
Share price at 
grant Vesting date
411,021 2011 271p 30.06.14 862,619 2011 329p 28.09.13
286,223 2011 271p 30.06.16 689,492 2012 457p 22.09.14
403,333 2013 657p 30.06.16 445,815 2013 729p 26.09.15
200,168 2013 657p 30.06.18 40,458 2013 843p 26.09.15
1,300,745 2,038,384
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 103 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
28 Share-based payments
The Company operates performance related share incentive plans for executives, details of which are set out in the directors’ 
remuneration report. The Company also operates sharesave schemes. The total charge for the year relating to employee share-based 
payment plans was £3.8 million (2012: £8.5 million), all of which related to equity settled share-based payment transactions. After 
deferred tax, the total charge was £3.8 million (2012: £8.0 million).
The performance period for the awards made under the Company’s long-term incentive plan on 10 March 2009 ended on 30 June 2011, 
and the awards vested in March 2012. This award was subject to a relative total shareholder return condition and two underpins based 
on cash performance and absolute share price performance. Following consultation with major shareholders, the remuneration 
committee exercised its discretion for the assessment of the share price target, using an approach consistent with the averaging 
period used for assessment of the relative total shareholder return condition. Full details are set out in the 2012 Annual Report. 
The decision to use an alternative averaging period to that originally envisaged in the grant date valuation gave rise to an additional IFRS 
2 fair value accounting charge of £5.1 million in the financial year to 30 June 2012, which had no incremental effect on either cash or the 
balance sheet. There is no impact in the financial year to 30 June 2013.
Savings related share options
The Company operates an HM Revenue & Customs approved sharesave scheme under which employees are granted an option to 
purchase ordinary shares in the Company at up to 20% less than the market price at grant, in either three or five years’ time, dependent on 
their entering into a contract to make monthly contributions into a savings account over the relevant period. These funds are used to fund 
the option exercise. This scheme is open to all employees. No performance criteria are applied to the exercise of sharesave options. 
The options were valued using the binomial option-pricing model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the 
calculation are as follows:
Grant date
Share price at 
grant date Exercise price Contract date
Expected 
volatility
Option life 
(years) Risk free rate Dividend yield
Employee 
turnover before 
vesting
Fair value per 
option
09.11.06 1,086p 738p 01.01.07 33% 5 4.8% 1.7% 10% 501p
30.11.07 918p 912p 01.01.08 31% 5 4.6% 2.4% 10% 272p
19.11.10 280p 271p 01.01.11 55% 3 1.6% 4.5% 10% 93.5p
19.11.10 280p 271p 01.01.11 47% 5 2.4% 4.5% 10% 90.0p
14.11.12 711p 657p 01.01.13 31% 3 0.5% 4.2% 10% 135.5p
14.11.12 711p 657p 01.01.13 46% 5 0.9% 4.2% 10% 222.2p
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility in the movement in the share price over the last three or five years up to the date 
of grant depending on the option life. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk free rate is the yield on 
zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. A reconciliation of savings related share awards 
over the year to 30 June 2013 is shown below:
  2013 2012
  Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price Number
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Outstanding at 1 July 823,916 309p 1,079,230 369p
Awards 621,896 657p – –
Forfeited (28,677) 330p (20,559) 327p
Cancelled (36,563) 451p (37,620) 398p
Expired (62,991) 747p (193,342) 621p
Exercised (16,836) 298p (3,793) 271p
Outstanding at 30 June 1,300,745 450p 823,916 309p
Exercisable at 30 June 7,839 375p 1,388 648p
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 164p (2012: Nil). There were 16,836 share options exercised 
during the year ended 30 June 2013 (2012: 3,793) and the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 833p. The 
weighted average remaining contractual life is two years eight months (2012: two years eight months).
Performance related long-term incentive plans 
The Company operates performance related share incentive plans for executives, details of which are set out in the directors’ 
remuneration report. The awards that vest are satisfied by the transfer of shares for no consideration. 104 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
28 Share-based payments continued
The options were valued using a Monte Carlo model. The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are 
as follows:
Grant date Share price at grant date
Vesting period/Option life 
months Risk free rate Dividend yield Fair value per option
10.03.09 250p 36 1.7% 2.5% 72p
11.09.09 507p 36 5.0% 2.1% 368p
28.09.10 328.5p 36 1.1% 3.8% 196p
22.09.11 457.3p 36 0.8% 3.5% 279p
26.09.12 728.5p 36 0.3% 4.1% 771p
01.02.13 843.0p 32 0.5% 3.6% 936p
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility in the movement in the share price of the Company and its comparator group 
and the correlations between them over the last three years. The expected life is the average expected period to exercise. The risk 
free rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life. A reconciliation of 
performance related share awards over the year to 30 June is shown below:
 
2013
Number
2012
Number
Outstanding at 1 July 2,124,645 2,279,552
Granted 957,666 2,017,975
Expired – (869,152)
Forfeited (24,753) –
Exercised (1,019,174) (1,303,730)
Outstanding at 30 June 2,038,384 2,124,645
Exercisable at 30 June – –
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 784p (2012: 279p). There were 1,019,174 options exercised during 
the year ended 30 June 2013 (2012: 1,303,730). The weighted average remaining contractual life is Nil as the shares are exercised on the 
day that they vest (2012: Nil). 
29 Other reserves
 
Group
£m
Company
£m
At 1 July 2011 and 30 June 2012 5.3 3.0
Reclassification of gains to income statement (0.5) –
At 30 June 2013 4.8 3.0
The Group other reserves relates to a merger reserve amounting to £4.7 million (2012: £4.7million) and the movement on available for 
sale financial assets amounting to £0.1 million (2012: £0.6 million).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 105 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
30 Retained earnings
  Notes
Group
£m
Company
£m
At 1 July 2011   218.1 186.1
Profit/(loss) for the year   49.3 (8.9)
Actuarial (losses)/gains recognised in the retirement benefit obligations 31 (10.7) 1.2
Deferred tax on movements in equity 25 3.7 –
Dividends paid 7 (16.8) (16.8)
Share-based payments 28 8.5 8.5
Purchase of own shares   (9.1) (9.1)
Movement in fair value of derivative financial instruments   (1.6) (1.6)
Issue of shares 27 – –
At 30 June 2012   241.4 159.4
Profit for the year   58.2  3.0
Actuarial (losses) recognised in the retirement benefit obligations 31 (6.5) –
Deferred tax on movements in equity 25 2.0 0.2
Dividends paid 7 (26.9) (26.9)
Share-based payments 28 3.8 3.8
Purchase of own shares   (7.7) (7.7)
Movement in fair value of derivative financial instruments   0.5 0.5
At 30 June 2013   264.8 132.3
The cumulative amount of goodwill arising on acquisition and written off directly against reserves is £9.5 million (2012: £9.5 million).
At 30 June 2013, the Galliford Try Employee Share Trust (the Trust) held 878,353 (2012: 1,040,223) shares. The nominal value of the 
shares held is £0.4 million (2012: £0.5 million). 400,000 shares were acquired during the year (2012: 1,000,000) at a cost of £3.9 million 
(2012: £5.3 million) and a further £3.8 million (2012: £3.8 million) was paid in relation to other share related transactions. 561,870 (2012: 
650,466) shares were transferred during the year. The cost of funding and administering the Trust is charged to the income statement of 
the Company in the period to which it relates. The market value of the shares at 30 June 2013 was £8.2 million (2012: £6.6 million). No 
shareholders (2012: None) have waived their rights to dividends. 
31 Retirement benefit obligations
All staff employees are entitled to join the Galliford Try Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme established as a stakeholder 
plan, with a company contribution based on a scale dependent on the employee’s age and the amount they choose to contribute. Since 
1 July 2013 all non-participating and newly employed staff have been auto-enrolled into the separate stakeholder plan and are entitled 
to increase their contribution rates in line with existing members. Since 1 April 2009, the Group has operated a pension salary sacrifice 
scheme which means that all employee pension contributions are paid as employer contributions on their behalf. 
The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes that pay out pensions at retirement based on service and final pay: the 
Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme, the Galliford Group Special Scheme and the Kendall Cross (Holdings) Ltd Scheme. The 
accounting numbers consolidate these three arrangements. The Group’s principal funded pension scheme is the Galliford Try Final 
Salary Pension Scheme, with assets held in separate trustee administered funds, which was closed to all future service accrual on 
31 March 2007. 
Pension costs for the schemes were as follows: 
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Defined benefit schemes – Expense recognised in the income statement 0.2 0.1
Defined contribution schemes 12.6 14.2
Total included within employee benefit expenses (note 3) 12.8 14.3
Of the total charge for all schemes £7.0 million (2012: £6.1 million) and £5.6 million (2012 £8.1 million) were included, respectively, 
within cost of sales and administrative expenses. £0.2m (2012: £0.1m) was included within net finance costs. 106 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
31 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Defined benefit schemes
An independent actuary performs detailed triennial valuations together with periodic interim reviews. The most recent completed formal 
valuation of the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme was carried out as at 1 July 2009 by Mercer the scheme actuary, using the 
projected unit method. The formal actuarial valuation as at 1 July 2012 for the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme is currently 
ongoing. The accounting results for the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme have been calculated based on the liabilities 
calculated for the preliminary 1 July 2012 actuarial valuation results. The mortality tables used for the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension 
Scheme have been aligned with those provisionally agreed for the 2012 valuation – updating the assumptions in this way has led to an 
increase in the obligations at 30 June 2013 of around £4.5 million.
The deficit recovery funding plan agreed with the Trustees in 2009 required the Company to pay contributions of £583,333 per calendar 
month until 31 July 2013, and then £416,667 per calendar month until 28 February 2019. The Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme 
closed to future accrual with effect from 31 March 2007.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Galliford Group Special Scheme was prepared using the attained age method as at 1 April 
2010. A deficit recovery funding plan was agreed with the Trustees to meet the funding shortfall which requires the Company to pay 
contributions of £16,000 per calendar month until 30 September 2013. The next valuation of the scheme is due to be carried out as at 
1 April 2013.
The Kendall Cross (Holdings) Limited Scheme is funded and provides benefits based on final pensionable salaries. The scheme was 
closed to new members and to future accrual for existing members prior to the date of the acquisition by Galliford Try plc in November 
2007. The most recent actuarial valuation of the Scheme was prepared as at 14 November 2011. A deficit recovery funding plan was 
agreed with the trustees with requires the Company to pay contributions of £15,300 per month from April 2013. 
Principal assumptions
The valuation of the Group’s pension schemes have been updated to 30 June 2013 and all three schemes are consolidated for 
disclosure purposes below. The principal actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the disclosure items are as follows:
  2013 2012
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.30% 2.90%
Discount rate 4.50% 4.50%
Retail price inflation 3.40% 2.90%
Consumer price inflation 2.40% 1.90%
For the Galliford Try Final Salary Pension Scheme, the life expectancies as at 30 June 2013 are based on S1PA tables (90% scaling 
factor applied for males), with a future improvement in mortality assumption in line with CMI 2011 tables, with a long-term rate of 
improvement of 1.5% p.a. The life expectancies as at 30 June 2012 were based on S1PA tables (90% scaling factor applied for males), 
with a future improvement in mortality assumption in with medium cohort improvements with an underpin of 1.25% for males and 1.0% 
for females.
  2013 2012
Male member age 65 (current life expectancy) 23.8 22.7
Male member age 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 25.9 25.1
Female member age 65 (current life expectancy) 25.3 24.1
Female member age 45 (life expectancy at age 65) 27.5 25.9
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 107 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
31 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Assets in the Scheme
The fair value of the assets, long-term rate of return expected and present value of the obligations at 30 June of the Group’s defined 
benefit arrangements are as follows:
  2013 2012
  Return
Value
£m   Return
Value
£m  
Equities 7.15% 38.9 21% 6.95% 42.3 24%
Gilts 3.15% 73.9 39% 2.95% 64.0 37%
Bonds 4.50% 61.5 32% 4.50% 57.8 33%
Cash and other
1
0.50%–4.50% 14.3 8% 0.50%–4.50% 9.4 6%
188.6 100% 173.5 100%
Present value of defined benefit obligations (188.1) (173.7)
Surplus/(deficit) in scheme recognised as non-current 
asset/(liability) 0.5 (0.2)
1 Other assets includes monies held within a deposit administration policy held with Legal and General.
Where investments are held in bonds, gilts and cash, the expected long-term rate of return is taken to be the yields generally prevailing 
on such assets at the balance sheet date. A higher rate of return is expected on equity investments, which is based on more realistic 
future expectations than on the returns that have been available historically. The overall expected long-term rate of return on assets of 
4.20% (2012: 4.50%) is the average of these rates taking into account the underlying asset portfolio of the pension scheme. 
Sensitivity analysis of scheme liabilities
The sensitivity of the present value of scheme liabilities to changes in the principal assumptions is set out below.
  Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities
Discount rate Increase by 0.1% Decrease by £3.6 million
Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1% Increase by £2.2 million
Increase in pension payments Increase by 0.1% Increase by £1.6 million
Life expectancy Increase by one year Increase by £5.2 million
Accounting results
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Finance cost 7.7 8.4
Expected return on scheme assets (7.5) (8.3)
Net finance costs 0.2 0.1
Expense recognised in the income statement 0.2 0.1
The actual return on scheme assets was of £14.0 million (2012: £13.9 million). 
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
Total amount of actuarial (losses) in the year (6.5) (10.7)
Cumulative actuarial (losses) (34.4) (27.9) 108 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
31 Retirement benefit obligations continued
Movement in present value of defined benefit obligations
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 July 173.7 155.2
Interest cost 7.7 8.4
Experience (gains)/losses (4.6) 2.2
Impact of change in assumptions 17.5 14.0
Benefit payments (6.2) (6.1)
At 30 June 188.1 173.7
Movement in fair value of scheme assets
2013
£m
2012
£m
At 1 July 173.5 158.4
Expected return on scheme assets 7.5 8.3
Actual return less expected return on scheme assets 6.5 5.6
Employer contributions 7.3 7.3
Benefit payments (6.2) (6.1)
At 30 June 188.6 173.5
Contributions for the new financial year remain under negotiation and are expected to reduce compared to the year to 30 June 2013.
History of experience gains and losses: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Fair value of plan assets 188.6 173.5 158.4 146.5 122.0
Present value of defined benefit obligation (188.1) (173.7) (155.2) (163.8) (149.5)
Surplus/(deficit) in scheme recognised as non-current asset/(liability) 0.5 (0.2) 3.2 (17.3) (27.5)
Difference between the expected and actual return on assets:          
Amount (£m) 6.5 5.6 10.7 15.0 (19.3)
Percentage of assets 3 3 7 10 (16)
Experience gains and (losses) on scheme liabilities:          
Amount (£m) 4.6 (2.2) (0.6) 9.9 (1.6)
Percentage of present value of defined benefit obligations 2 (1) 0 6 (1)
Total amount recognised in statement of comprehensive income:          
Amount (£m) (6.5) (10.7) 12.7 4.8 (6.5)
Percentage of present value of liabilities (3) (6) 8 3 (4)
32 Financial and capital commitments
The Group had no commitments for subordinated debt to joint ventures or other investments at 30 June 2013 (2012: £nil).
Galliford Try plc, together with certain of its subsidiaries, has entered into non-cancellable contracts for the operational leasing of land 
and buildings and plant and machinery. The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The maximum 
commitments for payments under these contracts are as follows:
  2013 2012
 
Property
£m
Vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
£m
Property
£m
Vehicles, 
plant and 
equipment
£m
Amounts due:        
Within one year 3.2 7.5 3.5 8.8
Later than one year and less than five years 11.6 7.0 12.4 15.8
After five years 14.5  0.1 12.5 1.2
  29.3  14.6 28.4 25.8
Galliford Try plc, together with certain of its subsidiaries, has entered into arrangements with HSBC Bank plc, The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc and Barclays Bank plc to guarantee the borrowings of Group companies. Fixed charges have been given to these banks 
over certain of the Group’s developments.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 109 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
33 Guarantees and contingent liabilities
Galliford Try plc has entered into financial guarantees and counter indemnities in respect of bank and performance bonds issued 
on behalf of Group undertakings, including joint arrangements and joint ventures, in the normal course of business amounting to 
£155.2 million (2012: £135.3 million). 
Disputes arise in the normal course of business, some of which lead to litigation or arbitration procedures. The directors make proper 
provision in the financial statements when they believe a liability exists. Whilst the outcome of disputes and arbitration is never certain, 
the directors believe that the resolution of all existing actions will not have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial position.
34 Related party transactions
Group
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and jointly controlled operations are disclosed as follows:
  Sales to related parties
Purchases from related 
parties
Amounts owed by related 
parties
Amounts owed to related 
parties
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Trading transactions                
Joint ventures 21.8 27.2 0.4 0.2 22.0 16.7 6.8 5.3
Jointly controlled operations 30.7 32.7 – 0.1 – – – –
 
Interest income from loans 
to related parties Loans to related parties Loans from related parties Injection of equity funding
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-trading transactions                
Joint ventures 7.5 – 50.0 58.2 – – – 0.1
Jointly controlled operations – – – – – – – –
Services are sold to related parties based on terms that would be available to unrelated third parties. Receivables are due within six 
years (2012: seven years) and are unsecured and interest rates vary from bank base rate plus 1.75% to 10%. Payables are due 
within one year (2012: one year) and are interest free. 
Company
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries which are related parties, which are eliminated on consolidation, are disclosed 
as follows:
 
Interest income from loans 
to related parties
Amounts due to related 
parties
Amounts due from related 
parties
Capital contributions to 
related parties
 
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
2012
£m
Non-trading transactions                
Subsidiary undertakings – – 184.3 146.6 78.1 62.2 –  0.3
The Company has provided performance guarantees in respect of certain operational contracts entered into between joint ventures and 
a Group undertaking.
The Company has entered into a financial guarantee in respect of its joint venture Linden/Downland Graylingwell LLP. The maximum 
amount payable under the terms of this guarantee is £7.5 million.
35 Post balance sheet events
No matters have arisen since the year end that require disclosure in the financial statements. 110 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
 
2009
£m
2010
£m
2011
£m
2012
£m
2013
£m
Revenue 1,461.2 1,221.9 1,284.2 1,504.1 1,467.3
Profit before exceptional items 24.5 26.1 35.1 63.1 74.1
Exceptional items (51.4) (6.9) 6.6 – –
Profit/(loss) before taxation (26.9) 19.2 41.7 63.1 74.1
Tax 9.1 (8.4) (8.9) (13.8) (15.9)
Profit/(loss) after taxation attributable to shareholders (17.8) 10.8 32.8 49.3 58.2
Fixed assets, investments in joint ventures and available for sale 
financial assets 18.4 25.4 32.5 41.9 42.5
Intangible assets and goodwill 123.2 121.9 124.0 126.8 128.4
Net current assets 269.2 346.4 277.4 354.2 379.0
Long-term receivables 52.3 49.4 53.5 43.6 48.4
Long-term payables and provisions (168.5) (119.9) (32.3) (88.1) (96.9)
Net assets 294.6 423.2 455.1 478.4 501.4
Share capital 18.9 40.9 40.9 40.9 40.9
Reserves 275.7 382.3 414.2 437.5 460.5
Shareholders’ funds 294.6 423.2 455.1 478.4 501.4
Dividends per share (pence) 10.9 12.5 16.0 30.0 37.0
Basic earnings per share (pence) (34.4) 14.7 40.3 60.9 71.7
Diluted earnings per share (pence) (34.4) 14.7 39.4 59.7 69.8
All dividend and earnings per share figures above, for the year 2009, have been restated for the effect of the share consolidation and 
rights issue. 
Five year record 111 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Financials
Financial calendar 2013
Half year results announced 20 February
Interim dividend paid 10 April
Full year results announced 17 September
Ex dividend date 16 October
Final dividend record date 18 October
Annual General Meeting 19 November
Final dividend payment 29 November
Shareholder enquiries
The Company’s registrars are Equiniti Limited. They will be pleased to deal with any questions regarding your shareholding or 
dividend payments. Please notify them if you change your address or other personal information. Call the shareholder contact centre on 
0871 384 2030 (calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute plus network extras. Lines open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday. 
Overseas shareholders should call +44 121 415 7047) or, alternatively, write to them at:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex
BN99 6DA
You can find a number of shareholder services online via their website at www.shareview.co.uk/myportfolio, including the portfolio 
service which gives you access to more information on your investments such as balance movements, indicative share prices and 
information on recent dividends. You can also register your email address to receive shareholder information and Annual Report and 
Financial Statements electronically.
Share dealing service
A telephone and internet dealing service is available through Equiniti which provides a simple way of buying and selling Galliford Try 
shares. Commission is currently 1.5% with a minimum charge of £50 for telephone dealing and a minimum charge of £45 for internet 
dealing. For telephone sales call 0845 603 7037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to www.
shareview.co.uk/dealing. You will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate. Share dealing services 
are also widely provided by other organisations. The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the code GFRD and the 
SEDOL and ISIN references are B3Y2J50 and GB00B3Y2J508.
Group website
You can find out more about the Group on our website www.gallifordtry.co.uk which includes a section specifically prepared for 
investors. In this section you can check the Company’s share price, find the latest Company news, look at the financial reports and 
presentations as well as search frequently asked questions and answers on shareholding matters. There is also further advice for 
shareholders regarding unsolicited boiler room frauds. 
The Company’s up to date share price can also be obtained by calling the voice activated Cityline on 09058 171690 (calls charged at 
75 pence per minute from a landline).
Company contact
Contact with existing and prospective shareholders is welcomed by the Company. If you have any questions please contact the 
company secretary, either at the registered office or via email (kevin.corbett@gallifordtry.co.uk).
Analysis of shareholdings
at 30 June 2013
Size of shareholding % of holders
Number of 
holders % of shares 
Number of 
shares
1 – 10,000 91.70 3,822 5 4,282,775
10,001 – 50,000 4.08 170 4 3,697,527
50,001 – 500,000 3.26 136 31 25,132,101
500,001 – Highest 0.96 40 60 48,757,692
Registered Office
Galliford Try plc
Cowley Business Park
Cowley
Uxbridge UB8 2AL
Stockbrokers
Peel Hunt LLP
Jefferies Hoare Govett
Bankers
HSBC Bank plc
Barclays Bank plc
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Registration Financial Advisers Auditors
England and Wales 00836539 Rothschild PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Shareholder information 112 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Notes Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper.
Park is EMAS certified; its Environmental Management System 
is certified to ISO 14001 and it is a CarbonNeutral®company.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press 
chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of 
any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Hello Matt, a paper containing 
100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, 
FSC® certified forests. The pulp used in this product is 
bleached using an elemental chlorine free (ECF) process. Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Galliford Try plc
Cowley Business Park, 
Cowley, Uxbridge,
UB8 2AL
T 01895 855 001
F 01895 855 298
www.gallifordtry.co.uk
