 The GAME Group Plc
Unity House
Telford Road
Basingstoke, Hampshire
RG21 6YJ
Tel: +44 (0)1256 784000
Fax: +44 (0)1256 784093
www.gamegroup.plc.uk
Press forward
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
The GAME Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Shop with the GAME Group
www.game.co.uk
www.gamestation.co.uk
www.gameplay.co.uk
www.game.fr
www.game.es
www.game.se
www.game.dk
www.game.com.au
www.gamecz.cz Highlights ifc
Our specialist proposition 02
At a glance 14
Independent market report 16
Chairman’s statement 20
Chief Executive’s review 26
Business review 32
Financial review 43
Corporate responsibility 46
Our performance ifc-46
Directors and Governance 50-64
International management 50
Board of Directors 52
Corporate governance statement 54
Report of the Directors 59
Directors’ Remuneration Report  64
Our results 72-121
Independent Auditor’s Report 72
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 74
Consolidated Balance Sheet 75
Statement of changes in equity 76
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 77
Statement of Accounting Policies 78
Notes to the Financial Statements 88
Company Balance Sheet 114
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet 115
Five-Year Summary 120
Shareholder Information 121
Contents
Group turnover
£1,772.4m - 10.0%
2009: £1,968.6m
 
Gross profit margin
27.8% +170 bps 
2009: 26.1%
 
Profit before tax 
£84.2m - 28.3%
2009: £117.4m
 
Annual dividend per share 
5.78p + 5.0%
2009: 5.50p
 
Trading store numbers
1,380 + 2.8%
2009: 1,342
 
Trading square footage (’000s)
1,438.4 sq ft + 3.3%
2009: 1,392.8 sq ft
 
 
Further information go to:
Page 32. Business review.
Page 43. Financial review.
Page 74. Our results.
Performance overview
Disclaimer
The purpose of this Report is to provide information to the members of the Company. The Company, its Directors and 
employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility other than to the members as a body and 
any responsibility to any other person is expressly disclaimed. This Report contains certain forward-looking statements 
with respect to the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group. By their nature, these statements relate to 
events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and there are a number of factors 
that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these 
forward-looking statements. No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements are reasonable, as 
they can be affected by a wide range of variables. The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and 
information available at the date of preparation of this Report, and the Company accepts no obligation to update 
these forward-looking statements. Nothing in the Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Designed and produced by Merchant. www.merchant.co.uk  Printed by Fulmar. 01
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
We are focused on delivering the future of the pc 
and video games market across three channels 
– Stores, Online and Digital.
To do so we are:
1.  Evolving our customer offer to meet the 
demands of the multi-channel marketplace. 
2.  Supporting that offer with a developed 
and enhanced infrastructure. 
These attributes are implemented across brands 
and across markets. Find out how >>
Press forward
Product and 
range
  02
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Our specialist proposition 
Value
In a tough economy, customers 
want great value.
All of our outlets help customers to save money. 
We trade-in used games for a discount off new 
products, or cash. And we sell the preowned 
games for less. Same game, lower price. 
We also work closely with suppliers to offer 
customers great deals and promotions on new 
games and consoles.
+6% preowned growth 
Our preowned sales grew by 6 per cent in 2009, 
including at Christmas, as more and more 
customers discover the benefits it offers.
Stores
The video games market is very competitive. 
We will strengthen our pricing offers and 
preowned and trade-in deals in 2010 to amplify 
our value messages. Gamestation will focus on 
lower prices, while GAME stores will offer a wide 
variety of bundle deals and offers.
Online
Our websites are competitive in the online 
market. We will continue to increase the 
number and variety of exclusive promotions 
and limited edition products which we offer 
online, and drive our value messages. 
Digital
Price competition in digital markets is still 
evolving. GAME is at the forefront of its 
development, guiding customers to the extra 
digital content and entertainment which can be 
added to their boxed games. Customers who 
are members of our Reward Card loyalty 
scheme receive points on everything they buy 
from GAME. We’re working with all format 
holders and publishers to find new ways to give 
customers better value on digital products.
21% of Group sales
Preowned revenues increased to 
£374.5 million (2009: £353.4 million)  Value
03
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Service Product  
& range
Loyalty Location Technology Business 
relationships
Distribution 04
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Our specialist proposition 
Product and range 05
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
85%
of consoles are bought with a software bundle
Product and 
range
Product  
& range
GAME. Press forward
Service Value Loyalty Location Technology Business 
relationships
Distribution
The range of pc and video 
games is increasing all the time.
Customers expect the specialist retailers to offer 
them all. All of our outlets stock an unrivalled 
range of consoles, games and accessories, 
backed up by expert advice. The range will 
increase again as Sony and Microsoft launch 
new motion sensing peripherals for their 
consoles.
In 2009 our range of exclusive products was 
wider than ever, including:
2 exclusive console models
46 software titles with  
unique extra items, of which
23 had exclusive 
downloadable digital content
Stores
Every major new release is accompanied by 
exclusive products for our customers, and limited 
edition versions of a game. Online kiosks, when 
connected to our eCommerce site, will allow us 
to increase the range of back catalogue 
products. Our larger stores now carry a range of 
Apple and mobile phone products, and we are 
introducing more experiential areas which will 
help us to demonstrate and market the motion 
sensing technology when it is launched. 
Online
Our websites give our customers so much more 
than just products. Exclusive product news, 
trailers, and advice about forthcoming games 
give our customers something extra. Our online 
range was expanded in 2009 to offer music, TVs, 
cameras and video game merchandise, and 
this will continue in 2010.
Digital
Our pc download service has been operational 
for three years, and features over 1,000 products. 
In 2010 it is being relaunched and extended, 
and a sister site will be introduced to offer 
mobile download games. 06
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Our specialist proposition 
Service
Exceptional customer service  
is central to our offer, regardless 
of channel.
Continued innovation in our market ensures 
customers want to be taken through the entire 
life-cycle of products, and need expert 
guidance about which games will give them 
the most enjoyment. Globally we have more 
than 10,000 employees offering consistently high 
levels of service in stores, online and through our 
call centres.
As more customers shop across multiple 
channels, they need a central contact point for 
advice and information. The GAME UK contact 
centre in Basingstoke has expanded with new 
technology to meet their growing needs.
Contacts per year to GAME UK call centre
(phone and email)
2008
2009
2010
720,000
800,000
1,074,000
Stores
We are investing in training through our Xcite 
and Smile campaigns, which combine service 
and sales techniques. Conversion measurement 
technology is being installed in all stores, 
following successful trials in 2009 which saw 
conversion rates increase by over 3 per cent. 
Customers receive specialist advice in our stores 
– our teams are passionate and dedicated 
games experts. 
Online
Our new global platform, developed by IBM 
and called “websphere”, is designed to bring 
our stores and eCommerce sites closer together, 
giving customers a more joined up offer. 
Customers can order online and collect in store, 
and use our gift guides and product reviews to 
research in-depth before buying. 
Digital
The digital market place is currently disparate 
and scattered. GAME is the only retail brand 
which offers a joined up service across multiple 
digital channels, and we’re expanding fast to 
cover new arenas and products. The GAME 
Downloader, a Digital Wallet, and multiple 
after-sales care services are being introduced 
to give customers a ‘one stop shop’ for support 
and advice. 
We are measuring customer 
conversion in 90 stores
All stores will have the technology in 2010 07
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Service
GAME. Press forward
Product  
& range
Value Loyalty Location Technology Business 
relationships
Distribution 08
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Our specialist proposition 
Loyalty
+13% 
In 2009 saw a 13 per cent increase in Reward Card customers buying preowned
Rewarding loyal customers, and 
giving them something extra, is 
crucial to our strategy. 
With over 14 million members, GAME’s Reward 
Card is one of the world’s largest communities 
of video gamers. Launched in 1997, it’s a key 
differential for our customers, and we’re 
extending it in every channel. Customers 
receive points worth 2.5 per cent discount on 
every purchase. 
55% of transactions 
are made with a Reward Card in GAME UK  09
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Stores
We are expanding the Reward Card scheme to 
make it more personal to members, and to give 
them more rewards and experiences. A similar 
scheme will be launched for Gamestation, 
tailored to meet the specific needs of their 
customers.
Online
Reward Card data helps us develop our offer, 
and give customers the same service online. 
We are making the experience more personal 
to each customer, giving them everything they 
need including the ability to manage their 
account, and get a first look at new game 
content and news. The launch of Gamesnation 
is expanding our online community – offering a 
dedicated social network for mass market 
gamers, supported by GAME.
Digital
In March 2010 we launched the GAME 
Moonbase in PlayStation Home. We’re the first 
video games retailer to have a branded virtual 
showroom in Sony’s online portal, and Reward 
Card holders will have access to an area which 
offers free to play games, as well as exclusive 
news and advice. We’re developing a similar 
high profile presence for loyal customers in 
other digital arenas. 
Loyalty
GAME. Press forward
Service Product  
& range
Value Location Technology Business 
relationships
Distribution
Loyalty 10
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Our specialist proposition 
Location  
and Technology
We’re committed to being 
everywhere our customers 
need us. On the high street, 
online, and in digital worlds.
Our brands are an established feature on high 
streets and in shopping centres across Europe 
and Australia. Customers recognise them and 
the specialist skills they represent. Online we 
are also a trusted source for products and 
information. As the digital world develops, 
we are developing new services offering the 
same unique brand proposition.
14 concept stores  
We are trialling a new concept store format in 
14 locations in the UK.
New stores opened
2008
2009
2010
344
181
38
Stores
With over 1,300 stores, our brands are located in 
the major retail locations in our territories. 
We continually review the portfolio, and have 
announced the closure of some overlapping 
stores in the UK. The Reward Card helps us to 
transfer customers to their next closest store.
Online
In the UK we have three functional websites, 
and overseas we have one in every territory. 
Search engine optimisation and targeted 
marketing campaigns give our brands a high 
profile online. 
Digital
We have developed a GAME application for 
smart phones which helps customers find their 
nearest store. We are introducing a brand 
presence in all digital channels, including 
mobile phone game downloads and online 
portals such as PlayStation Home.
Location 11
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Location Technology
Business 
relationships
Distribution
Customers rightly expect us  
to be technical experts.
Technology drives growth in our industry, and 
also facilitates growth in our business. We have 
invested in state-of-the-art IT to give our store 
teams fast access to Reward Card and product 
data, helping them serve customers quicker. 
In the next two years we will invest in a new 
“websphere” platform to connect our stores 
and websites across all territories.
Vists to GAME Group’s UK websites
2008
2009
2010
53.3m*
89.5m
95.2m
* excludes gamestation.co.uk
Stores
Websphere will help us to extend the range in 
our stores. Interactive kiosks will allow customers 
to order back catalogue products and new 
ranges such as TVs and cameras from our 
websites, for delivery to home or collection 
from store.
Online
The benefits of having one infrastructure behind 
all of our websites are enormous. Customers will 
receive a better quality experience and more 
services, and we will have a single view of 
customer behaviour across all territories.
Digital
Seamless connectivity will help our store and 
online teams to champion digital content to 
customers. Ultimately, we are developing a 
service which connects all of our channels, 
including digital, to give customers one trusted 
source for all of their video games content. 
Technology
Service Product  
& range
Value Loyalty 12
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Our specialist proposition 
Business relationships  
and Distribution
Strong partnerships help us  
give customers unique 
products, deals, availability  
and service.
As Europe’s leading pc and video games 
retailer, we’ve built solid relationships with our 
supplier partners. For two decades we’ve 
worked together to launch new products and 
to generate fantastic promotions and deals 
for customers. More recently, we’ve introduced 
exclusive extra content and products for 
GAME and Gamestation customers – with 
great results.
+333 new titles 
We work closely with suppliers to provide 
digital games. 333 new titles were added to 
our pc download service in 2009/10. 
100,000 visitors 
Over the first four weeks, 100,000 customers 
visited the GAME Moonbase in Sony’s 
PlayStation home portal.
Stores
Our store teams champion all new releases, and 
we transform our stores for all major launches. 
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 was our biggest 
launch to date, and included exclusive limited 
edition hardware, software and accessories for 
our customers.
Online
We work with suppliers to provide our online 
customers with a wide range of exclusive 
products as well as content and news. 
The popularity of our preorder campaigns helps 
us to plan launches together long before a 
product is released.
Digital
We ask publishers to provide exclusive digital 
content for our customers when a new game is 
released. Whether extra cars, maps, weapons or 
characters, we work together to ensure that 
customers get something extra from GAME.
Business relationships 13
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Business 
relationships
Distribution
Location Technology
Being first to market is critical  
to our success.
In all of our markets, significant volumes of new 
products are sold in the first week. Immediate 
availability at launch, and timely replenishment, 
are crucial to our credibility. We are investing to 
ensure that our distribution in all channels is 
second to none.
Stores
We have purpose built distribution facilities in all 
territories to ensure that products reach stores 
and customers at the right time. Customers 
know that our stores are fully stocked and fully 
prepared for every new launch. 
Online
Our distribution centres dispatch products to 
customers’ homes as well as to stores. This 
ensures excellent stock availability for customers, 
and strong efficiencies for the Group.
Digital
We have offered customers a digital distribution 
service for pc games for the last three years. 
As it grows, it helps us develop new services for 
the emerging digital worlds.
Distribution
Service Product  
& range
Value Loyalty 14
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
At a glance
Our strong brands 
deliver a specialist 
proposition across 
multiple channels: 
Stores, Online and 
Digital.
    Group
Preowned Increase in sales (%)   6.0%
Product and range Trading (sq ft)   1,438,433
Service Number of employees   10,592
Loyalty Number of Reward Card members (m)   14.5
Location Number of stores   1,380
Technology Group websites   11
Business relationships Cost of goods sold (£m)   1,280
Distribution Number of main distribution centres   7
Product and 
range
Our specialist proposition across the regions 15
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our performance Our performance
Digital
Stores
Online
The digital market is still small and disparate, 
but GAME is taking a leading role in its 
evolution. Our pc download service has 
grown over the last three years, and helps us 
develop new services for digital customers.
•  GAME is the first video games retailer 
to have a branded presence in 
Playstation Home.
•  We are working with existing and new 
supplier partners to develop a GAME 
branded offer for customers across the 
digital arenas, giving customers a  
universal specialist proposition.
We have over 1,300 stores in ten countries. 
They are our principal channel to customers, 
generating over 90 per cent of our revenues. 
We are market leader in the UK, Spain and 
Czech Republic; joint leader in Scandinavia, 
and a leading specialist in France and 
Australia.
•  We continually review our portfolio to 
achieve the right footprint in each market. 
•  Our store formats are evolving to increase 
connectivity with our websites, to create 
more theatre, and to prepare for the 
launch of new technology before 
Christmas 2010.
Transactional websites support our stores  
in each territory. We offer customers the 
same value, extensive range of products and 
expert advice and service as in our stores.
•  The range of products was expanded 
in 2009 to include other home 
entertainment and electrical items.
•  Over the next two years we are introducing 
a new platform, called “websphere”, to 
provide seamless connectivity between all 
of our stores and websites.
•  We have launched a new social network
site Gamesnation to expand our reach to 
mass market gamers online.
PC download 
revenues
+200%
Store revenues
2010
£1,675.3m
–10.0%
2009: £1,861.8m
Online revenues
2010
£97.1m
–9.1%
2009: £106.8m 16
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Market report
The industry knew that 
the record breaking 
year of 2008 would be 
a tough act to follow. 
The first half of 2008 was a record six months for 
software sales with a number of triple-A titles 
hitting the shelves. The same period in 2009 did 
not have anything like the same quality of new 
releases. The remaining months in 2009 could 
not make up for this shortfall as many key titles 
were delayed until 2010 and the renewed 
competitive pricing strategies from the main 
consoles did not make the expected impact.
Games software, first signs of market decline
Games software, the most significant component of the total 
games market in terms of sales, and the most consistent and 
revealing measure of the day to day consumer desire for 
gaming, declined by 1 per cent by value on a worldwide 
basis to 120.3 billion. 
The primary global software drivers in unit terms were the 
Sony PS3 (+37 per cent), Xbox 360 (+10 per cent) and the Wii 
(+7.7 per cent). The handheld platforms were down overall 
– DS software at -4.7 per cent and PSP at a substantial 
-18.7 per cent. 
In Euro value terms, Nintendo software, including legacy 
platforms, accounted for 42 per cent of all boxed software 
value sales. 60 per cent of this value came from the Wii with 
15.4 billion derived from such titles as Wii Resort and New 
Super Mario Bros. The DS format, in its sixth year, recorded 
13.6 billion of games on the back of legacy old favourite 
titles plus the arrival of Professor Layton driven by the new DSi 
adoption.
Nick Parker, Parker Consulting 
Ltd, Founder and Director
Nick has 18 years in the video 
games industry. For the last eight 
years, Nick has been running 
Parker Consulting, a strategic 
business consultancy which 
specialises in offering sound 
business practices and strategic 
advice through research, 
planning and forecasting 
techniques, as well as assistance 
with online strategies. 
Nick is also a partner and 
founder of GameVision, the 
industry standard in consumer 
intelligence in Europe. Our performance Our performance
GAME. Press forward
17
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
 
Hardware lifetime sales (Ms units)
22.03
The PS3 accounted for 19 per cent of the 
market, again in Euro value terms, up from 
15 per cent in 2008 with two exclusive titles, 
Killzone 2 and Uncharted 2 contributing 
considerably. The market share of Xbox 360 
grew from 17 per cent to 18 per cent of market 
value with robust sales from Modern Warfare 2, 
Halo ODST and Forza 3.
Across the board, high value peripheral-based 
music games such as Guitar Hero and Rock 
Band declined steeply from 2008 sales with 
revenue down by over 40 per cent for the genre. 
A primary reason for this decline was the fall in 
new peripheral sales to consumers already 
happy with existing guitars and band kits.
Hardware, TV-based consoles landscape 
more equitable
For hardware, the September 2008 Xbox 360 
price drop led to favourable comparables for 
that platform in the first nine months of 2009 but 
after the anniversary – in conjunction with 
tougher competition from a cheaper, slimmer 
version of the PS3 – Microsoft’s console 
recorded negative year-on-year sales in the 
final quarter as expected. The PS3 price 
reduction, delayed by months due to its 
expensive components and Sony’s aim to 
minimise losses, led to a positive year in unit 
terms in 2009, up 27 per cent.
After three years of the current console 
generation, with all TV console platforms vying 
for market share, the PS3 found itself out on a 
pricing limb in late 2008 and during the first half 
of 2009. It was left exposed on price by the 
macroeconomic fallout as Sony maintained its 
ambition to deliver profitability and by 
Microsoft’s double price drop in 2008.
When Sony finally dropped the price by €100 in 
August 2009 and introduced a slim version, the 
sales impact was immediate. The re-launch has  18
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Market report continued
As to a direct impact on retail packaged sales, 
there is concern over the future of dedicated 
handheld games consoles – how will smart 
phones and handheld consoles co-exist in the 
market in the future? What is sure is that smart 
phones are becomingly increasingly competent 
games devices and the app store opportunity is 
eating away at the mainstream edges of the 
handheld console opportunity. Smart phones, 
and indeed smart tablets, will only become 
more competitive over time, so expect stronger 
competition and a diminishing opportunity for 
the next generation of handheld games 
consoles when they eventually hit the market. 
Nick Parker 
Parker Consulting Ltd, Founder and Director
given the platform much needed momentum in 
the market moving in to 2010 and uncovered 
the pent-up demand for the console specifically 
from Europeans loyal to the PlayStation brand.
Nintendo really surprised everybody. Up to the 
last month of 2009, Wii hardware sell-through 
was down significantly on 2008 prompting 
suggestions that the platform was on the wane. 
However, December 2009 performance was 
record breaking in the USA and very strong in 
Europe and reflected the strong fit that the 
platform has with the Christmas gifting season.
A digital distribution evolution is coming
As games content and the games industry 
slowly makes the transition from a product and 
packaged based business to a more service 
oriented opportunity, new technology is being 
developed and introduced to deliver content 
efficiently and instantly to the end user. 
Additionally, it’s likely that ‘traditional’ packaged 
content will become less prevalent as publishers 
shift to a service-based business model. Our performance Our performance
GAME. Press forward
19
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Technology is now driving market development and consumers’ 
shopping habits across all sectors, whether it be through digital, 
online or mobile medias influencing a customer’s choice of where 
and how to purchase; or whether to recommend (or not!) a product 
or service to friends and family through the social media networks. 
This really counts in the gaming and entertainment sectors, where 
there is now a direct correlation between multichannel customers 
delivering greater value returns. So maximising the growth of 
multi-channel consumers is a priority. 
On the opposite side technology is also now bringing in new 
competition. With supermarkets selling on price promotion in-store 
and online, publishers are marketing new software direct on the 
back of blockbuster games and developers are selling hardware 
and developing reach through online gaming. So this fast moving 
environment is seeing new categories of customers attracted to 
gaming through new media, as well as existing GAME customers 
shopping across one or more channels.
The strength and value behind GAME Group’s brands is the  
sheer size and scale of their access to the market through a 
unique specialist focus, which has been a core driver of business 
growth. As the market develops, leveraging the potential of the 
brand’s specialist strengths will continue to be a dominant factor  
in successfully extending reach to the multi-channel customer.
How best to do this depends on the effectiveness of the brand in 
connecting, motivating and exciting the customer through each 
segment of the different channels – whether it be through the mobile 
downloads, web-enabled devices, supplier partners, retail outlets 
and online integration. The rise of social media networks as an 
integrated part of brand building in multi-channel communities is 
phenomenal, and the most successful multi channel brands are 
engaging fully in them. With the multi-channel customer delivering 
the business value growth going forward, the performance of the 
brand is integral in connecting with customers at all levels and 
through all channels. 
Keeping and retaining customers needs to be at the heart of GAME’s 
relationship with its customers, as a powerful and therefore valuable 
brand is one that connects, engages and interacts with customers 
across any channel or platform to secure that relationship.
Jane Piper
Brand Strategy Consultancy
Jane Piper FRSA, 
Brand Strategy 
Consultancy
Jane is an independent 
specialist in brand value 
and a member of the 
UK team developing an 
international standard 
(ISO) on brand 
valuation.
She has published an 
independent overview 
‘Unravelling Brand 
Value’ for Superbrands, 
and advises companies 
on leveraging the value 
of their brands to drive 
business performance 
and future earnings.
From a market-leading retail brand to a market-driver in  
eCommerce and digital community… the importance of 
GAME’s brand in the multi-channel environment. 20
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Chairman’s statement
We outperformed the market and our 
performance can be attributed to our position 
as the market leading specialist, our strength in 
preowned, our multi-channel customer offer 
and disciplined operational management.
We saw a decrease in the demand for consoles 
through the year. This was largely attributable to 
the Nintendo Wii which performed 
exceptionally well in the previous year. Strong 
comparables in the prior year, combined with 
declining hardware sales and a number of key 
releases moving into 2010, resulted in a decline 
in software sales.
The market responded well to the release of 
new hardware technology, the Nintendo DSi, 
and innovative sequels to established franchises 
such as Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, FIFA 10, 
and Wii Sports Resort. GAME took the leading 
market share in sales of these products.
The challenges in the pc and video games 
market were exacerbated by the difficult 
economic conditions with customers 
understandably focussed on getting the very 
Peter Lewis, Chairman
Overview
The Group has delivered  
the second best trading 
performance in its history  
with profit before taxation  
and non-recurring costs  
of £90.4 million 
(2009: £124.0 million). 
Our results were delivered 
against the backdrop of  
a very difficult trading 
environment, which saw  
the global pc and video 
games market decline  
by over 20 per cent. 
The Group has delivered  
the second best trading 
performance 
in its history Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
21
GAME. Press forward
best value for money. GAME responded rapidly 
to these challenges by amplifying our core 
strengths. 
These include a market leading preowned 
model which enables us to compete directly in 
a market where some competitors are using 
loss leading tactics. This, supported by the 
widest range of products, market leading 
promotions and offers, over 14 million Reward 
Card holders and a strong online proposition, 
enabled us to deliver recognisable value for 
money. We continue to believe that this is the 
right offering in a market where we will see 
continued technological advance and 
broadening customer appeal.
In addition, we maintained our focus on cost 
control and operational management. We 
have taken decisive action to improve 
operational efficiency, driving through 
significant cost synergies and exiting from 
underperforming store locations.
Results 
Group turnover for the 52 weeks ended 
31 January 2010 decreased by 10.0 per cent to 
£1,772.4 million (53 weeks ended 31 January 
2009: £1,968.6 million) with lfl sales down by 
15.0 per cent. In the UK and Ireland, total sales 
decreased by 16.6 per cent and lfl sales were 
down by 17.3 per cent. In our International 
operations, total sales increased by 4.8 per cent 
and lfl sales fell by 10.8 per cent. Our Online 
operations outperformed the rest of our business 
on a like for like basis although sales still 
decreased by 9.1 per cent.
The Group gross margin improved by 170 basis 
points principally due to an increase in higher 
margin preowned products within the overall 
sales mix, up from 18 per cent to 21 per cent. 
The Group continues to exercise strong cost 
control disciplines, with savings in the underlying 
cost base of approximately £5 million. 
Additionally, the Group has achieved a further 
£6 million of synergies from the Gamestation 
integration, bringing the total synergies for the 
year to £16 million.
Financial and Operational highlights
 
+170bps 
Group gross margin improved by 170bps
 
+£21.1m 
Increased preowned revenues to 
£374.5 million (2009: £353.4 million) 
representing over 21 per cent of sales; gross 
margin up by 260 bps to 41.7 per cent
 
£16m 
Completed Gamestation integration on 
schedule and delivered £16m of synergies
 
+5% 
Dividend increased by 5 per cent
Further information go to:
Page 43. Financial review.
Page 30. Key performance indicators.
Page 50. International management. 22
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Chairman’s statement continued
Group operating profit before non-recurring 
costs was £94.8 million (2009: £130.9 million). 
Profit before tax and non-recurring costs was 
£90.4 million (2009: £124.0 million) and basic 
earnings per share before non-recurring costs 
were 19.24p (2009: 26.09p).
Reflecting its confidence in the medium term 
prospects of the Group, the Board proposes a 
final dividend of 3.9p per share (2009: 3.71p),  
an increase of 5 per cent. This will result in a full 
year dividend of 5.78p per share (2009: 5.5p), 
an increase of 5 per cent. 
Our net cash position as at 31 January 2010 
decreased to £44.9 million (2009: £81.4 million). 
The decrease largely reflects a change in the  
timing of supplier payments, with significant 
payments being made just before the year end 
rather than just after, as they were in the prior 
year. On a like for like basis, our cash position is 
consistent with last year, and the Group 
continues to be cash generative with a strong 
balance sheet.
Business development
Our market
With a record installed base in the UK of over 
28 million third generation consoles, the market 
has, as expected, moved towards higher 
margin software and peripheral products.
In the UK, hardware sales declined by over 
26 per cent. Though still the best selling format, 
Nintendo Wii revenues were down by over 
49 per cent (using market data, not GAME), 
compared to exceptional sales in 2008. Following 
price cuts, sales of PS3 and Xbox 360 hardware 
were down by only 6 per cent and 19 per cent 
respectively. Sales of higher margin software were 
down by 17 per cent. This was again led by 
Nintendo formats, with software revenues for 
Sony PS3 and Xbox 360 formats showing an 
increase on those achieved in 2008 (source GfK 
ChartTrack). 
The manufacturers are focused on producing 
innovative new technology for the current third 
generation of consoles. This year we expect to 
see more sophisticated motion sensor 
controllers from both Microsoft, “Project Natal”, 
and Sony, “PlayStation Move”. These products 
will continue to broaden the appeal of video 
games and expand customer choice, with 
GAME being a key destination for showcasing 
their launches. They will require demonstration 
and explanation, both of which are the 
province of the specialist. We are seeing new 
entrants to our market, including mobile 
operators, and are extending our offer in store 
and online to provide our customers with even 
more choice. 
Our Channels and Locations
GAME delivers a specialist proposition that 
leads on value, product range and choice, 
service and loyalty across all channels.
Stores: With over 1,300 stores, we are located in 
all of the major retail locations in the countries 
in which we operate. Customers seek out GAME 
and Gamestation stores for our specialist teams. 
Suppliers value the marketing power of our 
brand presence, store displays and instore 
theatre. We are also trialling changes to the 
look and feel of our stores, including interactive 
kiosks, making sure we offer a powerful retail 
proposition as well as a place to play and 
interact.
Global Online: We have transactional local 
language websites in every location in which 
we operate and in the UK we have three: 
GAME.co.uk, Gamestation.co.uk and 
Gameplay.co.uk. Through our eCommerce 
offering we are developing our digital services, 
led by our well established digital download site 
which now features over 1,000 titles. We can 
also be reached through a GAME iPhone app, 
our new presence in PlayStation Home (the 
online portal for PlayStation 3 players) called 
GAME Moonbase, and a new social network 
site called Gamesnation. A new download site 
for mobile phone games is in development, and 
over the coming months we will announce our 
plans for other digital arenas.
UK and Ireland
We end the year with 677 stores across two 
brands in the UK and Ireland, and have 
maintained market leadership despite 
increased competition from supermarkets,  Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
23
GAME. Press forward
Where we sell
 
As at 31 January 2010 2009
 
Company owned and concessions 
UK and Ireland 
– GAME 423 443
– Gamestation 254 253
Total UK and Ireland 677 696
France 199 192
Iberia 283 258
Scandinavia 68 66
Czech Republic 29 22
Total Continental Europe 579 538
Australia 118 101
Total International 697 639
Total owned and concessions 1,374 1,335
 
Franchises
France – 1
Iberia 5 5
Australia 1 1
Total franchises 6 7
 
Total operational outlets 1,380 1,342
Further information go to:
Page 43. Financial review.
Page 30. Key performance indicators.
Page 50. International management.
online retailers and new entrants to 
the market. 
In December 2009 we closed 19 
GAME concessions in Borders stores, 
and since the year end we have 
also taken the decision to terminate 
our concession partnership with 
Debenhams and announced plans 
to close 18 other stores. Our strong 
customer base of Reward Card 
holders enables us to contact 
customers and transfer the majority 
of the revenues from these stores to 
the next nearest GAME or 
Gamestation. There will be no 
material costs from these closures. 
We continue actively to review our 
UK store base, with a view to 
minimising store overlap and 
maximising opportunities from lease 
expiries, breaks and rent reviews. Our 
average lease length of six years for 
our UK stores is an advantage. By 
Christmas 2013, we expect the UK 
store portfolio to have been reduced 
to about 550 stores. In addition, we 
are investing to create the leading 
pc and video games website and 
download service in the UK.
Operationally we have continued to 
derive benefits from the integration 
of GAME and Gamestation. We have 
also rationalised our store and head 
office cost base which, in 
conjunction with the store closures, 
will result in savings of a further 
£5 million in each of the next two 
years.
International
We have opened 64 stores outside 
the UK and closed 7, taking the total 
to 703 at year end. In every 
international location we have 
grown our market share.
We will continue to open stores in 
the markets which give us the  24
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Chairman’s statement continued
greatest return and can deliver further benefits 
of scale. We plan to open between 25 and 
40 stores this year, which is less than prior years. 
Iberia, where we are the market leader, remains 
our most successful international market, and 
continues to grow. Gains in market share and 
margin are encouraging, and we continue to 
open stores in select locations.
We are the market leader in the Czech 
Republic, and the business is showing good 
growth and potential for entry into surrounding 
markets. 
In Australia and France, where we are not market 
leader, we are reviewing the store base and 
brand proposition to ensure we can compete 
more effectively and deliver further growth. 
In Scandinavia, we maintain the appropriate 
portfolio and are rationalising the support 
function.
In all of our locations, we aim to support our 
store model with a leading eCommerce offer.
Treasury and Capital expenditure
Our net cash as at 31 January 2010, was 
£44.9 million compared with £81.4 million in the 
prior year. As noted above, the decrease 
reflects a change in the timing of supplier 
payments around the year end, and stock 
holding for January releases. 
In the 2010/11 financial year, average net debt 
is anticipated to be around £60 million 
(2009/10: £60 million). The Board is committed to 
an efficient capital structure and continues to 
review the dividend policy and a share 
buyback strategy along with continued organic 
or acquisitive growth of the business.
We anticipate that our total capital 
expenditure for the current year will be around 
£20 million to £25 million (2010: £30 million; 
2009: £53 million). Store openings and 
refurbishment requirements will cost between 
£5 million and £10 million. In addition, we will 
invest £10 million in Global Online on 
eCommerce and digital development and 
“Whilst we remain mindful of 
the challenging market in 
which we operate and that 
the current year will be a 
difficult one, the forthcoming 
new technology further 
enhances the profile of the 
specialist retailer. 
This, together with our value 
driven offer to maintain a 
market leading position, 
investment in new channels to 
market, and our focus on cost 
reductions leads the Board to 
be confident in the Group’s  
future prospects.” Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
25
GAME. Press forward
information technology, and approximately 
£5 million on distribution centre infrastructure.
The Board and Management 
The Board announced today that Lisa Morgan 
has stepped down from her role as CEO to 
pursue other opportunities. The Board and Lisa 
have agreed that this is the right time for a  
new CEO to lead the business through the next 
stage in its development. The Board thanks her 
for her exceptional contribution through her  
14 years with GAME. The Board has 
commenced a search for a new CEO and 
pending this appointment has asked Non 
Executive Director Chris Bell to take up the role 
of interim CEO. 
In light of the Board’s decision to commence 
a search for a new CEO, Terry Scicluna, UK 
Chief Operating Officer has informed the Board 
of his intention to step down. He will remain 
with the business through a handover period. 
Responsibility for the UK operating activities will 
be retained by Martyn Gibbs, former Managing 
Director of Gamestation, who was appointed 
GAME Group Managing Director of UK and Eire 
in March 2010.
In July 2009 Ben White (37) succeeded David 
Thomas as Group Finance Director, having 
been the Group’s Reporting and Investor 
Relations Director since 2005.
In January 2010, Jean-Paul Giraud stepped down 
from the Board after two terms in office, and 
Dennis Woodside returned to the USA with 
Google as VP Americas Operations. In the same 
month, we announced the appointment of 
Dana Dunne (47), COO of EasyJet plc, and David 
Mansfield (56), former Chief Executive of Gcap 
plc, to our Board as Non Executive directors.
The three new Directors bring a wealth of 
experience from different consumer industries 
and entertainment markets, all of which will 
further strengthen our Board.
We thank the Directors who have left us for 
their service and contributions to the Group’s 
direction and growth.
Employees
This has been a more challenging year for our 
employees throughout the Group, and I am 
grateful for their continued focus and 
professionalism. Our people are the heart of  
our consumer offer, and it is their dedication 
and support which helps us to give customers 
something extra in our stores and online.
Corporate Responsibility 
Corporate Responsibility (“CR”) is at the heart of 
our operations and strategy . We recognise that the 
way we operate within our industry and the 
communities that we share has a direct impact on 
our reputation and our brand. We are continuing 
to develop our CR strategy and stakeholder 
relationships with a view to ensuring that our 
behaviour and actions meet the highest standards 
expected by our customers and owners.
Current trading and outlook
In the first 11 weeks to 17 April 2010, the Group’s 
total sales were down by 13.3 per cent and lfl 
sales were down by 14.4 per cent. Excluding the 
impact of the launch of the DSi in the prior year, 
lfl sales were down by 9.1 per cent. Online was 
down by 3.5 per cent. This is in line with our 
expectations for the first part of the year.
In the UK and Ireland, total sales and lfl sales 
were down by 20.8 per cent and 20.1 per cent 
respectively. In our International business, 
total sales were up by 1.7 per cent and lfl sales 
on a constant currency basis were down 
3.9 per cent. 
Whilst we remain mindful of the challenging 
market in which we operate and that the current 
year will be a difficult one, the forthcoming new 
technology further enhances the profile of the 
specialist retailer. This, together with our value 
driven offer to maintain a market leading 
position, investment in new channels to market, 
and our focus on cost reductions leads the Board 
to be confident in the Group’s future prospects.
Peter Lewis
Chairman
21 April 2010 26
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Chief Executive’s review
Our business is in a strong 
position for the future
through exclusive products for key new releases 
and first-to-market promotions, which offer 
customers a real point of differentiation.
Our stores make the buying decision as easy  
as possible and, more importantly, our highly 
trained and knowledgeable teams provide 
great service to core gamers and novices alike.
We have grown our GAME Reward Card 
database by 17 per cent over the last year. 
We now have over 14 million GAME Reward 
Card members around the world receiving 
loyalty points on everything they buy from us. 
The Reward Card also enables us to tailor our 
customer service to individual customer 
demands.
Through every channel and in every location 
in which we operate, our attributes as a 
specialist are at the forefront of our interaction 
with the customer. 
Market Development 
Over the short to medium term, we believe that 
the pc and video games market will continue to 
be dominated by boxed product. This is 
reinforced by the manufacturers who are 
Christopher Bell, Interim Chief Executive
Further information go to:
Page 00. Financial highlights.
Page 00. Key performance indicators.
Page 00. International management.
Due to our established 
specialist proposition, our 
business is in a strong position 
for the future. Central to this is 
our brand strategy which 
places our customers at the 
heart of everything we do. 
Our relationship with them is centred on a 
strong value message, offering the widest 
range of products, market leading service 
and rewarding loyalty. 
In a market where value for money has 
become increasingly important, we are 
maintaining our competitive position through 
our trade-in and preowned programme and 
“deal of the week” and “price promotion” 
campaigns, which help us to compete with 
our competitors on price.
We ensure that our customers get the 
product that they want, when they want it, 
so that they can be the first to play, delivered  Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
27
GAME. Press forward
producing peripherals for the third generation 
console hardware, before looking towards the 
fourth generation. This is positive news for the 
specialist as we always perform well when new 
boxed product technology is released.
Over the longer term, we expect to see 
increasing diversity in the way people play  
and interact – more use of digital downloading 
to enhance disc based games, games 
downloaded in their entirety, greater access to 
casual (free-to-play) games, and more people 
playing mobile games. Customers will expect a 
seamless service across stores, eCommerce and 
digital platforms. Fundamentally, however, we still 
believe that customers will want to access the pc 
and video games world through a trusted, 
reliable and independent provider, and we have 
developed a GAME branded offer for them all. 
Our Strategy – Brand Proposition 
To strengthen our market leading position we 
believe that our specialist proposition must evolve, 
and we must also ensure that our brands take a 
leading role in the longer term structural changes 
in the market. Our brands offer customers:
Value: We continue to give our customers value 
for money whenever and wherever they shop 
with us. Through supplier supported deals we 
have unique bundle deals, “deal of the week” 
promotions and other price campaigns on mint 
product throughout the year. We are supporting 
this value message with an increase in the 
frequency of sales.
We continue to be the leading preowned retailer 
by maintaining compelling trade-in deals and 
offering the best prices on preowned product. 
By trading in product that they have already 
played, our customers can buy new games for 
less. We, in turn, sell those traded-in games on to 
other customers at attractive prices.
These value offers are supported by our Reward 
Card loyalty programme, which provides points 
equivalent to a 2.5 per cent in points on every 
purchase and 5 per cent if you pre-order with us.
Product and range: As a leading specialist, 
breadth of range is fundamental to our offer. We 
obtain the best allocation of new release 
product on the day of launch and through the 
product’s lifecycle. The products we sell are 
differentiated by the exclusives attached to 
them, both as tangible products (such as the 
Guitar Hero exclusive Coloured Guitar) or  
digital downloads (such as the exclusive race 
tracks in Forza Motorsport 3). The range in  
stores is being extended significantly through 
greater connectivity to our websites via 
interactive kiosks. 
We are increasing the range of own brand 
products, Gameware, to provide our customers 
with more choice at cheaper prices. These 
products are largely peripheral items, such as 
controllers.
Our teams are gearing up for the launch of 
Sony’s PlayStation Move and Microsoft’s “Project 
Natal” in the second half of 2010. These new 
peripherals will each be supported with a new 
software range and our brands are positioned to 
be the lead launch partners in Europe with the 
most comprehensive range and volume of 
products, combined with in store demonstrations 
and specialist advice.
Service: Our employees offer expert advice to 
consumers in an increasingly complex market. 
We continue to champion new technology 
launches and enhance our support service. 
To do this we are continuing to invest in our 
employee training programmes (Xcite and 
Smile). All employees receive thorough training 
in retail which, when combined with their 
genuine enthusiasm for pc and video games, 
gives us a competitive advantage. We are 
enhancing our eCommerce and digital services 
with such items as gift selectors, exclusive 
product reviews and demonstrations. Our 
eCommerce offering is more than just a virtual 
shop window; it acts to inform, compare and 
advise, creating a sense of community with our 
customers.
Loyalty: Our loyalty scheme, the GAME Reward 
Card, has given us great insight into our 
customers and provided real savings to its 
members. We are increasing membership 
benefits and personalisation to continue to build  28
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Chief Executive’s review continued
trust between ourselves and our customers. We 
are furthering our target audience through the 
launch of a loyalty card in Gamestation before 
the end of the year.
These changes to our commercial offer will give 
us the points of difference to compete against 
the price and offer-led propositions on the high 
street, in the supermarkets and online. 
Our Strategy – Infrastructure and Support
Location and technology
Consumers are buying and playing pc and 
video games through a variety of different 
channels. Boxed products are still 
overwhelmingly the most popular with 
customers, but playing games online and via 
digital downloads, although less than 1 per cent 
of sales today, will become an increasingly 
important part of it in the future.
GAME is constantly updating its customer offer 
to continue its lead in this evolving market. There 
is a GAME offering in every channel and our 
objective is to offer customers the same value 
and service wherever they choose to shop and 
interact with us.
Stores: remain central to our offer, delivering 
over 94 per cent of our revenues. We strongly 
believe that stores will continue to have a very 
significant role in pc and video games retailing. 
We actively manage our store portfolio in each 
of our territories, to create a store footprint that 
is appropriately matched to local market 
conditions. As non-boxed revenues increase, we 
are reducing the number of overlapping outlets 
in the UK, targeting 550 stores by Christmas 2013. 
The profile of our leases will allow us to do this. 
We are also limiting store openings in our existing 
international locations, but will continue to look 
at new markets if they show the right return 
characteristics.
Our stores are a place to experience games, 
and the format is evolving to cater for their 
changing needs and the incoming new 
technology. We are trialling interactive kiosks 
and improved eCommerce connectivity in 
selected stores to expand further the range with 
thousands more product lines and enhance the 
customer experience. 
To deal with the transactional volumes through 
our stores, we continually upgrade our IT 
infrastructure. As part of this we are installing 
both customer conversion technology and 
top-up card activation capabilities within our 
outlets.
eCommerce: is an important part of our 
customer offering, delivering over 5 per cent of 
our revenues. Through our websites we can offer 
the same services as in our stores, plus a 
substantially enhanced range, online-only offers 
and additional marketing and support, i.e. Click 
and Collect, to our customers and stores. We 
are launching two eCommerce initiatives to 
develop this opportunity further.
To give our customers a seamless brand 
experience we are introducing a new 
“Websphere” eCommerce platform over the 
next two years, linking all of our territories and 
stores to provide a universal online portal, and 
fully connected infrastructure. This will help 
customers by increasing the efficiency of 
product targeting and searching, and will 
support GAME’s marketing efforts by increasing 
awareness of both new releases and back 
catalogue software. It will also give us a single 
view of customer behaviour across our stores 
and websites, and help us improve our services 
further. GAME will invest £5 million this year and 
the next in this eCommerce platform.
Our websites around the world receive 112 million 
visits per annum. This, coupled with our Reward 
Card programme, already gives us one of the 
largest communities of video gamers in the 
world. Now we are building on this position by 
“Our stores are a place to 
experience games, and the 
format is evolving to cater for 
customers’ changing needs 
and the incoming new 
technology.” Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
29
GAME. Press forward
delivering joint benefits of scale and enhancing 
our customer proposition in every territory and 
channel in which we operate.
By seeking exclusives for all major titles we have 
a competitive point of difference, and where 
those exclusives are digital content we are 
building a brand image in the digital arena. 
Distribution
In all of our markets, the majority of new 
products are sold in the first weeks of launch, so 
immediate availability, and timely replenishment, 
is crucial to our credibility. GAME Group has 
purpose-built distribution facilities in all territories 
to ensure that products reach customers at the 
right time. Distribution centres support our stores, 
as well as our direct to home solutions. 
Multi-channel
The actions we are undertaking will give us a 
genuine multi-channel proposition that will 
make us the aggregator of choice for customers 
wherever they want to shop and however they 
want to interact with pc and video games.
Summary
The resilience of our performance last year was 
entirely attributable to our credentials as a 
specialist retailer, which gives us many 
competitive advantages. We have clearly 
identified plans to move these forward, and in so 
doing will address and outpace the current 
competitive pressures that we face and position 
ourselves for the longer term changes in our 
market place.
Whilst we recognise that the outlook for the 
wider global economy remains uncertain and 
that we face a difficult current year, we believe 
that our value-led offer positions us well and with 
our ongoing cost discipline, we are confident 
about our prospects going forward.
Chris Bell
Interim Chief Executive
creating a social networking site, Gamesnation, 
which is currently in beta testing with thousands 
of members to increase brand awareness further 
and to appeal to a wider target audience.
Digital: revenues are small, less than 1 per cent 
of turnover, but are a growing part of our 
business. The digital market is still very disparate, 
and activity is currently limited by technological 
capacity and customer appetite. However, as 
digital revenues form a larger part of the market 
over the next five years, we believe that both 
customers and manufacturers want a trusted 
brand to act as the independent aggregator. 
Consequently we continue to grow our digital 
pc download offer, which is now the largest in 
Europe with over 1,000 titles available. 
This gives us invaluable insight into customer 
demands as we extend our digital offer. We can 
be reached through a GAME iPhone app which 
was launched in 2009 and we have become the 
first video games retailer to have a presence in 
Sony PlayStation Home (the online portal for 
12 million PlayStation 3 players). Over the coming 
months we will announce our plans for other 
digital arenas. 
We continue to participate in online gameplay, 
selling time cards, add-ons and a wide range of 
peripherals to maximise the gameplay 
experience.
Our focus continues to be on our customers, 
ensuring that for every service they want to use 
we can provide functionality, either by building it 
ourselves or by involving a partner such as 
Metaboli. In every case we will also provide 
extensive advice and full after-sales care. 
Business relationships 
To provide customers with all the product and 
offers they want from a specialist it is vital that we 
maintain long-term and successful relationships 
with all of our partners. We are committed to 
working with our suppliers to continually improve 
our specialist proposition and we have recently 
appointed a Group Commercial Strategy 
Director to work with our partners at a global 
level, further strengthening our relationships,  30
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Key performance indicators (KPIs) – Customer relationship management
Highlights Description Measure
Our well-trained and 
knowledgeable employees 
are instrumental in guiding 
consumers to the products, 
deals and choices that best 
suit their needs. We recruit 
and train people with a 
passion for games and an 
aptitude for retail, who are 
dedicated to giving our 
customers the highest levels 
of service and advice.
•  Xcite and Smile training 
schemes extended to maintain 
high standards.
•  In store working hours reviewed 
to ensure staff cover matches 
peak demand.
Number of 
employees
10,592
+1.4%
2009: 10,450
2008: 7,959
2007: 5,148
Service
GAME and Gamestation 
carry the widest range of 
product on the high street. 
We use our expertise and 
customer insight to generate 
unique product offers and 
deals, and offer customers 
what they want at prices they 
can afford.
•  Higher margin software 
increased within our sales mix 
compared to the prior year.
•  Extended range on UK websites 
including TVs, cameras and 
video game merchandise.
•  Kiosks introduced in 14 concept 
stores which will expand range 
when fully connected to 
eCommerce infrastructure.
•  46 leading software releases 
were offered to GAME Group 
customers with exclusive extras.
Gross profit 
(£m)
£492.7m
-4.2%
2009: £514.5m
2008: £369.6m
2007: £217.7m
Product and 
range
Product  
& range
We offer customers great 
value in a number of ways. 
Our trade-in and preowned 
programmes allow consumers 
to maximise their purchases 
from their available cash 
resources. Preowned games 
offer a wider range and 
better value to today’s more 
price-conscious consumer, 
allowing them to buy 
products at prices lower than 
our competitors.
•  Strong growth all year, despite 
increased competition.
•  Over one third of Gamestation 
customers bought Modern 
Warfare 2 for £5.99 using our 
exclusive trade-in deal.
•  Preowned margin increased 
to 41.7 per cent from 
39.1 per cent.
•  Preowned represents 21 per 
cent of Group turnover and is 
expected to grow.
Preowned 
revenues (£m)
£374.5m
+6.0%
2009: £353.4m
2008: £257.3m
Value
The GAME Reward Card helps 
us to communicate with, and 
reward, over 14 million 
customers. As members, our 
customers earn points on 
every purchase, which can 
be used as discounts against 
future purchases. We are 
working on similar scheme for 
Gamestation customers, 
which is being developed to 
suit their needs.
•  Over 39 per cent of new 
Reward Card customers are 
female.
•  More personalised service 
being developed for 
customers online and instore.
•  Reward Card shows that 
multichannel customers spend 
40 per cent more than single 
channel customers.
Total Reward  
Card members
14.5m
+2.1m
2009: 12.4m
2008: 10.2m
2007: 8.6m
Loyalty Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
31
GAME. Press forward
Supplier 
relationships
Key performance indicators (KPIs) – Infrastructure and support
Highlights
Our distribution centres 
are dedicated to moving 
products quickly and 
efficiently to final destinations, 
whether that is large volumes 
to our stores or small 
individual packages direct 
to customers’ homes via 
online orders.
•  Additional mezzanine floor 
added to UK distribution 
centre to cater for increased 
eCommerce operations.
•  Record 36 million units of 
hardware, software and 
peripherals shipped in 2009 
in the UK.
To provide customers with our 
wide range of products and 
offers, it is vital that we 
maintain long-term and 
successful relationships with 
all the key hardware and 
software suppliers. We work 
closely with business partners 
to develop market leading 
offers and availability in our 
stores and online.
•  GAME Group worked with 
Activision Blizzard to launch Call 
of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 
around the world. It became 
the fastest selling game of all 
time, and GAME took a leading 
share in the UK and Spain.
•  GAME Group secured 23 
software titles which had 
exclusive digital content, such 
as extra race tracks or vehicles, 
for our customers.
In each of the countries in 
which we operate, we identify 
the very best store locations 
for our customers that we 
believe will give us the best 
returns on our investment. In 
the UK GAME has concession 
partnerships with Fenwick, 
Selfridges and Hamleys.
•  Store opening programme 
slowed and targeted at 
strategic new sites.
•  Ongoing property portfolio 
review in the UK to maximise 
effectiveness of dual brand 
strategy, with some GAME and 
Gamestation locations 
switching brand.
•  Successful transfer of over 
60 per cent of GAME customers 
from Borders concessions to 
nearest GAME store, following 
Borders store closures. 
We continue to invest in our 
multi-channel proposition to 
ensure we can deliver growth 
in the future and maintain our 
competitive position. In the 
period, GAME invested 
£5 million in distribution 
infrastructure and consumer 
facing website development.
•  Customer conversion 
technology installed in 90 trial 
stores and being rolled into all 
UK stores.
•  Unique visitors to UK websites 
up 6 per cent to 95 million.
•  Central call centre system 
installed to increase customer 
response time and to give 
store teams more time to serve 
customers face to face. 
Description Measure
Number of stores
1,380
+2.8%
2009: 1,342
2008: 1,161
2007: 817
Online operating 
profit (£m)
£4.9m
-19.7%
2009: £6.1m
2008: £2.9m
2007: £1.8m
Units sold of  
top ten titles in 
the UK (m)
3.5m
+35%
2009: 2.6m
2008: 1.7m
2007: 1.1m
Units of stock 
despached in 
the UK (m)
36m
+3%
2009: 35m
2008: 32m
2007: 25m
Location
Technology
Business 
relationships
Distribution 32
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Business review
GAME Group is the only 
European retail brand to 
be building a pc and 
video games offer across 
multiple channels.
Group turnover
£1,772.4m -10.0%
2009: £1,968.6m
 
Gross profit margin
27.8% +170 basis points
2009: 26.1%
 
Profit before tax 
£84.2m -28.2%
2009: £117.4m Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
33
GAME. Press forward
Our market
The market experienced exceptional sales in 
2008/09 following strong demand for console 
hardware, particularly the Nintendo formats. In 
2009/10 sales slowed, primarily as a result of the 
decrease in demand for Nintendo products. 
Despite this, the global market was still worth 
$41 billion, similar in scale to cinema and DVD.
The European market is the third largest market 
in the world. GAME is the market leader in 
Europe, with a multi channel offer in ten 
countries, including a business in Australia.
The pc and video games market has grown 
rapidly in recent years, driven by new 
technology launches and a broadening 
demographic appeal. 
In 1995, the start of the “first generation” of 
console technology, the global market was 
worth $198 million. It grew to $1.9 billion over the 
next ten years as the first and second 
generation consoles came to market, and was 
dominated by Sony with their PlayStation 1 and 
PlayStation 2 machines.
Third generation is very different. The market is 
more dynamic with Sony, Microsoft and 
The GAME Group plc is 
Europe’s leading specialist 
retailer of pc and video game 
products. The business started 
trading in 1991 from 11 stores 
in the UK, and has grown both 
organically and through 
acquisition to a 1,380 store 
chain as at 31 January 2010. 
We operate stores and 
eCommerce websites in 
ten countries.
Nintendo competing globally for market share 
through five consoles – Sony PlayStation 3 (PS3) 
and PlayStation Portable (PSP), Microsoft Xbox 
360, and Nintendo Wii and DS – and providing 
ever evolving entertainment experiences on 
these consoles. Each machine is at a different 
price point and therefore a different stage of its 
lifecycle. A wider range of successful consoles 
has resulted in more choice and video games 
now appeal to a much wider range of 
customers.
Nintendo in particular, with the Wii and DS, have 
attracted more females and families than ever 
before with their innovative technology and 
social, inclusive games.
Nintendo’s Wii, DS lite and DSi represent the 
majority of unit sales – with 61 per cent market 
share. Microsoft’s Xbox 360 holds 16 per cent 
share and the Sony PS3 and PSP have 
23 per cent (source IDG February 2010). 
There are over 28 million third generation 
consoles installed in the UK, more than double 
the number of the previous generation. Many 
homes have more than one console, and we 
see customers shopping across the different 
formats. 
The ratio of consoles to households is lower in 
Continental European markets, representing a 
real opportunity for growth.
The manufacturers are now focussed on 
providing more software and peripheral 
technology to the market, to extend the life of 
the third generation of products and create 
new ways to play. A broadening in customer 
choice benefits the specialist.
Technology
We believe that, although the existing disc-
based formats will dominate the market for the 
next five to seven years, the pc and video 
games market will become progressively more 
digital in the next decade. GAME Group is the 
only European retail brand to be building a pc 
and video games offer across multiple channels, 
to give customers one simple interface with a 
multitude of providers.  34
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Business Review continued
Customers are now able to enjoy interactive 
entertainment on smart phones, social network 
sites, online browsers and TV set top boxes. 
Entertainment brands such as Warner, Disney 
and the BBC have entered the market and are 
producing interactive content for their 
customers. GAME Group is developing 
relationships with all new format holders and 
service providers to generate suitable services 
and product offers for our customers.
However, it is the existing format holders and 
publishers who remain the principal drivers of 
innovation in the market, and in the short to 
medium term it is their disc based formats which 
will dominate customer sales.
Nintendo’s introduction of the Wii Fit balance 
board and the Wii Motion Plus controller for the 
Wii platform have introduced new levels of 
interactivity, and caught the imagination of a 
wider range of customers. Four of the top ten 
best selling video games in 2009 used this 
technology, collectively selling over 4 million 
units of software in the UK alone.
The launch of a new iteration of handheld 
Nintendo DS, the Nintendo DSi, in 2009 also 
demonstrated customers’ appetite for new 
technology, and we took strong market share in 
territories where we are market leader, 
particularly the UK.
All three manufacturers have announced that 
they will launch new technology in the next 12 
– 18 months, maintaining consumer demand 
and stretching the life cycle of their existing 
platforms. 
In addition, new releases for the PlayStation 3 
and Xbox 360 have continued to maximise their 
superior processing power, and games such as 
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2, Assassin’s Creed 
2 and FIFA 2010 have been successful with their 
gameplay, graphics and sound.
There are now many retail opportunities on 
major new releases. The majority of triple A 
launches arrive with limited edition “boxset” 
versions, additional digital content, memorabilia 
and branded peripherals and hardware. We 
work with all supplier partners to offer many of 
these additional items exclusively to our 
customers.
The majority of new titles are also released with 
facilities for online play, presenting the 
opportunity to sell time and points cards which 
are used to pay for time online as well as virtual 
content such as maps, new vehicles, weapons 
or characters. The online experience is also 
enhanced with additional controllers, 
headphones and other accessories. 
Geography
The number of consoles and handhelds in the 
top three markets, North America, Western 
Europe and Japan has grown to 382 million 
(source IDG, February 2010). The UK is the third 
largest market in the world, behind the USA and 
Japan, and the largest in Europe. In Europe 
France is the second largest market, followed by 
Spain, Germany, Italy and Scandinavia.
The UK continues to be our most mature market, 
with more than one unit of hardware to every 
household when looking at the installed base of 
3rd generation consoles. The other markets are 
continuing to grow, but are some way from 
reaching maturity.
We believe that our strong brand proposition in 
every territory, with three brands in the UK, is the 
right offer for customers who seek value, range, 
Third generation installed base  
(January 2010)
  Installed Base Households 
Country (m) (m)
UK  28.8 25
France 18.9 32
Iberia 11.9  18
Scandinavia 1.9 9
Australia 6.4 8
Czech republic 0.2 5
  Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
35
GAME. Press forward
service and rewards for their loyalty. Despite  
the commoditisation of many video game 
products, the pace of innovation is not slowing 
and customers and suppliers continue to  
seek out the specialist as new products come  
to market. 
Having expanded our store portfolio rapidly 
over the last three years, to over 1,300 outlets, 
our capital spend has reduced in the past year, 
as we focused on opening select stores in 
specific markets.
Away from the developed markets, there are a 
number of emerging markets which also have 
increasing consumer demand for pc and video 
games, and the right infrastructure for 
manufacturers, publishers and retailers to 
develop the market further.
Customers
As the market has evolved, so have our 
customers. We have monitored their purchasing 
and behavioural trends closely thanks to the 
intelligence gained from our Reward Card data.
The market has become less dominated by 
the traditional young male core gamer and 
over time, we have seen significantly more 
females and customers aged over 35 coming 
into our stores, buying games for themselves and 
their families.
This has led to further innovation and creativity 
amongst the console manufacturers and 
software developers. Products like Wii Fit, Brain 
Training, Singstar and Guitar Hero have been 
very popular, to the extent that Brain Training is 
officially the best selling game in uk history, 
ahead of Grand Theft Auto and Call of Duty. 
Wii Fit continues to dominate the top 10 chart 
after two years on sale.
With strong brands and unique propositions 
which appeal to “core” and “casual” gamers 
alike, GAME and Gamestation are well placed 
to serve the expanded range of consumers. 
The depth of our product range, detailed 
knowledge of products and close links to the 
games industry combine to serve the needs of 
everyone who buys video games – from the 
most expert to the most novice.
As our consumers and products continue to 
change, we use our Reward Card data to 
personalise our offer further and develop new 
services for the future. 
Products
The range of video games products available to 
consumers has never been larger. There are five 
third generation consoles trading successfully in 
all of our territories. Consumers are different in 
each market, and we tailor our offer 
accordingly. For example, as the PlayStation 3 
becomes more appealing to mass market 
consumers in the UK and Iberia, sales of 
UK installed base by format (January 2010)
 Sony Nintendo Sony Microsoft Nintendo Sony Total
Format PS2 DS PSP Xbox 360 Wii PS3 
Launch date Nov-00  Mar-05  Sep-05  Dec-05  Dec-06  Mar-07
Sales (units) 10.0m 10.7m 3.6m 4.9m 6.6m 3.0m 38.8m
Launch price £299 £99 £179 £279/£209 £179 £425
Current price  £94  £159/£149  £225/£129  £199/£159  £179  £249  
 
Further information go to:
Page 43. Financial review.
Page 30. Key performance indicators. 36
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Business review continued
PlayStation 2 are slowing rapidly. However, in 
Czech Republic where the market is less mature, 
sales of PS2 are still strong.
Customers look to the specialist retailer to 
advise them on this wide range of hardware, 
software, accessories and preowned products.
Hardware: Third generation games consoles run 
software and feature multi-media capabilities. 
These are manufactured and supplied by 
Microsoft (Xbox 360), Sony (PS2, PS3 and the 
handheld PSP), and Nintendo (Wii and 
handheld DS Lite and DSi). 
As each console goes through its life cycle, 
manufacturers lower prices and introduce new 
peripherals to maintain demand and increase 
functionality.
In the last 12 months each of the home consoles 
has received a manufacturer price cut. Sony 
and Microsoft cut the price of the PS3 and Xbox 
360 in Q3 2009, and Nintendo added the Wii 
Motion Plus accessory to their standard Wii 
bundle. Nintendo and Microsoft’s consoles are 
now both below the mass market price point of 
£200, whereas Sony has yet to make that move 
for PS3. We anticipate there may be further 
price reductions in 2010. 
Each manufacturer is aiming to be the 
“entertainment hub” in homes. In 2009 Microsoft 
announced a partnership with satellite 
broadcaster BSkyB, allowing the Xbox 360 to be 
used as a TV receiver, and Nintendo announced 
a partnership with the BBC iPlayer.
Hardware sales are critical to build the “installed 
base” of units, and drive follow on sales of 
software and peripherals. GAME tends to make 
gross margin levels of around 10 to 12 per cent 
on hardware. 
Software: Entertainment software for pc 
machines and video games consoles is 
produced by a range of global publishers, led by 
the console manufacturers, plus Electronic Arts, 
Activision Blizzard and Ubisoft. Each publisher 
works with a range of external and in-house 
development studios to build strong franchises 
and create new games. Although much of the 
growth in the third generation has been led by 
the introduction of new gameplay ideas, such as 
Brain Training and Wii Fit, it is the updated 
iterations of existing franchises which have broken 
software sales records. In 2009 Call of Duty: 
Modern Warfare 2 became the biggest 
entertainment launch in history, taking $550 million 
in the UK and USA in the first 24 hours of sale. 
Global revenues of the game have now 
exceeded $1 billion. 
Accessories: Accessories are becoming an 
increasing feature of interactive entertainment. 
Microphones, guitars, drum kits, steering wheels 
and skate boards are all sold as add-ons for 
each console. The arrival of PlayStation Move in 
2010 is expected to broaden the range even 
further, as will Microsoft’s “Project Natal” with its 
controller-free functionality. GAME generates 
margins of approximately 30 to 35 per cent on 
accessories.
“GAME generates gross 
margins in excess of  
40% on preowned sales.”
Top selling new games in 2009
1.  Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 
2.  FIFA 10 
3.  Wii Sports Resort
4.  Wii Fit 
5.  Wii Fit Plus 
6.  Assassins Creed II 
7.  Mario Kart Wii
8.  Mario & Sonic at the Winter Olympic Games
9.  Call of Duty: World At War
10. FIFA 09 Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
37
GAME. Press forward
Comparison of core attributes by retailer
Attribute GAME Independent Generalist Supermarket eCommerce Digital 
  specialist    provider
Value
    - Mint       
    - Preowned   Trial Trial
Range      
Service  
Loyalty    
Location     
Technology      
Business       
relationships
Own distribution      
 
Channel
Stores    
eCommerce     
Digital      
 
Further information go to:
Page 43. Financial review.
Page 30. Key performance indicators.
Preowned: All of our outlets offer customers the 
opportunity to trade in console software and 
hardware for cash, credit or a discount off 
another purchase. This allows customers to save 
money by using their old games or consoles as 
currency against a new purchase. The resulting 
stock of preowned products allows us to offer a 
range of great value games to our customers. 
All preowned games have the same 28 day 
guarantee as new games to ensure customers 
receive the same quality, at a lower price. 
Our preowned business has grown rapidly over 
the last two years as it appeals to the needs of 
today’s more price conscious consumers. 
A team of experts manage the preowned and 
trade-in prices centrally, which has helped us to 
optimise stock levels and improve profitability. 
GAME generates gross margins in excess of 
40 per cent on preowned sales.
Our business
We have a leading pc and video games 
proposition in ten countries.
We are the market leader in three territories: UK, 
Iberia and the Czech Republic. We are the joint 
leaders in Scandinavia, and the number two 
specialist brand in both France and Australia.
We have an online offer in all countries, 
although in the UK our offer is more advanced, 
with three websites Gamestation, Gameplay, 
and GAME. GAME also features a pc digital 
distribution service, which has been expanding 
for the last three years.
In each market our business is at a different 
stage of maturity, but the offer that we present 
to customers is consistent, although localised 
and adapted for each channel.
This combination of attributes across all  38
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Business review continued
distribution channels presents a unique 
proposition to customers. As more retailers enter 
our market, some are trying to replicate these 
services. While this presents a competitive threat, 
as yet no competitor has combined all of our 
attributes, or all of our channels, to replicate the 
full offer for customers.
Sales Cycle
While the state of the wider economy 
understandably has an impact on our 
customers’ spending, it is the launch of new 
technology which most determines the 
performance of our business.
The pc and video games market is driven by 
“core gamers” who are passionate about the 
products, and devote a large percentage of 
their disposable income to video game 
products. “Casual” gamers are more recent 
entrants to the market, who are switching more 
of their entertainment budget to games and 
interactive products.
The launch of a new console drives sales, first 
for the new product itself and then for the 
associated software and peripheral items. 
All five of the third generation formats have 
been in the market for over three years, and 
sales have slowed, particularly on Nintendo 
products. However, GAME is still benefiting 
through the launch of new software and 
peripheral items. All of the formats are selling 
well and their price points, a reflection of the 
demand for the product, are holding up. Sales 
of software have grown on Microsoft and 
Sony’s platforms, but have declined on 
Nintendo products in line with the decline in 
hardware revenues. 
As the key partner for manufacturers and 
publishers in Europe, GAME receives the leading 
allocation of new products. 
Our employees understand the importance of 
ensuring that customers take home everything 
they need to enjoy their games experience, 
including hardware, software, peripherals and a 
warranty. Customers rightly expect a high level 
of service when buying such a relatively high 
priced item, and we invest in thorough training 
Our specialist attributes
 
The customer is at the heart of all our activities and 
our specialist brands represent: 
Value: Offering preowned products, 
trade-in deals, exclusive promotions, 
regular deal of the week campaigns, 
console bundle offers and loyalty points. 
Product and range: Stocking the widest 
range of products, first to market with new 
games and consoles, accompanied by 
exclusive products and content. 
Service: Well trained, knowledgeable and 
passionate employees guiding customers, 
and championing new launches for 
suppliers. 
Loyalty: Giving our 14 million loyal 
customers something extra, and using 
their feedback to develop new services 
and offers. The Reward scheme gives 
customers a real reason to stay loyal to us 
and gives us invaluable market 
information. 
 
In every channel, our brands are supported by  
a dedicated infrastructure and support teams.  
Location: Maximising our customer reach 
with well positioned stores, websites and  
digital services. 
Technology: Using the latest technology 
to improve our customer offer and 
provide an efficient, joined up service.  
Business relationships: Maintaining close 
strategic partnerships with suppliers to 
deliver a great proposition to customers, 
preferential stock allocations, and high 
profile product launches.  
Distribution: Ensuring immediate 
availability at launch and efficient 
replenishment, to stores and to customers 
direct to their homes, in every territory. 
Product and 
range Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
39
GAME. Press forward
to ensure that our employees’ service skills are 
excellent. Earning and maintaining customers’ 
loyalty as they move through their own video 
games life cycle is crucial to our success, and 
we use many tools, including our Reward Card, 
to support this. 
High profile marketing campaigns and targeted 
communication to customers reiterate our 
ability to source the widest selection of games 
with attractive bundle deals and offers, and 
combined with the loyalty card discount, 
encourage them to return to GAME for their 
additional software and accessories. 
As more add-on and digital content is 
launched, our teams advise customers about 
how it can improve their gameplay and how to 
access it with exclusive download codes and 
points cards.
Once customers have finished playing a game, 
they can trade it in, and buy the next game for 
less. Customers can store the value of each 
trade-in on a unique trade-in card, giving them 
the best possible price for their game as soon as 
possible. Each store then checks the quality of 
the product, repairs it if necessary, and puts it 
back on sale within a couple of hours.
We actively encourage this “end to end” sales 
cycle with customers in all channels – 
recommend it, add to it, sell it, guarantee it, 
reward it, trade it – to drive trust in our brands.
Revenue and gross margin split
 Group sales Group gross  
  margin
 09/10 08/09 09/10 08/09
 % of total sales GM as % of sales
New hardware  
and software 65.7% 72.6% 22.1% 22.3%
Preowned 21.1% 18.0% 41.7% 39.1%
Other 13.2% 9.4% 34.0% 30.8%
Total 100.0% 100.0% 27.8% 26.1%
Store profiles
Across our portfolio our stores are approximately 
1,000 sq ft on average. The format of each store 
is generally similar, with clear merchandising 
across a wide range of formats, high profile offers 
and promotions, and easily accessible 
information and advice. We regularly review the 
layout and format to meet the rapidly changing 
demands of our customers, and to best 
showcase the products that we are selling. 
In 2009 we updated 14 stores in the UK to include 
more interactivity, including kiosks, demonstration 
areas, and more screens showing new releases 
and trailers. As always, we are aiming to 
generate an exceptional customer experience. 
UK and Ireland
We are the market leader in the UK. Our GAME 
brand is the leading video games retailer, with 
stores located in prime locations in shopping 
centres, high streets and out-of-town retail parks. 
We also have in store concessions in Hamleys, 
Selfridges, Bentalls and Fenwick. GAME stores 
are designed to appeal more to mass market 
and casual gamers.
Gamestation is a leading challenger brand in 
the UK, with stores located in popular secondary 
locations. The store format and marketing 
appeal more to the “core” gamers.
International
We will continue to open stores in the markets 
which give us the greatest return and can 
deliver further benefits of scale. We plan to 
“As the key partner for 
manufacturers and publishers 
in Europe, GAME receives the 
leading allocation of new 
products.” 40
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Business review continued
open between 25 and 40 stores this year, which 
is less than prior years. 
We have opened 64 stores outside the UK and 
closed 7, taking the total to 703 at year end. In 
every international location we have grown 
our market share.
France: GAME is the number two specialist in 
the French market. The French market is 
different to many in Europe, and consumers are 
very comfortable shopping in hypermarkets for 
all products. These brands have the leading 
share of the video games market. Our specialist 
proposition appeals to many loyal customers, 
and we are reviewing our store portfolio and 
brand proposition to drive further growth.
Iberia: We are the number one retailer of pc 
and video games product in Spain and 
Portugal. In the last ten years, operating under 
the GAME brand, we have accelerated into 
the market leading position having kept close 
to our customers and our supplier partners. We 
have benefited from the rapid growth of 
shopping centres and are represented in every 
new retail development in the country. 
Scandinavia: The Scandinavian market is very 
focussed on pc products and consequently we 
have tailored our offer in Sweden, Denmark 
and Norway to meet this demand. We are the 
equal number one retailer of pc and video 
games product in the market.
Australia: We are the number two specialist in 
Australia, and have expanded rapidly since we 
entered the market in 2006. We are reviewing 
our store portfolio and brand proposition to 
ensure we have the right fit to drive further 
growth. 
Czech Republic: GAME is the market leader, 
having entered Czech Republic in 2008 with 
the acquisition of JRC. All stores have been 
rebranded to GAME and we have introduced 
a preowned and trade in offer for the first time. 
The Czech market, currently very pc oriented, 
shows good opportunity for growth and it will 
also give us a platform from which to expand 
into other Central European markets.
Operating Infrastructure
In each of our markets, our stores and 
eCommerce operations are supported by a 
local distribution centre and head office. This 
allows us to focus our entire operations on the 
needs of our customers and our supplier 
partners. 
Business relationships – We have strong 
relationships and key strategic partnerships 
with supplier teams in each territory. In many 
instances these have been established over 
two decades. We work together and share 
customer feedback, which in turn helps us to 
improve our offer, generate outstanding deals 
and promotions, and to implement exciting 
product launches for our customers. 
Overview of stores by territory
 UK and France Iberia Australia Scandinavia Czech Group
 Ireland     Republic Total
Store numbers 677 199 288 119 68 29 1,380
Total store Sq. Ft (‘000) 798 185 236  133 69 17 1,438
Average store Sq. Ft. 1,178 931 820 1,114 1,023 603 1,042
Store employees  7,109  850  1,149  436  163  68  9,775
 
Further information go to:
Page 43. Financial review. Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
41
GAME. Press forward
Distribution – In all of our markets, most titles sell 
the largest number of units in the first week. 
Immediate availability at launch, and timely 
replenishment, is therefore crucial to our 
credibility. We have ‘state-of-the-art’ solutions in 
our UK and Spanish operations which together 
support almost 1,000 stores, plus a full direct to 
home solution. We have smaller, less automated 
facilities within our less mature territories which 
still deliver the same level of service to our 
suppliers, stores and customers. We are able to 
scale up our facilities by introducing more 
automation as the need arises.
Online retailing, online gaming  
and digital distribution
Ecommerce is a key element of our operating 
model. It gives customers access to our brands 
24 hours a day, 7 days a week, allowing them 
to shop for the best deals, research new 
products, ask for advice and share reviews. 
Our operation is now truly multi channel, with 
our websites supporting our stores, and our 
stores driving traffic to our websites. We have 
extended our brand campaigns online to 
include social networking sites and detailed 
search optimisation marketing.
Our investment over the last three years has 
created a market leading website in the UK, 
where we are the third largest online retailer 
of video games. Our brand proposition is the 
same as our stores, although prices and 
deals vary in order to compete with other 
online retailers. 
The UK is our most mature online market, and 
we are sharing our experience across the 
Group as the other markets mature. The 
introduction of a ‘websphere’ platform over the 
next two years will give us a uniform platform 
and infrastructure which, when tailored to 
each market, will provide a market leading 
proposition throughout Europe.
Online gaming: All of the consoles have the 
capacity for customers to play games against 
each other online, and this form of gameplay is 
becoming increasingly popular. 
To play online customers need to buy a 
subscription or time cards to access the 
console owners’ online service (such as Xbox 
Live or PlayStation Home) and to acquire 
additional content or games.  
All of our outlets sell these cards and work with 
suppliers to market their online services to our 
customers. Xbox Live cards and associated 
items such as wireless adapters have become 
some of our biggest selling accessories. 
Digital distribution: The GAME website has 
offered a digital distribution service for the last 
three years. Although still a small part of our 
revenues (less than 1 per cent) it has allowed us 
to offer a full service to our customers across all 
channels, and monitor consumer demands. 
We are the only entertainment retailer in 
Europe to offer a specialist video games offer 
across all three distribution channels.
The digital arena is very disparate, but as it 
grows we will ensure GAME offers a consumer 
offer in all areas. To date we have opened a 
GAME presence in PlayStation Home, which 
has received over 90,000 visitors in four weeks, 
and are developing a similar presence for 
other arenas. 
We are launching a download site for mobile 
phone games, and are developing other 
services which will allow us to offer customers 
all elements of the GAME proposition in the 
digital arena.
“The GAME website has 
offered a digital distribution 
service for the last three years. 
Although still a small part of 
our revenues (less than 
1 per cent) it has allowed us 
to offer a full service to our 
customers across all 
channels.” 42
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Business review continued
We are very aware of the challenging 
economic conditions facing all of our markets, 
and will continue to strengthen our proposition 
to give customers recognisable value for 
money, with particular focus on trade-in and 
preowned. We recognise that retail conditions 
will remain tough, and that the video games 
market is transitioning from higher priced 
hardware to software and accessories, which 
will result in revenue pressures. Our market and 
our customers’ needs are changing and we are 
responding.
Total capital expenditure in the current year is 
expected to be in the region of £20 million to 
£25 million including information technology 
and head office expenditure for the Group. 
We will continue to focus on territories and 
activities that give us the best return for our 
investment.
We maintain tight controls on operating costs 
throughout the business. This includes a review 
of staff hours in our stores, a review of our 
support staff and infrastructure which has led to 
the closure of our distribution and refurbishment 
facilities in York, and a rationalisation of our store 
portfolio in the UK. 
For the year ahead we see strong ongoing 
demand for third generation consoles with 
price cuts predicted to stimulate the market 
further, coupled with the launch of motion 
sensor technologies and a strong line up of new 
software and accessories.
In the longer term, we see ongoing 
commitment from all of the key manufacturers 
to bring new technology to our market.
We believe that we will continue to be a key 
partner for our suppliers and our customers, and 
will play a central role in both the launch of 
next generation technology and bringing new 
channels to market.
Planning for future growth
Our specialist proposition has 
been the cornerstone of our 
offer for nearly two decades, 
allowing us to build strong 
brand recognition across 
Europe. 
We aim to maintain and build 
our market leading position 
by evolving our proposition 
to serve customers across 
multiple channels in the next 
decade. 
We are best placed to serve 
the needs of our customers, 
using our established store 
network, our popular websites, 
and our unique customer 
data from the Reward Card.  Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
43
GAME. Press forward
Financial review
Retailer of choice,  
instore and online.
Ben White, Group Finance Director 
Profit and loss account
Revenue
Total sales decreased by 10.0 per cent from 
£1,969 million to £1,772 million and lfl sales 
decreased by 15.0 per cent.
Average sales per annum per sq. ft. decreased 
by £181 to £1,232.
Gross margin
Overall gross margin was 27.8 per cent compared 
to a prior year margin of 26.1 per cent. 
This increase in gross margin was in line with our 
expectations. It was principally caused by the 
increased participation of new software and 
preowned product in our sales mix and the buying 
synergies we have been able to deliver through 
the acquisition of GAME and Gamestation.
Operating expenses
Total operating costs have increased by 
3.6 per cent from £383.6 million to £397.9 million, 
excluding non-recurring costs, and as a percentage 
of sales were 22.4 per cent compared to 
19.5 per cent last year. On a cash basis our selling 
and distribution related expenditure has increased 
year on year but this is in line with the increase in 
Total sales
£1,772.4m -10.0%
2009: £1,968.6m
 
Gross profit margin
27.8% +1.70 basis points
2009: 26.1%
 
Profit before tax 
£84.2m -28.2%
2009: £117.4m 44
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Financial review continued
outlets traded across our business. This was offset by 
a decrease in administration costs, a testament to 
our ability to control our overheads across the 
operating chain.
Profit before tax
We achieved a profit before tax of £84.2 million 
compared to a profit before tax of £117.4 million 
for last year. 
Taxation
The effective rate of Corporation Tax was 
28.2 per cent (2009: 28.7 per cent) and we have 
continued to provide for deferred taxation in 
line with IAS 12. 
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 17.45p compared 
to 24.18p last year, a decrease of 27.8 per cent. 
Diluted earnings per share were 17.42p compared 
to 24.10p last year, a decrease of 27.7 per cent. 
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 
3.90p per share, which will give a total dividend 
for the period of 5.78p compared to 5.50p last 
year, an increase of 5 per cent. The dividend will 
be paid on 16 July 2010, to shareholders on the 
register at the 25 June 2010.
Balance Sheet
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in the period, excluding 
acquisitions, amounted to £30 million. Almost 
half of this expenditure was invested in new and 
refurbished stores internationally and in the UK. 
Additionally we invested in the IT infrastructure, 
distribution facilities and web operations across 
the Group. In summary:
Stock
Stock at the end of the period represented 
£128,000 per owned store compared to 
£136,000 for the same period last year. The 
decrease in the average stock holding per store 
reflects the fact that we were holding lower 
levels of hardware product to meet ongoing 
consumer demand.
Cash flow
Net cash generated by operations was 
£13.1 million compared to £118 million last year. 
This reflects the reduction in year on year 
trading performance together with the 
movements in working capital. In particular, our 
trade creditor payments schedule saw a lesser 
proportion of December deliveries paid after 
the year end, while our VAT creditor reduced in 
line with lower rates and lower final quarter 
sales. These effects reversed in February 2010 
with lower payments being required. 
Reporting
During the year we adopted IFRIC 13 on 
Customer Loyalty Programmes. This required the 
business to recognise an element of revenue on 
accounting for Loyalty Card points, where 
previously we have only recognised the cost of 
those points. This has resulted in a charge to the 
profit and loss for 2008/09 of £1.8 million.
When entering into leases in France, businesses 
are required to pay key money (called “Droit au 
bail” in France). The key money is not 
depreciated but the carrying value is assessed 
annually on the basis of formal property market 
valuations. We have assessed the carrying value, 
based on a representative, sample of properties, 
as at 31 January 2010 and concluded that 
there is no material diminution in value. 
The carrying value of the key money in our 
books is approximately £31 million (2009: 
£31 million). We will continue to review the 
position in 2010/11.
Ben White
Group Finance Director
Capital expenditure (£m) 
 31Jan 2010 31Jan 2009
Stores 10 29
Refits 3 7
Web 5 8
Infrastructure 12 9
Total  30 53 Our performance
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
45
GAME. Press forward
Risks and uncertainties
Potential impact Risk description Mitigation activities
Technology
As with music and DVD 
entertainment, the opportunity 
exists for pc and video games to 
be distributed digitally via the 
internet. PC games which tend to 
have smaller file sizes are 
available from a number of 
websites whereas video games 
digital content is offered in a 
limited way via official format 
channels, e.g. Microsoft’s Xbox 
Live service.
As broadband technology 
improves there is a risk that more 
gamers start buying their games 
online. This will reduce the number 
of people buying boxed product 
from retailers such as ourselves. 
We have recognised the 
increasing prominence of 
eCommerce and digital 
downloading and we have 
invested in state-of-the-art 
eCommerce websites and are 
developing a branded presence 
in many digital areas, including 
mobile phones and a presence 
in PlayStation Home. 
Competition
The pc and video games market 
has become an increasingly 
attractive proposition for retailers. 
We have seen new entrants to 
the market place, including 
specialists, existing generalists 
and supermarkets and online 
players.
We believe that the specialist has 
all of the attributes to succeed in 
the pc and video games market 
place. 
We measure our stores’ 
performance against specific KPIs 
to ensure our proposition is 
always appealing and relevant 
to consumers.
Seasonality
The Group’s business is seasonal 
with the key trading period being 
the Christmas season. 
Turnover, operating profit and cash 
flow may be adversely impacted 
by variations in demand during this 
period.
The Group works closely with 
suppliers to secure stock and 
implement high profile preorder 
campaigns in advance of all 
major releases. The Group also 
undertakes extensive marketing 
campaigns to drive consumer 
awareness, and flexes headcount 
in store to maximise the sales 
potential.
Reputation
As a specialist retailer our 
customers demand that we stock 
the broadest range of product. 
This means that we deal with a 
variety of video games, for example 
age restricted products. Mis-selling 
such titles is illegal. 
To mitigate any issues that may 
arise through the mis-selling of 
these games we employ the very 
highest levels of training 
throughout our organisation.
Global economic conditions
There is a high degree of uncertainty in the global economy, with issues around government and 
bank liquidity, business failures, and rising unemployment rates. We recognise that all of these 
factors may have an impact on our customers’ willingness or ability to spend. 
We will continue to put forward compelling product offers to meet the more value conscious 
demands of our consumers. 46
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Corporate responsibility
We recognise that we 
have a responsibility  
to understand and 
endeavour to meet  
the needs of everyone 
involved in our business.  
Vivienne Hemming,  
Company Secretary
Ben White,  
Group Finance Director 
Our CR Strategic Goals are to:
•  Help our customers be responsible 
consumers 
•  Behave ethically and with integrity when 
sourcing products and dealing with our 
suppliers 
•  Provide a safe and healthy environment 
for our employees to work in 
•  Enable our staff to achieve their full 
potential 
•  Support national and local community 
projects relevant to our stakeholders 
•  Actively seek ways to minimise our impact 
on the environment
Further information go to:
Page 30. Key performance indicators. The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
47
GAME. Press forward
Our performance
Message from Ben White, Chair, Group 
Corporate Responsibility Committee
During 2009 we made good progress in 
developing and implementing our Corporate 
Responsibility (CR) programme. We established 
a CR Committee with representatives from 
across the organisation, which meets quarterly 
to review policy and monitor our progress 
against objectives. We introduced numerous 
energy efficiency initiatives to our stores, offices 
and distribution centre, which have helped 
reduce our impact on the environment, and 
we have significantly increased our support 
of national and local community projects that 
our staff are involved with.
This is the beginning of our CR journey, and we 
are very much looking forward to taking these 
and other initiatives to the next stage in 2010.
Employees
The health of our staff is essential and we are 
continually exploring new initiatives to help 
them keep safe and well. In 2009 we introduced 
a range of new services which included free 
winter tyre checks for office employees, to 
Our stakeholders include the 
Group’s suppliers, customers, 
employees, bankers and 
lenders, shareholders and the 
people in the communities in 
which we live and operate. 
Our Corporate Responsibility 
(CR) programme outlines how 
we aim to work in partnership, 
with everyone connected with 
our business, to have a positive 
impact in society and on the 
environment whilst striving to 
achieve our commercial 
objectives.
ensure safer driving, and provision of flu jabs. 
We also continued to offer discounted rates at a 
local fitness centre and launched a Cycle to 
Work initiative at our Basingstoke headquarters 
which is helping staff incorporate exercise into 
their daily routine as well as reducing our impact 
on local road congestion.
Community Investment
Our Corporate Community Investment (CCI) 
programme defines how we manage our 
activities in local the communities, and making 
a positive impact for both the community and 
our stakeholders.
During 2009 we made some important changes 
to our CCI programme. We established a 
Community Investment Committee chaired by 
Terry Scicluna our Chief Operating Officer, which 
includes representation from staff of all levels 
across the business. The Committee, which 
meets quarterly, agreed that to enable us to 
maximise the positive difference we can 
achieve in the community, the UK Business will 
now focus all our charitable support on the 
following three areas: 
A corporate charity partner
Our employees voted overwhelmingly for 
Children’s Hospices UK to be the Group’s 
Charity Partner until 2011. They are the national 
voice of all children’s hospices in the UK, and 
their vision is for all life-limited children, young 
people and their families to have access to the 
best quality hospice care close to home. Since 
the launch of the partnership in September 
2009, our people have been raising funds with 
activities as diverse as moustache growing 
competitions to parachute jumping, and we 
look forward to helping Children’s Hospices UK 
make their vision a reality.
Employee nominated charities
Our colleagues show great commitment to 
supporting charities that they have a personal 
connection to. Through our recently launched 
‘Employee Donations fund’, employees can 
request funding for charities they are actively 
involved with. The fund has made donations to 
a wide range of voluntary organisations already, 
including overseas emergency appeals, wildlife  48
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Corporate responsibility continued
charities and community groups that work with 
disadvantaged young people.
Local community projects based close  
to our offices in Basingstoke 
As a major local employer, we have increased 
our support for projects in the Basingstoke 
community and the surrounding area. 
We are working with Destination Basingstoke, 
a not for profit organisation that highlights the 
benefits of living and working in Basingstoke and 
celebrates the many successes of the local 
community. We continued support for the 
“Young Achiever’s Award”, recognising 
individuals under 21 years old who have shown 
real achievement in helping their community. 
In 2009, the Award was won by Shivani Dawett 
aged 10 years, a Street Dance champion who 
regularly raises funds for charities through her 
public performances.
GAME Group are also a founding member of 
the Destination Basingstoke Community 
Foundation and we will be working with the 
Foundation to provide donations to community 
projects that benefit local children and young 
people, with a particular focus on sport, arts, 
education and skills development.
Suppliers 
GAME Group want to ensure that products sold 
in our stores are sourced from factories that 
adhere to international workplace regulations, 
and have introduced independent Social Audits 
for all factories that produce our own brand 
GAMEware products. 
We benchmark ourselves against the CR 
activities of other similar organisations. As part 
of this process, we surveyed our suppliers to 
understand their CR priorities and their 
expectations from GAME Group, and will use 
the results to formulate our own best practise 
guidelines.
Environment
Electricity
Electricity is our single biggest source of carbon 
dioxide emissions, and to help combat this, we 
have installed 169 AMR electricity meters into 
Community investment  
case study:  
May Place House, Basingstoke 
 
We support May Place House in Basingstoke 
as part of our local community investment 
activity. They work with vulnerable local 
homeless people and provide short-term 
accommodation plus emotional and 
practical support to resettle people into a 
range of supported housing, as well as help 
with returning to education or work. 
During 2009, GAME people supported the 
hostel with refurbishment projects and 
arranged donations of essential items such 
as clothing and blankets during December.
…“we all thoroughly enjoyed volunteering 
for May Place and would recommend 
getting involved to all our colleagues – 
it’s a very worthwhile project and 
fantastic that we were able to help such  
a good cause. We would definitely do it 
again should the opportunity arise.”
GAME Basingstoke Office Team pictured with Ingrid 
Wright, May Place manager, after a morning of 
decorating at the hostel. The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
49
GAME. Press forward
Our performance
Emissions Summary
Emissions Source Tonnes CO
2
e
GAME Stores – electricity 10,435
Head Office – electricity 739
Head Office – gas 209
Distribution Centre – electricity 901
Total 12,284
Recycling summary
Head Office
29.4 tonnes of electrical waste from Head Office
594 tonnes of cardboard from the Distribution 
Centre
21.9 tonnes of general paper
 
Stores
44.8 tonnes of confidential paper from stores 
25 tonnes of electrical waste from stores
 
 
Further information go to:
Page 02. Preowned
Page 30. Key performance indicators.
stores with high consumption levels. This allows us 
to monitor consumption patterns and react to 
irregularities. Major savings have been achieved 
through staff training and changes in store 
shutdown procedures at night. 
Carbon footprint 
The carbon footprint for the financial year for 
GAME UK and Ireland businesses was 
calculated at 12,284 tonnes CO
2
e. In 2010, we 
will widen our reporting boundary to 
incorporate the footprint for Gamestation stores, 
and we will also collect more detailed 
information about our waste to landfill and 
business travel activities and put plans in place 
to reduce our impact in these areas too.
Waste
We are reducing waste wherever possible, and 
reusing and recycling more of the waste that is 
produced in our day to day activities. In our 
Head Office we actively encourage and 
provide facilities for recycling mobile phones, 
cans, batteries, lamps and plastics, and in 2009 
we achieved the levels of recyclable material 
opposite.
The recycling rate in stores increased from 
40 per cent in 2008/09 to 52 per cent in 2009/10. 
We aim to achieve further reductions through 
continued support of WEEE regulations and by 
raising the profile of our free ‘take back’ 
programme for customers.
For more information on our 
corporate responsibility, please 
visit our website
www.gamegroup.plc.uk 50
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
International management
Mark Axon (46) 
Group Planning and Business Development 
Director
Mark joined the Group in 2007, with 25 years’ 
experience in global retail at Wal-Mart and 
Marks & Spencer. Having overseen the 
integration of Gamestation into the Group, he 
has supported the Board to develop the future 
business strategy and will now focus on the plan 
to deliver. In addition he continues to ensure 
that best practice is shared among all the 
territories, and research future opportunities that 
will accelerate the growth of the Group.
Tricia Brennan (43) 
Group Commercial Strategy Director
Tricia has been central to GAME’s evolution into a 
mass market retailer since she joined the Group as 
Commercial Director in 2005. In 2007 she was 
appointed Commercial and Supply Chain Director 
for all the UK operations and, in March 2010, Tricia 
was appointed Group Commercial Strategy 
Director. Tricia leads a team working with suppliers 
at a global level across the Group to deliver an 
outstanding product proposition to customers in 
every territory . Tricia has over 23 years’ experience 
in entertainment retail.
From left to right: Mark Axon, Tricia Brennan, Alex Croft, Adolf Kristjansson
Alex Croft (36)
MD, Group Online and Digital Operations
Alex oversees the Online Business for the Group 
– incorporating the Ecommerce, Digital 
Distribution and Multi-Channel offers. He 
managed the successful re-launch of the GAME 
branded websites in UK, France and Scandinavia 
in 2007, generating significant increases in 
customer traffic, sales and profitability. Alex 
continues to manage the ongoing eCommerce 
activities throughout the Group, and is also 
charged with the development of the Group 
Digital and Download services. Alex has been a 
video games retailer for 14 years.
Adolf Kristjansson (37) 
Regional MD, GAME Scandinavia and 
Czech Republic
Adolf joined GAME in 2005, and accelerated 
the Group’s expansion in both Scandinavia 
(Sweden, Denmark, Norway) and Czech 
Republic. Adolf now has a wider role which 
includes the development of new emerging 
markets both in terms of stores and other 
channels. He has over 17 years’ experience of 
retailing entertainment and electrical products.
Experienced local 
management. 
In every territory. The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
51
GAME. Press forward
Directors and Governance
Martyn Gibbs (39)
MD, UK and Ireland
Martyn was instrumental in the rapid growth of 
Gamestation in the UK, and joined the Group 
following the acquisition in 2007. Initially Managing 
Director for Gamestation, he shortly took over 
responsibility for all customer-facing activity for 
GAME and Gamestation in the UK as Customer 
and Brand Director. In March 2010, he was 
appointed MD for the all UK and Ireland 
operations. He has over 21 years’ retail 
experience, including 15 in video games.
Pablo Crespo (45) 
Regional MD, Game Iberia
Pablo was Managing Director of the CentroMail 
store chain when it was acquired by The GAME 
Group in 2001. Since then he has rebranded the 
business and expanded it rapidly to 260 stores, 
becoming the leading video games retailer in 
the Spanish market. Pablo also oversaw GAME’s 
entry into the Portuguese market in 2006, which 
now has 23 stores in all major cities. He has 
recently taken on wider responsibilities covering 
GAME Spain, Portugal and France. Pablo has 
over 25 years’ experience in the video games 
retail industry.
Philippe Wehmeyer (41) 
MD, GAME France
Philippe has driven GAME’s growth in France 
since 2003, overseeing the rebrand of the 
original Scoregame stores and the acquisition 
and rebrand of the former Maxi-Livres book 
stores in 2007. He has over 20 years’ experience 
in high profile retail.
Rob Lukic (41) 
MD, GAME Australia
As the founder and Managing Director of The 
Games Wizards, Rob joined GAME in 2006 when 
the business was acquired by the GAME Group. 
As well as rebranding the existing 16 stores, Rob 
led the expansion of the portfolio to over 115 
stores. He also relocated his team into a new 
head office and distribution centre. Rob has been 
a video games retailer for over 22 years.
From left to right: Martyn Gibbs, Pablo Crespo, Philippe Wehmeyer, Rob Lukic 52
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Board of Directors
Depth of knowledge 
across our Board.
From left to right: Ben White, Christopher Bell, Peter Lewis, Ishbel Macpherson, David Mansfield and Dana Dunne The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
53
GAME. Press forward
Directors and Governance
Ishbel Macpherson (49)   
Ishbel was appointed to the Board on 
3 October 2005. She was an investment banker 
for over 20 years, specialising in UK mid-market 
corporate finance. Her most recent role was as 
Head of UK and Emerging Companies 
Corporate Finance at Dresdner Kleinwort 
Wasserstein. She is currently a Non-Executive 
Director of MITIE Group plc and Dignity plc and 
Senior Non-Executive Director at Hydrogen 
Group plc and Speedy Hire plc.
Dana Dunne (46)   
Dana joined the Board on 14 January 2010.  
He is the Chief Commercial Officer of easyJet plc. 
Before joining easyJet, he was CEO of AOL Europe, 
one of the leading online companies in Europe. 
Prior to that he was Head of Company 
Transformation of AOL in the US, and has held a 
number of other senior positions in the telecom 
and media industries.
David Mansfield (56)   
David joined the Board on 16 April 2010.  
He was the Chief Executive of GCap Media plc 
(formerly Capital Radio before May 2005) 
between 1997 and 2005, and is currently 
Chairman of Radio Joint Audience Research 
and Director of Ingenious Media plc. Before 
joining Capital Radio, he held various senior 
sales, commercial and marketing positions at 
Thames Television and Scottish Television. He  
was a Non-Executive Director at Carphone 
Warehouse plc from 2005 until his retirement in 
March 2010. He is also a fellow of the Radio 
Academy and a visiting fellow of the University 
of Oxford.
 Member of the Remuneration Committee
 Member of the Nomination Committee
 Member of the Audit Committee
 Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
Christopher Bell (52)   
Interim Chief Executive
Christopher was appointed Interim Chief 
Executive on 21 April 2010. He was appointed to 
the Board in January 2003. He was previously 
Chief Executive of Ladbrokes plc. He was 
appointed to the Board of Ladbrokes plc 
(formerly Hilton plc) in June 2000. He joined 
Ladbrokes in 1991 and became Managing 
Director in 1994. Prior to that, he held a number 
of senior positions with Allied Domecq. He is also 
vice Chairman of the Association of British 
Bookmakers, Chairman of the Bookmakers 
Committee and a member of the Horseracing 
Betting Levy Board, the Responsible Gambling 
Strategy Board and the Responsible Gambling 
Research Panel.
Ben White (37) 
Group Finance Director 
Ben joined the Group in 2005 and was 
appointed to the Board on 2 July 2009. He held 
a number of senior finance roles at Serco Group 
plc, HIT Entertainment plc and Kingfisher plc 
before taking up a position with GAME Group. 
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with 
Deloitte.
Peter Lewis (68) 
Chairman
Peter was appointed to the Board in 1995 as a 
Non-Executive Director and in June 1998 he was 
appointed Non-Executive Chairman. He was a 
founder and Executive Chairman of Ashtead 
Group plc from May 1984 to December 2000.
  54
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Corporate governance statement
Corporate governance
There is a commitment to high standards of 
corporate governance throughout the Group. 
The Board confirms that the Company and the 
Group have complied during the year ended 
31 January 2010 with the principles set out in 
Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance issued in June 2008 (the ‘Combined 
Code’), except as detailed below. The 
Combined Code is available at the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website www.frc.org.uk.
The Board notes that the Chairman has been a 
Director for more than nine years but considers 
that Peter Lewis makes a significant contribution 
to the Company and that his period of office 
does not impair his independence. In 
accordance with Code provision A.7.2, 
Peter Lewis will stand for re-election at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board is accountable to the Company’s 
shareholders for good governance and the 
statements set out below describe how the 
principles identified in the Combined Code are 
applied by the Group.
The information required by the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rule (‘DTR’) 7.1 is set out in the 
Audit Committee section on page 56. The 
information required by DTR7.2 is contained in 
this Corporate Governance Statement other 
than that required by DTR7.2.6 which is set out in 
the Directors’ Report at page 59.
Directors
During the year, the Board consisted of a Non 
Executive Chairman, Peter Lewis, four other Non 
Executive Directors and three Executive Directors, 
of which Lisa Morgan was Group Chief Executive. 
All of the Non Executive Directors are considered 
by the Board to be independent of 
management and free of any relationship which 
could materially interfere with the exercise of 
their independent judgement. There is a clear 
division of responsibility between the Chairman 
and the Chief Executive. Since the year end, on 
21 April 2010, Lisa Morgan and Terry Scicluna 
resigned their positions as directors of the 
Company. Christopher Bell is temporarily acting 
as Chief Executive with effect from 21 April 2010 
until a successor to Lisa Morgan is identified.
Biographies of Board members appear on 
page 53. These indicate the seniority and range 
of business experience, which are essential to 
manage effectively a business of the size and 
complexity of the Group.
The full Board meets at least six times each year 
and more frequently where business needs 
require. The Board has a schedule of matters 
reserved for its decision, including inter alia 
statutory matters; approval of financial 
statements and dividends; appointments and 
terminations of Directors, officers and auditors; 
appointments of committees and setting of 
terms of reference; review and approval of 
Group performance against budgets; approving 
risk management strategy and material 
contracts; and determining of authority levels 
within which management is required to operate.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to 
take independent professional advice at the 
Company’s expense. This is in addition to the 
access which every Director has to the 
Company Secretary. The Company Secretary is 
charged by the Board with ensuring that Board 
procedures are followed. The minutes of all 
meetings of the Board and each committee are 
taken by the Company Secretary who ensures 
that any unresolved concerns of the Directors 
are recorded in the minutes.
Appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ insurance 
cover is arranged and maintained via the 
Company’s insurance broker, Aon Group, and 
its terms are reviewed annually.
When new members are appointed to the 
Board, they are provided with advice from the 
Company Secretary and external advisers in 
respect of their role and duties as a public 
company director.
During the year Christopher Bell was the Senior 
Non Executive Director. Since the year end, on 
21 April 2010, Ishbel Macpherson has taken on 
this role whilst Christopher Bell serves as acting 
Chief Executive. Concerns relating to the 
executive management of the Company or 
the performance of the other Non Executive 
Directors may be raised with the Senior Non 
Executive Director. The Senior Non Executive  The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
55
GAME. Press forward
Directors and Governance
Director is also available to shareholders if they 
have concerns which contact through the 
normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive 
or Finance Director have failed to resolve or for 
which such contact is inappropriate. The Senior 
Non Executive Director also makes themself 
available to listen to the concerns of employees.
To enable the Board to function effectively and 
the Directors to discharge their responsibilities, 
full and timely access is given to all relevant 
information. In the case of Board meetings, 
this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, 
including regular business progress reports and 
discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Appointments to the Board
The Board ensures that plans are in place for the 
orderly succession of appointments to the Board 
and to senior management; taking into account 
the need to maintain an appropriate balance of 
skills. Appointments to the Board of both 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors are 
considered by the Nomination Committee. 
The recommendations of the Nomination 
Committee are ultimately made to the full Board, 
which considers them before any appointment is 
made. The Remuneration Committee considers 
any remuneration package before it is offered to 
a potential appointee. The members of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees are 
set out on page 56.
Any Director appointed during the year is 
required, under the provisions of the Company’s 
Articles of Association, to retire and seek 
election by shareholders at the next Annual 
General Meeting. The Articles also require that 
one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each 
year and seek re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting. The Directors required to retire 
are those in office longest since their previous 
re-election, and each Director retires at least 
once every three years.
Full details of Directors’ remuneration and a 
statement of the Company’s remuneration 
policy are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report appearing on pages 64 to 71. The 
members of the Remuneration Committee and 
the principal terms of reference of the 
Committee appear on page 56.
Meetings with Non-Executive Directors
The Chairman holds meetings as required with 
the Non-Executive Directors without the 
Executive Directors being present.
Individual attendance by Directors at meetings of the Board and of other Committees
Meetings held from 1 February 2009 to 31 January 2010
 
 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
 Eligible to Number Eligible to Number Eligible to Number Eligible to Number 
Director Attend Attended Attend Attended Attend Attended Attend Attended
Peter Lewis 7 7 – – – – 2 2
Lisa Morgan 7 7 – – – – – –
Terry Scicluna 7 6 – – – – – –
Ben White 7 7 – – – – – –
Christopher Bell 7 7 3 3 2 2 2 2
Jean-Paul Giraud 7 6 3 3 2 2 2 2
Ishbel Macpherson 7 7 3 3 2 2 2 2
Dennis Woodside 7 3 3 – 2 1 2 – 56
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Corporate governance statement continued
Board performance evaluation
In accordance with the requirements of the 
Combined Code, during the year the Board 
undertook a formal internal evaluation of its 
own performance and that of its committees 
and individual Directors. This review was led by 
the Senior Non Executive Director and included 
an evaluation of the Chairman’s performance. 
A further review will be conducted during the 
current financial year.
Audit Committee 
The Audit Committee comprises Ishbel 
Macpherson as Chairman, together with 
Christopher Bell, Dana Dunne and David 
Mansfield. The Board is satisfied that the 
composition of the Audit Committee adheres to 
the requirements that it should comprise at least 
three independent non-executive directors and 
that at least one member of the Audit 
Committee must have recent and relevant 
financial experience.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee 
are available on request and are published on 
the Company’s website.
The Audit Committee’s main objectives are, inter 
alia, to monitor the integrity of the Company’s 
financial statements and any other formal 
announcements relating to the Company’s 
financial performance; review significant 
financial reporting judgements contained in 
such statements or announcements, before 
submission to, and approval by, the Board, and 
before clearance by the external auditors; 
review the Company’s internal financial controls 
and risk management systems; monitor and 
review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal audit function; and review the 
arrangements by which employees of the 
Company may, in confidence, raise concerns 
about possible improprieties in matters of 
financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee also reviews any matters raised 
by the auditors. The Chief Executive and the 
Finance Director are invited to attend part of 
each meeting of this Committee, as are the 
auditors. The auditors have unrestricted access 
to the members of the Audit Committee, and 
the Committee ensures that meetings are used 
as an open avenue of communication between 
the external auditors and the Board.
Following a recommendation from the Audit 
Committee, the Board has adopted a policy in 
relation to the provision of non-audit services by 
the auditors, with the objective of ensuring that 
the provision of such services does not impair 
the external auditor’s independence or 
objectivity. This includes, inter alia, assessing all 
relationships with the audit firm, including their 
partners and staff; assessing the nature and 
level of fees for non-audit services in relation to 
the audit fee; obtaining confirmation of 
independence from the auditors; and ensuring 
the appropriateness of the firm as providers for 
non-audit services.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for 
the year under review is disclosed in Note 4 to 
the financial statements. The non-audit fees 
were principally paid in respect of tax 
compliance services and are considered by the 
Audit Committee not to affect the auditors’ 
independence or objectivity.
Remuneration Committee 
The Remuneration Committee comprises 
Ishbel Macpherson as Chairman, together with 
Christopher Bell, Dana Dunne and David 
Mansfield. The work of the Remuneration 
Committee is covered further in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 71.
Copies of Executive Directors’ service contracts 
and the terms and conditions of appointment 
of the Non-Executive Directors are available for 
inspection at the Company’s office during 
normal business hours.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration 
Committee are available on request and are 
also published on the Company’s website.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee comprises Peter 
Lewis as Chairman, together with Christopher 
Bell, Ishbel Macpherson, Dana Dunne and David 
Mansfield. The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
57
GAME. Press forward
Directors and Governance
It meets as required and makes 
recommendations to the Board on all Board 
and Committee appointments, including the 
selection of Non Executive Directors. The terms 
of reference of the Nomination Committee are 
available on request and are also published on 
the Company’s website.
Audit and internal control
The respective responsibilities of the Directors 
and the auditors in connection with the Annual 
Report and Accounts are explained on pages 
62 and 72 respectively and the statement of 
the Directors on going concern appears on 
page 58.
Following the publication of guidance for 
Directors, Internal Control: Guidance for 
Directors on the Combined Code, the Board 
confirms that there is an ongoing process for 
identifying, evaluating and managing any 
significant risks faced by the Group. This process 
has been in place during the period ended 
31 January 2010 and up to the date of approval 
of the accompanying Report and Accounts by 
the Board. The process is regularly reviewed by 
the Board and accords with the Turnbull 
Guidance on Internal Control.
The Board of Directors acknowledges its 
responsibility for the Company’s system of 
internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness over financial, operating and risk 
management controls. The system of internal 
control is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable 
(but not absolute) assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control during the year by 
reference to budgets, management accounts, 
cash flow projections and reports from the 
internal and external auditors, and covers 
financial, operational and compliance controls 
and risk management systems.
The risks facing the Group in each country of 
operation have been identified and the 
appropriateness of the associated direct 
controls and indirect controls have been 
assessed. This risk matrix is reviewed and 
updated on a regular basis.
The key procedures that the Directors have 
established to ensure that internal controls are 
effective are commensurate with a group of this 
size, a key control procedure being the day-to-
day supervision of the business by the Directors. 
Other internal control procedures and reviews 
for effectiveness by the Board include the 
following:
• preparation, maintenance and review of a 
Group risk register;
• review of financial, operational and 
compliance reports from management; and
• review of any significant issues arising from the 
internal and external audits.
The Group has an internal audit function which 
focuses primarily on the control of cash and 
stock losses. The Audit Committee consider the 
focus of the function to be appropriate for the 
business and operations of the Group.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope and 
cost-effectiveness of the external audit under 
review. The independence and objectivity of 
the external auditors is also considered on a 
regular basis, with particular regard to the level 
of non-audit fees. The split between audit and 
non-audit fees for the year under review 
appears in Note 4 to the financial statements. 
The non-audit fees were principally paid in 
respect of tax compliance services and are 
considered by the Committee not to affect the 
auditors’ independence or objectivity.
Communication with shareholders
The Company attaches importance to the 
effectiveness of its communications with 
shareholders. It publishes regular trading 
statements as well as a full Annual Report. The 
Company maintains a regular dialogue with 
institutional shareholders and the financial 
community. This includes presentations of the 
preliminary and interim results, regular meetings 
with major shareholders, participation in 
stockbrokers’ seminars and site visits. The Group 
holds a variety of investor and analyst meetings  58
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Corporate governance statement continued
in order to improve the financial community’s 
understanding of the Group and to introduce 
investors to a broader range of management. 
All shareholders can gain access to these 
and other presentations, as well as to the 
Annual Report and other information about 
the Group, on the Group’s website at 
www.gamegroup.plc.uk. Holders of ordinary 
shares may attend the Company’s AGM at 
which the Company highlights key business 
developments during the year and at which 
shareholders have an opportunity to ask 
questions. The chairmen of the Audit, 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees 
are available to answer any questions from 
shareholders on the work of their committees.
The Company confirms that it sends the AGM 
notice and relevant documentation to all 
shareholders at least 20 working days before the 
date of the AGM. Responsibility for maintaining 
regular communications with shareholders rests 
with the executive management team led by 
the Chief Executive. However, the Board is 
informed on a regular basis of key shareholder 
issues, including share price performance, the 
composition of the shareholder register and 
City expectations. Independent research is 
commissioned annually into institutional 
shareholder perceptions of the Group. The 
Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and 
the Non-Executive Directors make themselves 
available to meet with shareholders as required.
Going concern
The Directors have reviewed the financial 
position of the Group and of the Company and 
have concluded that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group and the Company 
have adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements. Directors and Governance
Report of the Directors
for the year ended 31 January 2010
GAME. Press forward
59
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
The Directors have pleasure in presenting their 
Report on the affairs of the Group, together with 
the audited financial statements, for the period 
ended 31 January 2010.
Principal activities 
The Group is Europe’s leading specialist pc and 
video games retailer trading via retail outlets 
and eCommerce sites. The Parent Company 
The GAME Group plc is an investment holding 
company.
Business review
As at 31 January 2010 the Group operated 
in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and five 
international territories, with 677 stores throughout 
the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, 
199 in France, 288 (inc franchise) in Iberia, 68 in 
Scandinavia, 29 in the Czech Republic and 119 
(inc franchise) in Australia, as well as operating a 
global online operation with sites including 
game.co.uk, gameplay.com and 
gamestation.co.uk.
A more detailed review of the business for the 
period ended 31 January 2010 and future 
developments is set out in the Chairman’s 
Statement on pages 20 to 25, the Chief Executive’s 
Review on pages 26 to 29 and the Business Review 
on pages 32 to 42, which are incorporated into this 
Directors’ Report by reference.
Results and dividends
The consolidated profit after taxation was 
£60.5 million (2009: £83.6 million), on turnover of 
£1,772.4 million (2009: £1,968.6 million). This profit 
represents basic earnings per share of 17.45p 
(2009: 24.18p).
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 
3.90p (2009: 3.71p) per share. This, when taken 
with the interim dividend of 1.88p (2009: 1.79p) 
per share, gives a total dividend of 5.78p 
(2009: 5.50p) per share for the period ended 
31 January 2010.
Directors 
The Directors of the Company during the year 
were as follows:
Peter Lewis 
Lisa Morgan (resigned 21 April 2010) 
Terry Scicluna (resigned 21 April 2010)
Ben White (appointed 2 July 2009)
Christopher Bell
Ishbel Macpherson
Dana Dunne (appointed 14 January 2010)
David Thomas (resigned 2 July 2009)
Jean-Paul Giraud (resigned 14 January 2010)
Dennis Woodside (resigned 31 January 2010)
David Mansfield was appointed on 16 April 2010. 
The Director who will retire by rotation is Ishbel 
Macpherson who, being eligible, offers herself for 
re-election. In addition, Peter Lewis, who has been 
a Director for more than nine years, retires in 
accordance with provision A.7.2 of the Combined 
Code, and offers himself for re-election. Ben White, 
Dana Dunne and David Mansfield were 
appointed to the Board since the last annual 
general meeting and will therefore retire, in 
accordance with the articles of association, and 
resolutions proposing their election will be put to 
shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
Details of Directors’ service contracts and 
interests in the share capital of the Company 
are given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
on pages 64 to 71. Biographies of the Directors 
are set out on page 53.
Corporate governance
The Company’s compliance with corporate 
governance is disclosed in the Corporate 
Governance Statement on pages 54 to 58, and 
this is incorporated into the Directors’ Report by 
reference.
Conflicts of interest
From 1 October 2008, there has been a 
requirement that directors must avoid a situation 
where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect 
interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with 
the company’s interests. Directors of public 
companies may authorise conflicts and potential 
conflicts, where appropriate, if a company’s 
articles of association permit and shareholders 
have approved appropriate amendments. At the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2008, the 
shareholders gave this approval.
Procedures are in place for the disclosure by 
directors of any such conflicts and also for the 
consideration and authorisation of these  Report of the Directors  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
60
conflicts by the board. These procedures allow 
for the imposition of limits or conditions by the 
board when authorizing any conflict, if they 
think this is appropriate. These procedures were 
duly followed to approve appropriate conflicts 
following the enactment of the conflict 
provisions in October 2008, and are now 
included as a regular standing item for 
consideration by the board at its meetings.
Charitable and political donations
The Group made charitable donations in excess 
of £160,000 to a number of charities including the 
Group’s UK charity partner, Children’s Hospices 
UK. The Group also donated a significant amount 
of computer games and software to charities 
and community groups across the UK. The Group 
does not make donations to any political party 
(including non-EU political parties) or organisation 
or to independent election candidates.
Creditor payment policy
The Group’s policy for the period ended 
31 January 2010, for all suppliers, was to agree 
terms of payment when establishing the terms 
of each business transaction and to abide by 
the agreed terms of payment. The Group had 
an average 32 days’ purchases (2009: 37 days) 
included in trade creditors at the year end. 
The Company had no trade creditors.
Financial instruments
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial 
instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, 
foreign currency risk and credit risk. The Board 
reviews and agrees policies for managing each 
of these risks. Further details on the Group’s 
financial instruments can be found in the 
Statement of Accounting Policies and notes 16 
and 17 to the financial statements.
Corporate Responsibility
The Group recognises that to remain successful 
over the longer term the business must take an 
open, honest and responsible approach 
towards all of its key stakeholders – employees, 
customers, investors and the wider community. 
The full report is set out on pages 46 to 49.
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the 
Group are detailed on page 45.
Share capital
Details of changes in share capital during the 
period ended 31 January 2010 are set out in 
note 20 to the financial statements.
As at 31 January 2010, the Company had an 
unexpired authority to repurchase shares up to 
a maximum of 34,632,365 shares. No shares were 
purchased in the market for cancellation during 
the year.
Rights and obligations attaching to the 
Ordinary Shares
This section summarises certain provisions in the 
Company’s Articles of Association relating to 
the Ordinary Shares of the Company, and forms 
part of the Directors’ Report.
Share capital
The Company has a single class of share which 
is divided into ordinary shares of 5p each.
Voting
In accordance with the Company’s Articles of 
Association, each share (other than those held 
in treasury) entitles the holder to one vote, at 
general meetings of the Company on votes 
taken on a poll. On a show of hands at a 
meeting, every member present (not being 
present by proxy) and entitled to vote has one 
vote and every proxy present who has been 
duly appointed by a member entitled to vote 
on the resolution has one vote. No member is 
entitled in respect of a share held by him to be 
present or to vote, either in person or by proxy, at 
a general meeting or at a separate meeting of 
the holders of class of shares or on a poll, or to 
exercise other rights conferred by membership 
in relation to the meeting or poll, if a call or 
other amount due and payable in respect of 
the share is unpaid.
Transfers
The Board may refuse to register a transfer of 
shares in certain circumstances. Directors and Governance
GAME. Press forward
61
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Dividends
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006, the Company may by ordinary resolution 
declare a dividend to be paid to the members 
according to their respective rights and interests, 
but no dividend may exceed the amount 
recommended by the Board. The directors may 
also declare and pay interim dividends if they 
consider that the financial position of the Company 
justifies it. Subject to shareholder approval, the 
Directors may pay dividends by issuing shares 
credited as fully paid up in lieu of cash dividends. 
No dividend carries a right to interest from the 
Company unless specified by the rights attaching 
to the share. If dividends remain unclaimed for 12 
years they are forfeited and revert to the Company .
Variation of rights
The rights attached to shares can only be varied 
with the consent in writing of the holders of at 
least 75 per cent of the nominal amount of the 
issued shares of that class (excluding any share 
of that class held as treasury shares) or with the 
sanction of a special resolution passed at a 
separate meeting of the holders of the issued 
shares of that class in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
Partly paid shares
The Company has a first and paramount lien on 
all partly paid shares for an amount payable in 
respect of the share, whether the due date for 
payment has arrived or not. The lien applies to 
all dividends from time to time declared or other 
amounts payable in respect of such shares.
Sanctions
Unless the Board decides otherwise, if a 
shareholder is given a notice that he has failed to 
provide information required in relation to any 
shares pursuant to a notice under section 793 of 
the Companies Act 2006, that member will be 
unable to vote those shares both in general 
meeting and at a meeting of shareholders of that 
class. If such shareholder holds more than 0.25 per 
cent or more of the issued shares of a class 
(excluding treasury shares) and is in default of a 
section 793 notice, the Directors may also state in 
the notice that: (i) the payment of any dividend 
shall be withheld; and (ii) that there can be no 
transfer of the shares held by such shareholder.
Amendment of the Company’s Articles of 
Association
Any amendments to the Company’s Articles of 
Association may be in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way 
of special resolution.
Appointment and removal of Directors
The Company may by ordinary resolution 
appoint a director to the Board. The Company 
may also by ordinary resolution remove a 
director from the Board.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 31 March 2010, the Board had been notified of, or was otherwise aware of, the following 
holdings of 3 per cent or more of the Company’s share capital.
 Number of  
 ordinary shares % holding
Fidelity 29,444,722 8.49
Aberforth Partners LLP 22,246,650 6.42
BlackRock Advisors 18,437,156 5.32
Henderson Global Investors Ltd 13,709,354 3.95
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 13,643,129 3.94
Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 12,999,148 3.75
TIAA-CREF 11,674,745 3.37
AXA 11,505,916 3.32
HSBC 11,500,427 3.32
Franklin Templeton  11,066,994 3.19 Report of the Directors  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
62
Liquidation
On a voluntary winding up of the Company 
the liquidator may, on obtaining any sanction 
required by law, divide among the members in 
kind the whole or any part of the assets of the 
Company, whether or not the assets consist of 
property of one kind or of different kinds, and 
vest the whole or any part of the assets in 
trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of the 
members as he shall determine.
Annual General Meeting
Full details of the Annual General Meeting of 
The GAME Group plc to be held on 22 June 
2010 at 10.00 a.m. at Unity House, Telford Road, 
Basingstoke, Hampshire RG21 6YJ, together with 
explanations of the resolutions to be proposed 
at the AGM, are set out in the AGM notice 
accompanying this Report. 
Directors’ responsibility statement 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper 
accounting records that are sufficient to show 
and explain the Company’s transactions and 
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Group, and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as 
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 
of the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company, for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities and 
for the preparation of a Directors’ Report and 
Directors’ Remuneration Report which comply 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006. Under company law the directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they 
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the group and company 
and of the profit or loss for the group for that 
period. 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the 
annual report and the financial statements in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
The Directors are also required to prepare 
financial statements for the Group in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards as adopted by the 
European Union (IFRSs) and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. The Directors have chosen to 
prepare financial statements for the Company 
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the 
annual report and the financial statements are 
made available on a website. The financial 
statements are published on the Group’s 
website (www.gamegroup.plc.uk) in 
accordance with legislation in the United 
Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements, which 
may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The maintenance and integrity of the Group’s 
website is the responsibility of the Directors. 
The Directors’ responsibility also extends to the 
ongoing integrity of the financial statements 
contained therein.
Group financial statements
International Accounting Standard 1 requires 
that financial statements present fairly for each 
financial year the Group’s financial position, 
financial performance and cash flows. This 
requires the faithful representation of the effects 
of transactions, other events and conditions in 
accordance with the definitions and 
recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses set out in the International 
Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for 
the preparation and presentation of financial 
statements’. In virtually all circumstances, a fair 
presentation will be achieved by compliance 
with all applicable IFRSs. A fair presentation also 
requires the Directors to:
• consistently select and apply appropriate 
accounting policies;
• make judgements and accounting estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent; 
• state whether they have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements; 
• present information, including accounting 
policies, in a manner that provides relevant, 
reliable, comparable and understandable 
information; and Directors and Governance
GAME. Press forward
63
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
• provide additional disclosures when 
compliance with the specific requirements 
in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular 
transactions, other events and conditions on 
the entity’s financial position and financial 
performance. 
Parent Company financial statements
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
financial statements for each financial year 
which give a true and fair view of the state of 
affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss 
of the Company for that period. In preparing 
these financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently;
• prepare the financial statements on the going 
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to 
presume that the Company will continue in 
business; 
• make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent; and
• state whether applicable accounting 
standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements.
Directors’ responsibility statement pursuant 
to DTR4
The Directors confirm to the best of their 
knowledge:
• The Group financial statements have been 
prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union (IFRSs) and Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation and give a true and fair view of 
the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit and loss of the Group.
• The Annual Report includes a fair review of 
the development and performance of the 
business and the financial position of the 
Group and the Parent Company, together 
with a description or the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face.
Treasury risk management
Group treasury matters are governed by 
policies and procedures approved by the Board 
of Directors. The Group monitors and reviews 
treasury matters on a regular basis. A written 
summary of major treasury activity is presented 
to each Board meeting. The Group’s treasury 
policies are set out in the Statement of 
Accounting Policies.
Disclosure of information to auditors
So far as each Director at the date of approval 
of this Report is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors 
are unaware and the Directors have taken all 
steps that they ought to have taken to make 
themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the auditors 
are aware of that information.
Directors’ indemnification provisions
The Directors have the benefit of ‘qualifying 
third-party indemnity provisions’ for the purposes 
of sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 
2006 pursuant to the Company’s Articles of 
Association. A copy of the Articles of Association 
is available for inspection at the Company’s 
registered office. 
Auditors
A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as auditors 
will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Vivienne Hemming ACIS
Company Secretary
Unity House
Telford Road
Basingstoke RG21 6YJ
21 April 2010 Directors’ Remuneration Report
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
64
Statement of compliance
As well as complying with the provisions of the 
Combined Code as disclosed in the corporate 
governance statement and with Schedule 8 of 
the Large and Medium Sized and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, the 
Company has applied the principles relating to 
directors’ remuneration as described below.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises Ishbel 
Macpherson as Chairman, together with 
Christopher Bell, Dana Dunne and David Mansfield 
all independent non-executive directors. The Chief 
Executive and Finance Director attend the 
Remuneration Committee meetings when required 
and the Company Secretary attends meetings as 
Secretary to the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is formally constituted 
with written terms of reference. A copy of those 
terms is available on the Group’s investor website, 
www.gamegroup.plc.uk/gmg_plc/investors/. 
The Committee met twice during the year.
The Board has overall responsibility for Directors’ 
remuneration, but has delegated this 
responsibility to the committee. The committee 
is responsible for all aspects of remuneration for 
the Executive Directors and for determining the 
policy of the remuneration of the Directors of 
the principal operating subsidiaries. The 
remuneration of the Chairman is determined by 
the Board, excluding the Chairman.
The remuneration of the Non Executive Directors is 
determined by the Board. No Director plays a part 
in any decision about his or her own remuneration.
Remuneration policy
The Committee’s policy , for current and future years, 
is to remunerate the Group’s Executive Directors 
and management fairly in such a manner as to 
facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation 
of suitably qualified personnel. The measurement of 
their performance and the determination of the 
annual remuneration package of the Executive 
Directors are undertaken by the Remuneration 
Committee who utilise the services of external 
professional advisers to assist them in this area and 
take into account the annual remuneration 
packages of executives within the Company’s peer 
group. The main elements of the remuneration 
package are basic salary , benefits, performance 
related bonus, pension contributions and share 
based long term incentives. Part of this policy is to 
ensure that a significant proportion of overall 
remuneration is performance related.
The Remuneration Committee may seek external 
advice generally and may also call on specialist 
advice on areas such as pensions. During the 
period ended 31 January 2010, the Committee 
engaged Ernst & Young LLP to review the salary 
and benefits packages of the Executive Directors 
and their direct reports. No executive played any 
part in any discussion about their own 
remuneration. Ernst & Young LLP have also 
provided the Company with unrelated advice 
and consultancy. A summary of the terms of 
reference of Ernst & Young LPP in their role as 
independent advisors to the Committee are (set 
out on the Company’s website and) available 
upon request from the Company Secretary.
Base salaries
The Remuneration Committee aims to pay 
competitive salaries having regard to market 
practice, internal relativities, performance and 
affordability.
Each element of remuneration payable to 
Executive Directors is discussed in more detail 
below.
Basic salary and benefits
Basic salaries for all Executive Directors are 
reviewed annually by the committee. In 
addition to basic salary, each Executive Director 
is entitled to the following main benefits:
• 25 days holiday per annum;
• fully expensed company car or cash equivalent;
• critical illness cover and permanent health 
insurance;
• health cover for themselves, their spouse and 
minor children; and
• life assurance cover equal to four times basic 
salary.
Basic salaries for the Executive Directors were held in 
2009/10 at the level they were in 2008/09. No increases 
are proposed for the current year, save that Ben 
White, who was appointed to the Board on 2 July 
2009, has had his basic salary increased to £310,000  Directors and Governance
GAME. Press forward
65
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Performance related bonus
 Cash Deferred Total Total bonus 
 payment  shares bonus 2008/09 
 £ £ £ £
Lisa Morgan 66,555 – 66,555 443,000
Terry Scicluna – – – 25,000
Ben White
1
 – 130,000 130,000 –
David Thomas
2
 – – – 392,700
1
Ben White was appointed to the Board on 2 July 2009
2
David Thomas resigned on 2 July 2009
per annum with effect from 2 February 2010, which is 
below the median basic salary when compared to 
similar positions within a comparator group of FTSE 350 
retailers. Salaries for senior management below main 
Board level are benchmarked against appropriate 
market comparisons.
Subject to approval by the Board, Executive 
Directors are permitted to accept outside 
appointments, but no such appointments have 
yet been authorised.
Performance related bonus – principal 
features of the scheme in place during the 
year ended 31 January 2010
As referred to above, part of the Remuneration 
Committee’s policy on remuneration is to ensure 
that a significant proportion of overall 
remuneration is performance related. In the year 
ended 31 January 2010, the executive bonus 
scheme had the following principal features:
• the potential bonus opportunity for Executive 
Directors was restricted to 125 per cent of 
base salary;
• 64 per cent of the bonus opportunity was 
determined by reference to stretching profit 
targets, with the other 36 per cent being 
determined by reference to clear objectives 
set for each Executive Director; and
• to align further the interests of Executive Directors 
with those of shareholders, only the first half of 
the maximum bonus potential will be paid in 
cash (i.e. a maximum of 62.5 per cent) with any 
excess to be deferred into contingent shares for 
three years. During this period, the Executive will 
not be entitled to receive dividends on those 
shares and they will be subject to forfeiture if the 
Executive voluntarily resigns or is dismissed. There 
are, however, no further performance targets 
attached to the award.
The bonus opportunity for subsidiary company 
Directors does not exceed that of the Executive 
Directors and may be subject to similar deferral 
arrangements.
Performance related bonus – agreed bonus 
levels for the year ended 31 January 2010
Following a review of the Executive Directors’ 
performance during the year and the financial 
performance of the Company, the Remuneration 
Committee agreed to award certain of the 
Executive Directors the following bonuses:
• Lisa Morgan was awarded a cash bonus 
equivalent to 15 per cent of base salary.
• Ben White was awarded a bonus equivalent 
to 50 per cent of base salary. Mr White has 
agreed to defer 100 per cent of this bonus 
into contingent shares for three years. During 
this period, he will not be entitled to receive 
dividends on those shares and they will be 
subject to forfeiture if he voluntarily resigns 
or is dismissed. There are, however, no further 
performance targets attached to the award.
Performance related bonus – principal 
features of the scheme put in place for the 
year ending 31 January 2011
The principal features of the bonus scheme for 
the present financial year are as follows:
• the potential bonus opportunity for Executive 
Directors will be restricted to 125 per cent of 
base salary; Directors’ Remuneration Report  continued
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
66
Performance Share Plan
      Market Market  
  At Awarded Exercised At value of value of Earliest 
Name Date of 1 Feb during during 31 Jan share at share at date of Expiry 
 grant 2009 the year the year 2010 grant exercise exercise date
Lisa 27-May-05 330,617 – 330,617 – 81.0p 151.7p 27-May-08 29-May-09* 
Morgan 28-Apr-06 345,276 – 345,276 – 79.5p 151.7p 28-Apr-09 28-Oct-09 
 25-May-07 190,211 – – 190,211 179.0p  25-May-10 25-Nov-10 
 29-May-08 155,957 – – 155,957 288.5p  29-May-11 29-Nov-11 
 14-Jul-09 – 305,999 – 305,999 145.0p  14-Jul-12 14-Jul-13
Ben 25-May-07 23,578 – – 23,578 179.0p  25-May-10 25-Nov-10 
White 29-May-08 17,575 – – 17,575 288.5p  29-May-11 29-Nov-11 
 14-Jul-09 – 179,309 – 179,309 145.0p  14-Jul-12 14-Jul-13
Terry 03-Nov-08 215,384 – – 215,384 130.0p  03-Nov-11 03-May-12 
Scicluna 14-Jul-09 – 224,137 – 224,137 145.0p  14-Jul-12 14-Jul-13
David 27-May-05 279,753 – 279,753 – 81.0p 142.0p 27-May-08 29-May-09* 
Thomas 28-Apr-06 312,012 – 312,012 – 79.5p 142.0p 28-Apr-09 28-Oct-09 
 25-May-07 169,486 – – 169,486 179.0p  25-May-10 25-Nov-10 
 29-May-08 138,031 – – 138,301 288.5p  29-May-11 29-Nov-11
* The Board of Directors granted extensions to the life of these Awards beyond the expiry dates owing to 
Company close periods and in line with the rules of the Plan. There has been no change in the fair value of 
these Awards as a result of these changes.
• 50 per cent of the bonus opportunity will be 
determined by reference to stretching profit 
targets, with the other 50 per cent being 
determined by reference to clear objectives 
set for each Executive Director; and
• to align further the interests of Executive 
Directors with those of shareholders, only the 
first half of the maximum bonus potential will 
be paid in cash (i.e. a maximum of 62.5 per 
cent of base salary) with any excess to be 
deferred into contingent shares for three 
years. During this period, the Executive will not 
be entitled to receive dividends on those 
shares and they will be subject to forfeiture if 
the executive voluntarily resigns or is dismissed. 
There will be, however, no further performance 
targets attached to the award.
Directors’ pension policy
The Executive Directors are entitled to receive 
company contributions to their defined contribution 
pension schemes at a prescribed percentage rate 
of basic salary, which in 2010 is 20 per cent. This will 
remain unchanged in the present financial year.
Long term incentives
The Committee believes that share ownership by 
Executive Directors strengthens the link between 
their personal interests and those of shareholders.
The Performance Share Plan (the “Plan”) was 
introduced in 2004 to replace the 1998 Executive 
Share Option Scheme (“the 1998 Scheme”). 
Following the introduction of the Plan, no further 
grants of options to the Executive Directors were 
made under the 1998 Scheme.
The following disclosures (up to and including 
page 69) on Directors’ remuneration have been 
audited, as required by Part 3 of Schedule 8 of 
the Large and Medium-sized Companies & 
Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008.
Performance Share Plan
Under the Plan, eligible employees may receive a 
conditional award of shares, which will normally be 
released after three years subject to continued 
employment and the achievement of challenging 
performance conditions, based on earnings per 
share (“EPS”). This measurement was chosen as 
representing the most appropriate basis as EPS 
growth should lead to an improvement in share price 
for the benefit of all shareholders. The Executive 
Directors have Awards under the Plan as follows: Directors and Governance
GAME. Press forward
67
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
The Awards to David Thomas shown above are as 
held at the date of his resignation on 2 July 2009.
Under the rules of the Plan, the proportion of 
these Awards which will vest, subject to 
achievement of the relevant EPS performance 
conditions, is 100 per cent in respect of awards 
made on 25 May 2007 and 66.66 per cent of 
Awards made on 29 May 2008.
The Awards to Lisa Morgan shown above are as 
held at her date of resignation on 21 April 2010. 
Under the rules of the Plan, the proportion of 
these Awards which will vest, subject to 
achievement of the relevant EPS performance 
conditions, is 100 per cent in respect of awards 
made on 25 May 2007 and 29 Mary 2008 and 
66.66 per cent of Awards made on 14 July 2009.
The Awards to Terry Scicluna shown above are 
as held at his date of resignation on 21 April 
2010. Under the rules of the Plan these Awards 
will lapse when he leaves the Company.
The exercise price for the above awards is £1 
for the entire amount of the ordinary shares to 
which an Award relates. The Awards will normally 
vest on the third anniversary after the grant 
subject to continued employment and the 
meeting of an EPS performance condition. The 
targets range from EPS growth at the rate of RPI 
+ 15 per cent over a fixed three year period (at 
which 25 per cent of any Award will vest) 
increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting 
for EPS growth of at least RPI + 30 per cent. No 
consideration was paid for the grant of any of 
the above Awards. The Awards are not subject 
to retesting and awards granted before 2 July 
2009 will normally expire six months after the 
earliest exercise date. Awards granted after 2 
July 2009 will normally expire 12 months after the 
earliest exercise date.
Any ordinary shares required to fulfil entitlements 
under the Plan are provided by the Employee 
Benefit Trust. As at 31 January 2010, the 
Employee Benefit Trust held 2,368,001 ordinary 
shares (2009: 3,129,834 ordinary shares).
1998 Executive Share Option and Sharesave 
Schemes
The highest share price during the year was 
208.5p and the lowest price was 90.8p.
No consideration was paid for the grant of any 
of the below options.
During the previous financial year, the Group 
modified the process for the exercise of 
unapproved share options which means the 
employees now have a choice of settlement. 
The employee is now able to settle their options 
by receiving shares or cash. There has been no 
change in the fair value of these awards as a 
result of these changes.
As at 6 April 2010, there are outstanding options 
under the 1998 Scheme to subscribe for 
1,162,029 ordinary shares pursuant to 
employees’ share schemes, which represent 
0.34 per cent of the issued share capital. If the 
authority to purchase ordinary shares were used 
in full, the options would represent 0.37 per cent 
of the issued share capital.
1998 Executive Share Option and Sharesave Schemes
Under these schemes, the following options are outstanding:
      Share 
  At Exercised At  price on Earliest  
  1 Feb during 31 Jan Exercise date of date of Expiry 
Name Type 2009 the year 2010 price exercise exercise date
Lisa Morgan Approved 18,900 – 18,900 138.0p –  01-May-05  30-Apr-12
 Unapproved 401,700 – 401,700 56.0p –  07-May-06  06-May-13
 Unapproved 378,100 – 378,100 59.5p –  14-May-06  13-May-13
David Thomas  Approved 46,875 46,875 – 64.0p  142.0p 29-Apr-07  28-Apr-14
 Sharesave 32,414  32,414 – 50.4p 150.0p  01-Jul-09  31-Dec-09 Directors’ Remuneration Report  continued
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
68
Restricted Share Plan
On 24 March 2010, the Board of Directors 
adopted The GAME Group plc Restricted Share 
Plan (the “Restricted Plan”). The principal 
features of the Restricted Plan are as follows:
• The Restricted Plan rules specifically exclude 
any Statutory Director of the Company from 
receiving an award and awards cannot be 
satisfied by the Company issuing new shares, 
instead any awards can only be satisfied by 
shares already in issue.
• Participants are not required to pay for the 
making of an award to them and awards 
constitute a restricted share award over 
ordinary shares in the Company;
• The restriction attaching to an award will 
ordinarily be limited to an employee 
remaining employed by the Company on the 
second anniversary of grant (at which point 
1/3 of an award will vest) and the third 
anniversary of grant (at which point any 
remaining amount of the award will vest);
• Participants are not entitled to dividends and 
voting rights during the period in which the 
shares are restricted;
• Should an employee voluntarily cease 
employment with the Company or is 
dismissed, then awards will automatically 
lapse, and;
• The maximum market value of awards that 
could be made to a participant in any one 
year is 100 per cent of salary in that year.
Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Directors, and their connected persons, at 31 January 2010 in the share 
capital of the Company and options to purchase such shares were as follows:
 31 January 2010 31 January 2009 
 or date of or date of 
 resignation if earlier appointment if later
  Share  Share 
  options and  options and 
  Performance  Performance 
 Ordinary Share plan Ordinary Share plan 
 shares awards Shares awards
Peter Lewis 66,666	 – 66,666 –
Lisa Morgan 600,488	 1,450,867 201,712 1,820,761
Ben White 10,000	 220,462 – 41,153
Terry Scicluna 10,000	 439,521 – 215,384
Christopher Bell –	 – – –
Jean–Paul Giraud
1
 –	 – – –
Ishbel Macpherson 23,200	 – 13,200 –
Dennis Woodside
2
 –	 – – –
Dana Dunne
3
 –	 – – –
1
Jean-Paul Giraud resigned on 14 January 2010
2
Dennis Woodside resigned on 31 January 2010
3
Dana Dunne was appointed on 14 January 2010
There have been no changes to this information during the period 1 February 2010 to 21 April 2010. Directors and Governance
GAME. Press forward
69
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Executive Director shareholding requirements
The Remuneration Committee has confirmed to the Executive Directors that in order to further 
align their interests with those of the shareholders, it is desirable for them to hold shares to the 
value of at least 100 per cent of salary.  This shareholding should be achieved over a three year 
period. The deferred share element of Executive Directors’ bonuses, which are held in trust, are 
taken into account when calculating the value of the shares the Executive Directors hold.
     Total value Total value 
     of shares as a 
 Shares held Value at Shares held Value at held at percentage 
 directly 21 April 2010 in Trust 21 April 2010 21 April 2009 of salary
Lisa Morgan 600,488 £535,936 292,756 £261,284 £797,220 180%
Terry Scicluna 10,000 £8,925 – – £8,925 3%
Ben White
1
 10,000 £8,925 – – £8,925 3%
1
Ben White was appointed to the Board on 2 July 2009
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of the Directors were as follows: 
 Basic Performance Benefits  Total Pension 
 salary related bonus in kind Fees emoluments contributions
     2010 2009 2010 2009
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive
Lisa Morgan 444 67 24 – 535 912 89 89
Terry Scicluna 325 – 31 – 356 42 65 3
Ben White 236 130 – – 366 – 37 –
David Thomas 196 – 11 – 207 813 39 79
Non	Executive
Peter Lewis – – 5 150 155 155 – –
Christopher Bell – – – 45 45 45 – –
Dana Dunne – – – 2 2 – – –
Ishbel Macpherson – – – 46 46 45 – –
Jean–Paul Giraud  – – – 45 45 45 – –
Dennis Woodside – – – 40 40 23 – –
Total 1,201 197 71 328 1,797 2,080 230 171
Ben White was appointed on 2 July 2009
Dana Dunne was appointed on 14 January 2010
David Thomas resigned on 2 July 2009
Jean-Paul Giraud resigned on 14 January 2010
Dennis Woodside resigned on 31 January 2010
All pension contributions are to defined contribution pension schemes.
Benefits incorporate all assessable tax benefits arising from employment by the Company, which 
relate mainly to the provision of a company car. Directors’ Remuneration Report  continued
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
70
There are no contractual retirement dates 
included within the Executive Directors’ service 
contracts.
Service contracts
Lisa Morgan is employed under a service 
agreement dated 1 March 2005. This agreement is 
subject to 12 months’ notice of termination on 
either side. Under the contract, the Company has 
reserved the right to terminate Ms Morgan’s 
contract by paying a sum in lieu of notice equal 
to her annual basic salary and a sum equal to 
25 per cent of her basic salary in respect of her 
benefits at the termination date and a pro rated 
sum in respect of their annual bonus to the extent 
she would have been awarded a bonus having 
regard to the criteria of the bonus scheme that 
are assessed against objective performance 
criteria. Any payment will be subject to a discount 
of 17 per cent to reflect mitigation. Ms Morgan’s 
contract contains no other provisions for 
compensation payable on early termination.
Terry Scicluna and Ben White are employed 
under service agreements dated 15 October 
2008 and 2 July 2009 respectively. These 
agreements are subject to 12 months’ notice of 
termination on either side. Under the contracts 
the Company has reserved the right to 
terminate by paying a sum in lieu of notice 
equal to annual basic salary. This sum can be 
paid as a lump sum or in 12 instalments, at the 
Company’s discretion. There is no other provision 
for compensation payable on early termination 
of these contracts.
Current terms of employment of Executive Directors
 Date of original Date of Notice Basic salary 
 appointment contract period £ p.a.
Lisa Morgan  25 January 2000 1 March 2005 12 months’ notice 443,700
Terry Scicluna 15 October 2008 15 October 2008 12 months’ notice 325,000
Ben White 17 October 2005 2 July 2009 12 months’ notice 310,000
Current terms of appointment of Non Executive directors
The current terms of appointment of the Non Executive directors are as follows:
 Date of original Date of  Date of next Annual 
 appointment contract  Expires election fee £ p.a.
Peter Lewis 28 Nov 1995 1 Dec 2009  1 Dec 2012 2010 AGM 155,000¹
Christopher Bell  27 Jan 2003 28 Jan 2009 27 Jan 2012 2012 AGM 45,000²
Dana Dunne 1 February 2010 1 February 2010 1 February 2013 2010 AGM 40,000
Ishbel Macpherson   3 Oct 2005  3 Oct 2008 3 Oct 2011 2010 AGM 50,000³
David Mansfield 15 April 2010 15 April 2010 15 April 2013 2010 AGM 40,000
¹includes £5,000 in respect of Chairmanship of a Board committee and £5,000 contribution to office 
expenses
² includes £5,000 as senior Non Executive director
³ includes £10,000 in respect of Chairmanship of two Board committees
There are no provisions for compensation payable upon early termination of any of the above 
appointments. Directors and Governance
GAME. Press forward
71
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
The following graphs compare the total return on the Company’s shares with that of general 
retailers in the FTSE All-share index over the last five and three years. This index has been chosen as 
it is considered the most likely benchmark by which the majority of shareholders would want to 
assess their investment in a company the size of The GAME Group plc.
Performance growth
3 years from 31 January 2007 to 31 January 2010
Performance growth
5 years from 31 January 2005 to 31 January 2010
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Jan 10 Jul 09 Jan 09 Jul 08 Jan 08 Jul 07 Jan 07
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Jan 10 Jul 09 Jan 09 Jul 08 Jan 08 Jul 07 Jan 07 Jul 06 Jan 06 Jul 05 Jan 05
GAME Group FTSE All Share General Retailers
GAME Group FTSE All Share General Retailers
Source: Datastream
Annual General Meeting
In accordance with the requirements of s.439 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution will be proposed 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to approve this Directors’ Remuneration Report.
On behalf of the Board
Ishbel Macpherson
Chairman, Remuneration Committee
21 April 2010 Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of the GAME Group plc
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
72
We have audited the financial statements of 
The GAME Group plc for the year ended 
31 January 2010 which comprise the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, the consolidated balance sheet, the 
consolidated statement of changes in equity, 
the consolidated statement of cash flows, the 
parent company balance sheet and the 
related notes. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in the preparation of the 
Group financial statements is applicable law 
and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The 
financial reporting framework that has been 
applied in preparation of the parent company 
financial statements is applicable law and 
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice).
This report is made solely to the Company’s 
members, as a body, in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so 
that we might state to the Company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not 
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the Company and the Company’s 
members as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors 
and auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of 
directors’ responsibilities, the Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and International Standards on 
Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices 
Board’s (APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: 
whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the Group’s and the parent 
company’s circumstances and have been 
consistently applied and adequately disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting 
estimates made by the Directors; and the 
overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• the financial statements give a true and fair 
view of the state of the Group’s and the 
parent company’s affairs as at 31 January 
2010 and of the Group’s profit for the year 
then ended;
• the Group financial statements have been 
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the European Union;
• the parent company financial statements 
have been properly prepared in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice; and
• the financial statements have been prepared 
in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006; and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 
Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 
Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• the part of the directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the Companies Act 2006; 
and
• the information given in the directors’ report 
for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the 
financial statements. GAME. Press forward
73
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the 
following matters where the Companies Act 
2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
• adequate accounting records have not been 
kept by the parent company, or returns 
adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• the parent company financial statements and 
the part of the Directors’ remuneration report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns; or
• certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration 
specified by law are not made; or
• we have not received all the information and 
explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to 
review:
• the Directors’ statement, in relation to going 
concern; and
• the part of the corporate governance 
statement relating to the Company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the 
June 2008 Combined Code specified for our 
review.
Mr David Eagle
(senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of BDO LLP , statutory auditor
London
United Kingdom
21 April 2010
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership 
registered in England and Wales (with registered 
number OC305127).
Our results 74
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 January 2010
     Restated
    2010 2009
   Note £’000 £’000
  
Revenue   1 1,772,358 1,968,604
Cost of sales    1,279,666 1,454,097
  
Gross profit    492,692 514,507
Other operating expenses   2 404,102 390,214
  
Operating profit before non-recurring costs    94,789 130,881
Non-recurring costs   3 (6,199) (6,588)
  
Operating profit   4 88,590 124,293
Finance income   5 538 1,805
Finance costs   6 (4,917) (8,732)
  
Profit before taxation    84,211 117,366
Taxation    8 23,744 33,716
  
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent   60,467 83,650
  
Other comprehensive income:
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations   3,920 17,550
Deferred income tax on share-based payments   (1,078) (442)
Income tax on share-based payments    596 1,789
  
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax   3,438 18,897
  
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable 
to equity holders of the parent    63,905 102,547
  
Earnings per share – basic   10 17.45p 24.18p
 – diluted   10 17.42p 24.10p
  
All amounts relate to continuing activities.
The notes on pages 78 to 112 form part of these financial statements. 75
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Consolidated Balance Sheet
at 31 January 2010
    Restated Restated
   2010 2009 2008
  Note £’000 £’000 £’000
  
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment  11 161,121 165,609 130,662
Intangible assets  12 180,135 182,267 172,871
Deferred tax asset  18 3,614 4,004 –
  
   344,870 351,880 303,533
  
Current assets
Inventories  13 176,045 181,965 145,041
Trade and other receivables  14 48,316 55,465 53,845
Cash and cash equivalents   86,128 139,614 137,899
  
   310,489 377,044 336,785
  
Total assets   655,359 728,924 640,318
  
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables  15 258,203 349,182 318,624
Current portion of long-term borrowings  16 17,361 26,325 38,038
Leasehold property incentives  19 1,341 904 846
Current tax liabilities   12,943 26,037 15,862
  
   289,848 402,448 373,370
  
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings  16 23,908 31,847 57,809
Leasehold property incentives  19 10,048 8,328 6,414
Deferred tax liabilities  18 – – 1,120
  
   33,956 40,175 65,343
  
Total liabilities   323,804 442,623 438,713
  
Net assets   331,555 286,301 201,605
  
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share capital  20 17,333 17,316 17,167
Share premium account  21 46,662 46,462 44,848
Capital redemption reserve  22 2,248 2,248 2,223
Shares held in trust  22 (3,395) (6,451) (4,403)
Merger reserve  22 76,907 76,907 76,907
Foreign exchange reserve  22 27,374 23,454 5,904
Retained earnings  22 164,426 126,365 58,959
  
Total equity   331,555 286,301 201,605
  
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 21 April 2010 and 
were signed on its behalf by: 
Ben White
Director
The notes on pages 78 to 112 form part of these financial statements. 76
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 January 2010
 Share Share Capital Shares Merger Retained Foreign Total
 Capital Premium Redemption held in Reserve Earnings Exchange 
   Reserve Trust   Reserve 
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
 
At 1 February 2008 17,167 44,848 2,223 (4,403) 76,907 61,276 5,904 203,922
Restatement – – – – – (2,317) – (2,317)
 
At 1 February 2008
after restatement 17,167 44,848 2,223 (4,403) 76,907 58,959 5,904 201,605
 
Exchanges differences – – – – – – 17,550 17,550
on translation of foreign
currency net investment
in subsidiaries
Income tax on share–based 
payments
– Deferred tax – – – – – (442) – (442)
– Current tax – – – – – 1,789 – 1,789
 
Net income recognised
directly in equity – – – – – 1,347 17,550 18,897
Net income recognised        
in income statement – – – – – 83,650 – 83,650
 
Total recognised income
and expense – – – – – 84,997 17,550 102,547
Issue of shares 126 1,614 – – – – – 1,740
Purchase of shares – – – (3,828) – – – (3,828)
Exercise of options – – – 1,828 – (1,828) – –
Dividends paid – – – – – (16,490) – (16,490)
Share buyback (25) – 25 – – (1,241) – (1,241)
Share–based payments – – – – – 1,968 – 1,968
Net–settled options 48 – – (48) – – – –
 
At 1 February 2009 17,316 46,462 2,248 (6,451) 76,907 126,365 23,454 286,301
 
Exchanges differences – – – – – – 3,920 3,920
on translation of foreign
currency net investment
in subsidiaries
Income tax on share–based 
payments
– Deferred tax – – – – – (1,078) – (1,078)
– Current tax – – – – – 596 – 596
 
Net income recognised        
directly in equity – – – – – (482) 3,920 3,438
Net income recognised        
in income statement – – – – – 60,467 – 60,467
 
Total recognised income – – – – – 59,985 3,920 63,905
and expense
Issue of shares 17 200 – – – – – 217
Purchase of shares – – – (1,893) – – – (1,893)
Exercise of options – – – 4,949 – (4,949) – –
Dividends paid – – – – – (19,366) – (19,366)
Share–based payments – – – – – 2,391 – 2,391
 
At 31 January 2010 17,333 46,662 2,248 (3,395) 76,907 164,426 27,374 331,555
  77
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
for the year ended 31 January 2010
     Restated
    2010 2009
   Note £’000 £’000
  
Cash flow from operating activities
Operating profit    88,590 124,293
Equity-settled share-based payment expense   2,391 1,968
Depreciation and amortisation    32,898 28,901
Loss on disposal of non-current assets    2,734 146
Market value movement on financial instrument   81 211
  
    126,694 155,519
Decrease in trade and other receivables    6,869 212
Decrease/(increase) in inventories    7,220 (30,293)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables   (87,860) 28,573
Increase in leasehold incentives    1,757 1,573
  
Cash generated from operations    54,680 155,584
Finance costs paid    (4,917) (8,732)
Corporation tax paid    (36,626) (28,844)
  
Net cash from operating activities    13,137 118,008
  
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisitions   23 – (6,804)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment    (26,322) (48,727)
Purchase of intangible assets    (3,568) (4,718)
Proceeds from sale of equipment    455 1,128
Finance income received    538 1,805
  
Net cash used in investing activities    (28,897) (57,316)
  
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from issue of share capital    217 1,740
Shares purchased for Trust    (1,893) (3,828)
Purchase of own shares    – (1,241)
Payment of Term Loan    (63,330) (25,000)
Proceeds from Term Loan    50,000 –
Net payment of other long-term borrowings    (2,935) (13,765)
Payment of finance lease liabilities    (419) (393)
Dividends paid    (19,366) (16,490)
  
Net cash used in financing activities    (37,726) (58,977)
  
Net increase in net cash and cash equivalents   (53,486) 1,715
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year   139,614 137,899
  
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year   24 86,128 139,614
  
The notes on pages 78 to 112 form part of these financial statements. 78
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Statement of Accounting Policies
Basis of preparation
The accounting reference date of The GAME Group plc and all of its subsidiary undertakings (the “Group”) is 
31 January. The comparative year’s results are for the 53 week period ended 31 January 2009. The current year’s 
results are for the 52 week period ended 30 January 2010. 
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of the Group made up to 31 January 2010. 
The Group has used the acquisition method of accounting to consolidate the results of subsidiary undertakings. 
The results of subsidiary undertakings are included from the date of acquisition.
The Group consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 
as applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and those IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations issued and effective 
and endorsed by the European Union as at the time of preparing these financial statements. 
Estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial 
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 
Significant items subject to such assumptions and estimates include the useful lives of assets, the measurement 
and recognition of provisions, the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for potential corporation tax. 
The most critical accounting policies in determining the financial condition and results of the Group are those 
requiring the greatest degree of subjective or complex judgements. These relate to inventory valuation; lease 
costs; the valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets; share-based payments and taxation. The 
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are 
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the 
judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates. 
Changes in accounting policies
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” (Revised), IFRS 8 
“Operating Segments”, amendment to IFRS 2 “Share-based payments: vesting conditions and cancellations”, 
IFRIC 13 “Customer Loyalty Programmes” and IFRS 7 “Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments 
amendment”.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (Revised) includes the requirement to present a Statement of Changes 
in Equity as a primary statement and introduces the possibility of either a single Statement of Comprehensive 
Income (combining the Income Statement and a Statement of Comprehensive Income) or to retain the Income 
Statement with a supplementary Statement of Comprehensive Income. The Directors have chosen the second 
option. As this standard is concerned with presentation only it does not have any impact on the results or net 
assets of the Group.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about 
components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision-maker. The chief 
operating decision-maker has been identified as the Board of Directors. By contrast IAS 14 “Segmental 
Reporting” required business and geographical segments to be identified on a risks and rewards approach. 
The effect of applying IFRS 8 is to restate the 2008/09 Comparatives according to the operating segments, 
UK and Ireland Stores, International Stores, Global Online. The operating segments are reported in a manner 
consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board of Directors. The online segment is now reported 
separately, as the Board of Directors consider this segment to be of growing importance.   
79
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Statement of Accounting Policies
continued
Our results
Amendment to IFRS 2 “Share-based payments: vesting conditions and cancellations” results in an immediate 
acceleration of the IFRS 2 expense that would otherwise have been recognised in future periods should an 
employee decide to stop contributing to the savings plan as well as in a potential revision to the fair value of the 
awards granted to factor in the probability of employees withdrawing from such a plan. Management has 
concluded that so far there has been no impact on the results of the Group as a result of this amendment.
IFRIC 13 “Customer Loyalty Programmes” requires the deferral of revenue for the fair value of Loyalty Card points 
until these points are redeemed. Previously only the estimated cost of these points was accrued with the 
associated charge being recognised in cost of sales. The effect of this change is to decrease profit before tax in 
the prior period by £2.2 million. Additionally, the effect of this change has been to reduce the retained earnings 
at 1 February 2008 by £2.3 million.
The table set out below demonstrates the impact of this upon Operating Profit to show the re-statement to the 
figures previously disclosed.
     2009 £’000
Operating profit before non-recurring costs and IFRIC 13    133,128
IFRIC 13 impact     (2,247)
Operating profit before non-recurring costs     130,881
IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments amendment requires additional disclosures on the 
hierarchy of fair values which following adoption have now been reported. As this amendment is concerned 
with disclosures only it does not have any impact on the result or net assets of the Group.
Standards and Interpretations in issue not yet adopted
The International Accounting Standards Board and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations 
Committee have issued the following standards and interpretations to be applied to financial statements with 
periods commencing on or after the following dates:
International Accounting Standards (IAS/IFRS)  Effective Date
IFRS 3*  Business Combinations amendment and complementary amendments 
to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements  01/07/2009
IAS 39*  Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement: Eligible Hedged 
Items amendment 01/07/2009
IFRS 5  Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations amendment 01/01/2010
IAS 7 Statement of cash flows amendment 01/01/2010
IAS 18 Revenue amendment 01/01/2010
IAS 36 Impairment of assets amendment 01/01/2010
IAS 38 Intangible assets amendment 01/01/2010
IFRS 1* Additional exemptions for First Time adopters amendments 01/01/2010
IFRS 2* Group Cash-settled Share-based payment Transactions amendments 01/01/2010
IFRS 9* Financial Instruments 01/01/2013
 Improvements to IFRSs* Various 80
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Statement of Accounting Policies  continued
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) Effective Date
IFRIC 16* Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation 01/01/2009
IFRIC 9* and Embedded derivatives amendments 30/06/2009 
IAS 39* 
IFRIC 15* Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate 01/01/2009
IFRIC 17* Distributions of Non-cash assets to owners 01/07/2009
IFRIC 18* Transfers of assets from customers 01/07/2009
IFRIC 19* Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 01/07/2010
*These standards and interpretations are not endorsed by the EU at present. 
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material 
impact on the Group’s financial statements in the period of initial application.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities 
controlled by the Company. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and 
operating policies of an entity so as to obtain the benefits from its activities.
The results of the subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income 
statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting 
policies into line with those used by other members of the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. A list of the 
principal subsidiaries is included in Note 15 to the Company Financial Statements.
Revenue
Revenue comprises the value of sales (excluding VAT and similar taxes, trade discounts and intra-Group 
transactions) of goods and services provided in the normal course of business. Revenue is recognised at the 
point of sale, for high street retailing, to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the 
Group. On-line revenue is recognised when the goods are despatched.
Non-recurring costs
The Group presents as “Non-recurring costs” on the face of the income statement those costs which, because of 
the nature and expected infrequency of events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow 
shareholders to better understand the financial performance in the year. The Group’s policy is to expense these 
costs in the period in which they were incurred.
Non-recurring costs include the costs of integrating a new business.
Reward Card Scheme 
The Group operates a reward card programme which allows members to accumulate points on purchases, get 
exclusive offers and other special benefits. The value of points issued is deferred and recognised as revenue on 
redemption of the points by the customer.   
81
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Statement of Accounting Policies
continued
Our results
Gift vouchers
Revenue from gift vouchers and gift cards sold by the Group is recognised on the redemption of the gift voucher 
or gift card. Monies received are shown as deferred revenue prior to redemption.
Foreign currencies
The functional and presentational currency of the Group is pounds sterling.
Foreign currency transactions of individual companies are translated at the exchange rates ruling when they 
occurred. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the balance 
sheet dates. 
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average rates of exchange during the year and their 
balance sheets translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet dates. Foreign 
exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets of foreign subsidiary undertakings and 
from translating the profit and loss account at an average rate are taken to reserves.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative exchange differences recognised in the foreign exchange 
reserve relating to that operation up to the date of disposal are transferred to the income statement as part of 
the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and fair value adjustments are treated as assets/
liabilities of the foreign operation and are expressed in the functional currency of the foreign operation. 
Goodwill and fair value adjustments are translated at the closing rate in the same manner as any other assets 
and liabilities. The Group has taken advantage of the provisions under IFRS 1 to avoid applying this to 
acquisitions made before the transition date (1 February 2004).
Interest
Interest payable is charged to the income statement as incurred, except where the borrowing finances property, 
plant and equipment in the course of construction. Such interest is capitalised until the asset has reached 
practical completion and is then written off by way of depreciation of the relevant asset.
Dividends
The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the Annual General Meeting whilst interim 
dividends are charged in the period they are paid.
Goodwill and other intangibles
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking is the difference between the fair value of the 
consideration paid and the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. 
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least twice a year. The impairment review is 
assessed by reference to the value-in-use, using internal forecasts and a discount rate based on the Group’s 
weighted average cost of capital. The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the 
choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows. Any impairment is 
recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
The valuation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations is based on assumptions and the 
Directors draw upon a variety of external sources to aid them in the determination of appropriate data to use 
such valuations. Brands acquired through business combinations are amortised over their expected useful life. 82
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Statement of Accounting Policies  continued
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit 
and loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS (1 February 2004) has been retained at the 
previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date. 
Impairment of Tangible and Intangible Assets excluding Goodwill
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to 
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such 
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the 
impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, 
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. 
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an 
indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use. If the recoverable amount of 
an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the 
asset (cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an 
expense immediately. 
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is 
increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does 
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised 
for the asset (cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as 
income immediately. 
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, Plant and Equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised 
impairment loss. 
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less estimated residual values of all property, plant and equipment, 
on a straight-line basis, over their expected useful lives at the following annual rates:
Short leasehold property – over period of lease
Improvements to leasehold property – 10%
Freehold Land – 0%
Freehold property – 1% to 5%
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 20% to 33%
The residual values of Property, Plant and Equipment are re-assessed on an annual basis. 
Computer Software and Web Development
Computer software and web development are accounted for as intangible assets where the criteria of IAS 38 
“Intangible Assets” has been met. Intangible assets are valued at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis 
over five years unless the asset can be demonstrated to have an indefinite life. Intangible assets with finite lives 
are reviewed for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying value may not be recoverable. 
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment annually.  
83
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Statement of Accounting Policies
continued
Our results
Leased assets 
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at 
the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease. 
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. 
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to 
achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged 
directly against income, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are 
capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on borrowing costs.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
relevant lease.
Premiums paid or received on the acquisition of short leasehold properties are transferred to the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over the length of the lease.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated to include, where 
applicable, duties, handling, transport and other directly attributable costs.
Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling prices less further costs expected to be incurred in 
selling and distribution.
Provisions
A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it 
is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, 
expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects the risks specific to the 
liability. Calculations of these provisions require judgements to be made, which include forecast consumer 
demand and inventory loss trends.
Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current Tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from the net profit as 
reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or 
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability 
for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance 
sheet date.
Deferred Tax
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of 
taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are 
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be 
utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from 
the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that 
affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit. 84
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Statement of Accounting Policies  continued
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries 
and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the 
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent 
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be 
recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or 
the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items 
charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Pension contributions
The Group makes payments to a number of defined contribution pension schemes. The assets of these schemes 
do not form part of the assets of the Group. The pension cost charge represents contributions payable during 
the year.
Share-based payments
Share based incentive arrangements are provided to employees under the Group’s share option, incentive and 
sharesave schemes. Share options granted to employees and share-based arrangements put in place since 
7 November 2002 are valued at the date of grant or award using an appropriate option pricing model and are 
charged to the income statement over the performance or vesting period of the scheme. The annual charge is 
modified to take account of shares forfeited by employees who leave during the performance or vesting 
period and, in the case of non-market related performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely that the 
option will vest.
When shares and share options are awarded to employees a charge is made to the income statement. 
The associated deferred tax is charged to the income statement with any excess deferred tax being recorded 
directly in reserves in accordance with IAS 12.
The directors are of the opinion that the Black-Scholes model is the most appropriate due to its simplicity and 
is deemed the most accurate when taking into account the expected timing of the exercise of options. 
The options model requires highly subjective assumptions to be made and the Directors draw upon a variety of 
external sources to aid them in the determination of appropriate data to use in such calculations. During the 
vesting period of share options, an assessment is required of the likelihood of whether non-market performance 
conditions will be met, which affects the estimate of the number of share options that will vest, and hence the 
amount charged to the income statement.
Employee Benefit Trust 
The cost of the Company’s shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust is deducted from the shareholders’ funds in 
the Group balance sheet. Any cash received by the Trust on disposal of the shares it holds is also recognised 
directly in shareholders’ funds. Other assets and liabilities of the Trust (including borrowings) are recognised as 
assets and liabilities of the Group.
Any shares held by the Trust are treated as cancelled for the purposes of calculating earnings per share.
Financial risk management 
The Group’s treasury function provides a centralised service for the provision of finance and the management 
and control of liquidity, foreign exchange and interest rates. The function operates as a cost centre and 
manages the Group’s treasury exposures to reduce risk in accordance with policies approved by the Board.  
85
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Statement of Accounting Policies
continued
Our results
The Group’s principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, overdrafts, finance leases, cash and short-term 
deposits. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Group’s operations. The 
Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables which arise directly 
from its operations. The Group also enters into interest rate swaps derivative transactions. Their purpose is to assist 
in the management of the Group’s financial risk. These instruments are also used, where appropriate, to 
generate the desired effective interest rate profile. The Group hedge accounts for commercial purposes and not 
for accounting purposes.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Group’s policy that no trading in financial instruments 
shall be undertaken.
The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency 
risk and credit risk. The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are 
summarised below:
Interest rate risk
The Group’s exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s long-term debt 
obligations and deposits. The Group’s policy is to manage its interest cost using interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk
Due to the international nature of its activities, the Group’s reported profits, net assets and gearing are all 
affected by foreign exchange movements.
Although the Group carries out operations through a number of foreign enterprises, Group exposure to currency 
risk at a transactional level is minimal. The day to day transactions of overseas subsidiaries are carried out in 
local currencies.
Credit risk
The Group trades only with recognised, credit worthy third parties. The Group does not enter into derivatives to 
manage its credit risk. At the balance sheet date there were no concentrations of credit risk.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash 
equivalents and derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counter 
party with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments. Derivative counterparties 
and cash transactions are limited to high credit-quality financial institutions. The Group has policies that limit 
the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution. Cash surpluses are placed on deposit only with 
financial counterparties with a short-term credit ratings of A1/P1 or better and long-term ratings of A1/A+ 
or better.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of 
borrowings with a range of maturities. The Group’s policy on liquidity is to ensure that there are sufficient 
medium and long-term committed borrowing facilities to meet the medium-term funding requirements. 
To achieve this it seeks to maintain cash balances to meet expected requirements for a period of at least 
60 days. The liquidity risk for each country is managed centrally. Budgets are set locally but agreed by the 
Board in advance to enable the Group’s cash requirements to be anticipated.
Financial assets
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: “financial assets at fair value through profit 
or loss (FVTPL)”, and “loans and receivables”. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the  86
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Statement of Accounting Policies  continued
financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. The Group does not hold any “held-to-
maturity” investments or AFS financial assets.
Financial assets at FVTPL
This category comprises only in-the-money derivatives (see Financial liabilities section for out-of-money 
derivatives). They are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the 
consolidated income statement in finance income or expense line. The Group does not have any assets held 
for trading nor does it voluntarily classify any financial assets as being at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables
Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted 
in an active market are classified as loans and receivables. 
Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost, 
less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade and other receivables is established when 
there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original 
terms of the receivables. This provision represents the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows. The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits at call with banks, bank overdrafts and unpresented 
cheques. Bank overdrafts where there is no right of set off are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the 
balance sheet.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the 
recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the 
substance of the contractual arrangements. Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair 
value through profit or loss (FVTPL) or “other financial liabilities”.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL
This category comprises only “out of the money” derivatives.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with 
foreign exchange or interest fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair 
value with subsequent movements in fair value taken to the income statement.
Net interest arising on interest rate agreements is taken to the income statement.
Other than these derivative financial instruments, the Group does not have any liabilities held for trading nor has 
it designated financial liabilities as being at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair value for the Group’s interest rate swaps derivatives is based on broker quotes for similar instruments.
Other financial liabilities
Trade and other payables are recognised on the trade date of the related transactions. Trade payables are not 
interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.  
87
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Statement of Accounting Policies
continued
Our results
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
stated at amortised cost, with any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the 
redemption value recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective 
interest method.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting 
all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct 
issue costs.
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern 
while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The 
Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from 2009.
In managing its capital, the Group’s primary objective is to ensure its continued ability to provide a consistent 
return for its equity shareholders through a combination of capital growth and distributions. In order to achieve 
this objective, the Group seeks to maintain a gearing ratio that balances risks and returns at an acceptable 
level and also to maintain a sufficient funding base to enable the Group to meet its working capital and 
strategic investment needs. In making decisions to adjust its capital structure to achieve these aims, either 
through altering its dividend policy, new share issues, or the reduction of debt, the Group considers not only its 
short-term position but also its long-term operational and strategic objectives.  88
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
1 Revenue, profit and net assets
Revenue, pre-tax profits and net assets all relate to the retail of pc and video game products and the Group’s 
operations are organised and managed by geographic location only. Management consider the reportable 
operating segments in accordance with IFRS 8 to be split between the UK and Ireland Stores, International Stores, 
and Global Online. Management do not consider there to be any major individual customers of the Group. 
Revenue by origin and destination are not materially different. Inter-segment transactions between operating 
segments are entered into on an arms-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
  United
  Kingdom International Global 
  and Ireland Stores Online Total
  2010 2010 2010 2010
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  1,072,698 602,556 97,104 1,772,358
Cost of sales  (751,296) (447,373) (80,997) (1,279,666)
Gross profit  321,402 155,183 16,107 492,692
Other operating expenses excluding
 inter-segment expenses  (240,044) (146,633) (11,226) (397,903)
Inter-segment expenses  3,331 (3,331) – –
Operating profit before non-recurring costs  84,689 5,219 4,881 94,789
Non-recurring costs  (6,199) – – (6,199)
Operating profit  78,490 5,219 4,881 88,590
Net finance costs excluding inter-segment  (4,184) (195) – (4,379)
Inter-segment finance costs  2,544 (2,544) – –
Taxation  (20,321) (3,423) – (23,744)
Profit/(loss) after tax  56,529 (943) 4,881 60,467
Other segmental information: 
Goodwill and other intangibles  153,649 25,974 512 180,135
Other assets  212,043 253,185 9,996 475,224
Assets  365,692 279,159 10,508 655,359
Liabilities  (166,077) (149,524) (8,203) (323,804)
Net assets  199,615 129,635 2,305 331,555
Capital expenditure  11,013 14,333 4,544 29,890
Depreciation and amortisation  15,908 14,751 2,239 32,898
Share-based payment expense  2,391 – – 2,391
Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2010  
89
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
1 Revenue, profit and net assets (continued)
  United
  Kingdom International Global 
  and Ireland Stores Online Total
  2009 2009 2009 2009
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue  1,286,642 575,172 106,790 1,968,604
Cost of sales  (932,434) (434,914) (86,749) (1,454,097)
Gross profit  354,208 140,258 20,041 514,507
Other operating expenses excluding
 inter-segment expenses  (247,627) (122,037) (13,962) (383,626)
Inter-segment expenses  7,182 (7,182) – –
Operating profit before non-recurring costs  113,763 11,039 6,079 130,881
Non-recurring costs  (6,588) – – (6,588)
Operating profit  107,175 11,039 6,079 124,293
Net finance costs excluding inter-segment  (6,453) (474) – (6,927)
Inter-segment finance costs  4,370 (4,370) – –
Taxation  (28,330) (5,386) – (33,716)
Profit after tax  76,762 809 6,079 83,650
Other segmental information: 
Goodwill and other intangibles  154,362 27,134 771 182,267
Other assets  280,987 258,154 7,516 546,657
Assets  435,349 285,288 8,287 728,924
Liabilities  (271,113) (164,674) (6,836) (442,623)
Net assets  164,236 120,614 1,451 286,301
Capital expenditure  20,152 28,805 4,488 53,445
Depreciation and amortisation  15,451 12,059 1,391 28,901
Share-based payment expense  1,968 – – 1,968
Our results 90
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
1 Revenue, profit and net assets (continued)
  2010  2009
  
  Total  Total 
  £’000 % of Total £’000 % of Total
Revenue    
Hardware  433,748 24.5 555,369 28.2
Software  730,800 41.2 873,835 44.4
New hardware and software  1,164,548 65.7 1,429,204 72.6
Preowned  374,485 21.1 353,409 18.0
Other  233,325 13.2 185,991 9.4
Total  1,772,358 100.0 1,968,604 100.0
  2010  2009
  
  Total  Total 
  £’000 % of Total £’000 % of Total
Gross margin
New hardware and software  257,362 52.2 319,058 62.0
Preowned  156,007 31.7 138,176 26.9
Other  79,323 16.1 57,273 11.1
Total  492,692 100.0 514,507 100.0
    2010 2009
    Total Total
    % %
Gross margin
New hardware and software    22.1 22.3
Preowned    41.7 39.1
Other    34.0 30.8
Total Group    27.8 26.1  
91
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
Our results
1 Revenue, profit and net assets (continued)
    Year 53 weeks
    ended ended
    31 January 31 January
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Turnover by territory
United Kingdom and Ireland    1,072,698 1,286,642
France    187,291 194,855
Iberia    288,342 260,389
Scandinavia    49,962 52,631
Australia    69,705 62,751
Czech Republic    7,256 4,546
Total Stores    1,675,254 1,861,814
Total Online    97,104 106,790
Total Turnover    1,772,358 1,968,604
Stores by territory    Number Number
United Kingdom and Ireland    677 696
France    199 192
Iberia    283 258
Scandinavia    68 66
Australia    118 101
Czech Republic    29 22
    1,374 1,335
Franchises
France    – 1
Iberia    5 5
Australia    1 1
    6 7
Trading square footage by territory    Sq ft Sq ft
United Kingdom and Ireland    797,594 808,322
France    185,172 177,729
Iberia    236,045 218,395
Scandinavia    69,575 62,367
Australia    132,564 113,417
Czech Republic    17,483 12,611
    1,438,433 1,392,841 Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
92
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
2 Other operating expenses
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Selling and distribution    324,198 304,428
Administrative expenses    79,904 85,786
    404,102 390,214
Administrative expenses include non-recurring costs of £6,199,486 (2009: £6,587,603) (see Note 3).
3 Non-recurring costs
In the current year administrative expenses include non-recurring costs of £6,199,486 (2009: £6,587,603) 
in relation to integration costs following the acquisition of Gamestation.
4 Operating profit
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
This is stated after charging: 
Depreciation charge     28,593 25,264
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets     4,305 3,637
Operating lease rentals – leasehold premises   87,775 82,392
 – other   1,289 1,627
Loss on disposal of non current assets     2,734 146
Auditors’ remuneration – Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the 
  audit of the Company’s annual accounts  75 85
 – Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s 
  subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation   355 330
 – other services supplied pursuant to legislation  33 32
 – other services relating to tax   294 178
 – Recruitment and remuneration services  – –
 – All other services   169 70
5 Finance income
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Interest income on financial assets classified as loans and receivables  538 1,805
    538 1,805  
93
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
6 Finance costs
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Interest expense for finance lease and hire purchase arrangements  49 35
Interest expense for borrowings at amortised cost   4,866 8,667
Other interest    2 30
Finance costs    4,917 8,732
7 Employees 
Staff costs for all employees (including Directors) consist of: 
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Wages and salaries    135,070 127,001
Social security costs    18,710 16,807
Other pension costs    1,700 1,445
Share-based payment expense (see Note 20g)   2,391 1,968
    157,871 147,221
The average number of employees of the Group during the year, including Directors, was as follows: 
    2010 2009
    Number Number
Selling    9,775 9,571
Administration    817 879
    10,592 10,450
Details of Directors’ remuneration are included within the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 71.
Our results Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
94
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
8 Taxation 
(a) Analysis of charge in the year
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Current tax
UK corporation tax    22,192 34,235
Adjustments in respect of prior periods    (1,950) 190
Overseas tax payable    4,192 4,903
Total current tax    24,434 39,328
Deferred tax
Current year movement    (1,695) (5,651)
Prior year movement    1,005 39
Taxation on profit on ordinary activities    23,744 33,716
(b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation    84,211 117,366
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard 
 rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28.0% (2009: 28.3%)   23,579 33,247
Effects of: 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes    1,698 1,892
Effect of foreign tax rates    283 538
Tax losses incurred and (utilised)/not utilised in the year   (1,128) (1,705)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods   (946) 229
Other items    258 (485)
Tax charge for the year    23,744 33,716
The Group has approximately £54 million (2009: £31 million) of unrelieved trading losses available for offset 
against future taxable profits of certain Group companies. Of these losses, £11.4 million (2009: £4.5 million) has 
been provided which represents a recognised deferred tax asset of £3.1 million (2009: £1.6 million). There are 
unprovided tax losses of £42.6 million (2009: £26.5 million). Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in 
respect of these losses as there is uncertainty over future taxable profits against which these can be offset.  
95
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
Our results
9 Dividends
  2010  2009
  
  Pence  Pence 
  per share £’000 per share £’000
Final paid  3.71 12,849 2.97 10,292
Interim paid  1.88 6,517 1.79 6,198
   19,366  16,490
It is proposed that a final dividend of 3.90p will be paid on 16 July 2010 to shareholders on the register on 25 June 2010.
10 Earnings per share
The calculation of earnings per share for the year ended 31 January 2010 is based on the profit after taxation of 
£60,467,009 (2009: £83,650,000). The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on a weighted average 
number of 346,512,537 (2009: 345,895,311) shares in issue during the year. The number of shares used in these 
calculations and the reconciliation of denominators used for basic and diluted earnings per share calculations 
is set out in the table below: 
    Effect of
   Basic share options Diluted
Year ended 31 January 2010   346,512,537 677,327 347,189,864
Year ended 31 January 2009   345,895,311 1,128,717 347,024,028
Additional disclosure has been provided in respect of earnings per share before non-recurring costs as the 
directors believe this gives a better view of ongoing maintainable earnings in the prior year.
    2010 2009
    Pence Pence
Basic earnings per share    17.45 24.18
Non-recurring costs per share    1.79 1.91
Basic earnings per share before non-recurring costs   19.24 26.09
Diluted earnings per share    17.42 24.10
The total potentially dilutive share options are disclosed in Note 20d. There are 648,948 anti-dilutive share options 
in the current year (2009: nil). Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
96
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
11 Property, plant and equipment
  Short 
 Freehold leasehold Improvements Fixtures,
 land and land and to leasehold fittings and
 property property property equipment Total
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group
Cost 
At 31 January 2008  20,563 43,143 83,161 72,369  219,236
Additions 110 4,090 19,085 25,442 48,727
Acquisitions 125 224 33 224 606
Disposals (13) (423) (2,326) (1,915) (4,677)
Exchange adjustment 9 6,126 6,419 3,298 15,852
At 31 January 2009  20,794 53,160 106,372 99,418 279,744
Additions 178 3,174 6,770 16,200 26,322
Acquisitions     
Disposals (362) (615) (2,648) (3,393) (7,018)
Exchange adjustment 10 (1,277) (356) 1,743 120
At 31 January 2010 20,620 54,442 110,138 113,968 299,168
Accumulated depreciation 
 and impairment
At 31 January 2008 1,323 7,779 36,027 43,445 88,574
Charge for the year 581 1,663 11,578 11,442 25,264
Acquisitions 71 – 7 85 163
Disposals (16) (338) (1,068) (2,087) (3,509)
Exchange adjustment (116) 255 1,987 1,517 3,643
At 31 January 2009 1,843 9,359 48,531 54,402 114,135
Charge for the year 464 1,831 10,939 15,359 28,593
Acquisitions     
Disposals (146) (255) (1,845) (2,387) (4,633)
Exchange adjustment 4 (63) (221) 232 (48)
At 31 January 2010 2,165 10,872 57,404 67,606 138,047
Carrying amount
At 31 January 2010 18,455 43,570 52,734 46,362 161,121
At 31 January 2009 18,951 43,801 57,841 45,016 165,609
At 31 January 2008 19,240 35,364 47,134 28,924 130,662
The net book value of tangible fixed assets includes an amount of £323,485 (2009: £1,217,221) in respect of 
assets held under finance lease and hire purchase contracts, and these are recorded in fixtures, fittings and 
equipment. The related depreciation charge for the year was £893,736 (2009: £579,056). The main finance leases 
are for EPOS equipment.  
97
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
12 Intangible fixed assets
    Computer 
  Goodwill Brands software Total
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Group
Cost
At 31 January 2008  152,117 17,991 8,972 179,080
Additions  306 25 4,433 4,764
Acquisitions  6,233 187 122 6,542
Disposals  – (83) (24) (107)
Exchange adjustment  2,001 44 112 2,157
At 31 January 2009  160,657 18,164 13,615 192,436
Additions  – 10 3,558 3,568
Acquisitions  – – – –
Disposals  – – (2,460) (2,460)
Exchange adjustment  (461) 48 (120) (533)
At 31 January 2010  160,196 18,222 14,593 193,011
Amortisation    
At 31 January 2008  35 1,120 5,054 6,209
Charge for the year  – 1,155 2,482 3,637
Acquisitions  – 5 68 73
Disposals/impairments  – – – –
Exchange adjustment  170 (4) 84 250
At 31 January 2009  205 2,276 7,688 10,169
Charge for the year  – 1,257 3,048 4,305
Acquisitions  – – – –
Disposals/impairments  – – (1,656) (1,656)
Exchange adjustment  (24) 7 75 58
At 31 January 2010  181 3,540 9,155 12,876
Carrying Amount
At 31 January 2010  160,015 14,682 5,438 180,135
At 31 January 2009  160,452 15,888 5,927 182,267
At 31 January 2008  152,082 16,871 3,918 172,871
Goodwill principally relates to the GAME and Gamestation brands. The goodwill is allocated, for impairment 
testing purposes, to cash-generating units as follows: 
     £’000
UK and Ireland     135,033
International     24,982
Total     160,015
Our results Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
98
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
12 Intangible fixed assets (continued)
The carrying value of goodwill has been assessed on a value-in-use basis. The key assumptions for the calculations 
are those regarding growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs. The growth rates are 
based on industry forecasts, changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and 
expectations of future changes in the market. The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent 
financial budgets approved by management for the next three years and extrapolates cash flows for no more than 
13 years using a steady growth rate applicable to the relevant market. This rate does not exceed the average 
long-term growth rate for the relevant markets. The cash flows were discounted using pre-tax discount rates between 
3 per cent and 8 per cent dependent on the territories concerned and GAME’s operations in those territories. No 
impairments were recognised in the year.
To cause the carrying value of any of the Group’s business units to exceed their recoverable amount would require 
material and significant adverse changes in one or a number of the assumptions made. The Board do not consider 
these to be reasonably possible changes.
13 Inventories
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Finished goods and goods held for resale    176,045 181,965
The Directors consider that the replacement value of inventories is not materially different from their carrying 
value. The stock provision in the current year is £24,905,000 (2009: £20,338,000).
14 Trade and other receivables
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Amounts falling due within one year: 
Trade receivables    16,022 16,197
Other receivables    13,134 22,066
VAT recoverable    – 64
Total trade and other receivables    29,156 38,327
Prepayments and accrued income    19,160 17,138
    48,316 55,465
A large proportion of the trade receivables of the Group relates to customers using credit cards or similar 
arrangements to purchase goods. GAME bears no risk of recovery and as a result, the risk of impairment of 
accounts receivable is not considered by the Directors to be significant.
As at 31 January 2010 and 31 January 2009 there were no amounts which were past due and no amounts which 
were impaired.
The fair values of trade and other receivables are the same as book values as credit risk has been addressed as 
part of impairment provisioning and due to the short-term nature of the amounts receivable they are not subject 
to other fluctuations in market rates.  
99
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
15 Trade and other payables
    Restated Restated
   2010 2009 2008
   £’000 £’000 £’000
Amounts falling due within one year: 
Trade payables   159,441 216,156 192,529
Other payables   6,041 6,895 7,838
Tax and social security costs   5,924 8,930 4,039
VAT payable   34,091 45,359 50,206
Accruals and deferred income   52,706 71,842 64,012
   258,203 349,182 318,624
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30 days following the end of the month 
of receipt.
Book values approximate to fair value at 31 January 2010 and 31 January 2009 due to the short-term nature of 
these items and taking into account the credit risk of the Group. The difference between the book and fair 
values is not considered to be material.
16 Borrowings
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Long-term: 
Current portion: 
Bank loans    16,864 25,948
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts  497 377
    17,361 26,325
Non current portion: 
Bank loans    23,782 31,183
Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts  126 664
    23,908 31,847
The borrowings are repayable as follows: 
On demand or within one year    16,864 25,948
In one to two years    15,736 31,183
In more than two years but less than five years   8,046 –
    40,646 57,131
The finance leases are repayable as follows: 
On demand or within one year    497 377
In one to two years    126 221
In more than two years but less than five years   – 443
After five years    – –
    623 1,041
Our results Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
100
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
16 Borrowings (continued)
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
The gross contractual maturity of financial liabilities is as follows:  
On demand or within one year    18,662 27,574
In one to two years    16,581 32,102
In more than two years but less than five years   8,140 -
Less: interest due    (2,114) (1,504)
    41,269 58,172
There is no material difference between the book value and current value of these borrowings.
17 Financial instruments
Financial risk management
Details of the Group’s financial risk management objectives, including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, 
credit risk and liquidity risk management, are disclosed in the Statement of Accounting Policies on page 84.
Categories of financial instruments
    Loans and receivables
  
    2010 2009
Financial assets    £’000 £’000
Current financial assets
Trade and other receivables (Note 14)    29,156 38,327
Net cash and cash equivalents (Note 24)    86,128 139,614
    115,284 177,941
    Financial liabilities
    measured at 
    amortised cost
  
    2010 2009
Financial liabilities    £’000 £’000
Current financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (Note 15)    258,203 349,182
Loans and borrowings (Note 16)    17,361 26,325
Total current financial liabilities    275,564 375,507
  
Non-current financial liabilities  
Loans and borrowings (Note 16)    23,908 31,847
Total non-current financial liabilities    23,908 31,847
Total financial liabilities    299,472 407,354
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised 
cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.  
101
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
17 Financial instruments (continued)
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is represented by the carrying value of the financial 
assets in the balance sheet. 
The directors review any requirement for interest rate hedging during the year dependent upon the level of 
borrowings.
(a) Interest rate and currency of borrowings
The currency and interest rate exposure of the Group’s borrowings is shown below: 
 
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Floating rate Euro borrowings    1,128 2,131
Floating rate Sterling borrowings    40,141 56,041
    41,269 58,172
The floating rate borrowings comprise bank borrowings and finance leases bearing interest rates based upon 
LIBOR and EURIBOR. 
The Group holds a Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) of £125 million to be used for general corporate and working 
capital purposes. As at 31 January 2010 an amount of €nil (2009: €nil) was drawn down for use in Spain. 
The interest rate on the RCF is based on LIBOR and EURIBOR.
The floating rate sterling borrowings comprise a £41.7 million Term Loan taken out in order to refinance the 
existing debt at GAME. The interest rate on the loan is based on LIBOR. The second repayment is due in July 2010 
and four further instalments are due.
The terms of the loan facility indicates a fixed charge over the freehold property and a floating charge over assets.
(b) Interest rate and currency of cash balances
The currency and interest rate exposure of the Group’s floating rate cash balances is shown below: 
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Sterling    45,500 109,254
Euro    26,783 21,765
Swedish Krona    4,473 3,377
Danish Krone    229 624
Norwegian Krone    806 1,115
Australian Dollar    7,447 3,157
Czech Koruna    890 322
    86,128 139,614
The floating rate assets comprise bank accounts bearing interest rates based upon LIBOR and EURIBOR. There are 
no fixed rate financial assets.
Our results Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
102
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
17 Financial instruments (continued)
(c) Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analyses below are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions 
constant. In practice this is unlikely to occur and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated, for 
example, a change in interest rate and a change in foreign currency interest rates. The sensitivity analysis 
prepared by management for foreign currency risk and interest rate risk illustrates how changes in the fair value 
or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
At 31 January 2010, if interest rates on the floating rate borrowings denominated in sterling had been 100 basis 
points higher with all other variables held constant, profit after tax for the period would be £1,131,051 lower 
(2009: £1,137,427 lower).
At 31 January 2010, if interest rates on the floating rate borrowings denominated in euros had been 100 basis 
points higher with all other variables held constant, profit after tax for the period would be £271,576 lower 
(2009: £145,682 lower).
The directors consider that 100 basis points is the maximum likely change to Sterling and Euro interest rates over 
the next year, being the period up to the next point at which the Group expects to make these disclosures.
The tables in (a) and (b) above present financial liabilities and assets denominated in foreign currencies held 
by the Group in 2010 and 2009. If the Euro weakened or strengthened by 10 per cent against Sterling, with all 
other variables held constant, profit after tax and equity would reduce by £331,991 (2009: reduce by £850,255). 
(d) Fair value of borrowings and financial assets
Set out below is an analysis of all the Group’s borrowings and financial assets by category. The fair value of 
floating rate borrowings is the amortised cost because the interest rate payments are based on market value.
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Trade and other receivables    29,156 38,327
Net cash and cash equivalents    86,128 139,614
Current portion of long-term debt    (17,361) (26,325)
Non current portion of long-term debt    (23,908) (31,847)
The Directors believe that as they are short term, the fair values for all items, other than long-term debt, equate to 
their book value.
The fair values of both current and non-current bank borrowings are based on cash flows discounted using 
rates based on the applicable market rate. The discount rate applied were within the range 3 per cent to 
4 per cent (2009: 2 per cent to 3 per cent).
(e) The Group had no material monetary assets or liabilities that are not denominated in the functional 
currency of the operating unit involved.
(f) As at 30 March 2010, the Group had undrawn working capital facilities available to it of £54.8 million 
(2009: £32.0 million). There are no significant conditions attached to these facilities.  
103
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
17 Financial instruments (continued)
(g) The Group has entered into standby letters of credit to the value of £2,029,205 (2009: £nil). In this respect, the 
Group treats these letters of credit as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Group 
will be required to make a payment under the terms of the letters.
Capital risk management
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 16, cash and 
cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and 
retained earnings as disclosed in the statement of changes in equity.
Gearing ratio
It is the Group’s policy to maintain its gearing ratio within the range of 0-100 per cent (2009: 0-100 per cent). The 
Group’s gearing ratio at the balance sheet date is shown below: 
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Debt
(i)
    41,269 58,172
Trade and other payables    258,203 349,182
Net cash and cash equivalents    (86,128) (139,614)
Net debt    213,344 267,740
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Equity
(ii)
    331,555 286,301
Capital and net debt    544,899 554,041
Gearing ratio    39% 48%
(i)
Debt is defined as current and non-current portion of long-term debt, as detailed in Note 16.
(ii)
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group.
18 Deferred taxation
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Accelerated capital allowances    (470) 68
Tax losses carried forward    3,113 1,596
Share options    1,399 2,123
Other temporary and deductible differences    (428) 217
Deferred tax asset     3,614 4,004
At 1 February    4,004 (1,120)
Acquisition of subsidiary    – (46)
Deferred tax charge in the income statement for the year (Note 8)  690 5,612
Deferred tax taken to equity    (1,078) (442)
Other items    (2) –
At 31 January    3,614 4,004
Our results Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
104
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
19 Leasehold property incentives
    2010 2009
Rent-free periods and reverse premiums    £’000 £’000
At 1 February    9,232 7,260
Rent free periods and reverse premiums received during the year  3,311 3,240
Released to profit and loss account    (1,154) (1,268)
At 31 January    11,389 9,232
Due within one year    1,341 904
Due greater than one year    10,048 8,328
At 31 January    11,389 9,232
20 Called-up share capital
   2010  2009
  
  £’000 Number £’000 Number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 5p  24,000 480,000,000 24,000 480,000,000
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 5p  17,333 346,659,167 17,316 346,323,657
(a) Shares issued
During the year, 335,510 (2009: 3,479,091) shares were issued to employees exercising share options granted 
under various option schemes. The total consideration received on the exercise of these options was £216,799 
(2009: £1,740,436).
Between the year end and 1 April 2010, no shares have been exercised. 
(b) Shares purchased
During the year no shares (2009: 500,000) were repurchased for cancellation by the Company at a cost of £nil 
(2009: £1,240,950).
(c) Trust shares
During the year 1,450,000 shares (2009: 1,800,000 shares) were purchased at a cost of £1,893,495 (2009: £3,828,470). 
These shares are to be used wholly and exclusively to pay LTIP awards when they become due for payment.
Trust shares comprise 2,368,001 (2009: 3,129,834) 5p ordinary shares. The market value of these shares at 
31 January 2010 is £2,178,561 (2009: £4,491,312).  
105
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 Called-up share capital (continued)
(d) Share options
After taking account of options that have lapsed, the following options over shares were outstanding at 
31 January 2010: 
   Exercise
  Number of price Exercise period
Schemes  shares Pence From To
1998 executive share option scheme  22,700 132.00 15.11.04 14.11.11
Approved  18,900 138.00 01.05.05 30.04.12
  99,000 107.00 19.07.05 18.07.12
  63,270 62.25 09.06.06 08.06.13
1998 executive share option scheme  27,300 132.00 15.11.04 14.11.11
Unapproved  46,729 107.00 19.07.05 18.07.12
  401,700 56.00 07.05.06 06.05.13
  378,100 59.50 14.05.06 13.05.13
  104,330 62.25 09.06.06 08.06.13
Sharesave schemes  18,636 63.84 01.07.08 31.12.10
  22,998 65.80 01.07.09 31.12.11
  144,298 136.16 01.07.10 31.12.12
  229,609 215.52 01.07.11 31.12.13
  419,339 157.56 01.07.12 31.12.14
  1,996,909 
During the year ended 31 January 2009 the Group modified the process for satisfying the exercise of 
unapproved share options. Employees now have a choice of settlement on exercise and can either pay for, 
and receive, the full number of shares under option, or can use a net settled cashless exercise facility, run by the 
Company, which results in a lower number of shares being issued than are under option. There has been no 
change in the fair value of these awards as a result of these changes and no material liability arises.
Our results Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
106
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
20 Called-up share capital (continued)
(e) Equity-settled Executive Share Option Plan
The Group Executive Share Option plan provides for a grant price equal to the average quoted market price of 
the Group shares on the date of grant. The options will vest after three years subject to meeting the following 
performance conditions. Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the 
options vest. 
For awards up to 100 per cent of salary awards are subject to achieving an Earnings Per Share (EPS) growth of at 
least RPI +9 per cent over three years. This condition may be re-tested at the end of years 4 and 5, where EPS 
growth must be at least RPI +12 per cent and RPI +15 per cent respectively over the period since grant. For 
awards between 100 per cent and 200 per cent of salary awards are subject to achieving EPS growth of 
15 per cent. This may be re-tested in years 4 and 5 with RPI +20 per cent and RPI +25 per cent respectively. If the 
options remain unexercised after a period of 10 years from the date of grant, the options expire.
  2010 2009
  
   Weighted  Weighted
   average  average
   exercise  exercise
  Options price (in £) Options price (in £)
Outstanding at beginning of period  1,004,275 0.59 3,396,589 0.61
Granted during the period  – – – –
Lapsed during the period  – – (1,810) 0.62
Exercised during the period  (56,875) 0.64 (2,390,504) 0.62
Outstanding at the end of the period  947,400 0.59 1,004,275 0.59
Exercisable at the end of the period  947,400 0.59 1,004,275 0.59
No options were granted during this year or last year.
(f) Equity-settled Sharesave 
The Group Sharesave scheme is an all employee plan whereby participants receive an option to purchase 
shares in the Group. Participants are offered an exercise price discounted by 20 per cent to the average of the 
mid-market share price on the five dealing days preceding the date of invitation. Fair values have been 
calculated for saving contracts of both three and five years.
  2010 2009
  
   Weighted  Weighted
   average  average
   exercise  exercise
  Options price (in £) Options price (in £)
Outstanding at beginning of period  918,143 1.46 734,810 0.79
Granted during the period  493,497 1.58 493,744 2.16
Lapsed during the period  (320,013) 1.82 (131,495) 1.64
Exercised during the period  (256,747) 0.63 (178,916) 0.49
Outstanding at the end of the period  834,880 1.65 918,143 1.46
Exercisable at the end of the period  41,634 0.65 82,622 0.56  
107
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
20 Called-up share capital (continued)
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model for contracts with a three year term are as follows: 
 
    2010 2009
Weighted average share price (£)    1.76 2.78
Weighted average exercise price (£)    1.58 2.16
Expected volatility (%)    57.50 42.50
Expected life (years)    3.33 3.33
Risk free rate (%)    3.09 4.77
Expected dividends (%)    2.94 1.74
Weighted Average Fair Value (£)    0.70 1.13
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model for contracts with a five year term are as follows: 
 
    2010 2009
Weighted average share price (£)    1.76 2.78
Weighted average exercise price (£)    1.58 2.16
Expected volatility (%)    53.70 41.90
Expected life (years)    5.33 5.33 
Risk free rate (%)    2.77 4.90
Expected dividends (%)    2.94 1.74
Weighted Average Fair Value (£)    0.74 1.29
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the forward weighted historical volatility of the Group’s share 
price over a period equal to the expected life. The expected life used in the model is the mid point of the 
exercise period.
(g) Equity-settled Long Term Incentive Scheme (LTIP)
The Group long term incentive scheme has a vesting period of three years from grant, and must be exercised in the 
six month period following vesting. Furthermore, shares are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the 
awards vest. 25 per cent of awards vest if EPS grows by RPI +15 per cent over the performance period, 100 per cent 
of the award vests if EPS grows by RPI +30 per cent. The award vests on a pro-rata basis between these points. 
  2010 2009
  
   Weighted  Weighted
   average  average
   exercise  exercise
  Options price (in £) Options price (in £)
Outstanding at beginning of period  4,355,643 – 4,576,892 –
Granted during the period  2,171,988 – 1,430,418 –
Lapsed during the period  (135,761) – (77,407) –
Exercised during the period  (2,211,833) – (1,574,260) –
Outstanding at the end of the period  4,180,037 – 4,355,643 –
Exercisable at the end of the period  – – – –
Our results Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
108
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
20 Called-up share capital (continued)
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 
    2010 2009
Weighted average share price (£)    1.74 2.85
Weighted average exercise price (£)    0.00 0.00
Expected volatility (%)    N/A N/A
Expected life (years)    3 3 
Risk free rate (%)    N/A N/A
Expected dividends (%)    2.94 1.74
Weighted Average Fair Value (£)    1.59 2.70
As the awards under both the Executive Share Option Scheme and the LongTerm Incentive Scheme are subject 
to the satisfaction of EPS performance conditions, the total charge is calculated based on the fair value of the 
options and the total number of options expected to vest based on the Company’s estimate of meeting the 
performance conditions. The charge is also adjusted for management’s judgements in relation to the number of 
leavers.
Given the above assumptions, the Group recognised total expenses of £2,391,304 (2009: £1,968,777) related to 
equity-settled share-based payment transactions during the year (see Note 7).
21 Share premium account
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
 Amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value
At 1 February     46,462 44,848
 Arising on issue of shares during the year (net of expenses)   200 1,614
At 31 January     46,662 46,462
22 Reserves
Share Capital – the amount subscribed for share capital at nominal value.
Share Premium – the amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value.
Capital Redemption Reserve – relates to the capital redemption reserve; amounts transferred from share 
capital on redemption of issued shares.
Shares held in Trust – relates to shares held in trust, being the weighted average cost of own shares held in 
treasury and by the ESOP Trust, the Employee Benefit Trust was established in January 2002 to provide for the 
future obligations of the Company for share awards under the Performance Share Plan and other share-based 
plans. Under the scheme the trustee, BDO Guernsey Trustees Limited, purchases the Company’s ordinary shares 
in the open market.
Merger Reserve – relates to the merger reserve which holds the share premium arising on the share for share 
exchange on acquisition of Game Plc.  
109
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
Our results
22 Reserves (continued)
Retained Earnings – relates to retained earnings, being the cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the 
consolidated income statements.
Foreign Exchange Reserve – relates to the foreign exchange reserve, which holds gains/losses arising on 
re-translating the net assets of overseas operations into Sterling since 1 February 2004.
The cumulative amount of goodwill resulting from acquisitions in previous years prior to the adoption of FRS 10 
(Goodwill and intangible assets) which has been eliminated against Group reserves, net of goodwill 
attributable to disposals before 31 January 2010, is £9,639,000 (2009: £9,639,000).
23 Acquisitions 
Current year acquisitions
During the period there were no acquisitions.
Prior year acquisitions
On 21 August 2008, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the share capital of the Czech pc and video games 
retailer JRC Czech a.s. On acquisition, JRC Czech a.s. owned 19 specialist pc and video games stores located in 
the principal cities in the Czech market and transactional eCommerce site www.jrc.cz. 
On 2 July 2008 ABC Games International S.A., a subsidiary of GAME Group plc, acquired five French franchises 
for a total consideration of £2.2 million, reflecting cash of £0.6 million and other working capital. In addition, on 
21 August 2008, a further franchise was acquired for an initial consideration of £0.7 million.
During the prior period the trade and assets of four Spanish franchises were acquired by Engine Tecnology 
Systems SL, a subsidiary of GAME Group plc, for a total consideration of £0.8 million.
  French Spanish  
  franchises franchises JRC Total
  Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment  263 18 216 497
Inventories  262 390 855 1,507
Trade and other receivables  – – 163 163
Long-term debtors  – – 88 88
Trade and other payables  (221) (331) (1,314) (1,866)
Cash and cash equivalents  684 – (210) 474
Intangible fixed assets - goodwill  1,882 700 3,651 6,233
Intangible fixed assets - brand  – – 182 182
Total purchase price  2,870 777 3,631 7,278
Cash and cash equivalents  (684) – 210 (474)
Cash flows on acquisition net of cash acquired 2,186 777 3,841 6,804 Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
110
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
23 Acquisitions (continued)
From the date of acquisition JRC added £4.5 million to turnover and £0.5 million to operating profit. If the acquisition 
had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for the year would have been 
increased by £4.1 million and the Group profit attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been 
decreased by £13,000.
From the date of acquisition the French franchises added £2.3 million to turnover and £338,000 to operating profit. 
From the date of acquisition the Spanish franchises added £1.5 million to turnover and £160,000 to operating profit. 
If these acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, it is not anticipated that the 
operating profit would have been materially different. No fair value adjustments were required on these 
acquisitions. 
24 Analysis of net funds
    2010  2009
    £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents    86,128 139,614
Net cash and cash equivalents    86,128 139,614
Current portion of long-term borrowings    (17,361) (26,325)
Long-term borrowings    (23,908) (31,847)
Net funds    44,859 81,442
During the year, the Group did not enter into any new finance lease arrangements in respect of assets 
(2009: new finance lease arrangements totalled £443,270).  
111
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Notes to the Financial Statements 
continued
25 Operating lease commitments
The Group leases certain land and buildings on short term leases. The rents payable under these leases are subject 
to re-negotiation at various intervals specified in the leases. At the balance sheet date, the Group has outstanding 
commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as 
follows: 
  2010 2009
  
  Motor Land and Motor Land and
  vehicles buildings vehicles buildings
  £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
The total future minimum lease payments
 are due as follows:     
Not later than one year  91 4,093 88 1,495
Later than one year but not later than five years 795 110,805 980 83,507
Later than five years  – 326,950 95 384,509
  886 441,848 1,163 469,511
The average remaining term on operating leases over land and buildings is five years.
The operating leases over land and buildings in International operations have lengths of term for a maximum 
period of nine years.
26 Related party transactions
There were no related party transactions within the year or prior year.
27 Risks
Global Economic Conditions
There is a high degree of uncertainty in the global economy, with issues around government and bank liquidity, 
business failures, and rising unemployment rates. We recognise that all of these factors may have an impact on our 
customers’ willingness or ability to spend.
Our trading performance to date suggests that compared to some sectors of retailing we are not being as 
significantly impacted by these wider economic issues. We will continue to put forward compelling product offers to 
meet the more value conscious demands of our consumers.
Technology
As with music and DVD entertainment, the opportunity exists for pc and video games to be distributed digitally via 
the internet. PC games which tend to have smaller file sizes are available from a number of websites whereas video 
games digital content is offered in a limited way via official format channels, e.g. Microsoft’s Xbox Live service.
As broadband technology improves there is a risk that more gamers start playing their games online. This will 
reduce the number of people buying boxed product from retailers such as ourselves. 
Given the ever increasing size of pc and video games (up to 50Gb), the existing broadband infrastructure in all of 
the countries in which we operate is not currently sufficient to allow total online play. Additionally, we have 
recognised the increasing prominence of eCommerce and digital downloading and we have invested in 
state-of-the-art eCommerce websites.
Our results Notes to the Financial Statements  continued
for the year ended 31 January 2010
112
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
27 Risks (continued)
Competition
The pc and video games market has become an increasingly attractive proposition for retailers. We have seen new 
entrants to the market place, including specialists, existing generalists and supermarkets and online players.
We believe that the specialist has all of the attributes to succeed in the pc and video games market place. 
We measure our stores’ performance against specific KPIs to ensure our proposition is always appealing and 
relevant to consumers.
Seasonality
The Group’s business is seasonal with the key trading period being the Christmas season. Turnover, operating profit 
and cash flow may be adversely impacted by variations in demand during this period.
The Group works closely with suppliers to secure stock and implement high profile preorder campaigns in advance 
of all major releases. The Group also undertakes extensive marketing campaigns to drive consumer awareness, 
and flexes headcount in store to maximise the sales potential.
Reputation
As a specialist retailer our customers demand that we stock the broadest range of product. This means that we deal 
with a variety of video games, for example age restricted products. Mis-selling such titles is illegal. 
To mitigate any issues that may arise through the mis-selling of these games, we employ the very highest levels of 
training throughout our organisation. 113
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Company Accounts
Contents
Company Balance Sheet 114 
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet 115 114
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Company Balance Sheet
at 31 January 2010
    2010 2009
   Note £’000 £’000
  
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries   5 161,345 158,947
  
Current assets
Debtors   6 65,648 67,453
Cash    11,521 62,632
  
    77,169 130,085
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year  7 139,061 179,159
  
Net current liabilities    (61,892) (49,074)
  
Total assets less current liabilities    99,453 109,873
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year  8 23,782 30,000
  
Net assets    75,671 79,873
  
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital   9 17,333 17,316
Share premium account   10 46,662 46,462
Capital redemption reserve   12 2,248 2,248
Shares held in trust   12 (3,395) (6,451)
Merger reserve   12 76 76
Profit and loss account   13 12,747 20,222
  
Shareholders’ funds   11 75,671 79,873
  
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 21 April 2010 and 
were signed on its behalf by:
Ben White
Director
The notes on pages 115 to 119 form part of these financial statements. 115
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
1 Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with applicable 
accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006, except for the fair valuing of certain financial instruments.
The required consolidated cash flow statement has been included within the consolidated accounts of the Group.
As permitted by FRS 8 no related party disclosures for the Company have been included.
As permitted by FRS 29 no financial instrument disclosures for the Company have been included.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies
Investments
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
Foreign currencies
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at year end rates of exchange. Gains and 
losses arising on equity investments denominated in foreign currencies are taken to reserves. Other exchange 
differences are taken to the profit and loss account. 
Where foreign currency loans from the Company to a subsidiary are deemed to be as permanent as equity 
they are recorded at the rate of exchange prevailing at the date they were deemed to be as permanent as 
equity.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax is recognised as an asset or liability, at appropriate rates, in respect of transactions and events 
recognised in the accounts of the current and previous periods which give the entity a right to pay less, or an 
obligation to pay more, tax in future periods. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent it is probable 
that there will be suitable taxable profits from which they can be recovered.
No provision is made for any taxation on capital gains that would arise from the future disposal of any fixed 
assets shown in the accounts at valuation, except to the extent that at the balance sheet date there is a binding 
sale agreement.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Employee benefit trust
The cost of the Company’s shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust is deducted from the shareholders’ funds in 
the Company. Any cash received by the Trust on disposal of the shares it holds is also recognised directly in the 
shareholders’ funds. Other assets and liabilities of the Trust (including borrowings) are recognised as assets and 
liabilities of the Company.
Any shares held by the Trust are treated as cancelled for the purposes of calculating earnings per share.
Share-based payments
The Company has a number of share-based payment plans that certain employees participate in. Accounting 
for these is in accordance with FRS 20 and is also in accordance with the Group accounting policy and the 
disclosures provided in Note 20 to the Group consolidated financial statements which have been prepared 
under IFRS 2, “Share-based payments”.
Our results
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet
at 31 January 2010 116
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
3 Profit and loss account of the Parent Company
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Parent Company has 
not been separately presented in these accounts. The Parent Company profit for the year ended was 
£14,449,436 (2009: profit for the 53 weeks ended 31 January 2009, £35,912,178). The profit for the year involves a 
charge of £31,568 (2009: £31,568) in respect of the audit of the Company. 
The Company had no employees in 2010 and 2009. Details of the remuneration of the Directors are included 
within the Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 71.
4 Dividends paid and proposed
  2010 2009
  
  Pence  Pence 
  per share £’000 per share £’000
Final paid  3.71 12,849 2.97 10,292
Interim paid  1.88 6,517 1.79 6,198
   19,366  16,490
It is proposed that a final dividend of 3.90p will be paid on 16 July 2010 to shareholders on the register on 
25 June 2010.
5 Fixed asset investments
    Long-term
   Investments loan Total
   £’000 £’000 £’000
At 31 January 2009   152,947 6,000 158,947
Portugal – additional share capital   7 – 7
Share option charge   2,391 – 2,391
At 31 January 2010   155,345 6,000 161,345
The subsidiary undertakings at 31 January 2010 which are all unlisted are set out in Note 16.
6 Debtors
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors    11 189
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings    64,492 65,946
Prepayments and accrued income    354 77
Corporation tax    791 1,241
    65,648 67,453
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet  continued
at 31 January 2010  
117
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet 
continued
7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings    120,603 149,774
Bank loan    15,736 25,000
Other creditors    55 8
Accruals and deferred income    2,536 4,377
Dividends    131 –
    139,061 179,159
8 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Bank loans    23,782 30,000
    23,782 30,000
The borrowing terms are disclosed in Note 16 to the Group accounts.
9 Called-up share capital
  2010 2009
  
  £’000 Number £’000 Number
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 5p  24,000 480,000,000 24,000 480,000,000
Allotted, called-up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 5p  17,333 346,659,167 17,316 346,323,657
The movement in share capital and detail on the share scheme is disclosed in Note 20 to the Group accounts.
10 Share premium account
     £’000
At 1 February 2009     46,462
 Arising on issue of shares during the year (net of expenses)    200
At 31 January 2010     46,662
Our results 118
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
11 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
    2010 2009
    £’000 £’000
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation    14,449 35,912
Dividends paid    (19,366) (16,490)
Issue of shares during the year    217 1,740
Purchase of shares for trust    (1,893) (3,828)
Share-based payments    2,391 1,968
Share buyback    – (1,241)
Net (deductions)/additions to shareholders’ funds   (4,202) 18,061
Shareholders’ funds at beginning of year as previously reported  79,873 61,812
Shareholders’ funds at end of year    75,671 79,873
12 Other reserves
     £’000
Merger reserve
At 1 February 2009 and 31 January 2010     76
Capital redemption reserve
At 1 February 2009 and 31 January 2010     2,248
Shares held in trust
As at 1 February 2009     (6,451)
Purchased during the year     (1,893)
Exercised during the year     4,949
As at 31 January 2010     (3,395)
Number of shares held at 31 January 2010     2,368,001
The Employee Benefit Trust was established in January 2002 to provide for the future obligations of the Company for 
share awards under the Performance Share Plan and other share-based plans. Under the scheme the trustee, BDO 
Guernsey Trustees Limited, purchase the Company’s ordinary shares in the open market.
The details of the share option schemes are explained in Note 20 to the Group accounts.
13 Profit and loss account
     £’000
At 1 February 2009     20,222
Retained loss for the financial year     (4,917)
Exercise of shares     (4,949)
Share-based payments     2,391
At 31 January 2010     12,747
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet  continued
at 31 January 2010  
119
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet 
continued
14 Contingent liabilities
The Company has guaranteed certain liabilities and bank borrowings of its subsidiary undertakings. At 31 January 
2010 the liabilities covered by these guarantees amounted to £1,128,244 (2009: £2,130,572). In addition the 
Company has guaranteed certain operating leases of its subsidiary undertakings with an annual lease 
commitment of £1,653,980 (2009: £1,905,855). Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to 
guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its group, the Company considers these to be insurance 
arrangements and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a 
contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment 
under the guarantee.
The Company has entered into standby letters of credit to the value of £2,029,205 (2009: £nil). In this respect, the 
Company treats these letters of credit as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the 
Company will be required to make a payment under the terms of the letters.
15 Subsidiary undertakings
 
  Country of
Name incorporation Nature of business
Game Stores Group Ltd* England Computer software and video game retailing
Game Retail (UK) Ltd* England Computer software and video game retailing
Gameplay (GB) Ltd* England Online computer software and video game business
Game (Stores) Limited England Computer software and video game retailing
Games Station Limited* England Computer software and video game retailing
Game Stores Group Sweden AB* Sweden Computer software and video game retailing
Game Stores Iberia, S.L.U* Spain Computer software and video game retailing
ETS – Multimedia, Jogos E Software LDA Portugal Computer software and video game retailing
Game FRANCE SA France Computer software and video game retailing
TGW Pty Limited Australia Computer software and video game retailing
JRC Czech a.s.* Czech Republic Computer software and video game retailing
Game Digital Ltd* England Non-trading 
Game Financial Services Limited* England Non-trading 
Blue 26 Limited England Non-trading
Game Limited* England Non-trading
Blue 25 Limited England Non-trading
Pure Retail Stores Ltd * England Non-trading
Pure Unity Developments Limited * England Non-trading
Toyplay Ltd England Non-trading
Gamestation Limited England Non-trading
The Company retains 100 per cent of the voting rights and ordinary share capital of all the above  
subsidiary undertakings.
*Direct subsidiary of The GAME Group plc  120
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
 31 January 31 January 31 January 31 January 31 January
 2006 2007 2008 2009
1
 2010
 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue 645,118 801,306 1,491,914 1,968,604 1,772,358
Gross profit 174,355 217,743 369,577 514,507 492,692
Operating profit before  
 goodwill amortisation  
 and non-recurring costs 11,198 32,965 82,340 130,881 94,789
Operating profit 8,223 32,965 75,192 124,293 88,590
Profit on ordinary activities  
 before taxation 5,415 29,493 68,362 117,366 84,211
Profit on ordinary activities  
 after taxation 2,737 21,140 47,179 83,650 60,467
     
Dividends per share 2.53p 2.93p 4.40p 5.50p 5.78p
     
Earnings per share – basic 0.81p 6.25p 13.79p 24.18p 17.45p
     
Earnings per share before  
 amortisation of goodwill  
 and non-recurring costs – basic 1.69p 6.25p 15.88p 26.09p 19.24p
Number of owned stores at end  
 of year (including concessions) 659 782 1,140 1,335 1,374
     
Average number of employees 5,000 5,148 7,959 10,450 10,592
Net assets 144,686 157,336 201,605 286,301 331,555
 
Cash generated from operations 63,119 43,596 191,973  155,584  54,680
1 
53 weeks
Five-Year Summary 121
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Our results
Shareholder Information
Share register information as at 29 January 2010
The tables below show the split of shareholders and size of shareholdings in GAME Group plc.
 
Range  Number  %   % of Issued 
holding  of holders of holders Holding share capital
1 – 5,000  3485 83.59 4,131,955 1.19
5,001 – 50,000  419 10.05 5,967,673 1.72
50,001 – 100,000  47 1.13 3,669,431 1.06
100,001 – 500,000  107 2.57 25,335,511 7.31
500,001+  111 2.66 307,554,597 88.72
Directors
Peter Lewis Non-Executive Chairman
Christopher Bell Interim CEO
Ben White ACA Group Finance Director
Ishbel Macpherson Non-Executive Director
Dana Dunne Non-Executive Director
David Mansfield Non-Executive Director
(from April 2010)
Secretary
Vivienne Hemming ACIS
Registered office
Unity House, Telford Road, Basingstoke RG21 6YJ
Stockbrokers
Deutsche Bank, Winchester House,  
1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB
Oriel Securities Limited, 125 Wood Street,  
London EC2V 7AN
Principal Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Thames Valley 
Corporate Banking Centre, Abbey Gardens,  
4 Abbey Street, Reading RG1 3BA
Independent auditors
BDO LLP , 55 Baker Street,  
London W1U 7EU
Registrars and transfer office
Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, 
Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0GA
Corporate website
www.gamegroup.plc.uk
Registered number
875835
 %  
Location of holders
UK 47.3
North America 24.5
Europe (excl UK) 7.2
Asia 0.8 122
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Glossary
The video games industry has a wide variety of 
products and genres. The most commonly used 
are listed below to help you understand more 
about the dynamic industry that we operate in.
Hardware/consoles:
Consoles are used to play video games. GAME 
Group stores and eCommerce operations stock 
a full range of consoles. These are:
Microsoft
Microsoft Xbox
Launched in 2002, it was discontinued after the 
launch of the Xbox 360.
Xbox 360
Launched in 2005, the Xbox 360 is a home 
console.
Nintendo
Nintendo DS/DS Lite/DSi
The “Dual Screen” is a handheld console, and 
was originally launched in 2005. The DS Lite was 
launched in 2006, and the DSi in 2009.
Wii
Launched in 2006, the Wii is a home console 
which can be controlled using motion sensing 
controllers.
Sony
PlayStation 3 (PS3)
Launched in 2007, the PS3 is a home console.
Sony PlayStation 2 (PS2)
Launched in 2001, the PS2 is a home console.
Sony PlayStation Portable (PSP)
Launched in 2005, the PSP is a handheld 
console.
Other products and services:
For a full range of products and services 
available, please visit:  
www.game.co.uk  
www.gamestation.co.uk  
www.gameplay.co.uk
Preowned:
All GAME Group stores offer customers the 
opportunity to buy games that have been 
previously owned by another customer. These 
are sold at a lower price than mint (new) 
games, and our preowned range is our value 
proposition. All preowned games have a 28 day 
guarantee.
Reward Card:
Customers around the world have the 
opportunity to join the GAME Reward Card 
scheme. This offers customers points on 
everything they purchase at GAME – to the 
value of 2.5 per cent of the purchase, or 
5 per cent if the product is preordered.
Software:
Each console has its own range of software 
(games). The variety is enormous, and growing 
all the time. From action games to singing 
games, there really is something for everyone.
Please visit one of our websites www.game.co.
uk, www.gamestation.co.uk, www.gameplay.
co.uk to experience the full choice of products 
that are available.
Trade-in:
All GAME Group stores will buy games from 
customers once they have finished playing 
them. It doesn’t matter where it was bought – 
customers can bring it to one of our stores, 
where a member of the team will check it and 
offer a competitive price for it, then display it for 
sale in our “preowned” range. Find us at
123
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
GAME. Press forward
Find us at
www.gamegroup.plc.uk
Shop with the GAME Group
www.game.co.uk www.gamestation.co.uk www.gameplay.co.uk
www.game.fr www.game.es www.game.se
www.game.dk www.game.com.au www.gamecz.cz 124
The GAME Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Notes Highlights ifc
Our specialist proposition 02
At a glance 14
Independent market report 16
Chairman’s statement 20
Chief Executive’s review 26
Business review 32
Financial review 43
Corporate responsibility 46
Our performance ifc-46
Directors and Governance 50-64
International management 50
Board of Directors 52
Corporate governance statement 54
Report of the Directors 59
Directors’ Remuneration Report  64
Our results 72-121
Independent Auditor’s Report 72
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 74
Consolidated Balance Sheet 75
Statement of changes in equity 76
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 77
Statement of Accounting Policies 78
Notes to the Financial Statements 88
Company Balance Sheet 114
Notes to the Company Balance Sheet 115
Five-Year Summary 120
Shareholder Information 121
Contents
Group turnover
£1,772.4m - 10.0%
2009: £1,968.6m
 
Gross profit margin
27.8% +170 bps 
2009: 26.1%
 
Profit before tax 
£84.2m - 28.3%
2009: £117.4m
 
Annual dividend per share 
5.78p + 5.0%
2009: 5.50p
 
Trading store numbers
1,380 + 2.8%
2009: 1,342
 
Trading square footage (’000s)
1,438.4 sq ft + 3.3%
2009: 1,392.8 sq ft
 
 
Further information go to:
Page 32. Business review.
Page 43. Financial review.
Page 74. Our results.
Performance overview
Disclaimer
The purpose of this Report is to provide information to the members of the Company. The Company, its Directors and 
employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility other than to the members as a body and 
any responsibility to any other person is expressly disclaimed. This Report contains certain forward-looking statements 
with respect to the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group. By their nature, these statements relate to 
events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and there are a number of factors 
that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these 
forward-looking statements. No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements are reasonable, as 
they can be affected by a wide range of variables. The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and 
information available at the date of preparation of this Report, and the Company accepts no obligation to update 
these forward-looking statements. Nothing in the Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Designed and produced by Merchant. www.merchant.co.uk  Printed by Fulmar. The GAME Group Plc
Unity House
Telford Road
Basingstoke, Hampshire
RG21 6YJ
Tel: +44 (0)1256 784000
Fax: +44 (0)1256 784093
www.gamegroup.plc.uk
Press forward
Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
The GAME Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010
Shop with the GAME Group
www.game.co.uk
www.gamestation.co.uk
www.gameplay.co.uk
www.game.fr
www.game.es
www.game.se
www.game.dk
www.game.com.au
www.gamecz.cz
