 Creating brands 
that inspire 
GCap Media plc
Annual Report 2006/07 Contents
Overview Business Review Accounts
01 Group headlines
02 Chairman’ s statement
04 Chief Executive’ s Q&As 
10 Operational review
21 Financial review
26 Corporate social
responsibility
31 Classic FM consumer
panel report 2007
35 Principal risks and
uncertainties
36 Board of Directors
38 Directors ’ report
41 Corporate governance
44 Directors’ remuneration
report
51 Unaudited pro-forma
consolidated income
statement
52 Statement of Directors’
responsibilities
53 Independent auditors’
report
54 Consolidated income
statement
55 Consolidated statement 
of recognised income 
and expense
56 Consolidated balance sheet
57 Consolidated statement 
of cash flows
58 Notes to the financial
statements
80 Company balance sheet
81 Company reconciliation 
of movements in equity
shareholders’ funds
82 Notes to the financial
statements
88 Company advisers 
for the period
89 Financial record
90 Shareholder information
91 Notice of annual general
meeting
95 The GCap Media plc 1998
Share Option Scheme Market 
focus
UK radio 
industry 
overview
UK radio industry Commercial 
radio groups
Digital listening BBC vs 
commercial radio
Total stations 
(DAB digital and analogue) 
All BBC Comm GCap
120
354
56
411
Source: RadioCentre
National 
(DAB digital and analogue) 
All BBC Comm GCap
5
8
10
19
Source: RadioCentre
Local 
(DAB digital and analogue) 
All BBC Comm GCap
115
346
46
392
Source: RadioCentre
Share within TSA (%)
 
1.6
3.1
4.6 5.0
10.1
13.1
GCap
Emap
Chrysalis
Source: RAJAR W1:07
GMG
UTV
Virgin
Share of revenue 
April 06 to March 07 (%) 
1  GCap 32.8%
2  Emap 26.1%
3  Chrysalis 20.9%
 
    
4  UTV 12.3%
5  Scottish Media Group 2.5%
6  Others 5.4%    
    
1
2
3
5
6
4
Source: Ad Dynamix – NMR
Percentage of total listening hours 
in digital homes  (%)
All digital DAB DTV Internet
3.6 3.4
6.1
5.5
12.3
10.6
22.7
20.1
2005
2006
Source: RAJAR Spring 2006 platform study 5
Radio’s share of advertising 
revenue vs other media (%) 
1  Radio 5.4%
2  TV 40.0%
3  Outdoor 9.9%
4  Newspapers 25.0% 
    
5  Magazines 13.4%
6  Cinema 1.8%
7  Internet 4.6%    
    
Source: Market Place – RAB presentation 
(Advertising Association Quarterly Survey, Q4 2006)
1
2
3
5
6
7
4
UK household penetration (%)
04 05 06 07 08 09 10
53.4
40.1
29.2
20.6
13.9
7.8
4.1
Actual
Forecast
Source: DRDB, DAB Digital Radio forecast 2006-2010
Adults 15-44 (%) 
Reach Share
53.3
44.6
72
63
All BBC
All commercial radio
Source: RAJAR W1:07
Reach within TSA (%)
 
GCap
Emap
Chrysalis
GMG
UTV
Virgin
5
7
10
12
23
30
Source: RAJAR W1:07
UK DAB sets sold and forecast (m)
02 03 04 05 06 07
7.1
4.6
2.7
1.3
0.4
0.1
Actual
Forecast
Source: DRDB, DAB Digital Radio forecast 2006-2010
Adults 15+ (%)
Reach Share
42.1
56
63 67
All BBC
All commercial radio
Source: RAJAR W1:07
The above GCap Media figures include
Century revenues and Classic Gold revenues
Chrysalis includes Real Radio revenues 
and SAGA Broadcast
coverage
GCap Media
The One Network 
The One Network is GCap Media’s
mainstream commercial radio network.
Comprising 42 stations across the UK. 
We deliver localness to listeners on a daily
basis at the same time as offering high 
profile DJs, unrivalled content, celebrity
guests and the best contemporary music.
Many of these stations also broadcast 
on DAB.
Choice FM 
Choice FM is London’s urban music station,
having successfully established itself as 
the ‘No.1 for Hip-Hop and R’n’B’ in the city .
Broadcasting in London on FM and across 
the UK on DAB, digital TV and online. 
Core
Core is GCap Media’s youth music service,
broadcasting nationally on DAB. Core plays
fresh hits from artists like Nelly Furtado,
Snow Patrol and Gwen Stefani.
Classic FM
Sony Radio Station of the year, Classic FM 
is the UK’s only 100% classical music radio
station. It’s the biggest commercial radio
station in the country and is broadcast
nationally on FM, DAB, digital TV and online
at www.classicfm.com. It also has its own
successful magazine and TV channel.
Capital Gold
Capital Gold plays the greatest songs from 
the last five decades, entertaining listeners
with a variety of music shows, exclusive
interviews, special guest DJs and VIP gigs. 
Life 
Life is an upbeat, music-led station playing
the biggest classic hits together with the 
best of today. 
Planet Rock
Planet Rock is the UK’s national Classic Rock
Station. Broadcasting the finest pure rock
from AC/DC to Led Zeppelin on digital radio,
digital TV and online at www .planetrock.com.
Alice Cooper presents the breakfast show 
and Rick Wakeman is in residence on 
Saturday mornings.
Xfm
Xfm broadcasts nationally on FM in London,
Manchester, Central Scotland and is soon 
to be launched in South Wales, as well as 
via DAB, online and digital TV. Xfm focuses 
on the best in new indie rock music from 
the likes of Kasabian, Muse and The 
Pigeon Detectives.
Chill 
Chill broadcasts on GCap Media’s local DAB
digital radio multiplexes. The station plays
relaxing and chill out tunes from artists such
as Royksopp, Zero 7 and Air . Chill’s natural, 
fun and uplifting style appeals to creative
individuals needing inspiration, friends
needing a soundtrack for socialising, and
anyone else who wants an antidote to the
stress of today’s world.
theJazz 
Brought to you by the award winning 
Classic FM team, theJazz is the UK’s first
national DAB digital radio station dedicated
to playing jazz in all its forms night and day
and is available on DAB digital radio, online 
at www.thejazz.com, and through TV on
satellite channel 0113 and cable channel 961.
Capital 95.8
Capital 95.8 is the sound of London. Hosted 
by witty and intelligent presenters, the station
plays only the very best of contemporary music
both new and known to reflect the energy and
progressiveness of 21st Century London. 
In addition, all of these stations are available
online and, except for Life, are broadcast across
the UK on digital television. GCap Media also
broadcasts children’s station Fun Radio on
DAB, digital TV and online.
FM and DAB digital
FM
FM and DAB digital
DAB digital
New licence
FM and DAB digital
DAB digital DAB digital FM
DAB digital FM and DAB digital AM + DAB digital
DAB digital DAB digital DAB digital Online GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 01
Group
headlines
In the past year, we’ve made
considerable progress towards 
our strategic objectives, 
consolidating our audiences 
and revenues and preparing 
the business for future growth. 
We’ve also achieved further cost
savings ensuring that the business 
is running as efficiently as possible,
while investing in key stations, such 
as Capital 95.8. In addition, we’ve
significantly upgraded our online
offering to further our strategy 
of leveraging brands across 
multiple platforms. 
Overview
Underlying Pro-forma Group results*
Like-for-like revenue down 7% to £193.0 million, excluding results 
of Century stations disposed of October 2006 (2006: £207.3 million)
Total revenue down 9% at £200.1 million (2006: £220.2 million) 
Profit before tax at £14.4 million (2006: £22.2 million)
Basic earnings per share of 4.4p (2006: 7.8p)
Net debt reduced to £27 million (2006: £76 million) 
Robust results and significant strategic progress
Cumulative cost savings raised to £29.5 million from £27 million; 
a further £5.5 million to be achieved during 2007/08 taking the 
total to £35.0 million
Group audience figures stabilised with an increase from 
15.0 to 15.2 million listeners year-on-year***
Portfolio enhanced with the acquisition of the remaining 75% 
of Planet Rock and the launch of theJazz 
Board strengthened with appointments of Richard Eyre and Fru Hazlitt
Statutory Group results
Revenue of £200.1 million (year ended 31 March 2006: £210.7 million)
Loss before tax and Separately Disclosed Items of £4.1 million 
(year ended 31 March 2006: £20.1 million)
Basic loss per share of 11.1p (year ended 31 March 2006: 23.3p)
Proposed final dividend of 1.5p giving full year dividend of 
4.6p per share (year ended 31 March 2006: 9.25p per share)
* Underlying pro-forma results are presented to provide a better indication of overall financial
performance. They include the results of GWR and IRN as if the Merger occurred on 1 April 2004,
rather than just from the date of the Merger, 9 May 2005. They exclude the amortisation 
of intangible assets, Merger restructuring costs and other Separately Disclosed Items**.
** Separately Disclosed Items in 2007 consist of goodwill impairment in respect of the disposal 
of the Century stations in Manchester and Newcastle and the investment in UBC. In 2006, they
consisted mainly of Merger restructuring costs, goodwill impairment and the profit on disposal 
of Century 106.
*** Adjusted to remove the effect of the Century disposal. 02 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Operations overview
Against the backdrop of a tough market, GCap Media has had 
a robust performance producing underlying revenues and Profit
Before Tax (PBT) of £200.1 million and £14.4 million respectively. 
This performance has been supported by the strengthening of 
our balance sheet through the sale of the Century stations and 
an improvement in cumulative cost savings to £29.5 million.
We have also made good operational progress with stable audience
figures across the Group. We have carried out a complete overhaul
of programming on Capital 95.8 and recently launched a marketing
campaign to attract new and lapsed listeners. We have also
strengthened our portfolio of commercially attractive brands and
stations with the launch of theJazz, the acquisition of the remaining
stake in the Sony award-winning Planet Rock and the acquisition of
the Classic Gold Network from Classic Gold Digital. Subject to Ofcom
approval of this deal, Classic Gold will be merged with Capital Gold 
to create a single ‘classic hits’ network. 
Strategic focus
In an ever-changing and increasingly competitive media landscape,
GCap Media continues to evolve so that we can give our listeners
more of what they want and provide innovative solutions to
advertisers. We are transforming our stations from traditional
analogue services into brands that operate across multiple
platforms including online, local and national DAB digital radio,
digital TV and mobile.
GCap Media owns some of the strongest brands in commercial radio,
including Classic FM, Capital 95.8 and Xfm. The strength of these
brands means that we are able to form direct relationships with our
listeners and by innovating and increasing these opportunities for
interactivity, we will create new revenue opportunities for the Group
and be in a better position to compete for listeners’ time and loyalty.
As we continue to develop the business, we will focus on building our
core assets and evolving the brands that we believe have the greatest
revenue potential across multiple platforms. These are brands that
“In an ever-changing and increasingly competitive
media landscape, GCap Media continues to
evolve so that we can give our listeners more of
what they want and provide innovative solutions
to advertisers. We are transforming our stations
from traditional analogue services into brands
that operate across multiple platforms including
online, local and national DAB digital radio,
digital TV and mobile.”
Peter Cawdron 
Chairman GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 03
Overview
have both a national footprint and appeal to communities of 
listeners who are passionate about particular genres of music.
Having assessed all of our brands, we have taken the decision to
close Capital Disney and cease investment in digital stations, Core
and Life. We are reviewing our options in respect of the national
digital radio capacity that these stations occupy.
We have continued to manage the business prudently and will be
making further cost savings totalling £5.5 million in the current 
year . Our strengthened financial position will enable us to invest 
a further £5.6 million in our business. This investment will focus 
on Capital 95.8 and the One Network, the launch and marketing 
of new stations Xfm South Wales and theJazz and the extension 
of our online offering, enabling us to exploit the growth in online
advertising revenues whilst extending relationships with our listeners.
Board changes
We have made some changes to the Board and I’m delighted 
to welcome Fru Hazlitt to the new position of Managing Director, 
GCap Media London. She will take responsibility for Capital 95.8 
and Choice FM, in addition to GCap Media’s national commercial
sales and online operations.The Board has also appointed Richard
Eyre as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Chairman designate. 
These appointments took effect from 1 May of this year and their wide
experience covering advertising, radio, television, press and digital
media will be a valuable addition to the Board. Richard will take over
as Non-executive Chairman in November of this year, by which time 
I will have overseen the Group through the Merger, which was my
original remit. I look forward to continuing my advisory role on the
Board of the Company as Deputy Chairman. 
I would also like to thank Dame Patricia Hodgson who stood down
from the Board of Directors in August. Patricia was a great asset,
advising on a number of important strategic decisions and her
expertise and experience will be missed.
Dividend
We said in October last year, when we announced the Century
disposals, that the Board would be considering the level of dividend
cover to allow for future investment in the business. The Board 
is recommending the payment of a final dividend of 1.5p which, 
taken with the interim dividend of 3.1p, proposes a total dividend 
for the year of 4.6p. The Board believes this total dividend for the 
year represents a prudent level given the strategic needs of the
business and the Board aims to grow the dividend as cash cover 
and earnings improve.
Looking ahead
We’ve seen an improving trend in advertising revenue performance
and were ahead of the market for the last quarter of the financial
year . While the outlook still remains difficult, we are confident 
we have put in place the right building blocks to enable us to take
GCap Media forward.
As we start the current financial year, we have an experienced Board
and senior management team in place and we are giving our strong
brands the management focus and necessary investment that they
need to build audiences and grow revenue for the future. Having
stabilised the business, we intend to focus on strengthening our
radio brands and we will develop the excellent opportunities that 
we see in the multi-platform world – particularly online.
Finally, I would like to thank our dedicated and talented staff who
continue to innovate and drive the Group forward, thereby enabling 
us to deliver our strategy and long-term growth.
Peter Cawdron
Chairman
30 May 2007
We are confident we have the
right building blocks in place
to take GCap Media forward 04 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Q&AS
“T o drive the business forward, we
are focusing on those distinctive
brands that have the potential to
become market leaders. These
brands have a national footprint and
appeal to communities of listeners,
who are passionate about particular
genres of music, and can be reached
across multiple platforms.”
Ralph Bernard
Chief Executive
15 . 2m
listeners – audience figures up from 
15 million last year  Q
How would you describe GCap Media’s year to March 2007?
A
Against a backdrop of difficult market conditions, we’ve continued 
to manage the business prudently and have made significant
changes to strengthen the business as a whole and consolidate 
our position as the UK’s leading radio group. 
We’ve made significant strategic progress to underpin future
audience and revenue growth, such as investment in our core stations
and developing our portfolio of national brands. Improvements 
in programming and content across the Group, and in particular at
the One Network, mean we have now been able to stabilise audience
figures. After a period of planned and careful change, Capital 95.8
remains on track with its first brand marketing campaign in over 
four years beginning in March of this year .
In October of last year, we sold 105.4 Century FM and 100-102
Century FM for £60 million. The disposal has given us greater
financial flexibility to focus on growth areas for the business 
whilst retention of the national and regional sales contract for 
both stations has meant that we are able to maintain our attractive
advertising portfolio. 
We’ve continued to develop our national brand portfolio with the
acquisition of the remaining 75% of Planet Rock for £4.8 million, 
the launch of theJazz, the first ever national jazz radio station, 
and the acquisition, subject to Ofcom’s approval, of the 18 AM
Classic Gold radio stations for a total cost of £4.2 million, 
which took place after the year end in April 2007. 
In addition, we have also been developing our online proposition. 
All of our station websites have now been upgraded with state-of-
the-art streaming capabilities and we’ve made significant progress
towards our goal of delivering an active database of two million
listeners by 2008 with one million people already signed up. 
Q
Have we finally seen the upturn at Capital 95.8?
A
With no clear leader in the London market, Capital 95.8 has the
potential to use its distinctive programming to increase significantly
its share of the lucrative London audience. 
In January 2006 we began work to overhaul the station and give it a
clear identity, which is contemporary, credible, vibrant and relevant
to London. The station now has a completely distinct sound from
both the BBC and our commercial radio competitors, and the next
stage for us is to communicate this to people who have either left 
the station or never listened to it before. We continue to develop the
station’s programming and a full scale brand marketing campaign
began in March. While it was too soon to have an impact in the last
set of RAJAR results, Wave1: 2007, we expect to see positive results
of these developments in the long-term. However, it’s important
that we continue to stay ahead of the game and to ensure that
Capital 95.8 feels contemporary and up to the minute, so the 
station will keep on evolving and changing. 
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 05
Overview
The past year has been a challenging time for our industry.
Nevertheless, despite these tough market conditions we 
have succeeded in delivering against our objectives, and 
have made good progress in shaping our business for the
future. Highlights include:
Portfolio enhanced through
acquisition of Planet Rock, 
Classic Gold and launch 
of theJazz 
Marketing campaign
commenced at Capital 95.8 
Management and
programming strengthened
and websites upgraded 
Board strengthened through
appointments of Richard Eyre 
and Fru Hazlitt
Further cost savings enabling
reinvestment in the business  
Net debt reduced laying
foundations for future growth  06 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
Q
Which of your brands do you see as having potential for 
growth in 2007?
A
To drive the business forward, we are focusing on growing 
our core business, the One Network and Capital 95.8, alongside 
our distinctive brands that have potential to be market-leaders.
These are brands that have a national footprint and appeal 
to communities of listeners, who are passionate about particular
genres of music, and can be reached across multiple platforms
such as analogue, DAB radio, online, mobile phone and TV . These
brands include Classic FM, Xfm, theJazz, Planet Rock, and the
‘classic hits’ network. We believe these can generate greater
returns as they utilise the strong relationships we have with our
listeners. In turn they offer opportunities for cross promotion and
the sharing of talent and expertise from within the Group.
Q
Why the focus online – what are the opportunities here?
A
Online is already a key part of what we do and it is important to 
us for a number of reasons. Firstly, radio and internet are no longer
distinct media platforms as an increasing number of our listeners
are choosing to listen online. We need to meet this demand and
maintain the loyalty of our listeners. Secondly, across the media
industry as a whole there is increasing demand for more sophisticated
marketing solutions which supplement spot advertising. From an
advertising perspective, radio and internet work very well alongside
each other: 67% of users say that they have listened to radio while
they have been logged on while 59% say they have visited sites 
as a result of what they have heard on-air . This is a compelling
proposition for advertisers and this natural partnership between 
the two media means that we can offer the kind of sophisticated
solutions that our customers demand from creative on-air
promotions and opportunities, events, sampling, website 
activities and podcasts. 
Q
In which areas of the business will you be investing for 2007?
A
This year, we are investing £5.6 million into the business with 
a focus on three key areas: net investment of £2.1 million in
Interactive, £0.9 million in the launch and marketing of new 
stations Xfm South Wales and theJazz and £2.6 million in our 
other stations including Capital 95.8.
Q
What is the future for digital radio? 
A
Radio continues to be a popular medium and we believe that 
the growth of digital radio will serve to attract new listeners 
to commercial radio. 
Digital radio is found on a number of different platforms – DAB
radio, online, TV and mobile. DAB in particular gives a number of 
our brands the national footprint needed to create communities of
listeners who are united by a passion for a particular genre of music
and who are happy to be engaged with across multiple platforms. 
In addition, with more national commercial stations than the BBC,
the digital world presents a more level playing field to compete 
with the BBC. Already, with no money yet spent on advertising 
or promotion, Planet Rock has a weekly audience of almost half 
a million listeners. With three million DAB sets now in the market
place and forecasts of 50% household penetration by 2010, we 
see the development of digital radio as integral to our success 
and are already seeing the early benefits of investing in talent at
Planet Rock. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S Q&AS
CONTINUED
Focusing on distinctive brands 
with market-leading potential 
and the ability to expand onto 
multiple platforms GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 07
Overview
Q
Can commercial radio really take on the BBC and win?
A
It’s not just about taking on the BBC but ensuring that we compete
with them effectively in the commercially attractive 15-44 age
range. In recent years, they have increasingly tried to move over to
the mainstream commercial heartland, but despite this commercial
radio still has a 60% share of all listening amongst those under the
age of 45. I think this can improve. Historically, innovation such as
the move to digital and separate broadcasting on AM and FM, has
always been introduced by the commercial sector and it is this type
of creativity and approach that will ensure that commercial radio
performs well against the BBC in the future. 
Q
What are your views on the market? Given the challenging
conditions, are you seeing any signs of improvement? 
A
The market remains difficult to predict as the media industry 
is changing and evolving constantly. Nonetheless, we have seen 
an improving trend in advertising revenue performance and GCap
Media was ahead of the market for the last quarter of the financial
year . We are encouraged by this and feel we have the right team 
and strategy, the strong brands, and the solid financial base to 
grow the business in the long-term.
Q
What are management’s priorities in the coming year?
A
We aim to:
Change the perception of Capital 95.8 with marketing 
Strengthen our core business at the One Network
Improve our online offering across the Group
Continue to offer our listeners the music and 
entertainment that they want
Continue to provide innovative solutions to advertisers 
across our multi-platform brands
89%
of 15-24 year olds listening to
an average of 19 hours a week
90%
of adults tuning in each week 
for over 23 hours AUDIENCE PROFILES
INTRODUCTION
Audiences are being given more choice in an
ever-evolving and increasingly competitive media
landscape. As a result, we are developing our
offering to listeners and extending our traditional
analogue services onto the burgeoning digital
platforms including online, local and national 
DAB digital radio, digital TV and mobile. 
In this fragmented market, our strong
brands mean that we are able to form
direct relationships with our listeners and attract
communities of people drawn from commercially
attractive demographics who are passionate
about particular types of music and entertainment. 
By innovating and increasing the opportunities 
for interactivity, we will create new revenue
opportunities for the Group and be in a stronger
position to compete for listeners’ time and loyalty. Creating communities of listeners,
united by a passion for music, 
who want to be reached across 
multiple platforms
Business Review 10 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Operational overview
Despite an improving trend in the last few months, tough market
conditions prevailed throughout 2006/07 with radio advertising
revenues as a whole down 5.2% over the 2006 calendar year . Against 
this background, the Board has continued to manage the business
prudently to ensure the long-term stability and growth potential 
of the Group. 
Over the last year, GCap Media has increased its additional 
synergy cost savings from the £27 million announced last year 
to £29.5 million with a further £5.5 million of cost savings to be
achieved over the next year . The Group’s debt was significantly
reduced in October when it sold radio stations 105.4 Century FM
(Manchester) and 100-102 Century FM (North East) to Guardian
Media Group for a gross cash consideration of £60 million. This
provided us with the financial flexibility needed to invest in key areas
of the business while the retention of the national and regional sales
contracts for both these stations has meant we are able to maintain
our national advertising proposition, providing us with aggregate
future revenues of £5 million over the next five years.
Strengthening our management team 
GCap Media has strengthened the Board over the last year with 
the appointment of Fru Hazlitt as Managing Director, GCap Media
London and Richard Eyre as Non-executive Deputy Chairman and
Chairman designate. Both joined in May and bring with them a vast
range of experience from across the media and advertising industry. 
Fru joined GCap Media with responsibility for the London brands,
interactive and national commercial from her previous position 
as Chief Executive of Virgin Radio, a position she had held since 
April 2005. Prior to this, she was Managing Director of Yahoo! UK 
& Ireland for two years, and European Sales Director and Director 
for Sales and Marketing responsible for Yahoo! across nine countries
in Europe. 
Richard has over 30 years’ experience across the media industry,
working in advertising, radio, television and new media. Previous
positions include Chief Executive of Capital Radio plc (1991-1997)
and Chief Executive of ITV (1997-2000). He holds a number of other
Non-executive directorships including Chairman of RDF Media plc,
the TV production business, and Digital Bridges (I-Play), a leading
publisher of content for mobile phones. He is also Chairman of the
Internet Advertising Bureau. He will become Chairman of GCap
Media in November 2007.
Our strategy 
Throughout last year, management has continued to deliver against
the Company’s strategic aims announced in November 2005 which
include investing in our core business, with a particular focus on
Capital 95.8; strengthening the Group’s portfolio of commercially
attractive brands and stations and developing additional revenue
opportunities. To support these objectives, in May 2006, GCap Media
announced that it was investing £2.5 million in marketing and staff
and a further £1.2 million in Customer Relationship Management
(CRM) and internet initiatives.
Investing in our core business
This investment has allowed GCap Media to strengthen its local
stations; the key profit drivers of the business. Local managing
directors have been appointed at key locations across the Group with
responsibility for driving the profitability of all GCap Media brands in
their area and increasing audience and revenue for station websites
and local digital brands. Further improvements were also made 
to on-air content with additional investment made to news, traffic,
travel and music scheduling.
As a result of this increased focus, audience figures have now
stabilised across the Group, with an increase from 15 million 
to 15.2 million year-on-year .
Delivering on our business
strategy – ensuring long-term 
stability and growth potential
£3 . 7 m
invested in staff, marketing, CRM and
internet initiatives over the last year Business Review
AUDIENCE PROFILE
NAME: Adam
AGE: 27
HOW DO YOU LISTEN TO THE STATION?
I listen to Xfm in many ways, mostly I listen
via the Xfm website when I am at work.
When I’m getting ready in the morning, 
I listen to the radio on my stereo. On the 
way into work I’ll either listen on my mobile
or I might download a podcast and listen 
to that.
TOP 5 PLAYLIST: 
1 Arctic Monkeys – Brianstorm
2 Maximo Park – Our Velocity
3 Muse – Knights Of Cydonia
4 The Twang – Either Way
5 Radiohead – Creep
TOP 3 FAVOURITE ARTISTS: 
1 Kings of Leon
2 Oasis
3 Arctic Monkeys
HOBBIES: 
Going to gigs, socialising with my mates down
the pub and playing and watching football. 
BEST BITS: 
I won tickets to see the Kings of Leon at the
100 Club. It was amazing to see them play 
in a tiny venue, especially as they usually
play to thousands of people. I tried to win 
by calling up the station but so many other
people were calling in, I tried online and
won! I made a playlist for X
u
– mine was
picked and not only were my choices played
on-air but I also won the tickets – result!  AUDIENCE PROFILE
NAME: Lucy
AGE: 25
HOW DO YOU LISTEN TO THE STATION? 
It depends where I am. If I’m out and about, 
I’ll listen on my mobile. If I’m at work, I’ll listen
online if my boss is out and if I’m at home, 
I’ll listen on FM radio.
TOP 5 PLAYLIST:
1 Lily Allen – Smile 
2 Razorlight – I Can’t Stop This Feeling I’ve Got 
3 Mika – Grace Kelly 
4 Scissor Sisters – Filthy Gorgeous 
5 Kaiser Chiefs – Ruby 
TOP 3 FAVOURITE ARTISTS:
1 Paolo Nutini 
2 Gwen Stefani
3 Razorlight
HOBBIES:
Holidaying (none of that hostelling stuff though!),
shopping, partying, socialising, drinking, reading
celebrity gossip magazines and watching any
reality TV show especially Big Brother .
BEST BITS OF 2006:
I love listening to Entertainment Weekly on 
a Sunday evening for the latest gossip and
celebrity interviews – all the latest on Brangelina
and TomKat! Myleene Klass’s show is great too.
The Paolo Nutini Live At The Local sounded
amazing. I tried everything to win tickets to that.    GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 13
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
Substantial work has been carried out in the last year overhauling
Capital 95.8 and making it a station which has a new look, feel and
direction, creating a strong contemporary brand that appeals to 
the London market and is distinguishable from its competitors. 
This new position for the station has been reflected in all aspects 
of its programming from on-air imaging to content and choice 
of presenters. 
With the absence of a clear leader in the London market, the station
has the potential to use its distinctive programming to increase 
its share of the lucrative London audience significantly. Since the
inventory is fully sold, increased listener numbers will convert
directly into higher revenues. 
Brand marketing for the station began in March 2007 to attract 
and win back new and lapsed listeners. However, sustained brand
marketing and communication with our listeners is needed to convey
the station’s new image and development of the station’s website will
also play an important role in revitalising the brand’s identity. 
Continued improvement of GCap Media’s core local stations remains
a priority for the Group and, as such, the Board has agreed to invest a
further £2.6 million net in programming and marketing across both
the One Network and Capital 95.8.
Strengthening the Group’s portfolio of commercially 
attractive stations and brands
Management has continued to focus on strengthening and
developing the Group’s portfolio of commercially attractive brands
and stations with the acquisition in October of the remaining 75% of
Planet Rock from Arqiva for £4.8 million. Taking control of the station
will allow the Group to exploit its full potential as the UK’s classic
rock station playing the finest pure rock on digital radio. 
On Christmas Day 2006, we also launched the UK’s first national
DAB digital jazz station, theJazz. Managed by the same successful 
team as Classic FM, the station has taken advantage of the latter’s
strategic partnerships, generating revenue from day one. As a result,
theJazz already offers downloads, a listener club and more recently
its own record label; the first album is to be released in June.
In April, the Group also acquired 18 AM Classic Gold radio stations
owned by Classic Gold Digital for a total cost of £4.2 million.
Subject to Ofcom’s approval of the deal, we intend to merge the
Classic Gold and Capital Gold stations to create a single ‘classic hits’
network. GCap Media already sold all airtime on the Classic Gold
stations and provided back office support including studio space,
technology and inventory control. In addition to strengthening our
portfolio, this new network will also reduce operating costs,
improving EBITA by £0.8 million in 2007/08.
Developing additional revenue opportunities
Internet and CRM capabilities have also been a key focus for the
business and we have upgraded all our stations’ websites in the 
last year . GCap Media’s websites play a crucial role in maintaining
the loyalty of our listeners and they are becoming an increasingly
important metric by which to measure the success of our stations. 
In addition, significant progress has been made against the Group’s
objective of developing an active online database of two million
listeners by 2008. This database is being used to drive additional
revenue directly from the listeners through the sale and promotion 
of targeted items such as CDs and concerts and from our advertisers
by providing them with new and innovative ways to reach their target
audiences. One million people have already signed up to the database
– exceeding our target at March 2007 of 900,000.
Developing additional 
revenue opportunities
1 m
subscribers to our online database 
– exceeding target of 900,000 by year end
Business Review 14 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
Review of our strategic options
Over the last six months, we have been reviewing the strategic options
for our portfolio in the light of industry developments. 
Radio remains a robust medium with 90% of all adults tuning in each
week for over 23 hours. Despite the arrival of MP3 players, digital TV
and the internet, radio listening amongst the iPod and MySpace
generation remains high, with 89% of 15-24 year olds listening to an
average of 19 hours of radio a week. Radio reach and average hours
are also growing amongst the under 15s. Digital listening via DAB,
digital TV and online continues to rise and 19.5% of the UK population
now live in homes that have a digital radio. Ofcom has forecast that
digital radio receivers will be in 50% of all homes in the UK by 2010
and set sales have reached five million. 
The online advertising market is growing, with online display
advertising already accounting for £450 million of all UK advertising
spend. GCap Media has an opportunity to capture share of the online
market through:
the cross-promotional opportunities that exist through 
our websites and radio audiences
the natural extension of radio brands online through music,
entertainment and local content
the combined power of broadcast and interactive media and 
the opportunity this creates for advertisers to reach audiences 
in creatively different ways.
Following this review, the Board has decided that the Group’s
strategy should be to focus on three key areas:
Continuing to strengthen the core business: 
the One Network and Capital 95.8
The network of local stations, including Capital 95.8, will 
remain the principal generator of revenue for the Group for the
foreseeable future. The continued revitalisation of these stations
remains a top priority and the Board has agreed to invest a further
£2.6 million net in programming and marketing across both the
One Network and Capital 95.8.
Focusing on brands with most revenue potential: Classic FM, 
Xfm, Planet Rock, theJazz and the proposed ‘classic hits’ network
Our experience of digital radio in the last two years has shown
that some of our strongest brands have particular potential 
to generate revenue across different broadcasting platforms. 
This potential springs from the national footprint of these brands
and their appeal to communities of interest from commercially
attractive demographics. Members of these communities are
typically passionate about a particular genre of music and as 
a result can most easily be reached across multiple platforms.
They are also particularly interested in purchasing concert
tickets, CDs and magazines relating to their genre. By focusing
on developing these brands across different platforms, we can
offer advertisers a number of different ways to reach these
attractive audiences. 
Consequently, we have taken the decision to close Capital Disney 
at the end of June 2007 and cease investment in two of our digital
stations, Core and Life. 
The potential of online
Natural extension of radio brands online
Combined power of broadcast and 
interactive media
Cross-promotional opportunities between
radio listeners and website users
New opportunities for advertisers 
to reach audiences AUDIENCE PROFILE
NAME: Luke
AGE: 39
HOW DO YOU LISTEN TO THE STATION?
I mainly listen through my computer when
working late at the office. 
TOP 5 PLAYLIST:
1 Miles Davis – So What
2 Dave Brubeck – Take Five
3 Louis Armstrong 
– West End Blues
4 John Coltrane – A Love Supreme
5 Weather Report – Birdland
TOP 3 FAVOURITE ARTISTS: 
1 Miles Davis
2 Madeleine Peyroux
3 Billie Holliday
HOBBIES:
I love going to the theatre and to live gigs. 
I also enjoy fine wine and good food so 
I eat out as often as I can! 
BEST BITS:
I was lucky enough to attend a launch party
for the station at my local Pizza Express 
with performances from local jazz artists
including the Joe Stilgo Trio. And mainly 
the fact that there’s finally a radio station
dedicated to playing my favourite music
night and day! 
Business Review AUDIENCE PROFILE
NAME: Dave
AGE: 44
HOW DO YOU LISTEN TO THE STATION? 
I listen mainly on DAB. I have two DAB radios 
– one in the bedroom which I use to wake up to
Alice Cooper each morning, and one in the kitchen
for early evening and at weekends. At the weekend
it’s rarely switched off! I listen online at work
occasionally, when I can. 
TOP 5 PLAYLIST: 
1 Led Zeppelin – Dazed And Confused
2 Rush – The Trees 
3 AC/DC – Sin City
4 Lynyrd Skynyrd – Freebird
5 Rainbow – Catch The Rainbow
TOP 3 FAVOURITE ARTISTS:
1 Led Zeppelin
2 Rainbow
3 AC/DC
HOBBIES:
Listening to classic rock, doing DIY,
watching Formula 1, playing golf, fixing up 
old cars and going on nice holidays. I have a guitar
– it rarely gets played but I still class it as a hobby! 
BEST BITS:
I won tickets to see Wishbone Ash in Milton Keynes,
which was fantastic and met the band after . 
On the radio, Alice’s breakfast show is brilliant.
The stories he comes out with and songs he plays
start my day off on the right foot. Rick Wakeman’s
show is superb – even my wife listens now. I really
enjoyed the Gary Moore blues series and think all
the band interviews are great. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 17
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
Additional investment in online development
Online is already a key part of what we do and it is important 
for a number of reasons. Firstly, radio and internet are no longer
distinct media platforms and an increasing number of our
listeners are choosing to listen online. We need to meet this
demand and maintain the loyalty of our listeners. Secondly, there
is an increasing demand from advertisers for more sophisticated
marketing solutions which supplement spot advertising. 
With the online advertising market growing to over £2 billion 
in 2006, we believe GCap Media has an attractive opportunity to
capture a share of this growing commercial market particularly
for those brands which we believe have market-leading potential
such as Classic FM, Xfm, Planet Rock, theJazz and the ‘classic
hits’ network. We plan to achieve this through cross-promotion
of websites and radio stations, by the extension of radio brands
online through music, entertainment and local content, and by
enabling advertisers to reach their target audiences more
effectively through innovative use of the combination of 
broadcast and online media. 
Therefore, at the end of May, we announced plans to achieve 
this through the investment of an additional £2.1 million net in
FY2007/08. Much of this investment will be used to transform
our station websites into ‘best in class’ music destinations. The
websites will deliver online radio, music-based content such as
artist databases and videos, and have ‘media discovery’ areas
where users can customise content and have access to online
communities, downloads and recommendations. This investment
will be targeted at delivering substantial increases in revenue and
full pay back is expected in 2010.
Brand performance review
In the year to come we will be focusing on those brands that we feel
have the most revenue potential for the Group. Their performance
over the last year is detailed below:
The One Network and Capital 95.8
The One Network accounts for 60% of our business and is a key
priority for the Group. Reversing a fall in listeners and reinforcing
this business was therefore a focus for our attention during 2006/07.
In addition to making improvements in programming and local
content, we strengthened the management structure by appointing
local managing directors to drive the business forward and deliver
stronger day-to-day operational performance. As a result of this,
and other investment in the One Network over the last year,
audience figures have stabilised with consecutive improvements 
in listener numbers over the last two RAJARs. A number of stations
including Essex FM, Southern FM, Power FM, Mercia FM, Leicester
Sound, Horizon Radio and Lantern FM have shown an upturn in
reach and share both quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year . 
As part of our drive to reverse the long-term audience decline at
Capital 95.8, in 2006/07 we gave the station a strong contemporary 
feel that is clearly distinguishable from its competitors and which 
is reflected in all aspects of its programming. This completed the
major overhaul of the station and enabled us in March 2007 to 
begin the first brand marketing campaign in four years. It is too 
early for the results of this campaign to be reflected in recent 
RAJAR results but we have already seen improvements in audience
numbers. Johnny Vaughan’s breakfast show has once again secured 
the number one commercial spot in London, and the evening
schedule, which showcases the station’s new music policy, 
has also gained listeners. 
13 . 4%
year-on-year increase in number of
unique users of Group websites
Business Review 18 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
Classic FM
Classic FM, named ‘Station of the Year’ at this year’s Sony Awards, 
has maintained its position as the UK’s leading commercial radio
station and the Group’s largest station in terms of revenue. 
Changes to the schedule in the autumn are already driving 
audience figures taking listener numbers over the six million mark. 
The station has continued to leverage its brand successfully across
multiple platforms and non-radio advertising revenues (such as
websites and CDs) now account for 17% of total revenues (2006:
14.5%). Classic FM’s CD ‘Most Wanted’ entered the classical music
charts at Number 1 and the Classic FM Friendly Guide to Music
book has sold over 10,000 copies. Since the Classic FM website
relaunched in August 2006, unique user numbers are up 16% 
and average page impressions are up 43%.
Xfm Network
The Xfm Network continues to go from strength to strength, 
recently achieving its highest-ever reach with over 1.1 million
listeners. T argeting the commercially attractive 15-34 year old
males, Xfm has a strong online presence and appeal that we have
continued to develop over the last twelve months. 
In May of this year, Xfm was awarded the new analogue radio 
licence for South Wales. This represents an important step in Xfm’s
expansion plans across the UK and further enhances the GCap Media
portfolio in the Wales region, whilst broadening Xfm’s offering as 
a national proposition. 
Since the year end, we have announced a groundbreaking initiative 
to respond to the listening style of the MySpace/iPod generation 
who listen to Xfm. These listeners are technologically literate and
increasingly expect to control what they hear and watch. We have
handed over control of Xfm’s output to its listeners between the
hours of 10am and 4pm every weekday through a strikingly
innovative and creative programming plan – the microsite X
u
(Radio to the power of u).
Through this site, listeners have full access to the Xfm music library.
Here they can compile sections of the station’s playlists and make
suggestions on other songs using a ‘free play’ option. They can also
vote for their favourite tracks, create their own pages on the site,
take part in discussions and record messages for X
u
which may 
be used on-air . All three Xfm stations in London, Manchester and
Glasgow remain independently programmed with a team available
at each site to take listener recommendations straight to air .
We shall continue to develop the station’s website, an integral part 
of the Xfm brand, which is already proving attractive to advertisers,
such as Stolichnaya Vodka, who are seeking to create integrated
advertising campaigns across several platforms.
Planet Rock
Sony Award-winning station Planet Rock attracts top talent 
including the likes of Alice Cooper, who presents the breakfast show,
Black Sabbath’s Tony Iommi, Rick Wakeman, Gary Moore and more
recently Fish from Marillion. For the last quarter, monthly unique
users of the Planet Rock website had increased by over 37%. 
In a recent initiative to develop our relationship with Planet Rock’s
audience, we secured a year long deal with the Music Industries
Association, a UK-wide trade body which creates and encourages
music making, to become the sole radio partner for Weekend
Warriors. Weekend Warriors is a scheme set up to encourage people
of 35 and over to learn an instrument. Championed on-air, promotional
support for the partnership includes joint online activity and dual
branding on all promotional material both in-store and at venues.
In October 2006 GCap Media purchased the remaining 75% 
of the station, making it possible for us to develop Planet Rock 
to its full potential. 
These developments underpin our belief in Planet Rock’s strong
prospects as a differentiated market-leading brand, able to attract
its audience across different platforms.
Xfm awarded new South Wales
analogue licence GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 19
theJazz
theJazz was created to fill a gap in the UK market for a jazz-only
station, targeting a similar ABC1 audience to Classic FM. After the
initial ‘soft’ launch in December 2006, a full programme schedule
was unveiled in March 2007 with star presenters including Mark
Forrest, Tim Lihoreau, Jamie Cullum, Mike Chadwick, David Jensen
and Margherita Taylor . The first RAJAR results for theJazz will be
published in August (Wave 2: 2007).
The station operates under the same management as Classic FM
and has taken advantage of Classic FM’s strategic partnerships 
so that its website, downloads and listener club were available at
launch. More recently theJazz has established its own record label 
in conjunction with Universal Classics and Jazz (UCJ).
‘Classic hits’ network
In April of this year, GCap Media announced that it was acquiring the
Classic Gold Network from Classic Gold Digital with the intention 
of merging it with Capital Gold to create a single ‘classic hits’ network
with a national presence and the potential to become a fast-growing
national brand as audiences increasingly migrate onto digital. The
deal is subject to Ofcom approval.
Our commercial performance
The table below shows the top 10 categories of national advertising
spend in 2006/07. In a year in which advertising revenues fell, only
one sector, Business and Industrial, produced an increase in
expenditure year-on-year, largely due to an increase in spending 
by energy companies. Government, Social and Political revenue 
held up well, buoyed by extra spend from COI. Finance was only
marginally lower year-on-year . We saw the most substantial falls 
in advertising spend in the Telecommunications, Entertainment 
and Media and Food sectors, although even in these sectors some
key clients did increase their advertising spend. Revenue from the
Motors sector also fell, despite spending on Classic FM producing 
an extra £2 million from two key advertisers; this sector was our
biggest revenue contributor in 2006/07.
Top 10 advertising categories
Year-on-year Total
revenue GCap 
movement revenue
Category (%) (%)
Motors -10.1% 14%
Government, Social, Political Organisations -1.9% 13%
Entertainment and the Media -22.5% 13%
Retail -5.8% 12%
Telecoms -31.3% 8%
Finance -0.4% 7%
Business and Industrial 2.9% 7%
Travel and Transport -6.5% 5%
Food -30.2% 5%
Household Stores -4.6% 3%
Launch of theJazz, 
the UK’ s first national 
jazz-only station
Business Review 20 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
CONTINUED
Developing our expertise and extending our offering
Focusing our sales team 
Historically radio companies have focused their main attention 
on the radio buying teams in agencies. However, as media choices
have continued to proliferate, we have had to adapt to the increasingly
competitive fight for clients’ budgets. This competition is at a much
earlier stage in the media process, namely with the planners. As 
a result, we have created an entirely new department called GCap
Solutions with five planning teams whose main focus is now 
on selling to media planners. 
T o do this effectively, we also required a re-focus on ‘how’ we actually
sell. To convince media planners to put radio on their schedules
requires a knowledge base that is much more rounded and creative
than we have previously needed. Rather than just selling radio
airtime our Solutions team needs to have expertise in every area. 
As a result, we have instigated regular training sessions throughout
the year to ensure that we are as effective a sales team as possible. 
The GCap Kitchen
The GCap Kitchen is a system developed in conjunction with media
agency PHD and comprises a computer-based system designed to
aid creativity and innovation in our proposals. The format is set up to
mirror how planners work and to ensure that when we answer briefs
we respond in their language. The system has been extremely well
received externally as well as internally. 
Creativity has been a real focus for the commercial team this year .
Innovative examples of how we put proposals together include turning
a meeting room into a living room for a Dominos Pizza pitch and in
another instance sending our proposal to a Motors client on an iPod. 
The GCap brand rooms and GMax 3D Cinema
One of our most successful marketing tools this year has been 
the re-design of the first floor of our Leicester Square London
offices into a brand enhancement area. Our brands are exciting
propositions for advertisers and our challenge is to ensure these
are communicated when clients visit the building. As a result, 
we created five new meeting rooms that reflect the individual
brand’s image and suit its target audience. 
Once advertisers have experienced the brand rooms, they can visit
our GMax cinema and watch a short 3D presentation that brings 
to life the excitement of each brand.  
Innovative offerings for our
advertise r s: Xbo x, Dail y T el egr ap h,
Stolichnaya, Green & Black’ s GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 21
Group revenue performance
GCap Media ended the 2005/06 financial year in a volatile and
difficult business environment. The effect on the Group of the
weak advertising market for traditional media owners had been
compounded by the need for management to focus on securing cost
savings, by audience decline at Capital 95.8 and The One Network,
and by the effect of the new inventory policy at Capital 95.8. In the
final quarter of that year total revenues fell by 16% year-on-year .
There was however modest cause for optimism with reorganisation
substantially complete, the World Cup imminent and industry
forecasts of radio advertising levels relatively upbeat.
However, revenues in 2006/07 have been lower than we had hoped
because the advertising market has been markedly less robust than
predicted and because our audience figures for the first six months
showed a decline. In addition, the change in inventory policy
continued to affect comparative figures for the first three quarters 
of the year . Total revenues in the year were £200.1 million, down 9%
from the pro-forma revenue of £220.2 million in 2005/06. Excluding
the two Century stations that were sold in the year, the pro-forma
revenues were down £14.3 million, 7% year-on-year . The change in
inventory policy at Capital 95.8 had a material impact on revenues in
the year . If we exclude Capital 95.8 revenues in the months of March
to December, when there were different policies in each year, the
like-for-like revenue reduction becomes 3%, with like-for-like radio
advertising falling 6% within that. 
Radio advertising market
The Group generated 84% of its revenue from radio advertising last
year, down from 86% in 2005/06. Other revenue streams were up
16% year-on-year, including a 20% rise in the quarter to March 2007.
The largest source of these is digital multiplex income, which was up
37% to £14.9 million last year (2006: £10.9 million). This increase was
mainly due to increased payments by BT Movio to Digital One for an
enhanced transmitter network, some of which will not be repeated. 
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
Financial review
Against the background of a difficult radio advertising market last
year, the Group continued to make significant cost savings within the
business. The disposal of the two Century radio stations in October
2006 reduced the Group’s debt considerably, improving our financial
flexibility. A combination of further cost savings forecast in 2007/08
and a cut of the dividend have enabled us to increase the level of
investment in the business in 2007/08, with more cash going into 
both traditional and interactive areas, in line with our strategy. 
Results for the year ended 31 March 2007
Excluding the two Century stations that were sold in the year, 
pro-forma* revenues were down £14.3 million, 7% year-on-year .
T otal revenues were £200.1 million, down 9% from the pro-forma
revenue of £220.2 million in 2005/06. Continued cost saving initiatives
meant that despite this £20.1million fall in revenue, underlying
operating profits, before amortisation and Separately Disclosed
Items, fell by £9.5 million to £16.3 million (2006: £25.8 million).
Statutory revenues were down 5% at £200.1 million (2006: 
£210.7 million) and statutory operating losses for the year were 
£14.4 million (2006: £56.7 million) after Separately Disclosed Items.
2007 2006
Excluding Excluding
Century Century Pro-forma Century Century Pro-forma
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Turnover 193.0 7.1 200.1 207.3 12.9 220.2
Operating profit 13.3 3.0 16.3 20.5 5.3 25.8
Profit before tax 11.4 3.0 14.4 16.9 5.3 22.2
Revenue breakdown into Broadcast, 
Multiplex and other (%) 
1  Broadcast Brands 88%
2  Multiplex 7%
3  Other 5%
 
    
1
2
3
* The adjustments made to the financials, to compile the pro-forma information 
are specified on page 51 .
£5 . 6m
net to be invested in strategic
initiatives in 2007/08
Business Review 22 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
CONTINUED
In March 2006, the Advertising Association forecast that radio
industry advertising revenues would rise by 0.4% year-on-year in the
calendar year 2006. In the event, radio industry advertising revenues
for the calendar year 2006 fell 5.2% (source: RAB). The advertising
display market as a whole was down by only 1.1%, so radio’s share 
of display advertising fell for the second consecutive year from 6.3%
in 2005 to 6.0% in 2006. Of other display media, only online advertising
showed growth in 2006. The environment improved a little over the
following three months, so that for the year ended 31 March 2007,
radio industry advertising was down 3.9% year-on-year (source: RAB). 
GCap Media’s advertising revenues followed this pattern, showing
some improvement in the last quarter, due to better audience
numbers which enabled us to beat the radio market’s performance.
We believe that the radio advertising market is less volatile than 
it was this time last year but that the outlook remains difficult to
predict. Nonetheless, the prospects for GCap Media in this uncertain
environment are more positive than a year ago. The Group’s
commercial proposition is strong: audiences, as reported in RAJAR
Wave 1:07, are more stable now than they were a year ago. We have
started to market Capital 95.8, launched a number of commercial
and programming initiatives, as well as the national digital station,
theJazz. We are encouraged that Group M (WPP) forecast that radio
advertising revenues will grow in the calendar year 2007 by 1.1%,
within overall media advertising growth of 4.7%. 
Profitability 
The successful Merger-related cost saving programme and 
some £2.3 million of revenue-related cost reductions substantially
limited the impact of the fall in revenues on profitability. Underlying
operating profits, before amortisation and Separately Disclosed
Items, were down £9.5 million, at £16.3 million compared to 
£25.8 million in 2005/06. Underlying profit before tax for the year 
was £14.4 million (2006: £22.2 million). Statutory operating losses 
for the year were £14.4 million (2006: £56.7 million) after Separately
Disclosed Items. 
Costs
Underlying operating costs have reduced by 5%; £10.6 million to
£183.8 million in 2006/07. This is despite investments of £5.6 million
announced in May 2006 and inflationary and contractual increases
on certain costs, particularly transmission costs where the annual
increases are at rates above RPI. 
Savings of £15.9 million were achieved during the year from
synergies following the Merger . This brings the cumulative annual
synergy savings achieved since the Merger to £29.5 million, above
the target of £27 million announced in May 2006, and well beyond 
the initial target of £7.5 million of savings. We have also announced
further cost savings of £5.5 million to come in the year ending 
31 March 2008. When these have been achieved, we shall have
reduced the annual cost base by £35 million.
Moving forward, control of costs will remain a top priority 
and we continue to strive for margin improvement. 
£29 .5m
cumulative cost savings achieved GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 23
Investment
In May 2006 we announced £5.6 million of investment in the
business, mainly for our new analogue licence, Xfm Manchester,
which began broadcasting in March 2006, and for CRM initiatives,
marketing and staff.
We intend to make a further net investment of £5.6 million in 
2007/08 to carry forward a number of strategic initiatives. This will 
be financed by the additional cost savings announced in May and the
reduction in our annual dividend payment. The cumulative payback
on all these investments is expected in the third year of operation, 2010. 
The investment is in the following areas:
Interactive
The Group is currently generating £4.5 million of online revenues
with 1.4 million unique visitors, making £1.6 million of profit in this
area in 2006/07. We believe that there is scope to take advantage
of the growth in online advertising and of the commercial
potential to sell to our listeners, enhancing profitability through
our websites and reducing our reliance on radio advertising.
T o achieve this, we shall increase the available inventory for 
online advertising. Our existing inventory sells out so, any
extension of inventory will automatically mean increased
revenues. We also intend to increase revenues by creating
integrated, cross-platform packages for advertisers, and use 
the Group’s websites to provide more and better opportunities 
for selling to our 15.2 million listeners. 
Over time, we intend to transform the websites of the leading 
radio brands into music entertainment destinations that provide
best-in-class interactive experiences for visitors. This will require
investment in the people and technology needed to design and
develop more innovative online products, such as personalised 
radio, on demand audio and video, music discovery and user-
generated content. This strategy is an extension of existing
initiatives on the websites of Classic FM and Xfm. 
Initial incremental spend in 2007/08, which will particularly fund 
an upgrade of the Group’s web-based infrastructure, is expected 
to be around £2.5 million of operating expenditure, taking the
total spend in this area to £5.9 million in 2007/08. In addition,
there will be £1.5 million of capital expenditure in the year .
Allowing for the time lag in the development of the websites, 
this additional investment will generate estimated incremental
revenues of £0.4 million in the final quarter of the financial year . 
In 2008/09 the investment will increase by a further £1.5 million
although revenue will be generated across the whole of that year
and we expect to be at least breakeven in the interactive division
as a whole. 
Other brand investment
The product re-development phase at Capital 95.8 is now complete
and we intend to step up the level of marketing. Capital inventory is
sold out, so any increases in audience will automatically increase
revenues and profits. In addition, we shall invest further in the
Group’s core stations within The One Network to strengthen 
their market position. Total new net investment in this area will 
be £2.6 million.
New licences
In September 2006, the Group announced the UK’s first national 
jazz station. theJazz launched on Christmas Day 2006 filling the 
gap in the market for a jazz-only station.
In May 2007, Ofcom announced that Xfm had been awarded 
the new analogue radio licence for South Wales. This licence
represents an important step in Xfm’s expansion across the 
UK and broadens the brand’s offering as a national proposition. 
These brands are of strategic importance and we plan to invest 
a net £0.9 million in them in 2007/08, not including capital spend 
of £0.5 million.
18%
growth in online revenues
Business Review 24 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
CONTINUED
DAB digital brands
The Group currently operates four national brands; theJazz, Planet
Rock, Core and Life that operate on digital platforms only . In May, we
announced that we will be ceasing investment in Core and Life as
they do not fit with our strategic focus or offer sufficient revenue
potential compared to other brands within our portfolio. 
Classic FM licence extension 
Classic FM’s licence has now been extended for a further four 
years to September 2011. The revised financial terms set by 
Ofcom reduce the cash bid from £1.1 million per annum to £50,000
effective from 1 January 2008, and reduce the percentage of qualifying
revenue payable to the Treasury from 14% to 6% with effect from 
1 October 2007. In the year to March 2008 this is expected to have 
a benefit of around £1 million, with an additional benefit in the
2008/09 year of approximately £1.5 million. 
Century disposal 
In October 2006 the Group sold 105.4 Century FM (Manchester) and
100-102 Century FM (Newcastle) to Guardian Media Group (GMG) 
for £60 million in cash. These Century stations contributed £3 million
of operating profit in the seven months up to sale. As part of the deal
the Group retained the right to sell the Century stations to national
advertising agencies. This agreement will remain in place for at 
least five years and will enable the Group to maintain its attractive
national advertising proposition, and provide potential aggregate
future revenues over that period of around £5 million. The sale of the
Century stations had an immediate impact on reducing the Group’s
net debt and was used to fund the subsequent acquisitions of Planet
Rock and Classic Gold.
Planet Rock
On 16 October 2006, the Group purchased the 75% of Planet Rock,
that it did not already own, for £4.8 million. This brought to an end 
the contribution to costs from the previous partners in this venture,
Arqiva, reducing revenues in 2007/08 by around £0.5 million. GCap
Media believes that the station has very strong potential for growth,
as demonstrated by the last two quarter’s RAJAR performance.
Gaining full control will enable the Group to exploit this potential
more fully.
Classic Gold
In April 2007 the Group acquired 18 AM Classic Gold radio stations
for a total cost of £4.2 million. The Group plans to merge Classic Gold
with Capital Gold to create a single ‘classic hits’ network. Bringing 
the two networks together will reduce operating costs, improving
earnings by £0.8 million in the year to March 2008, net of estimated
one-off costs of change of £0.3 million. The acquisition, which includes
relevant DAB digital licences held by Classic Gold, is subject to
Ofcom approval, which is anticipated shortly.
Accounting for the Merger
As well as financial information required for statutory purposes
these accounts also include unaudited pro-forma financial
information and underlying basic earnings per share, which have
been provided in order to demonstrate the underlying historic trends
in the combined business. The adjustments made to the financials, 
to compile the pro-forma and underlying information, are specified
on page 51.
Net debt reduced to 
£27 million from £76 million GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 25
Separately Disclosed Items
The consolidated income statement includes a column headed
Separately Disclosed Items, which is made up of:
(a) An impairment of goodwill of £11.5 million relating to the carrying
value of the Century stations at the time of sale. The impairment
charge reduced the book value of the assets to their fair value 
less costs to sell.
(b) A £0.8 million write-down of the carrying value of the investment
in UBC Media Group plc to its market value. 
Cash flow
Cash flow was greatly enhanced from the receipt of £60 million 
in cash from the Century sale during the year . We paid £4.8 million
during the year to acquire the rest of Planet Rock, that we did 
not already own, and we paid out £5 million in respect of merger
integration provisions in the balance sheet at 31 March 2006. 
Excluding these integration related payments, there was an
underlying £5 million improvement in working capital during the
year . Debtor days were held as last year at 36 at 31 March. The
anticipated reduction from further system integration has been
slightly delayed due to the Century stations sale and these benefits
are now anticipated to accrue in the coming financial year .
Capital expenditure for the 2006/07 year was just under 2.5% 
of sales, slightly down on last year . 
Interest and debt
The Group had net debt of £27 million at 31 March 2007 (2006: 
£76 million). The net financing costs for the year were £2.9 million
(2006 pro-forma: £4.3 million) as the Group ran at lower debt levels
during this year, primarily following the Century sale. Throughout
the year the Group’s debt was borrowed at an average variable
borrowing rate of 5.3%. The Group had un-drawn committed
facilities of £66.4 million at 31 March 2007.
The Group’s rolling annual net debt/EBITDA and interest cover ratios
are shown below together with the relevant bank covenant level.
Net debt/EBITDA EBITDA/Interest
Year to 31 March 2007 1.1 9.0
Bank covenants 3.0 maximum 4.0 minimum
Taxation
There is a tax credit for the year of £0.6 million in respect of a loss
before tax of £4.1 million in the period. The underlying tax, excluding
the impairment and amortisation of goodwill and its IFRS deferred
tax impact, is a charge of £4.9 million on profits of £14.4 million 
– an effective tax rate of 34%.
The Separately Disclosed Items attract no tax relief, though there
has been a switch in provisions between allowable and taxable,
hence despite the Separately Disclosed Items indicating a loss, 
a tax charge arises of £0.2 million.
Dividend 
Further to our announcements last October and November, the
Group has announced a cut in its annual dividend by 50% to 4.6 pence
per share. Consequently the Board will be recommending a final
dividend of 1.5 pence per share, following the payment earlier in 
this year of an interim dividend of 3.1 pence per share.
This level of dividend, together with the cost savings we have made,
will allow the investment in the business necessary to further our
strategy, as outlined above. The cut also reflects the sale of the 
two Century stations which generated £5.3 million of EBITA in the
2005/06 year . The dividend cut has also been made with the level 
of cover in mind; based on the new level of annual dividend, earnings
cover is 1.0 for the 2007/08 year . As cover and earnings improve the
Board will seek to grow the dividend. 
Dividend rebased 
to allow for future strategic
investment in the business
Business Review 26 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
GCap Media’s approach
GCap Media has 1,400 employees and engages approximately 600
freelancers and contractors. The welfare and interests of our people
are a high priority for the Group and health and safety principles 
are in place to ensure a safe working environment. We recognise 
the importance of a balance between work and family life and 
have established comprehensive family policies, which include
enhanced adoptive, maternity and paternity leave, as well as 
flexible working hours. 
We are an Equal Opportunities employer, which is fundamental 
to all our employment policies. We do not discriminate on the
grounds of sex, colour, race, ethnic or national background, sexual
orientation, marital status, age, disability, political or religious
beliefs. We pride ourselves on being an employer of choice. 
We continue to take a proactive approach to changes in employment
legislation. For example, our recent employee workshops have been
on age discrimination, the Work and Families Act and, in particular,
changes to maternity and paternity leave and new legislation on
smoking in the workplace. These workshops are intended to help
managers understand what these changes are and to give them 
a better understanding of equal opportunities law in general and 
its effects on daily employment practices.
Performance development
As a business, we are continually developing the leadership and
coaching skills of our managers so that employees are given
guidance and training to do their jobs more effectively and can
achieve their full potential. In addition, through initiatives such as 
the GCap Academy and the development of internal training teams,
we are encouraging the spread of learning and helping to capture
and retain knowledge, expertise and best practice within the Group. 
We are introducing a ‘balanced scorecard’ approach to help manage
our business. This is designed to support our principle that talent is
our edge and people are our strength. Our development offer has
been based around three core pillars:
Simpler… We make life simpler . We challenge everything 
we do to make it simpler for our people, our customers 
and our listeners.
Better… Beating expectations and being better than the
competition will enable us to achieve our goals. We strive to
deliver a more compelling service for listeners and customers.
More creative… Creativity, innovation and ideas are at the heart 
of what we do. We will make time and the right environment to
enable creativity to flourish so we have the best offerings for our
listeners and customers.
We have a number of initiatives that help managers focus on the 
first three years of a recruit’s life in the Group, ensuring that we 
hire the right talent with the appropriate skills and competencies 
to support the Group’s strategy. As a result, staff turnover has
reduced by over 54% since the Merger .
Our Performance Development Review (PDR) process, which we
designed and implemented across the Group post Merger, has 
now been running for nearly six months. More than 250 managers
have been given the skills to conduct effective performance reviews
with their staff. The PDR is a process that ensures everyone knows
what part they play in the success of the business. It ensures
everyone has clear objectives and through the emphasis on core
capabilities, means people are managed in how they go about
achieving these objectives. The capabilities provide the benchmark
against which all employees can assess their performance and
ensure that they are effective in what they do. The six capabilities 
are: vision, leadership, teamwork, communication, goal orientation
and thinking.
GCap Media’s future strategic priorities are to position the Group 
as a multi-platform media business. We are currently developing 
a portfolio of strong brands, with cross platform potential and 
are continuing to increase our investment in online. To support this,
we are committed to creating an externally recognised Professional
Development Programme. This will help attract new talent and
Talent is our edge, 
people are our strength
54%
improvement in employee 
churn since Merger GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 27
ensure the ongoing coaching of our presenters and programme
controllers so that we can win back audience share and develop 
our new platforms. 
The GCap Academy 
The GCap Academy offers a range of specific, tailor-made training
and development opportunities for employees with the long-term
aim of creating an externally recognised professional development
programme that will help attract and retain the right talent for 
the business.
The Academy comprises a group of qualified trainers and employees
who are able to deliver courses in their specific areas of expertise 
or disciplines. These range from general induction through to sales,
news and programming. Regular updates on Academy training are
published on the intranet, along with reviews and employee scores
for previous courses. Staff can also be nominated and booked onto
courses through the same site.
The Academy will continue offering an extensive range of development
opportunities delivered by both internal and external trainers and
supported by a Group-wide network of mentors and coaches.
Leadership and succession
We continue to be actively engaged in developing leadership 
qualities in our management teams and have focused on creating 
a strong leadership culture. The leadership characteristics for our
managers – to be inspiring, honest, courageous and forward looking
– are at the heart of our leadership style and we are committed to
encouraging better decision making processes closer to the listener
and the customer .
Building our leadership pipeline
We have developed a number of initiatives aimed at securing the 
best talent and ensuring that we are developing tomorrow’s leaders
in key roles at GCap Media. These include: Action Learning Centres
to develop new leaders (e.g. Sales Leadership School, Programme
Controller School, and News Editor School) and peer groups 
of managing directors and regional managing directors to develop 
a dynamic leadership style and culture across our business. 
We are also using a Talent Matrix to map and track the performance
of our top talent and to build individual development plans that
match our leaders’ and the business’ future needs. We work closely
with a small number of external coaches and The Leadership Trust
to develop our senior executives’ individual and team capabilities. 
Controlling our environment
As a broadcaster GCap Media has a limited impact on the
environment, however, the Group continues to recognise its
environmental responsibilities, and as such, a key objective for
2007/08 is to review our environmental policy internally and to
identify external partnerships that will allow us to ensure we play 
our part around climate change and carbon emissions. An initial
report has been undertaken at our Bristol offices and this will form
the basis of our future plans. During the coming year we will also 
be setting up an environmental team from across all sectors of our
business to develop our objectives around this important issue. 
We expect this policy to be completed and implemented towards 
the end of 2007.
Not withstanding this review, we continue to focus our efforts 
on minimising our environmental impact in the relevant business
areas, such as controlling waste, energy-saving and recycling. 
All our waste is disposed of in accordance with the Environmental
Policy Act 1990 and management and staff alike are aware of their
environmental obligations in helping to ensure that electrical
equipment is switched off, paper is recycled and heating and air
conditioning are used efficiently. Almost 80% of our lighting uses
energy-efficient bulbs and where we refurbish our premises 
the latest motion sensor lighting is installed.
Employee capability criteria
Vision
Leadership
Teamwork
Communication
Goal orientation
Thinking
Business Review 28 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
CONTINUED
We are currently in the process of replacing most of our fleet 
of marketing vehicles and have taken the opportunity to move
towards more energy-efficient, low-emission models which will on
average save 41% year-on-year in CO2 emissions for those vehicles
being replaced. This transition is expected to be completed by
December 2007 and the same approach will be adopted with the 
rest of the marketing fleet as existing leases expire and vehicles 
are replaced. In the general corporate fleet, the most popular car
provided is already in the lowest CO
2
band for tax purposes in its
segment and complies with Euro IV legislation. From April 2007, 
a hybrid vehicle has also been provided as an option to employees.
The Annual Report is printed on ecologically sound paper, 
sourced from sustainable forests, and for our Interim Report 
due out in November, it is proposed that this will only be available 
via our website in order to reduce the environmental impact 
on processing, printing and distributing the document.
Engaging with our investment community
We are committed to communicating the Group’s strategy and
activities clearly to our investment community and endeavour 
to maintain a high standard of transparency around our financial
reporting as well as to encourage the free flow of information. 
We provide regular updates to analysts and fund managers 
to ensure that they are briefed on any Group and industry
developments. During the year, we held a seminar at our 
Leicester Square offices that allowed analysts to experience 
the power of the GCap Media brands via a tailor-made 3D video, 
a tour around the specialist brand rooms and access to the 
senior brand managers.
Our private investors are also a valuable part of our shareholder
base and we communicate with them through the corporate 
website (www.gcapmedia.com), the Annual Report, the AGM 
and twice-yearly face-to-face roadshows.
We also recognise the importance of high standards of corporate
governance and follow the principles as set out in the Combined
Code. The Board is accountable for the Group’s operations and has
ongoing procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing risks.
Further details can be found on page 35.
Engaging with our local communities
As a Group with radio stations up and down the country attracting
over 15 million listeners, we are in the privileged position of being
able to build strong links with our local communities. By harnessing
the unique position we have in the lives of our listeners, we recognise
that we are able to help improve and action issues that matter to
them and their families. They have identified these as charities,
education, crime reduction and a range of other social action issues
such as health, homelessness and bullying to name but a few.
Across the year, the range of community activities undertaken by 
our stations has been vast and varied working with local partners 
to identify projects that are relevant to their particular community.
For instance, Essex FM has been working with Essex Police to
launch the ‘2Smart4Drugs’ campaign – now in its eleventh year . 
This roadshow tours schools around Essex delivering a range of
thought provoking messages about drugs, alcohol and staying safe.
Classic FM played an integral part in the highly acclaimed TV series,
‘The Singing Estate’, helping to bring together residents of the
Blackbird Leys housing estate in Oxford and transforming them 
into a top-notch classical choir, capable of singing in front of an
audience of thousands at London’s Royal Albert Hall. 
Choice FM and Xfm continue to passionately support the crime
reduction initiative Peace on The Streets and Winter Wonderland 
in aid of Shelter, respectively.
Finalist in the National Business
Awards for CSR activity GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 29
Besides our own charities, our stations work closely with many 
local causes including Race for Life and Crimestoppers.
With so many community initiatives being supported daily across 
the Group, we have now launched a series of Community Reports 
for each of our locations. These are produced in an electronic 
format twice yearly and sent to around 200 key local contacts in 
each area to highlight how stations are supporting their listeners
and communities.
Case study: The ‘v’ project
GCap Media has teamed up with the new charity ‘v’ to help create 
a million new volunteering opportunities for young people aged 
16-25 years. 
Launched in January, the partnership is able to offer almost 
£3 million of grants over three years to local organisations who 
can deliver volunteering as part of a community driven project.
This Treasury-backed charity is match funding the in-kind support
that GCap Media stations are contributing, with each station taking
part having a grant fund of around £50,000 for their local community.
Once suitable proposals have been submitted by local community
groups, they are put through a thorough selection process before
grants are ‘given away’ live on-air – making a real difference to the
local areas in which we broadcast. In the first three months of the
project, over £400,000 had been awarded to local organisations
creating nearly 2,000 volunteering opportunities. 
Choice FM in London received over 300 enquiries from local
organisations, 2-TEN in Reading had to assess over 20 applications
whilst Leicester Sound had so many good proposals their grant fund
was increased to £66,000. Over the partnership period it is expected
that over 300 organisations will be given grants thanks to this
partnership with ‘v’ and GCap Media.
Donations and charities
Charity work is an important element of our relationship with our
local communities and GCap Charities operates at 22 of our radio
stations and includes brands such as Help a Local Child at Southern
FM, BRMB and Fox FM and the ‘kids’ brand at GWR stations in
Bristol and Swindon. It also includes Help a London Child at Capital
95.8. In 2006, GCap Charities raised over £2.3 million across the
Group which was then given out in small and large grants to support
a broad range of charities and community groups including young
carers, hospices, disabled groups and homeless organisations. 
The Group has also recently launched Music Makers, Classic FM’s
very own charity, that funds live classical music in hospitals, care
homes, inner city schools and young offender institutions.
In addition, GCap Media supports a number of national charities
such as Race for Life, Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Shelter and ‘v’, 
the newly formed youth volunteering charity mentioned above.
Corporate responsibility
GCap Media continues to meet the corporate social responsibility
inclusion criteria for the FTSE4Good Index and, for the second year
running, the Group was a finalist in the 2006 National Business
Awards for our CSR activity.
41 %
year-on-year savings in CO2
emissions by replacing 
station vehicles
Business Review 30 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
CONTINUED
The Company scored highly in Business in the Community’s 
Percent Standard with a value of over £7 million worth of support
being calculated as our investment in local community activities. 
The majority of this was in the form of in-kind airtime for the many
causes we support, plus the time and resource offered by employees
to our local community partners.
The Percent Standard recognises and celebrates corporate giving
and is a symbol of a company’s commitment to its local community.
It is the UK’s best known benchmark for measuring a company’s
contributions to their local community through cash donations, 
staff time, gifts in kind and management time, shown as a
percentage of pre-tax profits. 
Classic FM
Classic FM has a unique public service role in the UK radio
landscape as the only commercial station broadcasting classical
music. Accessibility has been a key driver of Classic FM’s activities: 
a belief that classical music can be enjoyed by everybody, no matter
what their age, class or geographical location. This is one of the
cornerstones upon which Classic FM was founded. 
It is also the cornerstone upon which the station’s new charity,
Classic FM Music Makers, was recently founded. Working all over
the UK, the charity seeks to transform lives through music, focusing,
particularly on children living in poverty in inner cities or rural areas;
disabled children and adults who are in hospital or in care. 
Classic FM’s commitment to building new audiences for classical
music extends beyond the airwaves. Independent research by Arts
Council England found that Classic FM is bringing new audiences 
to the concert hall through its groundbreaking partnerships with
orchestras and festivals around the UK.
Guiding the direction of Classic FM, particularly its public service
broadcasting remit, is the Classic FM consumer panel whose 
annual report is included on the following pages.
£2. 3m
raised through Group charities GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 31
CLASSIC FM CONSUMER PANEL REPORT 2007 
Classic FM’s Consumer Panel has been in place for nearly five 
years, and continues to perform a unique role in commercial radio.
We consider carefully the views of listeners; we question and discuss
the station’s progress with its managers; and we set broad objectives
for the station in the year ahead. 
It is now over two years since GWR Group and Capital Radio merged
to form GCap Media plc and that process of change – coupled with
the move of Classic FM from Oxford Circus to Leicester Square – has
now ‘bedded in’. In audience terms, the past year has been a period 
of consolidation for Classic FM, rather than huge growth, but the
station’s audience share has remained broadly stable, and the
refreshing of schedules and presenters has on the whole worked
well. The new website, with some teething troubles, has been an
improvement. The range of activities, from books to CDs to Classic FM
TV to live concerts and orchestra partnerships, has been impressive.
Overall, we are pleased to record, again, that Classic FM has helped
to bring classical music of the highest quality to a remarkably broad
audience, and it has done it well. The Consumer Panel continues 
to monitor the station’s work carefully and strives to ensure that 
the voice and interests of listeners are kept at the forefront of the 
Classic FM management team’s thinking.
The members of the panel are:
Rt Hon Lord Smith of Finsbury, Chairman, former 
Culture Secretary
Sally Anderson, a GP from Yorkshire
Martin Johnston, an environmental scientist from 
Northern Ireland
Kirsty Young, director of an opera company from Harrow
Peter Bailey, a retired systems analyst from Lincolnshire
Carol Goodson, a junior school teacher from Bromley
Brian McDowell, a cathedral school headteacher from Devon
Andrew McNeish, a company director from Glasgow 
Ajay Nanda, another environmental scientist, from Scotland.
Our purpose
The Consumer Panel’s purpose is to encourage and influence the
development of Classic FM, to meet the needs of its consumers; to
probe, guide and monitor the actions of the station’s management,
and to set ongoing aims and objectives to which the station should
aspire; to foster a sense of ownership of the station – and the Panel 
– by consumers; and to publish a report of our work each year 
in GCap Media’ s Annual Report and on the Classic FM website. In 
this respect, we continue to be concerned by the lack of ease of
accessibility to the Consumer Panel’s work, minutes and decisions,
through the Classic FM website. 
We will continue to press for greater prominence and readiness 
of access as this must surely be in the best interests of all 
Classic FM listeners. 
Our role
In fulfilling our purpose, we seek to review various aspects of the
station’s performance, from the point of view of its audience:
Interaction with consumers: the audience’s access to the station
and how this is dealt with; enquiries and comments by phone,
letter, email and text, and how the station responds; access to
competitions, nominations, requests, and presenters.
Delivery: the platforms used for dissemination of Classic FM;
availability on FM, digital TV, DAB radio, internet, mobile phones,
and downloads; future developments in technology and how they
impact on the audience.
Content: issues relating to the range, quality, presentation and
nature of the music played; the nature of programmes, news,
adverts, self-promotion, CDs, publications, internet newsletters
and emails; the purpose and findings of audience research.
Policy: the general direction and purpose of the station; 
decisions made in the light of audience response and research.
Classic FM Consumer Panel
continues to perform a unique
role in commercial radio
Business Review 32 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
Objectives for Classic FM
For the past year, we set in place six broad objectives for Classic FM
and we are pleased to record substantial progress against these. 
The six objectives, together with particular actions and issues that
have arisen, have been:
1. To ensure the interests of all ages of audience are represented
in the spectrum of music broadcast, and within that aim to
encourage a younger audience – especially at early ages,
including pre-school – to sample classical music via Classic FM.
We have been pleased to see new initiatives such as ‘Mozart for
Babies’, the use of music with a younger flavour for the School
Run programme and the updating of the Classic FM website. 
We look forward to the ‘Lullaby Slot’ becoming a reality. With the
success of Darren Henley’s ‘Friendly Guide to Music’, we believe
there would be great value in developing the concept further, 
with perhaps a ‘Friendly Guide to Opera’, or to ‘the Symphony’. 
We believe there would be real value in developing a special kid’s
section on the Classic FM website, with games and features as
well as information. T owards the other end of the age spectrum,
we also continue to remind the station that not all listeners –
especially older listeners – have access to the internet, yet still
wish to interact with Classic FM.
2. To expand Classic FM’s involvement with music written 
during the past 100 years, in addition to the repertoire 
since the year 1400.
We are pleased to note that a substantial amount of music of the
20
th
and 21
st
Century is being played; that Patrick Hawes has
become composer-in-residence, following on from Joby T albot;
and that ‘cross-over’ music is also occasionally played. Whilst the
core of Classic FM’s repertoire must of course remain accessible
to a wide audience, we believe that it may still be possible to
stretch the repertoire rather more, especially during peak times 
– the Queen of Sheba arrives, the Danube is blue, and Moonlight
shines perhaps too frequently. We believe there is scope for the
core repertoire to become more adventurous. 
3. To work with a range of people and organisations and develop
new audiences for classical music, on-air, in the concert hall
and in education, by fostering partnerships with the wider 
arts community.
This is an objective on which excellent progress has been 
made, over a number of years. The partnerships with particular
orchestras, the sponsorship of live events, the discovery and
promotion of new talent (such as Alfie Boe), the presence at
music festivals, and the launch of the new Music Makers 
charity, have all been extremely welcome.
Broadening the appeal 
of classical music
CLASSIC FM CONSUMER PANEL REPORT 2007 
CONTINUED GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 33
4. To encourage, as far as possible, a balanced geographical
spread of the audience for Classic FM, and to seek a broad
spectrum of listeners for the station, reflecting the range 
and diversity of the UK’s population as a whole.
Again, we are pleased with the progress that has been made 
on this. The John Suchet ‘Classical Map of Britain’ series has
been a very good example of what can be achieved. We continue 
to remind Classic FM about the needs of audiences north of the
Watford Gap. We have also suggested that some piloting of
classical Asian music might be worth considering, especially
bearing in mind the value of encouraging the broadest range 
of audience for the station. 
5. To aim to give the audience an appropriate level of information
about, and insight into, the music that is broadcast, providing
background and context to what is being played and to classical
music in general.
The ‘forward’ and ‘back’ announcing of the music being played, 
on programmes such as ‘Smooth Classics ’, has been very helpful.
So has the development of much better and more accessible online
information about the music listeners have heard. The Classic FM
books have been a very welcome development. Some presenters,
however, remain better than others at giving more than just the
name of the composer, the piece and the orchestra. The pattern
remains uneven during the course of the day, especially late at
night. This objective remains very important to the Panel and we
have decided to expand its impact with the addition of a seventh
Objective for the year ahead.
6. T o work with advertisers, purchasers of advertising and
creatives to improve, over time, the quality of experience 
listeners have of adverts broadcast on Classic FM.
The quality and appropriateness of adverts remains the biggest
source of listener complaint. We realise, of course, that as 
a commercial station Classic FM is dependent on its advertising
revenue. In order, however, to encourage good practice, we have
instituted an ‘ Advert of the Quarter’ competition, where a prize is
awarded for the best advert in each three-month period. Each
quarter, adverts are nominated by listeners and the Panel judges
between them. The awards are highly prized by advertisers and
we have been particularly pleased to note an increasing number
of adverts using classical music within the advert in a wholly
appropriate way. We would ask, however, for the ‘Advert of the
Quarter’ competition to receive greater prominence both on-air
and online. Its impact could, we believe, be further enhanced 
by this. 
Business Review 34 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CLASSIC FM CONSUMER PANEL REPORT 2007 
CONTINUED
Objectives for 2007/08
For the year ahead, we believe that the six objectives should remain
broadly in place, though we wish to rationalise and simplify them. 
We also wish to add a seventh, relating to the role of presenters,
closely allied to the existing fifth objective. The new objectives for 
the year ahead therefore are:
1. T o ensure the interests of all ages of audience, especially
amongst young people new to classical music, are represented 
in the spectrum of music broadcast.
2. T o expand the range of music broadcast by Classic FM, continuing
to explore the whole repertoire from 1400 to the present day.
3. T o work with a range of people and organisations, and foster
partnerships with the wider arts community, to help develop 
new audiences for classical music.
4. T o seek and retain a broad spectrum of listeners for the station,
reflecting the diversity and geographical spread of the UK’s
population as a whole.
5. T o give the audience an appropriate level of information about,
insight into and background knowledge about the music being
played, and classical music in general.
6. T o help presenters to become ‘gate-keepers’, or rather 
‘gate-openers’ to the world of classical music for their audience.
7. T o work with advertisers, purchasers of advertising and creatives
to improve the experience listeners have of adverts broadcast 
on Classic FM.
The Panel’s Chairman since its inception, Chris Smith, is stepping
down in order to take up his new responsibilities as Chairman of 
the Advertising Standards Authority. He is grateful for the help and
support of all his fellow Panel Members. Meanwhile, the Panel as 
a whole, looks forward to working with Classic FM in the year ahead,
ensuring that the objectives it has set are thoroughly considered 
and monitored, and that progress is maintained.  GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 35
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Operational
The risk that audience decline at GCap Media stations 
erodes the Group’s position, both in local markets and 
in the national marketplace.
We continually strive to improve programming standards to 
increase our audiences. We regularly conduct listener research,
building profiles of their likes and dislikes, and use this to develop
both the sound of our stations and the music they play. We have
made changes to our programming where this was necessary to
address audience decline, notably at Capital 95.8. We also operate 
a central programming function to provide assistance and expertise
to local teams. 
With our investment in digital radio, we have launched new stations,
such as theJazz, which are aimed at generating new audiences 
for the Group. 
Commercial
The risk that the continued weakness of the advertising 
market puts pressure on traditional revenue streams.
We are acting to develop our relationship with advertisers and
agencies to ensure that we maximise the perceived value of our
brands. This includes offering tailored solutions to advertisers,
highlighting the breadth of our products. The development of 
new media opportunities is at the heart of our strategy, which 
over time will reduce the pressure internally on our traditional
revenue generators.
The risk that the competitive pressure on our premium stations for
audiences erodes our heritage position, with a consequent impact
on advertising price and volume.
We continue to concentrate our marketing at key locations. The
change to the minutage policy at Capital 95.8 allows us to preserve
our premium against our commercial competitors. We continue 
to improve our programming quality both in terms of sound of the
stations and presenter talent as well as providing better offerings for
customers and developing revenue streams direct with customers. 
Strategic
The risk that digital radio either fails to take-off or is overtaken 
by alternative technologies.
We have continued to see significant year-on-year growth in DAB
radio take up. Digital radio itself offers the listener more choice and
we have launched theJazz this year to further extend that choice. 
In addition, we aim to make best use of data applications available
with digital technology to enhance the listener’s experience. We
continually evaluate and review alternative technologies in order 
to ensure that GCap Media is well placed to take advantage of these 
where appropriate. 
Failure of online strategy leaves GCap Media reliant on its
traditional media, and behind competitors who may have taken
advantage of new media opportunities.
We have announced investment is to be put behind our online
strategy to create a winning product. A clear plan has been
developed to demonstrate our ongoing commitment to this 
strategy. The appointment of Fru Hazlitt and Richard Eyre, 
with their expertise in this area strengthens the Company’s 
online experience.
Industry consolidation weakens GCap Media’s market position 
and ability to grow.
GCap Media considers consolidation opportunities as they arise.
However, its strategy focuses on driving the existing business
forward, in its traditional heartlands and in new areas of potential 
to place itself in the best position possible, limiting the impact 
of developments in the rest of the industry.
We regularly review potential
risks and have systems 
and procedures in place 
to mitigate them 
Business Review 36 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AS AT 30 MAY 2007
1 Peter Cawdron, 63 
Non-executive Chairman
#
He joined the Board in December 2000, was appointed Deputy
Chairman in October 2001 and was Chairman from January 2002
until the Merger with GWR Group plc in May 2005, when he became
Deputy Chairman. He resumed the role of Chairman in September
2005. He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Peat, Marwick,
Mitchell in 1966, following which he spent seven years from 1970 with
S.G. Warburg and six years as Chief Financial Officer with D’Arcy
MacManus & Masius, an international advertising business. From
1983 to 1997, he was Group Strategy Director of Grand Metropolitan
plc. He is now Chairman of Punch T averns plc and a Non-executive
Director of Capita Group plc, Johnston Press plc and ProStrakan 
Group plc.
2 Ralph Bernard CBE, 54 
Chief Executive
He joined the Board in May 2005 as Executive Chairman and 
became Chief Executive in September 2005. He started his career 
in commercial radio as a journalist in 1975 and launched Wiltshire
Radio in 1982 as Programme Director, becoming Managing Director
in 1983. He was Managing Director and then Chief Executive of 
GWR Group plc from 1987 to 2001 when he was appointed Executive
Chairman. He is Chairman of Digital One Limited and the Digital
Radio Development Bureau, the body responsible for developing
digital radio on behalf of the commercial radio industry and the BBC.
He is a Non-executive Director of Independent Radio News Limited.
Appointed a Fellow of The Radio Academy in 1998, he won the Sony
Gold Award in 2000 for his contribution to the industry, and in 2002 
he was made a CBE for services to radio broadcasting.
3 Steve Orchard, 49
Operations Director
He joined the Board in November 2005, having previously been
appointed to the GWR Group plc Board in 1996. He joined Wiltshire
Radio in 1983 as a reporter and presenter . He then served as radio
station Managing Director, Group Programme Director and
Programme Controller Classic FM, before becoming Operations
Director, Local Radio in 1998 of GWR Group plc. He is a member 
of the Sony Radio Awards committee and a Director of Hit 40 UK
Limited and Independent Radio News Limited. He was appointed 
a Fellow of The Radio Academy in 2006.
4 Wendy Pallot, 42 
Group Finance Director
She joined the Board in May 2005. She qualified as a Chartered
Accountant with Coopers and Lybrand and joined GWR Group in 1994
as Group Financial Accountant. At GWR Group plc she was Company
Secretary from December 1997 until November 2001 and became
Group Finance Director in September 2001.
5 Fru Hazlitt, 44 
Managing Director GCap Media London
She joined the Board in May 2007. Previously, she spent two years 
as Chief Executive of Virgin Radio and prior to that six years at 
Y ahoo! where she joined the company in 1999 as European Sales 
and Marketing Director and in 2003 became Managing Director of
Y ahoo UK & Ireland. She is a Non-executive Director of Woolworths
Plc and Betfair .
6 Richard Eyre, 53
Non-executive Director 
He joined the Board in May 2007 as Deputy Chairman. He began 
his career in advertising, becoming the first Media Director of BBH 
in 1986. In 1991, he became Chief Executive of Capital Radio plc,
leading the move to acquire radio companies outside London and
playing a role in building the industry’s revenue share. In 1997 he
joined ITV as Chief Executive of the Network, and in February 2000 
he became Chairman and CEO of Pearson Television, producing
programmes in 35 countries. Within a year the business merged 
with CLT-Ufa to form RTL, the largest broadcasting company in
Europe. He became a Director of the newly merged company where
he was responsible for content and strategy. Since 2001 he has
worked for a range of organisations. He is Chairman of the Internet
Advertising Bureau, RDF, a major TV production company, and 
a Director of The Eden Project.
1 2
3 4 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07 37
7 Alastair Ross Goobey, 61 
Non-executive Director^*
#
He joined the Board in May 2005, having previously served as a
Director of GWR Group plc since November 2003. He is Chairman 
of Hermes Focus Asset Management Limited, Invicta Real Estate
Investment Management plc and John Wainwright & Co Limited. 
He is also a Senior Advisor to Morgan Stanley, and a Governor of 
The Wellcome Trust. Among other appointments he is also a Trustee
of Cancerbackup and a Governor of the Royal Academy of Music.
8 Tony Illsley, 50 
Non-executive Director
o†
*
He joined the Board in December 2000. He was formerly Chief
Executive Officer of Telewest plc prior to the Merger with Flextech
plc. Prior to this, he was with PepsiCo as President of Walkers Snack
Foods and before this he was President of Pepsi-Cola Asia Pacific.
Until September 2005 he was a Non-executive Director of easyJet
plc and he is Non–executive Chairman of Plastic Logic Limited and
CacheLogic Limited, and also a Non-executive Director of Northern
Foods plc.
9 Sir Peter Michael CBE, 68 
Non-executive Director
o
*
#
He joined the Board in May 2005, having previously served as a
Director of GWR Group plc since 1997. He is Chairman of the ‘Pelican
Cancer Foundation’ at Basingstoke and of the Greenham Common
Charitable Trust. His other interests include Highcross, a property
fund management group, of which he is Chairman, and The Vineyard
Hotel. He has been Chairman of a number of large IT companies
including UEI plc and Cray Electronics and a number of government
bodies for the encouragement of research and development in the
United Kingdom.
56
9 10 1 1
7 8
12
10 Peter W Williams, 53 
Non-executive Director
o†
He joined the Board in December 2003 and is Chairman of the 
Audit Committee. He is Chief Executive of Alpha Airports Group Plc.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Selfridges plc and qualified as a
chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen. He is a Non-executive
Director of ASOS plc and Cineworld Group plc and a Member of the
Design Council.
11 Peter Williams, 53 
Non-executive Director
†
He joined the Board in May 2005, having previously served as a
Director of GWR Group plc since 2000. He is Finance Director 
of Daily Mail and General Trust plc (‘DMGT’). He is a Chartered
Accountant and joined the DMGT Group in 1982. He is also a 
Non-executive Director of Euromoney Institutional Investor plc 
and of Ibis Media VCT plc.
12 Richard Manning, 42
Company Secretary
He was appointed Company Secretary in May 2005. He joined 
GWR Group plc in 2000 as Group Solicitor and became Company
Secretary in 2001. He also holds the position of Group Legal Director
at the Company. He is a director of Digital One Limited and Wildstar
Records Limited.
President
Lord Attenborough CBE, 83
He was appointed President of Capital Radio in 1992 in recognition 
of his outstanding contribution to its development. He was Chairman
of the Company from its formation in 1972 until his retirement from
the Board in 1992.
* A member of the Remuneration Committee of the Board
†
A member of the Audit Committee of the Board
#
A member of the Nominations Committee of the Board
o
Independent Director
^ Senior Independent Director
Business Review 38 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
Introduction
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report
together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Principal activities and business review
The Group’s principal activity is that of a commercial radio broadcaster
and licence holder in the United Kingdom. Other activities include
the provision of services to the radio industry, the operation of
entertainment-based internet sites and record production and
distribution. The principal activities of the Company’s subsidiaries
are set out on page 68.
A review of the Group’s activities for the year and its future prospects 
is set out in certain key pages of the Business Review, namely the
Operational Review on pages 10 to 20, the Financial Review on 
pages 21 to 25 and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 35.
These sections of the Business Review are incorporated into this
Report by reference.
Financial results
Details of the Group’s profit and taxation are set out in the Group
Income Statement on page 54 and in the Notes to the Accounts.
Dividend
The Directors have decided to recommend a final dividend of 1.5p
(2006: 6.15p) per share payable on 30 July 2007 to shareholders 
on the register of members at the close of business on 6 July 2007
(ex-dividend date: 4 July 2007).
Donations
During the course of the year, the Group raised over £2.3 million for
its own charities and many other third-party charities. In addition,
the Group’s own donations to external charities in the year amounted
to £3,000 (2006: £20,000). No contributions were made to political
organisations. 
Staff policies
The quality, commitment and effectiveness of the Group’s staff 
are crucial to its continued success. Staff policies and programmes
are designed to encourage employees to become interested in the
Group’s activities and to reward all staff according to their contribution
and capability. Employee communications are a high priority and
regular staff briefings are used to ensure that all staff are kept
properly informed. Employee share ownership is encouraged
through savings-related and other employee share schemes.
Employment policies do not discriminate between employees or
potential employees on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic or natural
origin, sex, marital status, religious beliefs or disability . If an employee
were to become disabled whilst in employment and, as a result, was
unable to perform his/her duties, every effort would be made to offer
suitable alternative employment and assistance with re-training.
Directors
The names and details of the Directors holding office at the date 
of this report are given on pages 36 and 37. During the year to 
31 March 2007 Patricia Hodgson held office, prior to her resignation
from the Board in August 2006. 
At the Annual General Meeting held in July 2006, the following
Directors were re-elected to the Board: Wendy Pallot, Patricia
Hodgson, Peter W Williams. Also at the Annual General Meeting 
in July 2006, Steve Orchard was elected to the Board following his
appointment to the Board in November 2005.
Under the Articles of Association of the Company Tony Illsley,
Alastair Ross Goobey and Peter Cawdron retire by rotation at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, notice of which is set 
out on pages 91 to 96. Tony Illsley, Alastair Ross Goobey and 
Peter Cawdron, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Peter Michael, having served nine years as a Director of GCap Media plc
(‘GCap Media’) and GWR Group plc (‘GWR Group’)before, is now
subject to annual re-election. In relation to the re-elections of 
T ony Illsley, Alastair Ross Goobey, Peter Cawdron and Peter Michael,
the Board is satisfied that each of these Directors continues to 
be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the Company.
Additionally, each of the Directors subject to re-election continues 
to demonstrate an independence of thought and action in relation 
to their duties as a director . 
In addition, Directors appointed since the last Annual General
Meeting are required to submit themselves for election at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Therefore, Fru Hazlitt and
Richard Eyre will be offering themselves for election at the 
Annual General Meeting.
Details of all Directors, including those offering themselves for 
re-election and election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting,
can be found on pages 36 and 37.
Information on Directors’ remuneration is given in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 50.
Significant shareholdings
At 30 May 2007 the Company had been notified of the following
interests of 3% or more in its Ordinary Shares:
Number of 
Ordinary Shares %
Schroder Investment Management 27,311,808 16.57
Fidelity Investments 24,016,613 14.57
DMG Media Investments 23,561,236 14.29
Standard Life Investments 17,541,525 10.64
Millgate Capital 8,290,000 5.03
M & G Investment Management 8,067,313 4.89
Legal & General Investment Management 6,682,445 4.05
Capital Group 5,977,967 3.63
Share allotment and pre-emption rights
In accordance with the Company’s normal practice, a resolution will
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Board’s
authority to allot unissued Ordinary Shares up to a maximum amount
of £878,774 (being the lesser of the unissued share capital of the
Company and 33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the
date of this report). This authority will expire on the fifth anniversary 
of the date of the resolution. A resolution will also be proposed at 
the Annual General Meeting to renew the Board’s authority to issue
shares for cash without first being required to offer such shares to
existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis. The authority will expire
on the earlier of 25 October 2008 and the conclusion of the next
Annual General Meeting and is limited to Ordinary Shares having 
an aggregate nominal value of up to £206,061 (which is equivalent 
to approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company 
as at the date of this Report).
The Directors do not currently have any plans to issue any share
capital of the Company for cash on a non pre-emptive basis; 
should the position change, they would not intend to issue more 
than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash on a
non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without prior
consultation with the Investment Committees of the Association 
of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Save in connection with the allotment of Ordinary Shares pursuant 
to the exercise of options and shares conditionally awarded under
the Company’s employee share schemes, the Directors have no
present intention of issuing any Ordinary Shares.
The Company does not hold any Treasury Shares. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      39
Authority to buy-in shares
Under Article 9 of the Articles of Association, the Company is empowered to purchase its own shares. The Directors consider that it is
prudent to maintain the power to make purchases in the market of the Company’s own shares and the necessary special resolution will be
proposed at the Annual General Meeting. The maximum number of shares which may be acquired pursuant to the authority is 16,484,900
(which is equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company) and the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) payable for each
Ordinary Share is the higher of 105% of the average closing middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share (as derived from the Daily Official
List) for the five business days immediately preceding the purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5(i) of the Buy-back and Stability
Regulation 2003. The authority will expire on the earlier of 25 October 2008 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting. The Board
has no immediate intention to exercise the authority and purchases will only be made if the Board believes that to do so would increase the
earnings per share of the Company and be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally. The authority granted at last
year’s Annual General Meeting has not been used in the past year . 
Under the Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares) (Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003, companies are allowed to hold shares acquired 
by way of market purchase as Treasury Shares, rather than having to cancel them. If any purchases of ordinary shares are made pursuant 
to this authority, it is intended that such ordinary shares will either be cancelled or held in treasury in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Acts. No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect of, shares held in treasury. Any purchases 
of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 30 May 2007 there were options outstanding over 2,645,005 Ordinary Shares, representing 1.60% of the Company’s issued share capital.
If the authority given by this resolution was to be fully used, these options would represent 1.78% of the Company’s issued ordinary share
capital as at 30 May 2007. There are no warrants to subscribe for Ordinary Shares outstanding.
Supplier payment policy
Community involvement is a mainstay of the Group’s radio operations and the Group considers that this extends equally to its position in 
the business community. The Group does not follow a code but operates a payment policy to agreed terms in settling outstanding debts. 
For certain types of regular contracted services, the Group encourages direct debit or standing order arrangements. Most other supplies 
are on an ad hoc basis and the terms of payment are agreed when the order is placed. The majority of payments are made by electronic
transfer direct to suppliers’ bank accounts. The amount of trade creditors shown in the balance sheet at 31 March 2007 represents 48 days
(2006: 31 days) of average purchases during the period for the Group. The Company had no trade creditors at the year end (2006: creditor days – nil).
Directors’ shareholdings, share options and conditional share awards
The beneficial interests of the Directors at 1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007 (or date of resignation from the Board if earlier) were:
At 31 March 2007
(or date of resignation from Board) At 1 April 2006
Shares Options Shares Options
R Bernard 303,634 567,998 275,746 295,741
S Orchard 32,772 336,786 16,349 172,217
W Pallot 21,734 305,540 6,861 160,220
P Cawdron 3,200 – 3,200 –
A Illsley 4,200 – 4,200 –
P Michael 3,799,306 – 3,799,306 –
A Ross Goobey 13,000 – 13,000 –
P W Williams 10,000 – 4,300 –
P Williams 391 – 391 –
Patricia Hodgson (Resigned 11 August 2006) 3,367 – 3,367 –
Note:
Fru Hazlitt joined the Board on 1 May 2007 and at this date she held 117,650 shares in the Company.
The Options include those held under the GCap Media Save As You Earn Scheme and nil-cost options granted pursuant to the 2005 
Long Term Incentive Plan, the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme and the Interim Merger Scheme. Further information regarding the 
options is given in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
In addition to the individual shareholdings set out above, the Directors are for Companies Act purposes deemed to be interested in 485,658
Ordinary Shares held in the GCap Media Employee Trust, 263,011 Ordinary Shares held in the GCap Media SAYE Trust and 272,633 Ordinary
Shares held in the GWR SAYE Trust. The market value of these shares as at 31 March 2007 was £2,193,246.
Business Review 40 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
CONTINUED
There were no changes in the Directors’ registered interests in the
shares of the Company during the period from 31 March 2007 to 
30 May 2007. None of the Directors had any interest in the shares 
of any subsidiary company. Further details of options and conditional
share awards held by the Directors at 31 March 2007 are set out in
the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Directors’ and officers’ insurance
The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and
officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be
incurred by them whilst acting as Directors or officers.
The Directors are granted an indemnity, in accordance with Article
171 of the Articles of the Company, in respect of liabilities incurred
as a result of their office.
Treasury
The Group’s financial instruments comprise borrowings, some cash
and liquid resources, and various items, such as trade debtors and
trade creditors, that arise directly from its operations.
The principal risk arising from the Group’s financial instruments 
is interest rate risk. The Board has reviewed and agreed a policy 
for managing this risk and this is summarised below. This policy 
has remained unchanged since the beginning of the year . 
Interest rate risk
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained
profits and bank borrowings. The Group borrows at both fixed 
and floating rates of interest. The Group’s operating activities are
principally financed by floating rate borrowings, whereas significant
investment and acquisition activities are generally financed through
fixed interest borrowings. 
The Group uses derivatives to protect against fluctuating interest
rates. It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the
Group’s policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments
shall be undertaken. Interest rates swaps, in Sterling, have been
entered into to achieve a suitable mix of fixed and floating rate
exposure.
Liquidity risk
Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities. The Group’s
operations are typically cash-generative, so exposure to liquidity risk
is considered insignificant.
Foreign currency risk
The Group has no exposure to foreign currency risk as it has no
significant investments or financial instruments denominated 
in foreign currencies.
Auditors
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors are
unaware; and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought 
to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s
Auditors are aware of that information.
Resolutions are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for
the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the Company
and to authorise the Board to fix their remuneration. The remuneration
and expenses of the Auditors are fully disclosed in note 6 to
the Accounts.
By order of the Board
Richard Manning
Company Secretary
30 Leicester Square
London WC2H 7LA
30 May 2007
Registered Number 923454 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      41
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to,
high standards of corporate governance. This statement, together
with the Directors’ Remuneration Report set out on pages 44 to 50,
describes how the Company has applied the principles of good
governance as set out in the Combined Code.
The Company complied with the requirements of the Code
provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code throughout 
the year under review, save for the following area:
Code Provision C.3.1: From 8 May 2005, Peter Williams, who does 
not meet the independence criteria set out in Code Provision A.3.1,
has been a member of the Audit Committee and therefore the
Committee did not consist solely of independent Non-executive
Directors. The Company, and the Audit Committee, consider 
that notwithstanding his position as Finance Director of DMGT, 
a substantial shareholder in the Company, Peter Williams has
always displayed independence of mind and action in his dealings
with the Audit Committee and the Company. Indeed, his experience
as Finance Director of a FTSE 100 company benefits the Audit
Committee and the Company to a significant extent.
Directors
The Board of GCap Media is responsible and accountable for 
the Group’s operations. Its principal focus is the overall direction 
and control of the Group. As at the date of this report, the Board
comprises the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, three
other Executive Directors and six other Non-executive Directors.
Their biographies (set out on pages 36 and 37) illustrate the Directors ’
breadth of experience which should ensure an effective Board 
to lead and control the Group. The Board believes that it has an
appropriate balance of Executive and Non-executive presence. 
All of the Non-executive Directors identified as being independent
are considered to be independent of management and free from 
any business or other relationship that could materially interfere 
with the exercise of their independent judgement. Peter Williams,
who is not identified as being independent, is considered to bring
significant financial and other experience to the Board and his
continuing presence on the Board is, in the Directors’ opinion,
beneficial to the Company and the Group. The Non-executive
Directors bring individual judgement to Board decisions and
extensive expertise at a senior level of business operation and
practice. Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term 
of three years and each Director receives appropriate training on
appointment and subsequently if necessary. All Directors have
access to the Company Secretary and, in the furtherance of their
duties, may take independent professional advice if necessary at 
the Company’s expense.
The Board regularly re-evaluates the mix of skills and experience 
of its members. During the course of the year to 31 March 2007, 
the Board completed a formal internal evaluation of the Board, its
Committees and individual Directors, using a questionnaire-based
approach. The Board intends to undertake an external review during
the financial year ending 31 March 2008.
All new Directors receive a full induction into the Company as soon 
as possible after appointment. The induction process involves meeting
with representatives of all areas of the Company’s business and
visits to key locations. The role of the Board and its Committees, as
well as a director’s responsibilities, are also explained to the Directors.
Directors have opportunities to receive training and these opportunities
are to be developed further to include areas that affect each Director’s
role within the Company, including corporate governance and risk
management. All Directors are kept regularly updated on the
Company’s business throughout their period of office.
The Board met 13 times throughout the period and the annual
programme of business is approved by the Board. Currently, 
the programme includes reviews of strategy together with the
operations and results of the main business units, as well as the
approval of annual budgets. Actual results for the Group and
individual business units are reported to all Directors each month. 
These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc reports,
are intended to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner
with information that is appropriate to the discharge of its duties.
The Board reserves to itself certain key matters to approve or
monitor, such as the Group’s strategic plans, annual operating 
plan and budget, the Group’s operating and financial performance,
projects affecting the capital structure of the Group and unbudgeted
capital expenditure.
The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration
and Nominations Committees. The Board delegates specific
responsibilities to Committees as described below: 
The Audit Committee at the beginning of the financial year
comprised Peter W Williams as Chairman, Tony Illsley, 
Patricia Hodgson and Peter Williams. Patricia Hodgson resigned
from the Committee on 11 August 2006. Peter W Williams has
recent and relevant experience for his role as Chairman of the Audit
Committee, having formerly been Finance Director of Selfridges
plc for ten years. He is a qualified chartered accountant and is also
Chairman of the Audit Committee of ASOS plc. He is currently
Chief Executive of Alpha Airports Group plc. The Committee met
three times during the financial period to review the 2007 results
and the Annual Report and Accounts. The Committee has also
reviewed the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Group’s
internal controls, policies and procedures and is responsible 
for the appointment of external auditors. The Group has a risk
management and internal audit function that conducts a rolling
programme of reviews and introduces improvements to the
Group’s financial controls. The Committee believes that this
function will continue to prove beneficial in identifying and
correcting any control deficiencies. Meetings of the Committee
are attended by the Finance Director and by other Directors and
the Group’s external and internal auditors as appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee throughout the financial year
comprised Alastair Ross Goobey as Chairman, Tony Illsley and
Peter Michael. The Committee met four times during the year to
review the Company’s general policy on executive remuneration
and the application of this policy to the remuneration and benefits
of the Executive Directors and other senior executives of the
Company. The Committee approves the remuneration and
benefits of the Executive Directors. The Directors’ Remuneration
Report (set out on pages 44 to 50) contains a more detailed
description of the Company’s policy and procedures for executive
remuneration. Meetings of the Committee are attended by the
Chairman and Chief Executive as appropriate.
The Nominations Committee at the beginning of the financial
year comprised Peter Cawdron as Chairman, Alastair Ross
Goobey and Patricia Hodgson. Patricia Hodgson resigned from
the Committee on 11 August 2006 when she resigned from the
Board and was replaced by Peter Michael on 24 November 2006.
The Committee meets as required to select and propose to the
Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment
as Directors. The Committee met four times during the year .
Business Review 42 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CONTINUED
Pursuant to the Company’s Articles of Association, currently the nearest number to, but not exceeding, one-third of the Board shall retire
each year by rotation (Directors may submit themselves for re-election). Additionally, any Director who has served for more than nine years 
is subject to annual re-election. In practice, all Directors offer themselves for re-election at least every three years. Details of appointments
during the year and Directors retiring (and submitting themselves for re-election) can be found in the Directors ’ Report on page 38. The Company
considers that the performance of and contribution given by each Director who is retiring and is submitting themselves for re-election at the
AGM continues to be effective.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board (one of which was a two-day strategy meeting) and of the Audit, Remuneration
and Nominations Committees during the year to 31 March 2007 together with details of attendance.
Board Meetings Audit Committee Meetings Remuneration Committee Meetings Nominations Committee Meetings
Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible
R Bernard 13 13 – –––––
S Orchard 13 13 – –––––
W Pallot 13 13 ––––––
P Cawdron 13 13––––44
A Illsley 12 13 3 344––
P Michael 11 13 – –3433
A Ross Goobey 12 13 – –4434
P W Williams 13 13 3 3––––
P Williams 10 13 3 3––––
P Hodgson 6 6 1 1––00
Note:
The Company Secretary attended all meetings.
Directors’ remuneration 
The Directors’ Remuneration Report appears on pages 44 to 50 and contains a statement of remuneration policy and details of the remuneration
of each Director who served during the year to 31 March 2007. Shareholders will be invited to consider separately the Directors ’ Remuneration
Report at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 July 2007.
Relations with shareholders
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings with the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the
Company’s Communications Director . This activity is a keystone of the Company’s corporate communications programme.
The programme includes formal presentations in London of the Company’s full-year and interim results and meetings between institutional
investors, analysts and senior management on a regular basis. Regular communication with shareholders also takes place through the
Company’s Annual and Interim Reports and via the Company website (www.gcapmedia.com) which contains up-to-date information on
Group activities. The Company intends to take advantage of changes in legislation to communicate with its shareholders electronically
wherever permitted. A resolution is being put to the Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting as the first step in this process.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders, 
and also involves a short statement on the Company’s latest trading position. Shareholders may ask questions of the Board, including the
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees. The results of the proxy votes submitted by shareholders in respect 
of each resolution are declared at the Annual General Meeting.
Auditors’ independence and objectivity
The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services being provided to the group by its external auditors, and has developed 
a formal policy to ensure this does not affect their independence or objectivity. The policy is reviewed regularly by the Committee. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      43
Internal control
In September 1999, ‘Internal Control: Guidance for Directors 
on the Combined Code’ (the Turnbull Guidance) was published 
to assist directors in complying with the internal control elements 
of the Combined Code. The Financial Services Authority requires 
all listed companies to follow this guidance when determining the
extent of their compliance with the Combined Code. Associated
undertakings have not been dealt with as part of the Group for the
purposes of applying these guidelines. The Directors acknowledge
their overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control
and for reviewing its effectiveness. Although no system of internal
control can provide absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss, the Group’s systems are designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business objectives
and can only provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that
material errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected
on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board confirms that there are ongoing procedures for
identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by 
the Group and these accord with the Turnbull Guidance which the
Board has fully adopted. These procedures have been in place for 
the financial period covered in this Annual Report and Accounts 
and up to the date of its approval, and their effectiveness is regularly
reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board. The Board has
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during
the financial period. In particular, the Board has reviewed and
updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant
risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by
which these risks are managed. There are supporting Group 
policies and procedures for the reporting and resolution of
suspected fraudulent activities.
The Board has an established internal risk management function
and appointed a Head of Risk Management to identify, with relevant
management, the major business risks facing the Group and put in
place appropriate policies and procedures to manage those risks.
Internal and external risks are assessed on a continual basis, and
may be associated with a variety of internal or external causes
including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems,
competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
These involve a process of control, self-assessment and hierarchical
reporting that has been established to provide for a documented 
trail of accountability. These procedures are relevant across Group
operations and provide successive assurances to be given at
increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
Management regularly reports on its review of the risks and how
they are managed to both the Board and the Audit Committee, 
whose role is to review the key risks inherent in the business and 
the systems of control necessary to manage those risks. The Audit
Committee presents its findings to the Board as appropriate.
Management also reports to the Board on significant changes in 
the business and the external environment which affect significant
risks. The Board is provided with monthly financial information,
which includes key performance and risk indicators. Where areas 
for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers
the recommendations made by management and the Audit Committee.
The Board reviews the risk management and control process 
and considers the:
authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the
identification, assessment and management of significant risks
faced by the Group;
response to the significant risks which have been identified 
by management and others;
monitoring of reports from Group management;
maintenance of a control environment directed towards 
the proper management of risk; and
annual reporting procedures.
Going concern
After making appropriate enquiries, including a review of budgets
and other plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the
Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Richard Manning
On behalf of the Board
Company Secretary
30 May 2007
Business Review 44 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Remuneration
Report for the year to 31 March 2007. This Report, which complies
with the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, sets 
out how the principles of the Combined Code relating to Directors’
remuneration are applied. The Remuneration Committee believes
that the Group was compliant with the provisions of the Combined
Code relating to Directors’ remuneration throughout the period.
The information that has been audited in this Report comprises 
the Directors’ emoluments table on page 48, the share options 
table on page 39, the Long Term Incentive Plan table on page 49, 
the Interim Merger Scheme table on page 50 and the pensions
disclosure on page 50. 
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming 
Annual General Meeting on 26 July 2007 inviting them to consider
and approve this Report.
This Report covers the period to 31 March 2007 and accordingly 
does not contain, other than where relevant, information pertaining
to Fru Hazlitt and Richard Eyre, both of whom joined the Board on 
1 May 2007 .
Remuneration Committee
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the framework
of executive remuneration and is required to take account of any
recommendations made by the Remuneration Committee. The Board
has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, through formal
terms of reference, approval of the specific remuneration packages
for the Executive Directors and consideration of executive remuneration
issues generally, including the use of share incentive plans.
The Remuneration Committee at the beginning of the financial 
year comprised Alastair Ross Goobey as Chairman, Tony Illsley 
and Peter Michael. The Committee met four times during the year 
to review the Company’s general policy on executive remuneration
and the application of this policy to the remuneration and benefits 
of the Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Company .
The Committee approves the remuneration and benefits of the
Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee at all times during the year consisted
exclusively of independent Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive normally attend meetings 
of the Remuneration Committee, but are not present at any
discussions concerning their own remuneration. The terms of
reference permit the Remuneration Committee to obtain its own
external advice on any matter at the Company’s expense. For the
financial year under review, the Committee was assisted internally
by the Company’s Director of Human Resources and by external
consultants, PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors
The Committee aims to provide a competitive remuneration 
package to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and
senior executives of the highest calibre and with the experience
needed to shape and execute the Group’s strategy and deliver
shareholder value. The Committee takes account of external market
data supplied by independent professional advisers and is sensitive 
to the wider scene, including pay and employment conditions
elsewhere in the Group, especially when determining annual salary
increases. The Committee also takes account of the remuneration
paid by the Company’s comparator group in the market.
The Committee’s policy is for a significant proportion of executive
reward to be variable and dependent upon the Group’s performance,
and for targeted performance-related incentives for Executive
Directors to equate to well over half of the total potential remuneration.
Variable reward components provide an opportunity for higher levels
of remuneration where this is supported by exceptional performance
whether at an individual level or in relation to the Group’s short-term
and longer-term business priorities.
Variable rewards will continue to be provided through a balanced 
mix of performance-related elements. The annual bonus scheme
supports operational objectives over the financial year, whilst the
Company’s Long Term Incentive Plan will reward superior
performance over a longer period. 
The remuneration of the Executive Directors consists of:
Basic salary – which is based on comparable positions in leading
businesses of similar size and complexity. 
Annual bonus scheme – which is based on achievement of 
Group profit targets, as well as other financial and non-financial
measures and personal targets. The maximum bonus payout is
100% of base salary. The bonus is paid partly in cash and partly in
shares with a deferred share element if the individual remains in
service for three years and performance targets are met. Details 
of performance criteria are set out on page 46. In exceptional
circumstances, the Committee has power to award bonuses
outside this scheme.
2005 Long Term Incentive Plan – under which the Executive
Directors may receive awards of up to 150% of salary, with the
vesting of awards based on Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’),
relative to the media sub-sector of the FTSE All-Share Index
(50%) and the FTSE 250 Share Index (50%) over three years.
Pension – a part of the package is to provide appropriate pension
arrangements, having regard to individual circumstances. These
are either final salary or money purchase arrangements. There
are no elements of remuneration, other than basic salary, which
are pensionable.  Further details of each element of the Executive Directors’
remuneration package, together with details of interests in 
shares and share options, are set out below in this Report.
The following graphs show GCap Media’s cumulative TSR for the 
five years to 31 March 2007. This is compared against the FTSE
Media and Entertainment Index, as well as for general purposes
monitored against the FTSE 250 Index. Both of these indices are
used as performance criteria for determining the exercisability 
of nil cost options granted to Directors under the 2005 Long Term
Incentive Plan.
Five-year GCAP Media vs FTSE Media cumulative TSR 
Five-year GCAP Media vs FTSE 250 cumulative TSR
Executive Director remuneration
(a) Basic salary and benefits
In formulating and reviewing pay packages for the Executive
Directors, the Committee will normally receive comparator group
information and assistance from independent remuneration
consultants. The Committee’s policy has been to maintain a salary
structure based upon the mid-market of its comparator group 
of companies. 
The Company structures remuneration packages which are
appropriate to the particular function and level of responsibility 
of each individual Executive Director and which are designed to
attract, retain and motivate the individuals. It takes into account the
remuneration structures and levels at other companies, in particular
in the media sector . The Remuneration Committee is made aware 
of pay conditions in the Group when it is considering annual 
salary increases.
All Executive Directors receive company car and private healthcare
benefits. Death in service and permanent health insurance are also
provided for each Executive Director .
(b) Annual Bonus Scheme and Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme
The Company operates an annual bonus scheme which is reviewed
each year by the Remuneration Committee and under which each
Executive Director is able to earn a bonus up to a maximum of 100%
of basic salary, dependent upon performance conditions being met.
The bonus is payable 65% in cash with the remaining 35% of the
bonus applied to the purchase of shares for the individual. The cash
and share element is payable immediately after announcement 
of results for the financial year . 
In conjunction with the annual bonus scheme, the company 
operates a Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme (‘DABS’), pursuant 
to which Executive Directors and other members of the Group may
receive a DABS award, inviting them to lodge the shares received
under the share element of the annual bonus (‘Lodged Shares’) 
for the purposes of the DABS scheme enabling them to acquire
additional matching shares at the end of a three-year performance
period, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions,
continued employment and based on the number of Lodged Shares
that were acquired. The award is normally in the form of a nil-cost
option and it is the intention of the Company that, wherever possible,
the grants of matching shares will be met from shares held in trust
for that purpose.
GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      45
Business Review
    GCap Media – Total Return Index
    FTSE Mid 250 – Total Return Index
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
0
50
100
150
200
250
    GCap Media – Total Return Index
    FTSE AllShare Media – Total Return Index
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
0
20
40
60
80
100
120 46 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
The performance conditions applicable to the DABS awards made during the year under review were as follows:
Percentage growth in the Company’s earnings per share 
over the three-year period from 31 March 2006 to 31 March 2009 Percentage of DABS award vesting
Less than 6% per annum compounded None of the DABS award vests
11% per annum compounded 50% of DABS award vests
Between 6% and 11% per annum compounded DABS award vests proportionately between nil and 50%
Between 11% and 16% per annum compounded DABS award vests proportionately between 50% and 100%
16% per annum compounded (or greater) 100% of DABS award vests
If 100% of the DABS award vests, this is equivalent to the maximum two for one matching.
No re-testing of the performance criteria is permitted.
(c) Share Incentive Plan
It is the Remuneration Committee’s policy that Executive Directors should participate in the Company’s 2005 Long T erm Incentive Plan
(‘L TIP’) as this scheme aligns the Directors’ interests with those of our shareholders by linking the reward available to participants TSR.
Executive Directors may also participate in the GCap Media Savings Related Share Option Scheme (‘SAYE’). This is open to all full-time
members of the Group who have been employed for more than six months at the date of grant of the options, although the Committee 
has discretion to reduce this qualifying period. For the invitation made in December 2006, the Committee agreed an employment date 
of 1 September 2006 for eligibility.
Details of all share incentive awards outstanding for each Executive Director are set out on page 39. 
2005 Long T erm Incentive Scheme
Under the L TIP, Executive Directors may receive awards entitling them to acquire or receive shares in the Company to a maximum annual
value of 150% of basic salary.
For the period under review, each Executive Director received awards of 150% of basic salary by way of nil-cost options.
All awards under the L TIP are subject to stretching performance conditions measured over a three-year period. The performance conditions
applicable to the awards granted during the period under review are as follows:
50% of the award will be subject to TSR performance compared to the constituent companies of the FTSE Media Sector (the ‘First Comparator
Group’) and 50% of the award will be subject to TSR performance compared to the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 Index (the ‘Second
Comparator Group’). 12.5% of the award will vest if the TSR of the Company over a three-year period (the ‘Performance Period’) is equal to the
median TSR of the First Comparator Group over that Performance Period. Additionally, if the TSR of the Company over the Performance
Period is equal to the median TSR of the Second Comparator Group over that period, 12.5% of the award will vest. If the Company’s TSR over
the Performance Period would place it in the upper quartile of the TSR of the First Comparator Group and/or the Second Comparator Group,
50% of the award will vest respectively (i.e. if both targets are met 100% of the award will vest). If the Company’s TSR is between the median
and upper quartile of the First Comparator Group and/or the second Comparator Group, the award will vest proportionately between 12.5%
and 50% respectively.
TSR is the annual compound return received on a share calculated by measuring the increase in the price of a share over the Performance
Period and the gross value of dividends and other benefits received on the share and reinvested on the day that share was declared ex dividend.
No re-testing of the performance criteria will occur .
The Remuneration Committee’s overall policy is to make awards under the 2005 LTIP using performance conditions and target levels which
are believed to be stretching and provide value to the participants commensurate with the performance achieved. The policy when deciding
on performance measures is to use measures the participants can, by their actions, influence, in order to provide effective motivation. The
policy is to make awards annually and, as has been mentioned above, to ensure that the targets are set at the time of award with regard to
prevailing conditions and that all the equity incentive arrangements in which an employee participates are considered as one whole.
(d) Interim Merger Scheme
This scheme, on its introduction in 2005, provided for the making of a one-off nil-cost share option and a contingent cash award to 
Executive Directors.
The Scheme was introduced to incentivise Executive Directors and certain senior managers to achieve the annualised merger synergies
identified by the Company in connection with the Merger between GWR Group and the Company, and satisfaction of stretching performance
targets relating to such achievement would be required before any vesting of awards.
The Scheme was also designed to recognise that Executive Directors either had no extant long-term incentives or little or no prospect 
of any payment under any such incentive schemes until at least three years after the Merger . GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      47
The performance conditions originally applicable to the Scheme were revised following the Company’s announcement in October 2005 
of a target of significantly higher annualised merger synergies than had initially been anticipated. The targets were therefore as follows:
Annualised Merger Synergies achieved Proportion of contingent 
in the financial year to 31 March 2006 Proportion of award vesting Proportion of option exercisable cash award payable
Below £4,000,000 Nil Nil Nil
£4,000,000 7.5% 3.75% 3.75%
Between £4,000,000 and £6,000,000 7.5% to 50% pro rata 3.75% to 25% pro rata 3.75% to 25% pro rata
£6,000,000 50% 25% 25%
Aggregate Annualised Merger Synergies Proportion of award vesting Proportion of option exercisable
achieved in the financial years to (including any part of the award (including any part of the option which Proportion of contingent
31 March 2006 and 31 March 2007 which has already vested) has already become exercisable) cash award payable
Below £18,000,000 Nil Nil Nil
£18,000,000 15% 7.5% 7.5%
Between £18,000,000 and £25,000,000 15% to 100% pro rata 7.5% to 50% pro rata 7.5% to 50% pro rata
£25,000,000 100% 50% 50%
In summary, therefore, Executive Directors had the ability to earn a bonus under this Scheme of up to 100% of basic salary as at 1 April 2005 
if the Aggregate Annualised Merger Synergies reached £25 million in the year to 31 March 2007. Vesting would be proportional if lower levels
of synergies are achieved. The Committee has reserved to itself a discretion to vary the level of vesting if the cost of achieving the synergies
exceeds £18 million.
No re-testing of the performance criteria will occur .
As noted above, to the extent an award vests in each of the years to 31 March 2006 and 2007, 50% of the award would be satisfied by the
vesting of nil-cost options and 50% of the award would be paid in cash.
As reported in last year’s Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee determined that the performance target applicable in the year to 
31 March 2006 had been met and the awards vested in full. The Committee, after careful enquiry, has determined that the targets for the
period to 31 March 2007 have been met in full, resulting in the release of the second tranche of awards. 
The total annualised savings achieved over the two years to 31 March 2007 totalled £29.5 million. However the cost of achieving some 
of these savings was appreciably higher than had been anticipated in the statement of November 2005. The Remuneration Committee has
analysed these savings and their costs on an item-by-item basis. Some of the extra costs (such as the contractual payments to the departing
Executive Directors described in last year’s Remuneration Report) cannot, in fairness, be attributed to the remaining Executive Directors,
since they negotiated neither the original contracts nor the total payment packages. Other additional costs should not be attributed to only
one year, in that some represent an accounting view of non-cash items (for instance the possible tax and depreciation costs of some of the
offices left vacant when consolidation of the two head offices took place). Only a portion of such costs should be set against the annual
savings achieved. On the other hand, in some cases where the costs of achieving some of the savings as published in November 2005 were
simply underestimates, then these should be set against the gross savings.
The Committee was satisfied that the net savings promised (gross savings less the cost of achieving them) had indeed been achieved. All the
figures used by the Remuneration Committee in these deliberations were from the audited Group accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006.
(e) Service contracts
The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews all aspects of executive service contracts in the light of current practice and the specific
circumstances of the Group. The Committee has reviewed and updated service contracts during the past financial period.
As at the date of this report, all of the Executive Directors have service contracts with unexpired rolling terms of one year and a notice period
by either party of one year . The date of contract is shown below:
Ralph Bernard – 14 May 2007;
Steve Orchard – 24 May 2007; 
Wendy Pallot – 24 May 2007;  
Fru Hazlitt – 16 January 2007 .
Contracts for all Executive Directors provide that on a change of control as a result of which within six months an executive is dismissed or
treats himself or herself as being dismissed as a result of any repudiation by the Company of his or her contract, compensation is payable 
for the unexpired portion of his or her notice period. 
Contracts for Steve Orchard, Wendy Pallot and Fru Hazlitt also provide that in the event of a change of control that is not recommended by 
the Board, the executive can, within six months of that change of control, choose to terminate his or her employment by giving not less than
30 days’ notice and receive compensation for the unexpired portion of his or her notice period. Ralph Bernard’s contract also has this clause,
but with a notice period of six months.
Business Review 48 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
(f) External appointments
GCap Media recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies or to become
involved in charitable or public service organisations. As the Board believes that this can broaden the knowledge and experience of the
Company’s Directors to the benefit of the Company, it is the Company’s policy to approve such appointments provided there is no conflict 
of interest and the commitment required is not excessive. The Executive Director concerned can retain the fees relating to any such appointment.
Fru Hazlitt is a Non-executive Director of Woolworths plc and The Sporting Exchange Limited.
None of the other Executive Directors hold any significant business directorships which are not directly related to the business of the Group. Fees
payable in relation to the services of Directors representing the Group on the boards of other companies are received and retained by the Group.
Non-executive Directors
(a) Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is a matter reserved to the Board, on advice from the Remuneration Committee. 
Non-executive Directors receive an annual fee and are reimbursed expenses incurred in performing duties. Chairmen of Board Committees
receive an additional annual fee. Non-executive Directors do not receive any performance-related bonuses, pensions provision, share
options or other forms of benefit.
Under Article 101 of the Company’s Articles of Association, a limit of £800,000 is placed on the aggregate amount of fees that can be paid 
to Non-executive Directors. This limit does not apply to Executive Directors, who have salaried employment with the Company. In addition,
under Article 103, the Board may grant extra remuneration to any Director who performs special services at the request of the Company.
The Chairman’s remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee. In reaching future decisions on appropriate levels of pay, the
Remuneration Committee will continue to have regard to the packages awarded to chairmen of other UK listed companies of a similar size 
and complexity . 
The President is paid an annual fee of £13,000, which has not increased since his appointment in 1992.
(b) Appointment of Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years. Their appointment can be terminated by the Company giving notice in
writing. Re-appointment may be made after one or two three-year term(s). Any re-appointment beyond three terms of three years would be subject
to annual review . Non-executive Directors serve the Company under letters of appointment and do not have service contracts. The Remuneration
Committee has issued new letters of appointment during the financial period under review and has ensured they meet best practice standards.
Directors’ remuneration
(a) Remuneration
The remuneration (excluding pension contributions which are set out on page 50) of each of the Directors and the President for the year 
ended 31 March 2007 was as follows:
Salary and Bonus Benefits in 2007 Total 2006 Total 
Notes fees £’000 £’000 kind £’000 £’000 £’000
Executive Directors:
R Bernard 1 450 293 17 760 718 
S Orchard 1 265 172 11 448 269 
W Pallot 1 240 192 11 443 416 
Total: Executive Directors 955 657 39 1,651 1,403 
Non-executive Directors:
P Cawdron (Chairman) 100 – – 100 82 
A Ross Goobey 47 – – 47 42 
P Hodgson (resigned 11 August 2006) 12 – – 12 29 
A Illsley 32 – – 32 32 
P Michael 2 32 – – 32 29 
P W Williams 37 – – 37 37 
P Williams 2 32 – – 32 29 
Total: Non-executive Directors 292 – – 292 280 
Total: Directors’ remuneration 1,247 657 39 1,943 1,683 
President:
Lord Attenborough 13 – – 13 13  GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      49
Notes
1. The bonus figures for Ralph Bernard, Steve Orchard and Wendy Pallot comprise entitlements under the Company’s Annual Bonus
Scheme for 2006/07. For Ralph Bernard this amounted to £67,500; for Steve Orchard £39,750; and for Wendy Pallot £72,000. 65% of the
annual bonus scheme is payable in cash and 35% is payable in shares, pursuant to the DABS described on page 45. The bonus figures 
also comprise entitlements under the Interim Merger Scheme for 2006/07 (50% of which is payable in cash and 50% of which is payable 
in shares). The cash and cash equivalent (as at the date of grant of the nil-cost options) values are also indicated in the bonus figures in 
the table above. For Ralph Bernard this amounted to £225,000; for Steve Orchard £132,500; and for Wendy Pallot £120,000. These sums
represent the maximum vesting of the awards under the Interim Merger Scheme for 2007/08. 
2. Peter Williams and Peter Michael had all their fees paid directly to third-party companies.
The benefits in kind shown in the above table relate principally to a fully expensed company car or the receipt of a company car allowance 
and medical health cover for the Executive Directors and their immediate family.
(b) Share incentive plans 
The total interests of Directors in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on page 39.
Details of individual options held by the Directors at 1 April 2006 and at 31 March 2007 in the GCap Media Save As You Earn Scheme 
and the GWR Group Save As You Earn Scheme are set out below:
Options Options Options Exercise Date
granted exercised lapsed price from which Expiry
Scheme 1 April 2006 during year during year during year 31 March 2007 (pence) exercisable date
Ralph Bernard SAYE (GWR) 3,296 – – 3,296 – 280.6 01/09/06 01/03/07
SAYE – 5,591 – – 5,591 169 01/02/10 31/07/10
Steve Orchard SAYE – 5,591 – – 5,591 169 01/02/10 31/07/10
Wendy Pallot SAYE 4,250 – – 4,250 – 220 01/02/09 31/07/09
SAYE – 5,591 – – 5,591 169 01/02/10 31/07/10
The exercise of share options under the GCap Media Savings Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE) and the GWR Group Savings Related
Share Scheme (SAYE) are not subject to satisfaction of a performance condition as the scheme is Inland Revenue approved and open to all
eligible employees.
The options over GWR Group shares held by Ralph Bernard under the GWR SAYE Scheme became options over the Company’s shares upon
completion of the Merger . The figures shown represent the number of options held over the Company’s shares at the rebased price.
As at 31 March 2007 , the market price of the Company’s Ordinary Shares of 2.5p was £2.1475. During the period 1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007 ,
the share price moved within the range of £1.84 and £2.625.
(c) GCap Media 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan
Details of the nil-cost options awarded to the Directors under the GCap Media 2005 Long Term Incentive Scheme (‘2005 LTIP’) are given in 
the table below. Subject to the conditions described earlier in this Report (page 46), a proportion of the nil-cost options will vest and become
exercisable on the vesting dates shown below.
Nil-cost Nil-cost Nil-cost
options options options
granted exercised lapsed Vesting
1 April 2006 during year during year during year 31 March 2007 date
R Bernard 219,333 – – – 219,333 15/12/08
– 294,438 – – 294,438 15/06/09
S Orchard 129,163 – – – 129,163 15/12/08
– 173,391 – – 173,391 15/06/09
W Pallot 116,978 – – – 116,978 15/12/08
– 157,033 – – 157,033 15/06/09
For awards made during the year ending 31 March 2006, the market price of an Ordinary Share as at 1 September 2005, being £3.0775, was used. 
For awards made during the year ending 31 March 2007, the market price of an Ordinary Share as at 14 June 2006, being £2.2925, was used.
Business Review 50 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
(d) GCap Media Interim Merger Scheme
Details of the nil-cost options awarded to the Executive Directors under the Interim Merger Scheme are given in the table below. 50% of the
options vested during the financial year under review. The remaining 50% will, following a decision by the Remuneration Committee that the
conditions had been satisfied, vest in full.
Nil-cost Nil-cost Nil-cost
options options options Date from
granted exercised lapsed which
1 April 2006 during year during year during year 31 March 2007 exercisable
R Bernard 73,112 – 36,556 – 36,556 31/03/07
S Orchard 43,054 – 21,527 – 21,527 31/03/07
W Pallot 38,992 – 19,496 – 19,496 31/03/07
(e) Pension schemes
The Company contributed 25% of basic salary to the private personal pensions of Ralph Bernard, Steve Orchard and Wendy Pallot. 
In the period fr om 1 April 2006 to 31 Mar ch 2007, the Company contributed the following amounts to Personal Pension Plans on behalf of the Dir ectors:
Personal Total Total 
pension plan 2007 2006
£ £ £
R Bernard 109,577 109,577 112,500
S Orchard 66,250 66,250 66,250
W Pallot 60,000 60,000 36,000
This Report was approved by the Board on 30 May 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
Alastair Ross Goobey
Chairman – Remuneration Committee
30 May 2007 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      51
UNAUDITED PRO-FORMA CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
The following consolidated income statement demonstrates the underlying historic trends as if GWR Group and Capital Radio 
had merged before 1 April 2005. 
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 £’000
Revenue 200,069 220,214 
Underlying operating profit before financing costs 16,324 25,819 
Finance income 2,423 1,749 
Finance expenses (5,294) (6,042)
Net financing costs (2,871) (4,293)
Share of profit of associates 903 681 
Underlying profit before tax 14,356 22,207 
Taxation (4,888) (7,241)
Underlying profit for the year 9,468 14,966 
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent 7,144 13,038 
Minority interest 2,324 1,928 
Underlying profit for the year 9,468 14,966 
Underlying basic earnings per share 4.4p 7.8p
Notes
1. Basis of preparation
The above unaudited pro-forma consolidated income statement is prepared on the same basis as the consolidated income statement 
on page 54 except for the following adjustments:
a The exclusion in both years of amortisation of intangible assets and associated deferred tax and Separately Disclosed Items and their
associated tax effects; 
b The comparative figures are pro-forma and include the results of GWR Group and Independent Radio News Limited (‘IRN’) for the 
whole period, rather than from 9 May 2005, the date of Merger between Capital Radio, which was renamed GCap Media, and GWR Group.
IRN was previously accounted for as an associate but became a subsidiary as a result of the Merger; and
c The trading results of Century 106 Limited, which was sold in May 2005, are excluded from the above statement. 
Both the pro-forma consolidated income statement and the consolidated income statement on page 54 include the results of Century Radio
Limited and Century Radio 105 Limited up to 18 October 2006, the date of their disposal.
2. Unaudited underlying basic earnings per share
Underlying basic earnings per share have been calculated using the pro-forma underlying profit for the period and weighted average number
of Ordinary Shares calculated as if the Merger had taken place on 1 April 2004.
A reconciliation of the basic loss per share for the financial year to underlying basic earnings per share is shown below:
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 pence £’000 pence
Basic loss (note 25) (18,315) (11.1) (36,662) (23.3)
Impact of pro-forma Merger date on weighted average number of shares – – – 0.9 
Separately Disclosed Items 12,300 11.2 27,778 16.9 
Intangible amortisation 18,451 7.5 42,843 26.1 
Tax effect of the above (5,292) (3.2) (20,476) (12.5)
Results of GWR Group and IRN for pre-acquisition period – – (445) (0.3)
Underlying basic earnings 7,144 4.4 13,038 7.8 
Business Review 52 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
GCAP MEDIA PLC
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT 
OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and
the Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent
company financial statements for each financial year . Under that 
law they have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements 
in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law 
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as
adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the
performance of the Group; the Companies Act 1985 provides in
relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant
part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are
references to their achieving a fair presentation. 
The parent company financial statements are required by law to 
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company. 
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial
statements, the Directors are required to: 
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; 
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; 
for the parent company financial statements, state whether
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent
company financial statements; and 
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 
parent company will continue in business. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They have
general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open
to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and
detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are 
also responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement 
that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      53
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GCAP MEDIA PLC 
We have audited the group and parent company financial statements
(the ‘financial statements’) of GCap Media plc for the year ended 
31 March 2007 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the
Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow
Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and
Expense and the related notes. These financial statements have
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein. We
have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration
Report that is described as having been audited. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the company and the Company’s members as a body, for
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report 
and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as
adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial
statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance
with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards (UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of
Directors’ Responsibilities on page 52. 
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part 
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and
the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the 
IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the
information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the
financial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report
includes that specific information presented in the Operational
Review, Financial Review and Principal Risks and Uncertainties
sections that is cross referred from the Principal Activities and
Business Review section of the Directors’ Report. 
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration 
and other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects 
the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the Board’s statements on internal
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures 
or its risk and control procedures. 
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report 
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the financial statements. Our responsibilities 
do not extend to any other information. 
Basis of audit opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments
made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the
Group’s and Company’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the
financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error . In forming our opinion
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of
information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited. 
Opinion 
In our opinion: 
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the
group’s affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its loss for the year 
then ended; 
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation; 
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view,
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 March 2007; 
the parent company financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and 
the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with
the financial statements. 
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor 
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
30 May 2007  54 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
2007 2006
Separately Separately
Disclosed Disclosed 
Trading Items Total Trading Items Total
Year ended 31 March Notes £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Revenue 2 200,069 – 200,069 210,749 – 210,749 
Direct costs (31,760) – (31,760) (32,791) – (32,791)
Personnel costs 3,4 (65,407) – (65,407) (66,553) (15,875) (82,428)
Operating costs 3 (79,585) – (79,585) (78,552) (11,103) (89,655)
Depreciation 8 (6,992) – (6,992) (7,107) – (7,107)
Amortisation and impairment 3,9 (18,451) (12,300) (30,751) (42,843) (12,791) (55,634)
Disposal of investment ––– 189 – 189 
Operating loss 2 (2,126) (12,300) (14,426) (16,908) (39,769) (56,677)
Gain on sale of businesses and property 3 ––– – 11,991 11,991 
Loss before financing costs (2,126) (12,300) (14,426) (16,908) (27,778) (44,686)
Finance income 2,423 – 2,423 1,739 – 1,739 
Finance expenses (5,294) – (5,294) (5,800) – (5,800)
Net financing costs 5 (2,871) – (2,871) (4,061) – (4,061)
Share of profit of associates 903 – 903 879 – 879 
Loss before taxation (4,094) (12,300) (16,394) (20,090) (27,778) (47,868)
Taxation 3,7 647 (244) 403 5,495 7,622 13,117 
Loss for the year (3,447) (12,544) (15,991) (14,595) (20,156) (34,751)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (5,771) (12,544) (18,315) (16,506) (20,156) (36,662)
Minority interest 2,324 – 2,324 1,911 – 1,911 
Loss for the year (3,447) (12,544) (15,991) (14,595) (20,156) (34,751)
Dividend paid: 9.25p per share 
(2006: 9.1p per share) 23 15,146 14,922
Dividend proposed: 1.5p per share 
(2006: 6.15p per share) 23 2,457 10,086
Basic and diluted loss per share 25 (11.1p) (23.3p)
The comparatives in the consolidated income statement set out above include the results of GWR Group and IRN only from the date of the
Merger, 9 May 2005.  GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      55
Group Accounts
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENSE
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March Notes £'000 £'000
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension schemes net of tax 19 2,507 (624)
Change in fair value of equity securities available for sale 22 499 (499)
Net income and expense recognised directly in equity 3,006 (1,123)
Loss for the year (15,991) (34,751)
Total recognised income and expense for the year (12,985) (35,874)
Attributable to:
Equity holders of the parent (15,309) (37,785)
Minority interest 2,324 1,911 
Total recognised income and expense for the year (12,985) (35,874) 56 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 
2007 2006
Notes £'000 £'000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 8 26,337 31,251 
Goodwill 9 142,588 210,075 
Other intangible assets 9 265,133 278,541 
Financial assets 306 115 
Investments in associates 10 1,752 1,174 
Other investments 11 1,076 1,369 
Other receivables 15 848 848 
Assets classified as held for sale 12 1,329 –
Total non-current assets 439,369 523,373 
Trade and other receivables 15 36,427 38,913 
Cash and cash equivalents 16 6,760 6,079 
Taxation receivable – 1,380 
Total current assets 43,187 46,372 
Total assets 482,556 569,745 
Trade and other payables 17 39,847 39,466 
Taxation payable 1,786 –
Total current liabilities 41,633 39,466 
Liabilities
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18 33,567 82,000 
Other payables 17 511 1,215 
Employee benefits 19 2,698 8,485 
Provisions 20 2,281 4,967 
Deferred tax liabilities 14 78,443 81,268 
Total non-current liabilities 117,500 177,935 
Total liabilities 159,133 217,401 
Net assets 323,423 352,344 
Equity
Issued capital 21 4,121 4,121 
Share premium 22 79,043 79,043 
Merger reserve 22 202,273 270,332 
Fair value reserve 22 – (499)
Retained earnings 22 36,286 (2,384)
Total equity attributable to shareholders 321,723 350,613 
Minority interest 22 1,700 1,731 
Total equity 323,423 352,344 
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 30 May 2007 and were signed on its behalf by:
Ralph Bernard Wendy Pallot
Chief Executive Group Finance Director GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      57
Group Accounts
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March Notes £’000 £’000
Cash flows from operating activities:
Loss for the year (15,991) (34,751)
Adjustments for:
Amortisation and impairment 30,751 55,634 
Depreciation 6,992 7,107 
Investment income (2,423) (1,739)
Interest expense 5,294 5,800 
Share of profit of associates (903) (879)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 19 669 
Gain on sale of businesses and property – (11,991)
Equity-settled share-based payment expenses 1,584 2,435 
Taxation credit (403) (13,117)
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions 24,920 9,168 
Decrease in trade and other receivables 1,466 10,591 
Decrease in trade and other payables (1,470) (13,634)
(Decrease)/increase in provisions and employee benefits (4,891) 6,639 
Cash generated from operations 20,025 12,764 
Interest paid (3,480) (3,858)
Taxation paid (4,065) (6,613)
Taxation recovered 2,726 841 
Net cash inflow from operating activities 15,206 3,134 
Cash flow from investing activities:
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 2 1,279 
Proceeds from sale of investments – 1,863 
Interest received 962 560 
Dividends received 305 300 
Disposal of subsidiary, net of cash disposed 59,500 28,813 
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired (4,750) (7,532)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (4,611) (5,889)
Net cash inflow from investing activities 51,408 19,394 
Cash flows from financing activities:
Repayment of borrowings (48,433) (69,020)
Receipt of new borrowings – 82,000 
Dividends paid (17,500) (16,358)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (65,933) (3,378)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 681 19,150 
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 6,079 (13,071)
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 16 6,760 6,079  58 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007
1 Accounting policies
GCap Media plc (the ‘Company’) is a company incorporated 
in the UK. 
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company 
and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’) and 
equity-account the Group’s interest in associates and jointly
controlled entities. The parent company financial statements present
information about the Company as a separate entity and not about 
its Group.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved 
by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards as adopted by the EU (‘Adopted IFRSs’). The Company 
has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in
accordance with UK GAAP; these are presented on pages 80 to 87.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently
to all years presented in these Group financial statements.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these
accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial
statements and estimates with a significant risk of material
adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 29.
Measurement convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost 
basis except that derivative financial instruments and financial
instruments classified as available-for-sale are stated at their fair
value. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are
stated at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less
costs to sell.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Control exists
when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the
financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits
from its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that
are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The
financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated
financial statements from the date that control commences until the
date that control ceases.
Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant
influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share 
of the total recognised income and expense of associates on an
equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence
commences until the date that significant influence ceases. When
the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, 
the Group’s carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of
further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group 
has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments 
on behalf of an associate.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the
Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement. The
consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of the
total recognised gains and losses of jointly controlled entities on an
equity-accounted basis, from the date that joint control commences
until the date that joint control ceases.
Foreign currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance
sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at 
that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are
recognised in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the
transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated 
in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated 
at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value 
was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill
and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated 
at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. The
revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an
average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the
foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Investments in debt and equity securities
Other investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group 
are classified as being available-for-sale and are stated at fair value,
with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity 
(in the fair value reserve), except for impairment losses and, in the
case of monetary items such as debt securities, foreign exchange
gains and losses. When these investments are derecognised, 
the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity 
is recognised in profit or loss. Where these investments are 
interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest
method is recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments 
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. 
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised
immediately in profit or loss. 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that 
the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance
sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current
creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have
different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items 
of property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance
leases. Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the
accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that
of the buildings. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are
stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the
present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the
lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Lease payments are accounted for as described below. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      59
Group Accounts
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of
property, plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. The major
categories of property, plant and equipment and motor vehicles are
depreciated as follows:
Freehold buildings 2%-4% per annum;
Long leasehold 2%-6% per annum;
Short leasehold over term of lease or, where lease 
is renewable, 5% per annum;
Transmitters 5% per annum;
Fixtures and 
technical equipment 10%-33% per annum; and
Motor vehicles 20%-33% per annum.
Intangible assets and goodwill
Subject to the transitional relief in IFRS 1, all business combinations
are accounted for by applying the purchase method. Goodwill
represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates
and jointly controlled entities. In respect of business acquisitions
that have occurred since 1 October 2004, goodwill represents the
difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value 
of the net identifiable assets acquired. Identifiable intangibles are
those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights
regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised
but is tested annually for impairment. In respect of associates, the
carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of 
the investment in the associate.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004, goodwill is
included at 1 October 2004 on the basis of its deemed cost, which
represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP, which was broadly
comparable save that only separable intangibles were recognised
and goodwill was amortised. On transition, no items have been
recognised as other intangibles under IFRS and been separately
accounted for with appropriate adjustments against goodwill and
amortisation of goodwill has ceased as required by IFRS 1. 
Expenditure on research activities and on internally generated
goodwill and brands are recognised in the income statement as 
an expense as incurred.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such
lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and
goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance
sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date 
they are available for use. The useful lives for each major class 
of intangible asset are as follows: 
Licences 6.5 years to 20 years; and
Customer relationships 1 year .
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are stated at their fair value 
(discounted if material) less impairment losses.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call
deposits maturing in less than 90 days. Bank overdrafts that are
repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s 
cash management are included as a component of cash and cash
equivalents for the purpose only of the statement of cash flows.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at their fair value.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets, other than deferred 
tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine
whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication
exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill 
and any intangibles not yet available for use, the recoverable amount
is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of
an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating 
units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any
goodwill allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the
carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. 
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets
that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash
inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial
asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective
evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had
been recognised directly in equity is recognised in profit or loss even
though the financial asset has not been derecognised. The amount
of the cumulative loss that is recognised in profit or loss is the
difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less
any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised 
in profit or loss.
Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of the Group’s investments in receivables
carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of
estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective
interest rate (i.e., the effective interest rate computed at initial
recognition of these financial assets). Receivables with a short
duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair
value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to 
the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent
cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-
generating unit to which the asset belongs. 60 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Reversals of impairment
An impairment loss in respect of a receivable carried at amortised
cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount
can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment
loss was recognised.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity
instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed 
through profit or loss.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. 
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when
there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist
and there has been a change in the estimates used to determine 
the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no
impairment loss had been recognised.
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value 
less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition,
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised 
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on 
an effective interest basis.
Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans
are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension
plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the
amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return 
for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is
discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of 
any plan assets (at bid price) is deducted. The liability discount 
rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds
that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Group’s
obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary 
using the projected unit credit method.
In respect of actuarial gains and losses that arise subsequent to 
1 October 2004 the Group recognises them in the period they occur
directly into equity through the statement of recognised income 
and expense.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset
recognised is limited to the net total past service costs and the
present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions 
in future contributions to the plan.
Share-based payment transactions
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire
shares of the ultimate parent company; these awards are granted by
the ultimate parent. The fair value of options granted is recognised
as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. 
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period
during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the
options. The fair value of the options granted is measured using an
option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions
upon which the options were granted. The amount recognised as an
expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options
that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not
achieving the threshold for vesting. 
Under the Group Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme, participants are
required to purchase Lodged Shares using a percentage of their net
post-tax eligible annual bonus. It is the Matching Shares element of
the Scheme which qualifies as share-based payment for services
anticipated from the participants. The fair value of the Matching
Shares under IFRS 2 will be based on GCap Media’s share price at
date of grant, less a deduction for the dividends expected between
the date of grant and vesting of the Matching Shares. The charge
under IFRS 2 will be based on the assessed fair value of the Matching
Shares which are conditionally awarded in May, adjusted for
expected lapses due to non-performance or leaving employment.
The adjusted fair value will be spread over three years. 
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Company to
employees. The fair value of the amount payable to the employee 
is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in
liabilities. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and
spread over the period during which the employees become
unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value of the share
appreciation rights is measured based on an option valuation 
model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the instruments were granted. The liability is re-measured at each
balance sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in 
fair value are recognised in profit or loss and spread equally over 
the vesting period.
Own shares held by ESOP trust
Transactions of the Group-sponsored ESOP trust are included in 
the Group financial statements. In particular, the trust’s purchases
of shares in the Company are deducted from retained earnings.
Provisions
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group 
has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past
event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be
required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions
are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a
pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to 
the liability. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      61
Group Accounts
1 Accounting policies (continued)
Revenue
Revenue represents amounts invoiced in respect of all services 
and goods provided during the year, excluding value-added tax. 
Radio and television airtime revenue is recognised on the date 
of broadcast. Sponsorship, internet revenue and transmission fees 
for the digital multiplexes are recognised evenly over the life of the
contract in accordance with specific contract terms if applicable.
Revenue for the production of advertisements is recognised on the
date of release to the client. Enterprise revenue relating to events 
is recognised upon agreed settlement with all related parties and 
CD revenue is recognised on date of sale. 
Revenue on barter transactions is recognised only when the goods
or services being exchanged are of a dissimilar nature.
Expenses
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the 
lease. Lease incentives received are recognised in the income
statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance
charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to
produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining
balance of the liability.
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, interest on pension
obligations, finance charges on finance leases, interest receivable 
on funds invested, dividend income and foreign exchange gains 
and losses that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in profit or loss 
as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Dividend income 
is recognised in the income statement on the date the entity’s right 
to receive payments is established.
Taxation
T ax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred
tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case 
it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for 
the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect 
of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following
temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition 
of goodwill; the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect
neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business
combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries
to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable
future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset
can be utilised. 
Segment reporting
A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that 
is engaged either in providing products or services (business
segment), or in providing products or services within a particular
economic environment (geographical segment), which is subject 
to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments. 
Adopted IFRSs not yet applied
On 11 January 2006, the European Commission endorsed 
IFRS 7 ‘Financial Statements: Disclosure’ which introduces new
requirements for disclosures regarding financial instruments and
capital. IFRS 7 will be effective for annual periods commencing 
on or after 1 January 2007, although earlier application is allowed.
The application of IFRS 7 is not expected to have any impact on the
balance sheet and income statements of the Group as they address
only disclosure. The Group plans to adopt IFRS 7 from 1 April 2007.
IFRIC 8 (Scope of IFRS 2), IFRIC 9 (Reassessment of embedded
derivatives) and IFRIC 10 (Interim financial reporting and
impairment) were endorsed during 2006 and are not expected to
have any impact on the balance sheets and income statements 
of the Group. 62 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
2 Segmental information
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s business segments and is based on the Group’s management and internal
reporting structure.
Business segments
The Group comprises the following main business segments:
Broadcast brands – 55 analogue and 65 digital radio licences, with their associated businesses;
Multiplexes – the operation of the national commercial multiplex, Digital One, and 18 other multiplexes; and
Other – includes Independent Radio News, which provides a news service to commercial radio stations.
Broadcast brands Multiplexes Other Consolidated 
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Revenue:
Radio advertising 158,208 175,107 – – 9,306 8,943 167,514 184,050 
Other 17,234 16,406 14,909 10,069 412 224 32,555 26,699 
Total revenue 175,442 191,513 14,909 10,069 9,718 9,167 200,069 210,749 
Segment operating (loss)/profit
before Separately Disclosed Items (11,429) (22,628) 6,932 4,265 2,371 1,455 (2,126) (16,908)
Merger costs – (26,978) – – – – – (26,978)
Impairment of goodwill 
and investments (12,300) (12,791) – – – – (12,300) (12,791)
Gain on sale of businesses 
and fixed assets – 11,991 – – – – – 11,991 
Segment result (23,729) (50,406) 6,932 4,265 2,371 1,455 (14,426) (44,686)
Net financing costs (2,871) (4,061)
Share of profit of associate 903 879 
Taxation 403 13,117 
Loss for the year (15,991) (34,751)
Other information
Segment assets 374,040 453,667 33,681 34,949 5,519 6,125 413,240 494,741 
Unallocated assets 67,564 73,830 
Investment in associates 1,752 1,174 
Total assets 482,556 569,745 
Segment liabilities 73,801 77,443 5,740 6,120 3,092 3,572 82,633 87,135 
Unallocated liabilities 76,500 130,266 
Total liabilities 159,133 217,401 
Depreciation, amortisation 
and impairment 36,309 61,382 1,267 1,205 167 154 37,743 62,741 
Capital expenditure 4,611 6,179
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable
basis. Segment assets represent goodwill and intangible assets, while segment liabilities represent the deferred tax associated with the
intangible assets. Unallocated items comprise mainly income-earning assets, interest-bearing loans, borrowings and expenses, and
corporate assets and expenses. The Group has centralised functions and other assets and liabilities are managed on a Group-wide basis,
therefore it is not possible to allocate any other assets to individual segments. 
Substantially all of the Group’s revenue is derived from the provision of advertising and related services. Radio advertising revenues include
airtime, sponsorship, contra and IRN revenue. Other revenue relates to non airtime generated revenues such as online, creative, CDs and
events. All revenue is generated in the UK.
The comparatives in the above table have been restated to reflect the new definitions used to segment revenue. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      63
Group Accounts
3 Separately Disclosed Items
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March Notes £’000 £’000
Goodwill impairment a (11,508) (12,791)
Impairment of investment b (792) –
Merger costs
Redundancies – (12,004)
Commissions and bonuses – (3,871)
Personnel costs – (15,875)
Integration costs – (4,425)
Property costs – (5,210)
Professional fees – (1,468)
Operating costs – (11,103)
Total Merger costs – (26,978)
Century 106 – 10,558 
Balkan Broadcasting OOD – 898 
Profit on sale of property – 535 
Gain on sale of businesses and fixed assets – 11,991 
Total before tax (12,300) (27,778)
Tax c (244) 7,622 
Total after tax (12,544) (20,156)
a Impairment of goodwill 
On 18 October 2006, the Group disposed of Century Radio Limited and Century Radio 105 Limited. Prior to the sale, an impairment 
charge of £11.5 million was recognised in the income statement relating to goodwill in respect of these stations (see note 9).
The effect of the sale on the Group’ s individual assets and liabilities was:
£’000
Property, plant and equipment 1,184
Goodwill and intangible assets after impairment 57,492
Trade and other receivables 824
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 59,500
Consideration received, satisfied in cash 60,000
Costs associated with disposal (500)
Net cash inflow 59,500
b Impairment of investment
The Group holds a 2.53% holding in UBC Media Group plc. The Group impaired the investment last year by £0.5 million, which was deemed 
to be a temporary impairment and held in a fair value reserve. Following a further drop in share price of UBC, the Group has taken the 
amount held in this reserve to the income statement and has impaired the investment by a further £0.3 million in the current year .
c Tax 
In the prior year a tax credit was taken for a property provision made for Swallow Place. The provision was released this year 
and another provision was made for property upon which no tax credit has been recognised (see note 20). 64 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
4 Employee information
The average number of persons (including Directors) employed by the Group during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Monthly average
2007 2006
Number Number
Programming 472 447
Sales 581 623
Technical 87 130
Management and administration 295 302
Total 1,435 1,502
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 £’000
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:
Wages and salaries 41,631 43,831
Compulsory social security contributions 4,571 4,768
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 1,940 1,868
Equity-settled share-based payments 1,584 1,674
Cash-settled share-based payments – 761
49,726 52,902
Staff costs relating to Merger (note 3)
Redundancies – 12,004
Commissions and bonuses – 3,871
Total 49,726 68,777
The above analysis includes the costs relating to Directors but excludes persons engaged under freelance contracts (mainly presenters 
and casual short-term contracts). The total cost of these persons amounts to £14.3 million (2006: £14.0 million). 
Details of individual Directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, long-term incentive schemes and share options are disclosed 
in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 50.
5 Financing income and expense
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March Note £’000 £’000
Finance income
Bank interest 375 212 
Interest on defined benefit pension schemes 19 1,244 1,169 
Other interest 804 358 
2,423 1,739 
Finance expense
Bank loans and overdrafts (3,977) (4,393)
Finance leases – (13)
Interest expense on defined benefit schemes 19 (1,317) (1,394)
(5,294) (5,800)
Net financing costs (2,871) (4,061) GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      65
Group Accounts
6 Expenses and auditors’ remuneration
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 £’000
Included in the loss for the year are the following:
Impairment loss on goodwill (note 9 and note 3) 11,508 12,791 
Impairment of investments 792 –
Restructuring costs expensed as incurred within operating costs (note 3) – 11,103 
Auditors’ remuneration:
Audit fees for these financial statements 131 242 
Interim review 25 25 
IFRS conversion – 45 
Services relating to corporate 
finance transactions 119 –
Services relating to remuneration 4 –
Other services relating to tax 9 55 
Other services 40 10 
Pension fund audit 5 –
7 Taxation
Recognised in the income statement
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 £’000
Current tax:
Current 5,107 73 
Over-provision in respect of prior years – (100)
Total current tax charge/(credit) 5,107 (27)
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (5,315) (13,097)
Adjustment in respect of prior years (195) 7 
Total deferred tax credit (5,510) (13,090)
Total tax credit in income statement (403) (13,117)
Reconciliation of effective tax rate 
The tax assessed for this year is at a rate that is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2006: 30%). 
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 £’000
Loss before tax (16,394) (47,868)
Loss multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2006: 30%) (4,918) (14,360)
Gains on sales not chargeable to tax – (3,597)
Cost in relation to associates 238 –
Impairment of goodwill 3,452 3,837 
Share-based payments where defined tax asset not recognised 435 389 
Depreciation on items ineligible for capital allowances 260 254 
Expenses not deductible for tax expenses 596 717 
Adjustment for associates (271) (264)
Prior year over-provisions (195) (93)
Total tax credit for the year (403) (13,117)
Deferred tax recognised directly in equity
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 £’000
Total relating to actuarial gains and losses 1,075 267 
It was announced in the 2007 Budget that the corporation tax rate will be cut from 30% to 28% from April 2008.   66 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
8 Property, plant and equipment
Transmitters,
fixtures and
Land and technical Motor 
buildings equipment vehicles Total
Note £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 April 2005 13,687 26,332 20 40,039 
Acquisitions through business combinations 9 9,322 30,332 164 39,818 
Additions 1,258 4,857 64 6,179 
Disposals (2,476) (5,889) (75) (8,440)
At 31 March 2006 21,791 55,632 173 77,596
At 1 April 2006 21,791 55,632 173 77,596 
Additions 1,036 3,510 65 4,611 
Transfers (1,097) 1,097 – –
Transferred to assets held for sale 12 (1,810) – – (1,810)
Disposals (610) (14,965) (42) (15,617)
At 31 March 2007 19,310 45,274 196 64,780
Depreciation
At 1 April 2005 4,100 20,540 – 24,640 
Acquisitions through business combinations 9 3,678 17,811 139 21,628 
Depreciation charge for the year 994 6,078 35 7,107 
Disposals (1,248) (5,710) (72) (7,030)
At 31 March 2006 7,524 38,719 102 46,345
At 1 April 2006 7,524 38,719 102 46,345 
Depreciation charge for the year 934 6,017 41 6,992 
Transferred to assets held for sale 12 (481) – – (481)
Disposals (332) (14,039) (42) (14,413)
At 31 March 2007 7,645 30,697 101 38,443
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 14,267 16,913 71 31,251 
At 31 March 2007 11,665 14,577 95 26,337
Land and buildings at net book value comprise:
31 March 31 March 
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Freehold 2,776 4,972 
Short leasehold 8,223 8,647 
Long leasehold 666 648 
11,665 14,267 
There were no assets held under finance leases at 31 March 2007 or 31 March 2006.  GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      67
Group Accounts
9 Intangible fixed assets
Licences,
brands and
customer
Goodwill relationships Total
Note £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 April 2005 * 159,849 – 159,849 
Acquisitions through business combinations 81,270 321,384 402,654 
Disposals (18,253) – (18,253)
At 31 March 2006 222,866 321,384 544,250 
At 1 April 2006 * 222,866 321,384 544,250 
Additions 13 1,513 5,043 6,556 
Disposals 3a (69,000) – (69,000)
At 31 March 2007 155,379 326,427 481,806
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2005 *–––
Amortisation charge for the year – 42,843 42,843 
Impairment 3a 12,791 – 12,791 
At 31 March 2006 12,791 42,843 55,634 
At 1 April 2006 * 12,791 42,843 55,634 
Amortisation charge for the year – 18,451 18,451 
Impairment 3a 11,508 – 11,508 
Disposals (11,508) – (11,508)
At 31 March 2007 12,791 61,294 74,085
Net book value
At 31 March 2006 210,075 278,541 488,616 
At 31 March 2007 142,588 265,133 407,721
On May 2005, as a result of the Merger, the Company acquired 100% of the shares in GWR Group. The goodwill on acquisition represents
future economic benefits arising from the assets that are not capable of being identified individually and recognised separately; these include
the employees and future synergies arising from the Merger . The intangible assets of £321.4 million include licences, brands and customer
relationships as at the Merger date. Fixed assets of £39.8 million were also acquired (see note 8).
* The comparatives for the cost and amortisation of goodwill have been adjusted to show a net position as at the date of transition to IFRS.
Impairment tests for cash-generating units containing goodwill
The following units have significant carrying amounts of goodwill:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Broadcast brands 128,038 195,525 
Multiplexes 14,550 14,550 
Total brands 142,588 210,075 
The key assumptions and the approach to determining the value of these business units are as follows:
The Group applies IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets ’ under Adopted IFRSs. Under this the Group conducts a formal annual review to determine
whether the carrying value of the goodwill on the balance sheet can be justified. The impairment review comprises a comparison of the carrying
amount of the goodwill with its recoverable amount (the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use). 
The Group has calculated both fair value less costs to sell and value in use for each of the five cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) within broadcast
brands. For all of the CGUs except multiplexes the recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs to sell. For multiplexes, value in use
has been used. Given the similarities across the CGUs, the assumptions used to calculate the values are consistent across them all. 
Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the revenue multiples of appropriate transactions in the industry in recent
years applied to the business’s own internal estimates. A significant change in sensitivities would be required to reduce the recoverable
amount below the carrying amount.
The value-in-use calculations are based on cashflow projections over the remaining useful life of the CGUs discounted at a pre-tax discount
rate (excluding inflation) of 12%. The cashflows utilise the business’s internal estimates for the next three years with revenue and direct cost
growth in subsequent years (the most sensitive assumption) of 2%. 68 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
9 Intangible fixed assets (continued)
The key assumptions in determining the value-in-use calculations are:
Assumptions How determined
Advertising revenue Macro-economic outlook, industry forecasts and internal estimates
Audience performance Long-term trends and internal estimates
The results of the review undertaken at 31 March 2007 indicated that an impairment charge was not required (2006: £12.8 million) 
in respect of goodwill. The charge for last year is included within the amortisation and impairment caption in the income statement 
and has been classified as part of Separately Disclosed Items (see note 3).
10 Investments in subsidiaries and associates
The Group has the following principal investments in subsidiaries and associates:
Proportion of nominal value 
of issued shares held by:
Principal subsidiary undertakings Principal activity Group % Company %
GCap Media Services Limited Holding company 100 –
GWR Group plc Holding company 100 100
Midlands Radio plc Holding company 100 100
Southern Radio Group Limited Holding company 100 100
Capital Radio Investments Limited Investment company 100 100
Classic FM plc National radio operator 100 –
Now Digital (Southern) Limited Commercial digital radio 100 100
Capital Radio UBC Data Limited Commercial digital data 70 70
Now Digital Limited Local digital multiplex operator 100 –
Beacon Broadcasting Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Birmingham Broadcasting Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Capital Gold Birmingham Limited Local radio operator 100 100
Capital Gold Hampshire Limited Local radio operator 100 100
Capital Gold Kent Limited Local radio operator 100 100
Capital Gold Manchester Limited Local radio operator 100 100
Capital Gold Sussex Limited Local radio operator 100 100
Cardiff Broadcasting Company Limited Local radio operator 100 100
Chiltern Radio PLC Local radio operator 100 –
Essex Radio Limited Local radio operator 100 –
First Oxfordshire Radio Company Limited Local radio operator 100 40
GCap Media Management Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Gemini Radio Limited Local radio operator 100 –
GWR (West) Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Harlow FM Limited Local radio operator 99 –
Lantern Radio Limited Local radio operator 99 –
Leicester Sound Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Marcher Radio Group Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Mercia Sound Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Mid Anglia Radio plc Local radio operator 100 –
Orchard FM Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Plymouth Sound Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Radio Broadland Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Radio Invicta Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Radio Mercury Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Radio Trent Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Radio Wyvern plc Local radio operator 100 –
Soul Media Ltd Local radio operator 100 –
Southern Radio Limited Local radio operator 100 –
South Hams Radio Limited Local radio operator 63 –
Suffolk Group Radio plc Local radio operator 100 –
Tainside Limited Local radio operator 100 100
Thames Valley Broadcasting plc Local radio operator 100 –
The Ocean Radio Group Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Two Counties Radio Limited Local radio operator 100 –
Wiltshire Radio plc Local radio operator 100 –
XFM Limited Local radio operator 100 100
XFM Manchester Limited Local radio operator 100 100
XFM Scotland Limited Local radio operator 100 100
Digital One Limited National digital radio multiplex operator 63 –
Independent Radio News Limited Programme production 54 46
The results of the above subsidiary companies have been included within these consolidated accounts. IRN has a 30 September year end. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      69
Group Accounts
10 Investments in subsidiaries and associates (continued)
Proportion of nominal value 
of issued shares held by:
Principal associated undertakings Principal activity Group % Company %
RadioCentre Limited Marketing of commercial radio 46.3 19.6
Wildstar Records Limited Record production 50 50
Hit 40 UK Limited Commercial radio 72.3 38.10
CE Digital Limited Commercial digital radio 50 –
MXR Holdings Limited Commercial digital radio 24 24
EG Digital Limited Digital radio broadcaster 49 –
Classic Gold Digital Limited Radio operator 20 –
The Digital Radio Group (London) Limited London digital radio multiplex operator 46.46 –
The Group’s share of post-acquisition total recognised profit or loss in the above associates for the year ended 31 March 2007 was £0.9 million
(2006: £0.9 million). 
The Company does not have a controlling shareholding by virtue of voting rights in Hit 40 UK Limited and so has accounted for this company
as an associate. Hit 40 UK Limited has a 31 December year end.
MXR Holdings Limited has a 31 August year end. 
All of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales with the
exception of XFM Scotland Limited which is registered in Scotland.
Summary financial information on associates – 100%:
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Assets 6,406 4,897 
Liabilities (2,469) (2,372)
Revenues 7,654 7,365 
Profit after taxation 1,642 1,553 
11 Other investments
Other investments include a 2.53% Group holding in UBC Media Group plc which is classified as being available for sale and is stated 
at market value. The investment was impaired during the year (see note 3). The remaining investments are stated at cost as they relate 
to non-quoted investments whose fair value cannot be reliably measured.
12 Assets classified as held for sale
Surplus properties with a book value of £1.3 million are classified as held for sale (2006: £nil). These properties are being actively marketed.
13 Acquisition of remaining interest in subsidiary
On 18 October 2006, the Group acquired the remaining 75% of MUKBL Radio Services Limited, the company that holds the licence for 
the digital station Planet Rock, for a cash consideration of £4.8 million. Apart from the licence there were no other significant assets and
liabilities acquired (see note 9). In accordance with IFRS 3 goodwill of £1.5 million has been recognised with a corresponding deferred tax
liability (see note 14). The loss since acquisition is £0.9 million.  70 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment 75 – – (178) 75 (178)
Intangible assets – – (79,541) (83,563) (79,541) (83,563)
Employee benefits 1,245 2,877 – – 1,245 2,877 
Provisions 216 205 – – 216 205 
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised 261 261 – – 261 261 
Held-over gains – – (699) (870) (699) (870)
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 1,797 3,343 (80,240) (84,611) (78,443) (81,268)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Share-based payments 824 389 
Tax trading losses 1,702 1,702 
Additional potential deferred tax assets estimated at £4.5 million (2006: £4.5 million), primarily in respect of capital losses, have not been
recognised due to uncertainties as to whether gains will arise in the appropriate form against which such losses could be utilised.
Movement in deferred tax during the year
1 April Recognised Fair value Recognised Recognised 31 March
2006 on disposal adjustment in income in equity 2007
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment (178) (92) – 345 – 75
Intangible assets (83,563) – (1,513) 5,535 – (79,541)
Employee benefits 2,877 – – (557) (1,075) 1,245
Provisions 205 (5) – 16 – 216
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised 261 –––– 261
Held-over gains (870) – – 171 – (699)
(81,268) (97) (1,513) 5,510 (1,075) (78,443)
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
1 April Recognised Fair value Recognised Recognised 31 March
2005 on merger adjustment in income in equity 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Property, plant and equipment (74) (141) – 37 – (178)
Intangible assets – – (96,416) 12,853 – (83,563)
Employee benefits 1,608 728 – 274 267 2,877 
Provisions 157 122 – (74) – 205 
Tax value of loss carry-forwards recognised 15 246 – – – 261 
Held-over gains – (870) – – – (870)
1,706 85 (96,416) 13,090 267 (81,268)
15 Trade and other receivables
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 30,912 27,293 
Amounts due from associated undertakings – 1,162 
Other receivables 1,667 4,796 
Prepayments 3,848 5,662 
36,427 38,913 
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Other receivables 848 848  GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      71
Group Accounts
16 Cash and cash equivalents 
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet 6,760 6,079 
17 Trade and other payables
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Current:
Trade payables 11,653 6,676 
Other payables and accrued expenses 28,194 32,790 
39,847 39,466 
Non-current:
Other payables 511 1,215 
18 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. 
For more information about the Group’s borrowings and exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 24.
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Non-current liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 33,567 82,000 
The Group has unsecured borrowings totalling £34 million as at 31 March 2007. Interest on the loans is calculated on a floating rate of LIBOR
plus a margin, which is based on gearing performance as defined in the credit facilities financial covenant clause. The current facilities expire
in 2010. Interest rates swaps, in Sterling, have been entered into to achieve a suitable mix of fixed and floating rate exposure.
19 Employee benefits
Pension plans
The Group operates four pension schemes on behalf of its employees. The Capital Radio Plc Pension and Assurance Scheme (‘CRPPAS’) 
and the Midlands Radio Group Pension Scheme (‘MRGPS’) are contributory defined benefit schemes. Both schemes were closed to new
employees from 31 March 1995. At 31 March 2007, the MRGPS had 12 active members and the CRPPAS had 12 active members. All other
employees, and in particular new employees, are eligible to join the GCap Media Group Personal Pension Plan. This scheme is a contributory
defined contribution arrangement and as at 31 March 2007, 479 employees were active members of this scheme. The Group makes 
age-related contributions to the scheme. 
Defined benefit scheme
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
MRGPS CRPPAS Total MRGPS CRPPAS Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of funded defined 
benefit obligations (13,219) (12,406) (25,625) (14,595) (16,055) (30,650)
Fair value of plan assets 11,046 11,881 22,927 8,892 13,273 22,165 
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations (2,173) (525) (2,698) (5,703) (2,782) (8,485) 72 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
19 Employee benefits (continued)
Movement in present value of defined benefit obligations
MRGPS CRPPAS
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 
2007 2006 2007 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of year 14,595 6,514 16,055 14,357 
Adjustment for secured pensioners – – (3,233) –
Current service cost 95 164 179 187 
Interest cost 706 635 611 759 
Past service cost 30 – – –
Curtailment – – 127 13 
Actuarial (gains)/losses (2,054) 1,910 (692) 1,086 
Benefits paid (190) (81) (659) (347)
Contributions by members 37 36 18 –
Acquisitions through business combinations – 5,417 – –
At end of year 13,219 14,595 12,406 16,055 
Movements in fair value of plan assets
MRGPS CRPPAS
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 
2007 2006 2007 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
At beginning of year 8,892 4,074 13,273 11,438 
Adjustment for secured pensioners – – (3,233) –
Expected return on plan assets 627 504 617 665 
Actuarial gains 759 1,131 77 974 
Contributions by employer 921 237 1,803 543 
Contributions by members 37 36 18 –
Benefits paid (190) (81) (659) (347)
Death in service premiums – – (9) –
Expenses paid by trustees – – (6) –
Acquisitions through business combinations – 2,991 – –
At end of year 11,046 8,892 11,881 13,273 
Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement
MRGPS CRPPAS
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 
2007 2006 2007 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Current service cost (95) (164) (188) (187)
Curtailments – – (127) (13)
Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligation (706) (635) (611) (759)
Expected return on defined benefit pension plan assets 627 504 617 665 
Total (174) (295) (309) (294)
Long-term expected rate of return
MRGPS CRPPAS
2007 2006 2007 2006
Equities 7.80% 7.40% 7.80% 7.50%
Bonds 4.80% 4.40% 5.30% 4.85%
Others 5.25% 4.75% 7.30% 7.50%
Cash awaiting investment 7.05% – – –
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the consolidated income statement:
31 March 2007 31 March 2006
MRGPS CRPPAS Total MRGPS CRPPAS Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Personnel costs (95) (315) (410) (164) (200) (364)
Finance expense (706) (611) (1,317) (635) (759) (1,394)
Finance income 627 617 1,244 504 665 1,169 
(174) (309) (483) (295) (294) (589)
Cumulative actuarial gains/losses reported in the statement of recognised income and expenses since 1 October 2004, the transition date 
to Adopted IFRSs, are £2.3 million (gains) (2006: losses of £1.3 million). GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      73
Group Accounts
19 Employee benefits (continued)
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
MRGPS CRPPAS
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 
2007 2006 2007 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Equities 8,370 7,011 4,765 5,973 
Bonds 1,969 1,843 4,543 5,309 
Other 46 38 1,773 1,991 
Cash awaiting investment 661 – 800 –
11,046 8,892 11,881 13,273 
Actual return on plan assets 1,386 1,635 694 1,639 
The expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption is assessed by considering the current level of returns on risk-free investments
(primarily government bonds) and the expectations for the risk premium of each asset class. The expected return for each asset class is then
weighted based on the asset allocation to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages) are:
MRGPS/
MRGPS CRPPAS CRPPAS
31 March 31 March 31 March 
2007 2007 2006
Discount rates 5.30% 5.30% 4.85%
Indexed pension increases 3.25% 3.25% 3.25%
Future salary increases 4.10% 4.40% 4.00%
Other material assumptions – inflation 3.00% 3.00% 2.90%
For mortality rates the Group has used PA92 tables (2006: PA92 tables) with mortality projected to 2025 (2006: 2025) for pensioner members.
Expectation of life at normal retirement age (60 years) is 26.6 years for males and 29.5 for females.
History of plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
MRGPS CRPPAS
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 
2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005
Balance sheet £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (13,219) (14,595) (6,514) (12,406) (16,055) (14,357)
Fair value of plan assets 11,046 8,892 4,074 11,881 13,273 11,438 
Deficit (2,173) (5,703) (2,440) (525) (2,782) (2,919)
MRGPS CRPPAS
Year Year Six months Year Year Six months 
ended ended ended ended ended ended 
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 
2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005
Experience adjustments £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 77 473 (127) 301 108 (37)
Gain/(loss) on changes in assumptions 1,977 (2,383) (257) 391 (1,194) (513)
2,054 (1,910) (384) 692 (1,086) (550)
Experience adjustments on plan assets 759 1,131 161 77 974 371 
2,813 (779) (223) 769 (112) (179)
The Group expects to contribute approximately £3.4 million to its defined benefit plans in the next financial year .
Defined contribution plans 
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was £1.9 million (2006: £1.9 million).
Share-based payments
The income statement includes a charge for share-based payments of £1.6 million (2006: £2.4 million). 
These charges arise when employees are granted awards under the Group’s share option schemes and savings related share schemes. 
The charges equate to the fair value of the award. This has been calculated using the Monte-Carlo, Bi-nomial and Black-Scholes models,
using the most appropriate model for each scheme. Assumptions have been made in these models as to expectations of early exercise,
expected volatility, risk-free interest rates and dividend yield.
Details of the schemes, including the required vesting conditions, can be found in the Directors’ Remuneration Report. The amounts awarded
under the 2005 LTIP are also detailed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report and all awards under other schemes are detailed in note 21. 
All schemes are equity-settled apart from the Interim Merger Scheme.  74 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
19 Employee benefits (continued)
A summary of the status of the share schemes as at 31 March 2007, changes during the year and details of awards granted during 
the year is presented below:
2007 2006
Weighted Weighted 
average average
exercise price Number exercise price Number 
(pence) of options (pence) of options 
Outstanding at 1 April 375.5 6,267,890 497.3 5,063,043 
Expired during the period 525.2 1,966,732 480.3 668,244 
Cancelled during the period 246.8 210,854 348.1 270,994 
Exercised during the period 0.0 243,270 297.0 12,644 
Granted during the period 61.4 1,830,649 144.0 2,676,305 
Forfeited during the period 407.6 456,400 251.7 519,576 
Outstanding at 31 March 228.8 5,221,283 375.5 6,267,890 
Exercisable at 31 March 32.2 249,197 464.4 1,070,982 
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the period was 229.0p (2006: 292.0p).
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 169.0p to 1262.5p.
Assumptions relating to grants of share options:
Fair value 
Exercise Risk-free at grant 
price Volatility of Dividend interest date
Scheme (pence) share price yield rate (pence)
SAYE 428.00 35% 3.40% 4.40% 201.00
358.00 35% 3.70% 4.80% 197.53
315.00 35% 4.60% 4.50% 125.00
220.00 35% 3.10% 4.20% 98.63
Cancellations 220.00 35% 3.10% 4.20% 98.63
Replacements 220.00 35% 4.50% 5.20% 22.84
169.00 35% 4.50% 5.10% 60.12
GWR SRSOS 280.56 35% 5.50% 4.50% 77.24
338.67 35% 5.50% 4.50% 61.72
1998 Scheme (non-Directors) 502.50 35% 3.70% 4.50% 149.05
427.50 35% 4.30% 3.70% 115.12
458.50 35% 4.00% 4.80% 127.49
455.00 35% 4.10% 5.10% 128.85
394.00 35% 4.70% 4.50% 103.03
299.50 35% 3.00% 4.20% 89.28
234.25 35% 3.90% 4.80% 66.02
208.50 35% 4.40% 4.70% 56.64
1998 Scheme (former Directors) 427.50 35% 4.30% 3.80% 48.37
455.00 35% 4.10% 5.10% 54.74
Presenters’ Scheme 502.50 35% 3.70% 4.50% 155.87
458.50 35% 4.00% 4.80% 135.51
Capital Radio LTIP – 35% 4.00% 4.70% 234.35
– 35% 4.60% 4.50% 198.41
Gcap Media 2005 LTIP – 35% Note 1 4.40% 103.42
– 35% Note 1 4.20% 105.41
– 35% Note 1 4.70% 147.71
– 35% Note 1 4.80% 101.09
Interim Merger Scheme (non-Directors) – N/a Note 1 N/a 298.00
Interim Merger Scheme (Directors) – N/a Note 1 N/a 287.75
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme – N/a Note 1 N/a 230.75
Notes
1. Dividends will be rolled up and paid to the participants on date of vesting with the transfer of shares.
2. The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility (calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options),
adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility based on publicly available information.
3. All of the above schemes have performance conditions attached apart from GWR SRSOS and the SAYE. The performance conditions for
the 1998 scheme for former Directors, the Capital Radio LTIP and GCap Media 2005 LTIP are market-based, and are taken into account 
in the fair value.  GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      75
Group Accounts
19 Employee benefits (continued)
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share-based payments are as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Equity-settled share-based payment expense 1,584 1,674
Cash-settled share-based payment expense – 761
Total carrying amount of liabilities 264 761
Total intrinsic carrying amount of liabilities in respect of vested benefits – –
Basis and assumptions for fair value assessment of cash-settled schemes
The fair value of the equity-settled part of the awards under the Interim Merger Share Scheme at grant date is equal to the market price of the
shares at close of business immediately preceding the grant date. No deduction has been made for dividends because it is assumed that the
Remuneration Committee will exercise its discretion to transfer the rolled-up value of any dividends accrued between the date of grant and
vesting to the participants in addition to the shares promised under the Scheme.
The fair value of the cash-settled part of the awards under the Interim Merger Share Scheme is re-measured at each balance sheet date 
and settlement date. The fair value in this case is equal to the market price of the shares on the balance sheet date plus the value of dividends
accrued between the date of award and date of measurement.
20 Provisions
Property provision £’000
As at 1 April 2006 4,967 
Provisions transferred to accruals (553)
Release of Swallow Place provision (813)
Provision made during the year 813
Provisions utilised during the year (2,133)
As at 31 March 2007 2,281
Included in provisions at 31 March 2006 was a provision of £4.4 million relating to future property liabilities arising from the transfer of operations
from Swallow Place. The property at Swallow Place was sublet during the year . The effect of this together with payments made during the year
has reduced the required provision at the year end to £1.1 million. This had no effect on the Group’s operating profit for the year . The remaining
Swallow Place provision represents the Group’s liability for the rental difference between the headlease and respective subleases. 
The prior year provision of £0.6 million in respect of repairing, altering and future liabilities for vacant properties was increased during the
current year to £1.1 million to cover specific liabilities in relation to a London property which became vacant during the period. Based on the
current state of the property market the Group cannot assume that all the properties will be sublet before the end of the lease.
21 Called-up share capital
Allotted,
called-up
Authorised and fully paid
Number £’000 Number £’000
Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each:
At 1 April 2006 and 31 March 2007 200,000,000 5,000 164,849,007 4,121
The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at
meetings of the Company. 76 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
21 Called-up share capital (continued)
At 31 March 2007, the Company had options outstanding to subscribe for 2,898,528 (2006: 4,659,714) Ordinary Shares. 
Details of the outstanding options are as follows:
Option
Number of shares Exercise price Exercisable not
Grant date under option (pence) earlier than
GCap Media Savings Related Share Option Scheme
December 2001 12,783 614 February 2007
December 2002 20,180 428 February 2008
December 2003 29,562 358 February 2009
December 2004 34,824 315 February 2010
December 2005 129,506 220 February 2009
December 2006 365,722 169 February 2010
GWR Group Savings Related Share Option Scheme
July 2003 658 280.6 September 2006
June 2004 54,654 338.7 September 2007
Capital Radio 1998 Share Option Scheme
March 1998 40,390 633 March 2001
November 1998 65,875 541 November 2001
June 1999 10,787 865 May 2002
November 1999 45,056 1224.5 November 2002
May 2000 8,855 1262.5 May 2003
November 2000 81,028 1172.5 November 2003
May 2001 31,678 765 May 2004
November 2001 95,206 815 November 2004
May 2002 25,289 772.5 May 2005
June 2002 7,752 645 June 2005
November 2002 182,450 502.5 November 2005
May 2003 70,296 427.5 May 2006
November 2003 227,535 458.5 November 2006
May 2004 413,908 455 May 2007
November 2004 66,573 394 November 2007
January 2006 680,000 299.5 January 2009
June 2006 150,000 234.25 June 2009
December 2006 47,961 208.5 December 2009
Options awarded under the GWR Group Save As You Earn Scheme have been recalculated as options over GCap Media Shares, 
following the Merger of Capital Radio and GWR Group.
GCap Media Save As Y ou Earn Scheme
During the year, no options were exercised under the GCap Media Save As You Earn Scheme. Options over 364,818 shares lapsed during the
year . The number of shares held in the GCap Media Qualifying Employee Share Trust (‘GCap Media Quest’) as at 31 March 2007 was 263,011
and their market value was £564,816.
GWR Group Save As Y ou Earn Scheme
During the year, no options were exercised under the GWR Group plc Save As You Earn Scheme. Options over 185,582 shares lapsed during
the year . The number of shares held in the GWR Group Qualifying Employee Share Trust (‘GWR Quest’) as at 31 March 2007 was 272,633 and
their market value was £585,479.
Share options under the GCap Media 1998 Share Option Scheme expire ten years after the date of grant. Options under both the GCap Media
and GWR Savings-Related Share Option Schemes expire six months after the date on which they can first be exercised.
22 Capital and reserves
Issued Share Merger Fair-value Retained Minority Total 
capital premium reserve reserve earnings interest equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
As at 1 April 2005 2,138 79,043 37,095 – 17,974 – 136,250 
Issue of ordinary shares 1,983 – 263,399 – – – 265,382 
Total recognised income and expense – – – (499) (37,286) – (37,785)
Movements due to 
share-based compensation – – – – 1,674 – 1,674 
Equity dividends – – – – (14,922) – (14,922)
Foreign exchange differences – – – – 14 – 14 
Minority interest acquired – – – – – 1,292 1,292 
Transfer between reserves – – (30,162) – 30,162 – –
Net movement in period – – – – – 439 439 
As at 31 March 2006 4,121 79,043 270,332 (499) (2,384) 1,731 352,344  GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      77
Group Accounts
22 Capital and reserves (continued)
Issued Share Merger Fair-value Retained Minority Total 
capital premium reserve reserve earnings interest equity
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
As at 1 April 2006 4,121 79,043 270,332 (499) (2,384) 1,731 352,344 
Total recognised income and expense – – – 499 (15,808) – (15,309)
Movements due to 
share-based compensation –––– 1,584 – 1,584 
Equity dividends –––– (15,146) – (15,146)
Foreign exchange differences –––– (19) – (19)
Transfer between reserves – – (68,059) – 68,059 – –
Net movement in period – – – – – (31) (31)
As at 31 March 2007 4,121 79,043 202,273 – 36,286 1,700 323,423 
Merger reserve
This reserve comprises premiums arising on acquisitions whereby the consideration was greater than 90% in shares. 
The movement in the year represents cumulative impairment and amortisation charges in relation to these acquisitions.
Fair-value reserve
The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments until the investment 
is derecognised. 
Retained earnings
The Company holds own shares of 509,240 (2006: 581,066). These have been deducted from retained earnings.
23 Dividends
The following dividends were paid by the Company during the periods specified below:
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 £’000
Final 6.15p per share paid 26 July 2006 10,076 –
Second interim 6.0p per share paid 8 July 2005 – 9,839 
Interim 3.1p per share (2006: 3.1p) paid 24 January 2007 (2006: 27 January 2006) 5,070 5,083 
Total 15,146 14,922 
Subject to approval at the Company’s AGM, to be held on 26 July 2007, the proposed final dividend of 1.5p per share is payable on 30 July 2007
to all shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 July 2007 (ex-dividend date: 4 July 2007). This has not been included within
creditors in accordance with Adopted IFRSs.
24 Financial instruments
The Group’s treasury operations are managed by the Group Finance Department. Financial instruments are only permitted for 
use in managing financial risk arising from the Group’s operations on the authority of the Board.
The Group’s policies as regards derivatives and financial instruments are set out in the accounting policies.
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to credit and interest rates. The policies for managing these risks are summarised below:
Credit risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed
on customers with potential credit exposure over certain amounts. The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets. 
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset,
including derivative financial instruments, in the balance sheet.
Interest rate risk
The Group uses derivatives to protect against fluctuating interest rates. It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the Group’s
policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
Interest rates swaps, in Sterling, have been entered into to achieve a suitable mix of fixed and floating rate exposure. The swaps mature 
over the next three to four years and have a fixed rate of 5.55813 percent. At 31 March 2007 the Group had interest rate swaps with a notional
contract amount of £15 million (2006: £45 million). These interest rate swaps are stated at fair value.  78 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
24 Financial instruments (continued)
Effective interest rates and repricing analysis
In respect of income-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest
rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they mature or, if earlier, are repriced.
2007 2006
Effective Effective
interest rate Total 0-1 years 1-5 years interest rate Total 0-1 years 1-5 years
% £’000 £’000 £’000 % £’000 £’000 £’000
Cash and cash equivalents 4.2% 6,760 6,760 – 3.6% 6,079 6,079 –
Interest rate swaps – 306 – 306 – 115 (38) 153 
Bank loans 5.3% (33,567) – (33,567) 5.1% (82,000) – (82,000)
(26,501) 6,760 (33,261) (75,806) 6,041 (81,847)
Sensitivity analysis
In managing interest rate and currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Group’s earnings. 
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange and interest rates would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
Fair values
The fair values together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:
Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying
amount fair value amount fair value
2007 2007 2006 2006
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Available-for-sale investment 634 634 929 929 
Trade and other receivables 37,275 37,275 39,761 39,761 
Cash and cash equivalents 6,760 6,760 6,079 6,079 
Interest rate swaps 306 306 115 115 
Bank loans (33,567) (33,567) (82,000) (82,000)
Trade and other payables (40,358) (40,358) (40,681) (40,681)
(28,950) (28,950) (75,797) (75,797)
Estimation of fair values
The following summarises the major methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected 
in the tables.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
Trade and other receivables/payables
For receivables and payables the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. The impact of discounting for those due after 
more than one year is not deemed to be significant.
Interest rate swaps
As stated above the fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated based on prevailing interest rates at the balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale investments
The fair value is based on the published bid price at the balance sheet date.
25 Earnings per share
The calculation of basic earnings per share for the year ended 31 March 2007 is based on the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 
of £18.3 million (31 March 2006: £36.7 million) and a weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year ended 
31 March 2007 of 164,324,567 (2006: 157,035,064) calculated as follows:
2007
Issued Ordinary Shares at the start of period 164,849,007
Effect of shares issued (524,440)
At the end of the financial year 164,324,567
Diluted earnings per share
Dilution increases the weighted average number of shares to 164,404,417 (2006:157,082,246). The dilution effect is caused by the inclusion 
of 79,850 share options (2006: 47,182). 
For the purposes of disclosures required by IAS 33 ‘Earnings per share’, none of the potential Ordinary Shares are regarded as being dilutive
as their conversion would reduce the basic loss per share. Consequently the diluted loss per share is the same as the basic loss per share. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      79
Group Accounts
26 Operating leases
Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows:
2007 2006
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Expiring in less than one year 4,151 1,131 3,046 507 
Expiring between one and five years 15,267 1,620 12,150 1,681 
Expiring in over five years 25,740 – 26,606 –
Total 45,158 2,751 41,802 2,188 
The Group leases a number of offices with car parking facilities. Land and buildings have been considered separately for lease consideration. 
The terms of the agreements run between five years and 25 years.
The Group leases a number of vehicles under operating lease agreements. Each vehicle is leased for a period of three years.
The Group leases a number of copier machines under operating leases. Each agreement runs between three and five years.
During the year £4.9 million was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases (2006: £4.6 million).
27 Contingent liabilities and capital commitments
Contingent liabilities are as follows:
(a) Various inter-Group cross-guarantees are held by Barclays Bank and Lloyds TSB.
(b) The Company is a member of a group for VAT purposes, resulting in a joint and several liability for amounts owing by other Group
companies for unpaid VAT .
The possibility of cash outflows on either of the above is considered remote.
28 Related party transactions
The Group has trading relationships with Classic Gold Digital Limited, The Digital Radio Group Limited, RadioCentre Limited (formerly 
Radio Advertising Bureau), Hit 40 UK Limited, CE Digital Limited and Holiday FM. The Group holds significant shareholdings in all these
companies and is therefore in a position to exercise significant influence over these companies. All transactions were conducted at normal
commercial rates:
a) During the year the Group paid £2.4 million (2006: £4.2 million) for airtime to Classic Gold Digital Limited, a company in which 
GCap Media Services Limited has an investment of 20%. 
b) During the year the Group paid £0.4 million (2006: £0.2 million) to The Digital Radio Group Limited. The Group had an outstanding 
creditor of £0.03 million at 31 March 2007 (2006: £0.03 million).
c) RadioCentre Limited (formerly RAB) is a trade body promoting commercial radio to advertisers. RadioCentre Limited is funded 
by levies paid by the commercial radio industry in the UK based on volumes of advertising revenue. From 1 October 2006 a flat fee 
was introduced. During the year the Group paid £1.8 million (restated 2006: £1.8 million) in levies to the RadioCentre Limited and had 
an outstanding debtor balance of £0.4 million (2006: £0.02 million).
d) Hit 40 UK operates a chart show, which is broadcast over various radio networks. GCap Media’s Commercial Division, as agent for 
Hit 40 UK, sells the related airtime. During the year the Group received £0.6 million (2006: £0.7 million) of income from Hit 40 UK and 
paid £2.5 million to Hit 40 UK (2006: £2 million). At 31 March 2007 there was an outstanding debtor of £0.3 million (2006: £0.04 million).
e) CE Digital operates three local digital multiplexes. During the year the Group paid £1.4 million (restated 2006: £1.3 million) to 
CE Digital in respect of radio broadcasts and received £0.1 million (2006: £0.1 million) from CE Digital in respect of legal expertise 
and engineering time. 
f) Holiday FM broadcasts content via commercial radio stations in Spain. During the year the Group received £0.06 million 
(2006: £0.06 million) from Holiday FM. At 31 March 2007 there was a debtor to the Group of £0.01 million (2006: £0.01 million). 
Key management personnel are regarded to be the directors of the company. Details of their compensation are given in the Directors’
Remuneration Report on pages 44 and 50. The Directors also received £0.9 million in the form of share-based payments.
29 Accounting estimates and judgements
Details of significant accounting estimates and judgements have been disclosed under the relevant note or accounting policy for each area
where disclosure is required. Principally these are pensions (note 19), valuation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill impairment
testing (note 9), leases (note 26) and provisions (note 20).
30 Post-balance sheet events
On 25 April 2007 the Group agreed to acquire the 18 AM Classic Gold radio stations owned by Classic Gold Digital for a cash consideration 
of £3.95 million together with a working capital adjustment of £0.3 million. The acquisition, which includes relevant DAB digital licences 
held by Classic Gold, is subject to Ofcom approval. 80 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 
PREPARED UNDER UK GAAP
AS AT 31 MARCH 2007
2007 2006
Notes £’000 £’000
Fixed assets
Financial assets 306 138 
Tangible fixed assets 33 6,360 7,684 
Investments 34 408,417 477,417 
415,083 485,239 
Current assets
Debtors 35 3,002 13,196 
3,002 13,196 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 36 (264) (761)
Net current assets 2,738 12,435 
Total assets less current liabilities 417,821 497,674 
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 37 (33,567) (82,000)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 39 – (172)
Net assets (excluding pension liability) 384,254 415,502 
Pension liability 41 (367) (1,947)
Net assets (including pension liability) 383,887 413,555 
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 21 4,121 4,121 
Share premium account 40 79,043 79,043 
Revaluation reserve 40 429 429 
Merger reserve 40 276,875 283,808 
Profit and loss account 40 23,419 46,154 
Equity shareholders’ funds 383,887 413,555 
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 30 May 2007 and were signed on its behalf by:
Ralph Bernard Wendy Pallot
Chief Executive Group Finance Director GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      81
Company Accounts
COMPANY RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS 
2007 2006
Year ended 31 March £’000 £’000
Loss for the financial year (16,644) (39,556)
Dividends (15,146) (14,922)
Retained loss for the financial year (31,790) (54,478)
Actuarial gains and losses (net of tax) 538 (78)
New share capital issued – 265,382 
Movements due to share-based compensation 1,584 1,674 
Net (decrease)/increase in equity shareholders’ funds (29,668) 212,500 
Opening equity shareholders’ funds 413,555 201,055 
Closing equity shareholders’ funds 383,887 413,555  82 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 Accounting policies
A summary of the principal Company accounting policies, 
all of which have been applied consistently throughout the period, 
is set out below.
Basis of accounting
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost
accounting rules, modified to include the revaluation of certain fixed
assets, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards. 
Cash flow statement
The company is exempt from the requirement of Financial Reporting
Standard No 1 (revised 1996) to prepare a cash flow statement on 
the grounds that its parent undertaking GCap Media includes the
Company in its own published consolidated financial statements.
Company profit and loss
Under section 230(4) of the Companies Act 1985 the Company 
is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and 
loss account. The loss for the financial period was £16,644,000 
(2006: loss of £39,556,000).
Tangible fixed assets
T angible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation. Depreciation is provided to write off the cost (less
estimated residual value) of each asset on a straight-line basis 
over its expected useful life, as follows:
Freehold buildings 2%-4% per annum;
Long leasehold premises 4%-6% per annum;
Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease or,
where the lease is renewable, 
5% per annum;
Office and studio equipment 10%-20% per annum;
Digital equipment over the term of the contract;
Computer equipment 33% per annum; and
Motor vehicles 25% per annum.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Investments
In the Company’s accounts investments in subsidiary companies 
are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the
Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the
investment. Dividends receivable from subsidiary companies are
credited to the Company’s profit and loss account unless there is an
impairment of the investment. Fixed asset investments are stated at
cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has
been an impairment in the value of the investment.
Taxation
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the period and 
takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences
between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting
purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of 
all timing differences between the treatment of certain items 
for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not
reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required 
by FRS 19.
It was announced in the 2007 Budget that the corporation tax rate 
will be cut from 30% to 28% from April 2008.
Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit 
and loss account on a straight-line basis.
Turnover
Turnover comprises income from the sale of advertising airtime,
sponsorship and promotions (net of agencies’ commissions) and
income from advertising on the internet. Turnover is stated excluding
VAT, trade discounts, and intra Group transactions and derives from
goods and services provided in the normal course of business.
Airtime revenue is recognised on the date of broadcast. 
Sponsorship revenue and internet advertising are recognised 
over the life of the contract.
Licences
Expenditure incurred on the purchase of, and application and 
re-applications for, licences is written off to the profit and loss
account as it is incurred.
Pensions
Most of the Company’s employees participate in defined contribution
pension schemes. The assets of the scheme are held separately
from those of the Company in an independently administered fund.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account represents the
contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting
period. Differences between contributions payable and contributions
paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
The Company provides for and funds pension liabilities on a going
concern basis, on the advice of external actuaries. The amount
charged to the profit and loss account is calculated to produce a 
level percentage of the current and future pensionable payroll.
The Company operates a pension scheme providing benefits based
on final pensionable pay. The assets of the scheme are held
separately from those of the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values. Pension
scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and
discounted at the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate
bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The pension scheme surplus (to the extent that it is recoverable) 
or deficit is recognised in full. The movement in the scheme
surplus/deficit is split between operating charges, finance items
and, in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, actuarial
gains and losses.
As all members of the Capital Radio Group Pension Scheme are past
or present employees of GCap Media, the amount recorded in the
income statement and the balance sheet relates solely to the Capital
Radio Group Pension Scheme. The Company has no members in the
Midlands Radio Group scheme.
Own shares held under trust
Shares in the Company issued to cover SAYE schemes are held in 
the GCap Media Quest. Shares in the Company issued to cover the
Capital Radio Long Term Incentive Plan, the GCap Media 2005 Long
T erm Incentive Plan, the Interim Merger Scheme and the Deferred
Annual Bonus Scheme are held in the GCap Media Employee Trust.
Own shares held under trust are deducted from retained earnings. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      83
Company Accounts
31 Accounting policies (continued)
Employee share schemes
The share option programme allows employees to acquire shares of the Company . The fair value of options granted after 7 November 2002
and those not yet vested as at 1 January 2005 is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is
measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair value
of the options granted is measured using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were
granted. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is
only due to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with 
a corresponding increase in liabilities. The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become
unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees
become unconditionally entitled to payment. The fair value is measured based on an option pricing model taking into account the terms and
conditions upon which the instruments were granted. The liability is revalued at each balance sheet date and settlement date with any
changes to fair value being recognised in the profit and loss account.
Dividends on shares presented within shareholders’ funds
Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability at that date to the extent that they are appropriately authorised
and are no longer at the discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the 
financial statements.
Agency agreement
GCap Media Services Limited provided personnel and other services to the Company . Operating expenses include a charge for these services.
32 Employee information
From April 2006, all personnel were provided by GCap Media Services Limited under an agency agreement.
The average monthly number of persons (including Directors) employed by the Company during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Monthly average
2007 2006
Number Number
Programming – 18 
Sales – 174 
Technical – 24 
Management and administration 3 89 
Total 3 305 
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Staff costs (for those mentioned above)
Wages and salaries 1,651 11,002 
Compulsory social security contributions 211 1,122 
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 236 915 
Equity-settled transactions 1,584 1,674 
Cash-settled transactions – 761 
3,682 15,474 
Exceptional staff costs relating to Merger – 2,909 
Total 3,682 18,383 
The above analysis includes the costs relating to directors but excludes persons engaged under short-term and part-time contracts
(including presenters). The total cost of these persons amounts to £nil (2006: £1.7 million).
Directors’ emoluments
Details of individual Directors’ emoluments, pension entitlements, long-term incentive schemes and share options are disclosed 
in the Report of the Board on directors’ remuneration to the members of GCap Media on pages 44 to 50. 84 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
33 Tangible fixed assets
Transmitter
fixtures and
Short technical Motor 
leasehold equipment vehicles Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 April 2006 8,087 20,732 33 28,852 
Disposals – (7,409) – (7,409)
At 31 March 2007 8,087 13,323 33 21,443 
Depreciation
At 1 April 2006 2,554 18,581 33 21,168 
Depreciation charge for the year 348 976 – 1,324 
Disposals – (7,409) – (7,409)
At 31 March 2007 2,902 12,148 33 15,083 
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 5,185 1,175 – 6,360
Net book value 
At 31 March 2006 5,533 2,151 – 7,684 
The Company did not have any assets under finance lease as at 31 March 2007 or 31 March 2006.
34 Investments
Subsidiary Associated Other 
companies companies investments Total
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Cost
At 1 April 2006 571,431 746 12 572,189 
Disposals (69,000) – – (69,000)
At 31 March 2007 502,431 746 12 503,189
Provisions
At 1 April 2006 94,357 415 – 94,772 
At 31 March 2007 94,357 415 – 94,772
Net book value
At 31 March 2007 408,074 331 12 408,417
At 31 March 2006 477,074 331 12 477,417 
35 Debtors
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 2,776 12,495 
Corporation tax – 578 
Deferred tax (note 38) 226 123 
3,002 13,196  GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      85
Company Accounts
36 Creditors – amounts falling due within one year
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Accruals and deferred income 264 761 
Total 264 761 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
Trade and other payables
For payables with a remaining life of less than one year, the notional amount is deemed to reflect the fair value. All other payables 
are discounted to determine the fair value.
37 Creditors – amounts falling due after more than one year
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Bank loans and overdrafts 33,567 82,000 
Total 33,567 82,000 
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
Fair value is calculated based on discounted expected future principal and interest cash flows.
38 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Deferred tax liability at 1 April 123 (212)
Credit to the income statement for the year 103 335 
Deferred tax asset at 31 March 226 123 
Deferred taxation provided in the accounts, which represents the total potential asset or liability for deferred taxation, is as follows:
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Accelerated capital allowances (274) (323)
Other timing differences 61 112 
Employee benefits 439 334 
Deferred tax asset 226 123 
39 Provisions
31 March
2007
£’000
At beginning of year 172
Provisions used during the year (172)
At end of year – 86 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTINUED
40 Reserves
Profit
Share Revaluation Merger and loss
premium reserve reserve account
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
As at 1 April 2006 79,043 429 283,808 46,154 
Total recognised income and expense – – – (16,644)
Actuarial gains and losses – – – 538 
Movements due to share-based compensation – – – 1,584 
Equity dividends – – – (15,146)
Reserves transfer – – (6,933) 6,933 
As at 31 March 2007 79,043 429 276,875 23,419
The movement between the merger reserve and profit and loss account relates to the loss on the disposal of Century.
41 Pension funds
The Capital Radio Plc Pension and Assurance Scheme (CRPPAS) is a contributory defined benefit scheme. The scheme was closed 
to new employees from 31 March 1995. At 31 March 2007, 12 employees of GCap Media were active members of this scheme. 
This scheme provides benefits based on final pensionable pay. The latest full actuarial valuation was carried out at 1 April 2005 
and was updated for FRS 17 purposes to 31 March 2007 by a qualified independent actuary.
It has been agreed that an employer contribution rate of 28.4% of pensionable pay will apply in future years.
As the scheme is closed to new entrants, the service costs as a percentage will increase as members approach retirement. The major
assumptions used in this valuation were:
2007 2006 2005
Rate of increase in salaries 4.40% 4.00% 4.50%
Rate of increase in pensions in payments and deferred pensions 3.25% 3.25% 3.25%
Discount rate applied to scheme liabilities 5.30% 4.85% 5.30%
Inflation assumptions 3.00% 2.90% 2.75%
The assumptions used by the actuary are chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, 
may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
The defined contribution pension scheme is now operated through GCap Media Services Limited. 
Scheme assets
The fair value of the scheme’s assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant change before
they are realised, and the present value of the scheme’s liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over long periods and thus
inherently uncertain, were:
31 March 31 March 31 March
2007 2006 2005
£’000 £’000 £’000
Equities 4,765 5,973 4,461 
Bonds 4,543 5,309 5,261 
Others 1,773 1,991 1,716 
Cash 800 –– 
Total fair value of assets 11,881 13,273 11,438 
Present value of scheme liabilities (12,406) (16,055) (14,357)
Deficit in the scheme (525) (2,782) (2,919)
Related deferred tax asset 158 835 876 
Net pension liability (367) (1,947) (2,043)
The expected rates of return on the assets in the scheme were:
Long-term Long-term Long-term
rate of rate of rate of
return return return
2007 2006 2005
Equities 7.80% 7.50% 7.00%
Bonds 5.30% 4.85% 4.75%
Others 7.30% 7.50% 4.75% GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      87
Company Accounts
41 Pension funds (continued)
Movement in surplus/deficit during the year
31 March 31 March
2007 2006
£’000 £’000
Deficit in scheme at the beginning of year (2,782) (2,919)
Current service cost (188) (187)
Contributions paid 1,803 543 
Other finance cost 6 (94)
Other expenses (6) –
Loss on settlements/curtailments (127) (13)
Actuarial loss 769 (112)
Deficit in the scheme at the end of the year (525) (2,782)
42 Operating leases
2007 2006
Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Expiring in less than one year –– – 50 
Expiring between one and five years –– – 197 
Expiring in over five years 1,375 – 1,472 –
Total 1,375 – 1,472 247 
43 Share-based payments
The profit and loss account includes a charge for share-based payments within personnel costs of £1.6 million (2006: £2.4 million). 
Please see note 19 for details of the awards and the assumptions used in arriving at the charge. 88 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
COMPANY ADVISERS FOR THE PERIOD
Secretary and Registered Office
Richard Manning
30 Leicester Square
London WC2H 7LA
Company Registration Number
923454
Solicitors
Allen & Overy
One Bishops Square
London E1 6AO
Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
Media Banking Centre 
27 Soho Square
London W1D 3QR
Lloyds TSB Bank Plc
25 Gresham Street
London EC2V 7HN
Auditors 
KPMG Audit Plc
8 Salisbury Square
London EC4Y 8BB
Financial advisers and stockbrokers
Credit Suisse
One Cabot Square
London E14 4QJ
Bridgewell Ltd 
Old Change House 
128 Queen Victoria Street 
London EC4V 4BJ
Registrars 
Lloyds TSB Registrars 
The Causeway 
Worthing
Sussex BN99 6DA  GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      89
Accounts
FINANCIAL RECORD
IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP* UK GAAP*
Year ended Year ended Six months to Year ended Year ended 
31 March 31 March 31 March 30 September 30 September
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Turnover 200.1 210.7 58.5 119.9 115.3
Underlying profit and loss account
Operating profit 16.3 25.9 9.8 23.7 22.0 
Operating profit margin 8.2% 12.3% 16.8% 19.8% 19.1% 
Profit before taxation 14.4 22.8 8.7 23.7 22.8 
Underlying earnings per share 4.4p 17.9p 8.2p 20.1p 19.3p
Statutory profit and loss account
Operating (loss)/profit (14.4) (56.7) 7.5 12.6 12.6 
Operating (loss)/profit margin (7.2)% (26.9)% 12.8% 10.5% 10.9% 
(Loss)/profit before taxation (16.4) (47.9) 6.5 12.6 13.3 
Basic (loss)/earnings per share (11.1)p (23.3)p 4.9p 7.1p 7.7p
Taxation 0.4 13.1 (2.4) (6.6) (6.9)
(Loss)/profit for the financial year (16.0) (34.8) 4.1 6.0 6.4 
Attributable to parent (18.3) (36.7) 4.1 6.0 6.4 
Minority interest 2.3 1.9–––
Dividends (15.1) (14.9) (10.6) (15.6) (15.2)
Cash flow
Cash generated from operations 20.0 12.8 7.2 25.5 27.0 
31 March 31 March 31 March 30 September 30 September
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£’m £’m £’m £’m £’m
Balance sheet
Fixed assets 439.4 523.3 179.8 180.0 174.6
Current assets 43.1 46.4 23.1 22.0 21.0
Total assets 482.5 569.7 202.9 202.0 195.6
Creditors: due within one year (41.6) (39.5) (60.7) (45.9) (63.3)
Total assets less current liabilities 440.9 530.2 142.2 156.1 132.3
Creditors: due after more than one year (117.5) (177.9) (5.9) (20.0) –  
Net assets 323.4 352.3 136.3 136.1 132.3
Net debt (26.8) (75.9) (34.9) (27.0) (27.6)
Share information
Dividends per share pence 4.60 9.25 6.00 18.50 18.50
Dividend cover times 1.0 0.8 1.5 1.1 1.0
Shares in issue million 164.8 164.8 85.5 85.4 83.0
Share price during year £High 2.63 4.03 4.40 5.64 5.90
Low 1.84 2.26 3.90 3.98 3.58
Share price £ 2.15 2.29 4.04 4.11 4.73
Market capitalisation £ million 354 377 345 351 392
Average employee numbers 1435 1502 683 677 662
The financial information set out above has been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out on pages 58 and 61.
(1) Underlying results exclude goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. This presentation is used to provide a normalised picture 
of the Group’s earnings, making year-on-year comparisons more valid. 
* The main adjustments required to align these results with IFRS would be the inclusion of share-based payments and accounting for defined benefit pension schemes in
accordance with IAS 19. The inclusion of share-based payments would increase expenses and hence reduce operating profit, while accounting for defined benefit pension
schemes would reduce net assets by the scheme deficit. Amortisation would not have been charged on goodwill therefore increasing profit after tax (and increasing net
assets) whilst dividends would not have been recognised until approved by the Board (thereby increasing net assets). 90 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders at 30 May 2007
% of % of 
Number of total Ordinary 
accounts accounts Shares Shares
Holding of:
Up to 1,000 shares 2,821 68.79 1,191,996 0.72
1,001 to 5,000 shares 799 19.48 1,748,892 1.06
5,001 to 10,000 shares 140 3.42 1,017,051 0.62
10,001 to 1,000,000 shares 315 7.68 38,500,926 23.36
Over 1,000,000 shares 26 0.63 122,390,142 74.24
Totals 4,101 100.00 164,849,007 100.00
Held by:
Banks and nominee companies 568 13.85 125,195,477 75.95
Insurance companies and institutions 117 2.85 33,165,640 20.12
Private individuals 3,416 83.30 6,487,890 3.93
Totals 4,101 100.00 164,849,007 100.00
Holders of Ordinary Shares
Registrar:
The Company’s Registrar is Lloyds TSB Registrars and all correspondence regarding Ordinary Shares should be sent to the address 
shown on page 88.
Dividend:
The record date for the proposed final dividend, payable on 30 July 2007, is 6 July 2007 and the shares will trade ex-dividend on the 
London Stock Exchange from 4 July 2007 . GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      91
Notice of Annual General Meeting
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the 34th Annual General Meeting 
of the members of GCap Media plc (the Company) will be held on 
26 July 2007 at the offices of Allen & Overy, One Bishops Square,
London E1 6AO at 12.00 noon for the following purposes:
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. T o receive and adopt the accounts for the period 1 April 2006 
to 31 March 2007 and the reports of the Directors and Auditors.
2. T o approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the period 
1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 .
3. T o approve the payment of a final dividend of 1.5p per 
Ordinary Share.
4. T o re-elect as a Director Tony Illsley who retires by rotation 
under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
5. T o re-elect as a Director Alastair Ross Goobey who retires 
by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
6. T o re-elect as a Director Peter Cawdron who retires by 
rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
7. T o re-elect as a Director Peter Michael who is subject to 
annual re-election.
8. T o elect as a Director Fru Hazlitt who, having been appointed 
by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, retires 
in accordance with the Articles of Association.
9. T o elect as a Director Richard Eyre who, having been appointed
by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, retires 
in accordance with the Articles of Association.
10. That KPMG Audit Plc be and are hereby appointed as the
Auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of
this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting 
at which accounts are laid before the Company.
11. That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to determine 
the remuneration of the Auditors of the Company.
SPECIAL BUSINESS 
T o consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of 
which Resolutions 12 to 15 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions
and Resolutions 16 and 17 will be proposed as Special Resolutions:
Ordinary Resolutions
12. That:
(i) for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985
(‘the Act’), the Directors be generally and unconditionally
authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot
relevant securities (within the meaning of that section) up 
to an aggregate nominal amount of £878,774, such authority
to expire on 25 October 2008 (unless previously renewed,
varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting);
(ii) the Company may make an offer or agreement before the
expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant
securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the
Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that
offer or agreement; and
(iii) this authority shall replace all existing authorities conferred
on the Directors in respect of the allotment of relevant
securities to the extent that the same have not been
previously utilised.
13. That the proposed amendments to the rules of the GCap 
Media Savings Related Share Option Scheme contained in 
the draft rules produced to the meeting and for the purposes 
of identification initialled by the Chairman thereof, as summarised
in the Appendix hereto be and are hereby approved and the
Directors be and are hereby authorised to do all such acts 
and things as may be necessary to carry the same into effect
(including all such acts and things as may be necessary in order
to obtain HM Revenue & Customs approval thereof).
14. That the extension of the GCap Media 1998 Share Option 
Scheme for a further ten years from the date of this meeting 
in the form of the draft rules produced in the meeting and for 
the purpose of identification initialled by the Chairman thereof,
as summarised in the Appendix hereto, the key features of which
are set out in the Summary on pages 95 and 96 be and is hereby
approved and the Directors be and are hereby authorised to 
do all such acts and things as may be necessary to carry the
same into effect (including all such acts and things as may 
be necessary in order to obtain HM Revenue & Customs 
approval thereof).
15. That:
a. pursuant to paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 of the Companies
Act 2006, and without prejudice to the existing provisions 
of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Company
may send or supply any documents or information to
members by making them available on the website; and
b. the Company may use electronic means (within the meaning
of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules published by the
Financial Services Authority in its Handbook of Rules and
Guidance) to send or supply any documents or information 
to members. 92 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
CONTINUED
Special Resolutions
16. That:
(i) subject to and conditional upon the passing of resolution
numbered 12 set out in the Notice of Annual General
Meeting dated 22 June 2007 (the ‘section 80 resolution’), the
Directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 
of the Act to allot equity securities (within the meaning of
section 94(2) of the Act) pursuant to the authority conferred
by the section 80 resolution (or any renewal thereof) as if
section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to any such allotment
provided that this power shall be limited:
(a) to the allotment of equity securities, whether by way 
of rights issue, open offer or otherwise, to ordinary
shareholders and holders of any other shares or
securities of the Company that by their terms are
entitled to participate in such rights issue, open offer 
or otherwise where the equity securities respectively
attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders
and such holders of other shares or securities are
proportionate (as nearly as may be) to the respective
numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them or into which
their shares or securities are to be deemed converted in
calculating the extent of their participation but subject to
such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors
deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional
entitlements or legal or practical problems under 
the laws of, or the requirements of, any recognised
regulatory body or stock exchange in, any territory; and
(b) to the allotment of equity securities for cash (otherwise
than pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) above) up to an
aggregate nominal value of £206,061;
(ii) this power expires at the conclusion of the next Annual
General Meeting following the date of this resolution or 
25 October 2008, whichever is the earlier (unless previously
renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in 
General Meeting);
(iii) this power shall enable the Company to make an offer or
agreement before the expiry of this power which would or
might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry
of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities 
in pursuance of any such offer or agreement; and 
(iv) this power shall replace all existing powers granted to the
Directors to allot equity securities as if the said section 89(1)
of the Act did not apply to the extent that the same have not
been previously utilised.
17. That, pursuant to Article 9 of the Company’s Articles of
Association, the Company be generally and unconditionally
authorised to make market purchases (within the meaning 
of section 163 of the Act) of Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each
(‘Ordinary Shares’) in the capital of the Company provided that:
(i) the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised 
to be purchased is 16,484,900;
(ii) the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary
Share is 2.5p exclusive of expenses;
(iii) the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary
Share is the higher of:
(a) an amount equal to 105% of the average closing middle
market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from
the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 
five business days immediately preceding the day of
purchase; and
(b) the amount stipulated by Article 5(i) of the Buy-back and
Stability Regulation 2003.
(iv) this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual
General Meeting following the date of this resolution or 
25 October 2008, whichever is the earlier; and 
(v) the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary
Shares prior to the expiry of this authority which will or may
be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority
and the Company may make purchases of Ordinary Shares
in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board
Richard Manning 
Company Secretary
30 Leicester Square
London WC2H 7LA
22 June 2007 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      93
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notes
1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint
one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his or her
behalf. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. To be
effective the accompanying Form of Proxy should be lodged
together with the power of attorney or other authority (if any)
under which it is signed (or a notarially certified or office copy 
of such power or authority) at the registered office of the
Company not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the
Meeting or adjourned meeting. Completion and return of the
Form of Proxy will not affect the right of a member to attend 
and vote in person at the Meeting.
2. In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities
Regulations 2001, only those members registered in the register
of members of the Company as at 6.00pm two days before the
AGM shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect
of the number of shares registered in their respective names at
that time. Changes to entries on the register of members after
that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any
person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
3. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through
the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for
the Annual General Meeting to be held on Thursday 26 July 2007
and any adjournment thereof by using the procedures described
in the CREST Manual. CREST personal members or other
CREST-sponsored members, and those CREST members who
have appointed a voting service provider, should refer to their
CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will be able to
take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the
CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a
‘CREST Proxy Instruction’) must be properly authenticated in
accordance with CRESTCo’s specifications and must contain 
the information required for such instructions, as described 
in the CREST Manual. The message, regardless of whether it
constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the
instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order 
to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Lloyds TSB
Registrars (ID 7RA01) no later than 12.00 noon on Tuesday 
24 July 2007. No message received through the CREST network
after this time will be accepted. For this purpose, the time of
receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the
timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications
Host) from which our registrars are able to retrieve the message
by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After
this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed
through CREST should be communicated to the appointee
through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors
or voting service providers, should note that CRESTCo does not
make available special procedures in CREST for any particular
messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore
apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the
responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the
CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored
member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure
that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider take) such
action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular
time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable,
their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, 
in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning
practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid CREST Proxy instructions 
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(S)(a) of the
Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
4. Copies of the Directors’ service contracts with the Company 
will be available for inspection at the registered office of the
Company during normal business hours on any weekday
(Saturdays and public holidays excluded) from the date of this
notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting itself and 
will be available for inspection at the Meeting and for a period 
of 15 minutes before it commences. The register of Directors’
share interests is available for inspection at the registered office
of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday
(Saturdays and public holidays excluded).
5. Copies of the rules of the GCap Media 1998 Share Option
Scheme will be available for inspection at the registered office of
the Company and at the offices of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
Plumtree Court, London EC4A 4HT during normal business
hours on any weekday (Saturdays and public holidays excluded)
from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General
Meeting itself and will be available for inspection at the Meeting
and for a period of 15 minutes before it commences. 94 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
CONTINUED
Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting
Explanatory information in relation to Resolution 13: 
Amendments to Savings Related Share Option Scheme
Resolution 13, which is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution,
seeks the approval of shareholders to amendments to the rules 
of the Savings Related Share Option Scheme (the ‘Savings Related
Scheme’). The amendments are intended to provide greater
flexibility in the use of new issue shares for the purpose of option
grants under the Savings Related Scheme.
The Savings Related Scheme currently contains limits on the
number of new Ordinary Shares that may be issued over certain
periods to satisfy options granted under the Savings Related
Scheme and other share option schemes operated by the Company.
The limits are as follows:
a. no more than 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share 
capital may be issued for such purposes in any ten-year period;
b. no more than 3% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital
may be issued for such purposes in any three-year period (this
limit applies after the first anniversary of the date of adoption of
the Savings Related Scheme);
c. no more than 5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital
may be issued for such purposes in any five-year period (this limit
only applies during the period of one year after the date of
adoption of the Savings Related Scheme).
The 3% and 5% limits are likely to restrict the Company’s ability to
grant options in the future. It is therefore proposed that these limits
are removed. This is in line with the current guidelines issued by the
Association of British Insurers (‘ABI’) which recommend only that a
limit of 10% in ten years be adopted for ‘all-employee’ schemes such
as the Savings Related Scheme.
Explanatory information in relation to Resolution 14: Extension 
of 1998 Share Option Scheme
Resolution 14, which is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution,
seeks the approval of shareholders to the extension of the 1998
Share Option Scheme (the ‘Option Scheme’) which would otherwise
expire in early 2008.
The Company originally established the Option Scheme in 1998 
for senior executives and management. HM Revenue & Customs
approved options may be granted under the Appendix to the 
Option Scheme.
It has been determined that Executive Directors will no longer be
granted options under the Option Scheme as they participate in
alternative long-term incentive arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the Option Scheme
remains an appropriate long-term incentive arrangement for
management and it is therefore proposed that the Option Scheme be
extended for a further period of ten years. A number of amendments
are proposed to the existing rules of the Option Scheme to update the
rules for legislative changes and to take account of certain changes
in the guidelines issued by the ABI since the Option Scheme was
established. A summary of the key features of the Option Scheme 
is contained on pages 95 and 96. GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07      95
Notice of Annual General Meeting
THE GCAP MEDIA PLC 1998 SHARE OPTION SCHEME (‘THE OPTION SCHEME’) 
– SUMMARY OF KEY FEATURES
All employees of GCap Media plc (‘the Company’) and its 
subsidiaries who are required to devote substantially the whole 
of their working time to the business of the Group will be eligible 
to be granted options under the Option Scheme, at the discretion 
of the Remuneration Committee of the Board. Executive Directors 
will not be granted options under the Option Scheme.
Options may normally only be granted (over newly issued or 
existing Ordinary Shares in the Company (‘shares’)) during the 
period of 42 days following the approval of the extension of the 
Option Scheme by shareholders and thereafter within 42 days after
the announcement by the Company of its results for any period, 
or any day on which the Remuneration Committee determines 
that exceptional circumstances justify a grant. No payment will be
required for the grant of an option. Options may be granted by the
Company or the trustees of an Employee Benefit Trust established 
to operate in conjunction with the Option Scheme.
At the time of grant of an option, the Remuneration Committee will
set performance targets which must be satisfied before the option
can be exercised. Such targets will normally be measured over 
a three-year period.
If the circumstances which prevailed when options were granted 
and which were relevant to the targets originally imposed change,
the Remuneration Committee may amend the targets if they
represent a fairer measure of performance and are not more 
difficult to satisfy.
The first option grants under the Option Scheme (following 
approval of the extension) are not proposed until May 2008.
The Remuneration Committee has therefore not yet determined 
the performance targets which will be imposed for the first option
grants. It is the intention of the Remuneration Committee that
appropriately demanding performance targets will be set at the
relevant time having regard to projected performance and broker
forecasts. If EPS targets are used, a scaled vesting schedule will be
applied based on broker forecasts. If the targets are related to TSR 
a vesting range from median to upper quartile performance would
be used.
The targets will not be retested.
Options will entitle the option holder to acquire shares at a price per
share determined by the Remuneration Committee. The exercise
price of options will be not less than the middle market quotation 
of a share derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official 
List on the date of grant or, if greater (unless the option relates only
to existing shares), the nominal value of such shares.
Each individual’s participation will be limited so that the aggregate
market value (on the date of grant) of shares subject to all options
granted to him or her under the Option Scheme or any other
discretionary share scheme (but leaving out of account options
which have been exercised) in any year will not exceed 150% of his 
or her annual basic salary. 
No options may be granted under the Option Scheme which would,
at the time of grant, cause the number of shares which have been 
or may be issued in pursuance of options or awards granted or made
under all the share incentive schemes established by the Company
to exceed either of the following limits:
(a) 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital in relation 
to options granted and awards made in the ten years ending 
with the date of grant of the option; and
(b) 5% of the Company’s issued ordinary share capital in relation 
to options granted and awards made under discretionary share
incentive schemes in the ten years ending with the date of grant
of the option.
Where options granted under the Option Scheme will on exercise 
be satisfied by a transfer of existing shares purchased in the market,
the above limits do not apply.
Options may normally be exercised between the third and tenth
anniversaries of the date of grant, at the end of which period they 
will lapse. They will generally only be exercisable if the performance
conditions which apply to them have been satisfied.
In certain circumstances, early exercise of options is permitted
where the option holder leaves employment with the Group in
circumstances of death, injury, disability, ill-health, on retirement by
agreement with the employing company, on the sale of the business
for which the option holder works outside the Group, on an option
holder’s employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group 
or (if the Remuneration Committee so decides) for some other
reason. In these circumstances (apart from retirement) options will
be exercisable whether or not any performance conditions which
apply to them have been satisfied. Options may also be exercised 
on an amalgamation, takeover or winding-up of the Company (or, 
in certain circumstances, may be exchanged for options over shares
in an acquiring company). In these circumstances options will be
exercisable whether or not any performance conditions which apply
to them have been satisfied.
The Remuneration Committee may, where it considers it likely that
an amalgamation, takeover or winding-up will take place, in addition
declare that options will be exercisable during a limited period prior
to the relevant event (typically in order to preserve the Company’s
entitlement to corporation tax deductions).
In the event of any rights or capitalisation issue, sub-division,
consolidation, reduction or other variation of its share capital, 
the Remuneration Committee may adjust the number of shares
subject to options and the price payable on their exercise.
Options are not transferable and may only be exercised by the
persons to whom they were granted or their personal representatives.
Shares allotted or transferred under the Option Scheme will rank
pari passu with shares of the same class then in issue (except in
respect of entitlements arising prior to the date of allotment). The
Company will apply to the London Stock Exchange for the listing 
of any newly issued shares. Benefits under the Option Scheme 
are not pensionable. 96 GCap Media plc Annual Report 2006/07
THE GCAP MEDIA PLC 1998 SHARE OPTION SCHEME (‘THE OPTION SCHEME’) 
– SUMMARY OF KEY FEATURES
CONTINUED
The provisions governing eligibility requirements, equity dilution,
share utilisation and individual participation limits and the adjustment
that may be made following a rights issue or any other variation of
capital cannot be altered to the advantage of option holders without
the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting (except for
minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Option
Scheme, to take account of a change in legislation or developments
in the law affecting the Option Scheme or to obtain or maintain
favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for
participants in the Option Scheme or for any member of the Group).
In addition, no alteration may be made that would materially affect
any subsisting rights of any participants without their prior consent.
An Appendix to the Option Scheme, which will be capable of approval
by HM Revenue & Customs under Schedule 4 to the Income Tax
(Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, permits the grant of options up 
to the HM Revenue & Customs’ £30,000 limit. The rules of the Option
Scheme, as described above, will apply to options granted under 
the Appendix subject to a number of additional restrictions and
modifications set out in the Appendix. These include:
(i) In addition to the circumstances permitting early exercise set 
out above, options granted under the Appendix will also become
exercisable, whether or not any performance conditions which
apply to them have been satisfied, where the option holder
leaves employment by reason of redundancy (within the 
meaning of the Employment Rights Act 1996).
(ii) Options granted under the Appendix will not be adjusted in the
event of the implementation by the Company of a demerger or
payment of a super-dividend which would otherwise materially
affect the value of an option.
(iii) Options granted under the Appendix may be subject to a different
performance target.
The Option Scheme will terminate on the tenth anniversary of the
date of approval of its extension by shareholders, or such earlier
time as the Remuneration Committee may determine, but the rights
of existing option holders will not thereby be affected. In the event 
of termination no further options will be granted. GLOSSARY OF TERMS
DRDB
The Digital Radio Development Bureau.
RAJAR – Radio Joint Audience Research 
RAJAR is a company specifically established to manage the UK’s
agreed system of radio audience measurement. It is jointly owned 
by the RadioCentre (on behalf of commercial radio companies) 
and by the BBC.
Reach – Weekly
The number in thousands or as a percentage of the UK/area
population who listen to a station for at least five minutes 
in the course of an average week.
Share of Listening
The percentage of total listening time accounted 
for by a station either in the UK or a particular area.
Total Hours
T otal amount of time spent listening to a given station 
by all individuals who listen to it in an average week.
TSA: Total Survey Area
The area in which a station’s audience is measured.
The paper used in this report comprises of fibres sourced from
well-managed sustainable forest reserves and is bleached without 
the use of chlorine. The production mill operates to EMAS, ISO 14001
environmental and ISO 9001 quality standards.
Designed and produced by                                     www.collegedesign.com www.gcapmedia.com
