 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CONTENTS
01 2006 summary
02 At a glance
04 Chairman’s statement
06 Group Chief Executive’s Business Review
(see more detailed index on page 06)
18 Corporate responsibility
20 Directors and Group 
Executive Committee
22 Directors’ report
24 Corporate governance
30 Remuneration report
39 Independent Auditors’ report to the
members of Alfred McAlpine plc
40 Group income statement
41 Group statement of recognised 
income and expenditure
42 Group balance sheet
43 Group cash ﬂow statement
44 Accounting policies
50 Notes to the accounts
70 Independent Auditors’ report to the
members of Alfred McAlpine plc
71 Company balance sheet
72 Signiﬁcant accounting policies
73 Notes to the accounts
79 Shareholder information
Alfred McAlpine is a leading support
services company, whose business 
is focused on providing services to 
the built environment. We develop,
ﬁnance, design, build, manage 
and maintain the buildings and
infrastructure that enable individuals
and organisations to carry out 
their business. 
The key drivers of our future growth 
are excellence in customer service and
the provision of innovative solutions 
on which we can continue to build
long-term relationships with 
our customers.
The cover photograph shows the entrance to the new Addenbrooke’s Treatment Centre at Addenbrooke’s Hospital.
Alfred McAlpine and joint venture partner, NIB Capital Bank, were awarded the contract to design, build, ﬁnance 
and maintain three new buildings on the site. See page 9 for further details. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200601
Underlying profit before tax*
(£m)
05 26.0
Underlying earnings per share*
(pence)
05 23.7
Dividend per share
(pence)
05 13.3
06 27.0
06 22.8
06 14.65
05 1,072
06 1,123
Revenues
(£m)
04 12.1
2006 SUMMARY
• Strong performance from
core businesses
• Over £1.5bn of new
business secured in year 
• Record £3.9bn order book
• Over 75% of order book 
made up of long-term
contracts and framework
agreements
• Good cash performance
after investing more than
£20m in new systems 
and in our PFI interests,
development opportunities
and land assets
• Step change improvement
in Accident Frequency Rate
and MORI T op10 employee
satisfaction score
£27.0m
2005 restated: £26.0m
22.8p
2005 restated: 23.7p per share
14.65p
2005: 13.3p per share
£1 , 123m
2005 restated: £1,072m
*underlying profit is stated before the impact of a one-off pension credit,
impairment provisions for the slate business and other non-recurring costs
Our core businesses are strong, well
managed and well placed to benefit
from growth opportunities.
Reported profit before tax of £18.7m
(Restated 2005: £24.7m)
Basic earnings per share of 16.8p
(Restated 2005: 26.9p per share) ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 02
AT A GLANCE
• The total addressable market
for Alfred McAlpine in the built
environment is £120bn p.a.
• The growth in these markets 
is driven by the continuing
trend to outsource support
services and by the ongoing
investment in the renewal 
and maintenance of the 
UK’ s infrastructure
• 75% of our contracts are 
for three years or longer
LAND–LED
DEVELOPMENT
DESIGN
SERVICES
PFI
ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSUL TING
HIGHWA YS 
MAINTENANCE
GAS
WA TER
ELECTRICITY
FACILITIES 
MANAGEMENT
HEAL TH & SAFETY 
SOLUTIONS
IT SERVICES
PROJECT
MANAGEMENT
CIVIL
ENGINEERING
CONSTRUCTION
Maintain
Create Design
Renew
Engineering based
project management
TELECOMS
Our marketplace continues to grow
The built environment We take care of our customers’
assets at any stage of their lifecycle ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200603
Accident Frequency Rate
(Number of accidents per 100,000
hours worked)
Employee satisfaction score*
(%)
Business in the Community 
CR Index score
(%)
04 0.25 04 64
05 0.24 05 67 05
06 0.14 06 68 06 86.0
72.5
• Sector-leading Accident
Frequency Rate of 0.14
T arget: Nohigher than 0.1by2010 T arget: Maintain Top 10 ranking T arget: Year-on-year improvement
*Source: MORI
Culture
• Safety first culture
• Focused on delivery
• Innovative thinking
• Partnership and collaboration
• Can-do attitude
• Investing in solutions
• ‘Best in class’ working 
practices and systems
• Regular reviews drive 
continuous improvement
• Customer retention
• Contract extensions
• New business wins
• Long-term partnerships 
Operational
excellence
Business
performance
• Employee satisfaction at 
MORI Top 10 level for the
private sector
• Business in the Community
silver ranking for most
improved company in 2006
Our strategy is to maximise the opportunities offered 
by the growth markets of our core businesses
Sustained, controlled growth:
Delivered through:
• Focus on services for the built environment
• Strong business in growth markets driven by
– continuing trend to outsource 
support services
– renewal/maintenance of the UK’ s 
infrastructure
• Long-term, visible earnings streams
• Well balanced business
• Long-term contracts
• Strong client relationships
• Differentiation through service excellence
• Moving up the value chain ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 04
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
We entered 2007
with a record
£3.9bn order book,
having secured in 
excess of £1.5bn 
of new business
during 2006.
Our positive view of our trading performance
in 2006, which we indicated in our trading
update on 9 January 2007, was overshadowed
by the discovery in late February 2007 of 
a systematic and extensive fraud by senior
managers within our slate business dating
back a number of years.
Each of our three core businesses delivered 
a strong performance in 2006, with good
growth in comparable underlying profit before
tax year-on-year. Business Services delivered
another strong year with significant revenue
and profit growth. Project Services also
performed well. The improvement made 
in the underlying performance of our
Infrastructure Services business was particularly
encouraging as the benefits of our
restructuring actions started to come through.
We ended the year with a record £3.9bn
order book, having secured in excess of
£1.5bn of new business across all our markets,
including our largest contract to date with
Mapeley, during 2006.
Slate 
On 26 February 2007, we announced that 
an investigation by our internal audit team had
uncovered a systematic misrepresentation 
of production volumes and sales for a number
of years by a number of senior managers 
at Slate. The Board immediately suspended
two senior managers at Slate and instigated
an independent forensic investigation into
these accounting irregularities, under the
terms of which Ashurst and Deloitte reported
their findings to the Audit Committee. 
The investigation confirmed that the controls
in the slate business had been systematically
circumvented over a number of years to
overstate results. The behaviour and collusion
of the managers responsible was entirely
deliberate and involved fraud. The Managing
Director and Operations Director of Slate have
been dismissed. The other members of the 
former senior management team of Slate had 
already left the business. The financial impact 
of the fraud resulted in a £22.9m reduction 
in sales and pre-tax profits in the years up 
to and including 2006 and asset impairment,
professional fees and other costs of £17.5m
net of total tax.
Ashurst and Deloitte believe that, whatever
financial controls had been in place, given the
extensive collusion of senior managers in the
slate business, steps would have been taken 
to attempt to circumvent these. Controls have,
however, been reviewed and, in accordance
with the recommendations made by Deloitte,
further strengthened where possible.
The Board is deeply concerned by the
discovery of this fraud, but is confident that
decisive action has been taken to address this.
Our immediate priority is to return this
business to profitability.
Group financial controls 
In the light of the uncovering of fraud 
within the slate business, the remit of the
Deloitte investigation also included a wider
review of relevant key financial control
procedures in our core businesses. This review
has been completed and confirmed the
robustness and appropriateness of our 
existing control procedures. No material 
issues were identified.
Our three core businesses
delivered a strong
performance in 2006, with
good growth in comparable
underlying profit before tax
year-on-year. Group financial results
Group underlying profit rose by 4% to
£27.0m (restated 2005: £26.0m), reflecting 
a profit before tax (‘PBT’) margin of 2.4% 
in line with 2005. Reported profit before tax
was £18.7m (restated 2005: £24.7m). Group
revenues in the year rose to £1,123m (restated
2005: £1,072m), an increase of 5%.
Underlying earnings per share were 22.8p
(restated 2005: 23.7p per share).
Basic earnings per share were 16.8p. Diluted
earnings per share were 16.3p. These figures
are stated after non-recurring items.
After funding organic growth in our core
business, the investment of £10m in new
systems and one-off cash costs of £5.5m,
including payments made under our pension
liability management programme of £2.8m,
our year end net cash position was £29.0m
(2005: £32.8m).
Dividend 
In recognition of the continuing improvement
in the underlying trading performance of the
core businesses and confidence in the Group’s
future development, the Board recommends 
a final dividend of 8.65p per share, taking our
full year dividend up 10% to 14.65p per share
(2005: 13.3p per share). Subject to shareholder
approval at the Annual General Meeting on
26 June 2007, the final dividend will be paid
on 6 July 2007 to shareholders on the register
on 15 June 2007.
Board
We were delighted to welcome Dr Roger
Urwin, as Non-executive Director, to the 
Board in September 2006. Roger was Group
Chief Executive of National Grid plc until 
he retired at the end of 2006 and will bring 
a wealth of experience to the Board. He will
become Chairman at the conclusion of the
Annual General Meeting on 26 June, when 
I am due to retire from the Board. I look forward
to handing over to Roger then.
Dominic Lavelle decided to stand down 
from the Board as Group Finance Director 
on 23 April 2007. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to record our gratitude to Dominic
for his significant contribution to the Company
over the last three years. At the time of writing
my statement, the search for a replacement
has commenced and until a successor is 
found, Mark Greenwood, Finance Director 
of Project Services, is acting as interim 
Group Finance Director. 
Acquisitions
On 1 February 2007, we acquired Enviros
Group Limited (‘Enviros’), a leading
environmental consultancy, for £30m in 
cash (£27m) and shares (£3m). Enviros works 
across industry sectors, in both the public 
and private sector, and has a broad range 
of clients including DEFRA, the Carbon Trust,
BP , Corus and the MOD. The acquisition
allows us to continue our strategy of moving
up the services ‘value chain’ and gives us
access to another high growth market. 
Strategy and outlook
Alfred McAlpine today is a leading support
services group focused on providing clients
with integrated solutions for all their built
environment needs.
Alfred McAlpine’s core businesses are strong,
well managed and are well placed to benefit
from the growth opportunities offered by 
their markets. We aim to maximise these
opportunities by continuing to focus on
investment in our core businesses.
We entered 2007 with a record £3.9bn order
book and over 80% of our target revenues 
for the year already secured. Maintaining this
momentum, we have won in excess of £400m
of new business since the start of 2007.
Against this background, the Board remains
confident in the Group’s growth prospects.
G O Whitehead 
Chairman
11 May 2007
£3.9bn
£1 .5bn
New business won in the year.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200605
Record order book. GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTENTS
06 Business strategy
08 Business review 
13 Group financial results
13 Sustainable business
14 People
17 Principal risks and uncertainties
17 Outlook
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 06
We strive to 
be our clients’
partner of choice
in the built
environment,
where we offer
integrated
solutions to meet
clients’ needs.
Our three core businesses made substantial
progress in 2006, delivering further good
growth in underlying profits. This excellent
performance was achieved through the
dedication and commitment of our people 
and again re-emphasises the robustness of our
strategy. However, the discovery of extensive
fraud within our slate business, which is
covered later in this Business Review, has
clearly overshadowed what would otherwise
have been another successful year for 
Alfred McAlpine.
The principal operational achievements of
2006 have been the mobilisation of three
major new facilities management contracts,
including our largest ever with Mapeley, 
and the continued implementation of the
planned programme of investment in our core
businesses which is key to our future success.
We invested over £20m, including £10m 
in the implementation of two major new 
IT systems which will enhance operational
efficiency. After this investment, we generated
a free cash flow* of £25.1m before 
one-off costs.
Business strategy
Alfred McAlpine is committed to building 
value for investors through sustained, controlled
growth. This will be driven by our continued
focus on delivering services and solutions 
in the built environment, by developing 
a balanced business, without over dependence
on one client or market, and by providing
outstanding service which is the basis of the
long-term relationships that we look to build
with our clients.
*operating cash flow less net capital expenditure,
interest and tax
   Telecoms
A well balanced business
(Type of customer by industry sector)
(%)
 Education
Water
Electricity
National roads
Rail
government
Local & other
Defence
Health
Financial &
Technology
Retail
Aviation
Leisure
Housing &
Industrials
Other
commercial
property
professional
services
Private         
Regulated         
Public
Gas
9  
9  
Our services span many
sectors and we have no 
over dependence on any 
one sector or client. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200607
£1 20bn*
(p.a. )
Total projected annual value 
of the addressable market for 
Alfred McAlpine in outsourcing
and investment in the UK’s
infrastructure.
Alfred McAlpine today is positioned in large
growth markets driven by the continuing 
trend to outsource the maintenance and
management of buildings and by the high 
level of investment required to renew the UK’s
health, leisure and education facilities and 
its transport and utility infrastructure. We
estimate the size of our addressable UK
market to be £120bn p.a.*, which allows 
us to continue to take a selective approach to
new business and ensure that the risk/reward
is acceptable. 
We strive to be our clients’ partner of choice 
in the built environment, where we offer
integrated solutions to meet clients’ needs. 
We can design, finance, build, operate and
maintain buildings and infrastructure, or apply
our expertise in one or several of these areas
to deliver solutions that meet our clients’
specific requirements.
To build the long-term, lower risk visible
earnings streams that we have targeted, we
aim to generate at least 70% of our revenues
from activities that are undertaken under 
long-term contracts or framework agreements,
based on service excellence and the breadth 
of our offer. Over 75% of our order book 
is made up of these types of long-term
partnership agreements.
As a Group, our primary financial targets are
to generate strong profit and earnings growth
and to maximise our cash balances. These will
drive increases in shareholder value. To do this
we have to improve our business continuously
by investing in the development of our people
and operational efficiency. 
Our reputation and the foundation on which
our future growth and success rely, are based
on our people. We believe that a positive
culture, based on robust values, is essential 
to both high quality customer service and
continuous improvement. 
From 2004 we have measured employee
satisfaction with and commitment to Alfred
McAlpine using the MORI employee advocacy
model. Our rating has improved year-on-year
and, most encouragingly, our key employee
satisfaction is now at Top 10 level for the UK
private sector. Our performance is explained 
in more detail in the People section of this
Business Review starting on page 14. 
Our medium-term objective remains the
achievement of engagement and advocacy
levels that are in the top 10% for UK private
sector organisations. This will ensure that we
are able to recruit, retain and motivate the 
people who will fulfil our commitment to 
excellent customer service and innovation
which differentiates Alfred McAlpine from 
its competitors. This investment in people
development is mirrored by continued
investment in our business infrastructure 
to ensure that it is fit for purpose and can
support the growth that we are targeting.
We are also committed to providing a safe
environment for our employees, customers,
supply chain partners and the public. Over the
last six years we have reduced our accident
frequency rate significantly from 0.35 in 2000
to 0.14 in 2006, and we now have a sector-
leading Accident Frequency Rate. We remain 
on track to deliver our objective of achieving
an Accident Frequency Rate of 0.10 or less by
2010, which equates to less than one accident
per million hours worked. Our ultimate ambition
is to work in a zero accident environment. 
Long-term visible earnings
(£m)
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013+
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
Secured order book 
as at 31 December 2006
*source: Mintel, DEFRA, MOD, DTLR, Department of Health, DfES, HM Treasury, OFWAT, OFGEM, 
DTI, Company Estimates ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 08
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTINUED
Business review
Good progress has been made in each of our
core businesses.
Business Services
Business Services continued to make excellent
progress and delivered another strong year 
of organic revenue and profit growth. Profit
before tax increased 10% to £23.6m (2005:
£21.4m) on revenues which grew by 19% 
to £430.8m (2005: £361.1m).
Business Services is a leading provider of facilities
management services. We work with our clients
to develop, manage and deliver solutions that
improve the performance and quality of their
built environment assets and reduce operating
costs. Founded on our engineering and project
management expertise, we provide business
critical support, with an emphasis on pro-
active and preventative facilities and asset
management through our service helpdesks
and engineering service centres. These services
are complemented by hard FM services, 
such as mechanical and electrical engineering
and fabric maintenance, and by consultancy
services, such as environmental, energy and
waste management consultancy and health
and safety compliance, management. This
range of added value services enables Alfred
McAlpine to offer total facilities management
solutions for the built environment.
The outsourced element of the UK facilities
management market is estimated to be worth
approximately £60bn* p.a.. Overall, including
the element currently serviced in-house, the
UK facilities management market is estimated
to be worth around £200bn* p.a.. The trend 
to outsource facilities management is being
maintained and these markets continue 
to grow as organisations continue to seek 
to secure short- and long-term cost savings 
by leveraging the experience and skills
provided by expert facilities management
service providers.
Major client wins in the year included Mapeley,
which is worth more than £800m over its 
15-year term, under which Alfred McAlpine
provides facilities management services across
Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs’ estate.
Other major new contracts were secured in the
year in the financial services sector with Bank
of Ireland and Royal Bank of Scotland. These,
combined with the extension of our long-term
contract with Halifax Bank of Scotland for 
a further five years, confirm our position 
as a leading provider of FM services to the
financial sector.
This performance has enabled us to maintain 
a strong order book in this business, with
typical contract lengths of between three 
and seven years.
Business Services entered 2007 with a strong
pipeline of new opportunities. Since the start
of the year, a further £50m of new business
has been won. We further strengthened our
offering through the acquisition of Enviros 
on 1 February 2007. This acquisition allows 
us to meet current and prospective clients’
needs for environmental consultancy and
solutions across their property portfolios. 
It also offers us significant cross-selling
opportunities both to existing Business Services’
clients and to clients across other parts of the
Group. Enviros, which in 2006 generated
operating profit of £2.0m from revenues 
of £29.5m, will continue to trade under 
its own brand name.
With our ability to offer total facilities
management solutions across all sectors and the
continuing trend to outsource these services,
the business is well set for sustained long-term
growth. We will remain focused on delivering
this strong organic growth, whilst continuing
to look to enhance our service offering
through bolt-on acquisitions.
Project Services
Project Services enjoyed another successful
year in 2006. Underlying profit before tax
increased by 5% to £17.4m (2005: £16.5m)
from revenues that increased by 8% to
£402.1m (2005: £372.9m). Of the profit
before tax generated by Project Services, 
our PFI interests contributed £1.9m.
Project Services comprises our construction
services and investment and land-led
development businesses. It provides building
and civil engineering services to local and
national government, to commercial developers
and to the health, education and leisure 
sectors. It also manages the development, 
financing, construction and maintenance of
long-term assets, including Alfred McAlpine’s
PFI investments.
We take a very selective approach to the 
work that we bid for, ensuring that it matches
our skillset and provides an acceptable risk/
reward. Reflecting this, the business is now
focused on longer-term, lower-risk earnings
streams based on framework and Early
Contractor Involvement (‘ECI’) schemes 
and on development and investment led
opportunities, where we can capitalise on our
project management and financing expertise.
During the year, we added £330m of new
business to the order book, including two 
new ECI schemes, taking our total number 
of ECI schemes to ten. We also extended our
earthworks and structures framework contract
with Network Rail for the Great Western
Region and won a series of new development
and construction contracts. These included
contracts to build one of the UK’s first new
generation primary healthcare centres at
Aldershot and to design and build Bluestone,
the first of a new generation of eco-friendly
destination holiday villages, in Pembrokeshire. 
£60bn*
(p.a.)
Outsourced UK facilities
management market.
*source: Mintel, DEFRA, MOD, DTLR, Department of Health, DfES, HM Treasury, OFWAT, OFGEM, 
DTI, Company Estimates ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200609
The £190m 30-year project to deliver a new
Biomedical Campus for the Cambridge
University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust is
managed by Key Health Services, a joint
venture between Alfred McAlpine and NIB
Capital Bank NV , which was awarded the
contract to design, build, finance and maintain
three new buildings on the site.
The new six-storey hospital extension, a
research building, new entrance and atrium 
to link the new facilities to the rest of the
hospital has provided Addenbrooke’s with 
128 extra beds and six new operating theatres. 
The new facilities are vital to the hospital 
in its capacity as a national and regional centre
for cancer services, liver transplants, organ
transplantation, neurosciences and genetics, 
as well as a local district hospital serving the
growing local population.
In what was a very complex project, Alfred
McAlpine’ s construction team completed 
the £74m construction phase on schedule 
in February 2007, when responsibility for the
building passed to Alfred McAlpine’s facilities
management team. The team will maintain 
the facility for the next 30 years. To keep 
the fast pace of the build on track, the two
teams worked closely, with teams of specialists
following each other through the three
buildings, fitting out section by section. This
needed careful planning and control but it was
all in a day’s work for the construction team.
The slower but more traditional way would
have been to wait until a whole building was
ready for fitting-out.
Rex Holmes is the project director for Alfred
McAlpine. “Working in such close partnerships
demands a lot of trust,” he says. “Good
planning and communication between us, 
Key Health and the Trust is vital. We have a very
good relationship with the hospital that gives us
space to operate. There are no petty arguments;
we’re all working for the same goal.”
Wyn Hughes is the NHS Trust’ s Project Manager.
He is pleased with progress and agrees that 
the relationship the Trust has with Key Health
Services and Alfred McAlpine is very good,
“This is the Trust’s first PFI and it’s been an
education for us, especially the tender process,”
says Wyn. “We’ve had to get to grips with a
new way of working but we’re very pleased
with progress and how the project is being
managed. There is a good atmosphere and 
Key Health and Alfred McAlpine have been 
very amenable and fair. They’re easy people 
to work with.”
£74m
two-year construction phase.
128
extra beds and six new 
operating theatres.
In just two years, Alfred McAlpine
has helped the world renowned
Addenbrooke’s Hospital in
Cambridge to become a major
centre for treatment and research
on a European scale as well 
as to provide twenty-first century
healthcare to the fast growing
population of East Anglia.
£1 90m
total contract value.
30years
contract length for 
facilities management. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 10
Major ECI projects that entered the construction
phase during 2006 included Phase II of the
Leeds Inner Ring Road, the first of the schools
being built under the Dorset Schools framework
and the Highways Agency contract for
improvements to Junction 14 of the M1
motorway near Milton Keynes. Construction
also started on the contract to design and
build a new bridge under the QE2 bridge on
the M25 to link Dartford, Kent with Prologis
Developments’ Crossways Business Park. 
Our Project Services team also manages 
our land-led and PFI investment portfolios. 
We invested £12.4m in these during the year.
Following the sale of our 10% equity interests
in the Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Exeter Courts
and Conwy Schools PFIs in 2006, our PFI
portfolio now comprises six financially closed
concessions, representing an initial investment
of £22.2m, all of which are operational. 
The Arden Partnership, our 50:50 joint venture
with Costain, reached financial close on the
£30m Lincolnshire project, the first of three
phases of the £76.5m Three Shires batched
mental health PFI scheme on 3 May 2007. 
The remaining two projects in the scheme are
due to reach financial close in the summer of
2007. We are committed to investing a further
£3.8m in our PFI portfolio before the end 
of 2008 and will continue to invest selectively
in new PFI schemes that match our capabilities
and dispose of existing PFI investments, if and
when appropriate opportunities arise.
Project Services entered 2007 with a strong
order book and over 82% of its target
revenues for the year secured. We have 
also won a further £100m of new business
since the start of 2007, including contracts 
to design and build a new leisure centre 
at Ashfield and to construct a new dual
carriageway at the A421/A6 junction and
associated infrastructure works at St Neots,
Cambridgeshire. In addition, it has been 
confirmed that our ECI scheme covering 
the widening of junctions 29-32 of the M4 
can move into construction phase following
two years of scheme evaluation and design. 
As previously announced, this contract is 
worth over £65m to Alfred McAlpine.
The strength of our order book and the
continuing positive conditions in construction
markets give us confidence that this business 
is well placed to deliver another good
performance in 2007.
Infrastructure Services
Following the sale of Alfred McAlpine’s interest
in Core Utility Solutions Limited in October
2005, the comparative underlying profit before
tax numbers for 2005 for Infrastructure Services
in the following section exclude the £1.1m
profit contribution delivered by that joint
venture business in 2005. This provides greater
visibility of comparable underlying performance. 
Infrastructure Services delivered an encouraging
improvement in comparable profit year-on-
year as the benefits of the restructuring of the
business and increase in regulated investment
spend in the electricity and water sectors started
to have a positive impact on our results.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 
32% to £4.1m (2005: £3.1m) from revenues 
of £315.2m (2005 restated: £364.1m).
Our Infrastructure Services business is focused
on providing maintenance and renewal services
to the utilities and highways maintenance
sectors, where clients continue to seek to
reduce costs and improve delivery through
outsourcing.
Following the restructuring in 2005, the
business now operates through three units
(Gas and Water; Electricity and Telecoms; 
and Government Services), from five
previously. The targeted exits, highlighted 
in 2005, from the stand-alone Streetlighting 
and Rail Telecoms businesses and one non-
performing contract were finalised in the year, 
resulting in additional one-off costs of £4.3m 
(cash cost £2.7m). As a consequence of these
actions and following significant investment 
in systems and processes, the underlying
performance of the ongoing business is now
considerably improved. 
During the year, the utilities business secured 
a series of new business wins, particularly 
in the electricity and water sectors as approved
regulatory spend increased. These wins include
the renewal and extension of existing long-
term contracts with E.ON Central Networks,
Scottish Power and Scottish Water Solutions
and a contract to deliver the protection and
diversion of electricity, water, gas and telecoms
services required ahead of the construction 
of the Edinburgh tram network. Our highways
maintenance business again delivered another
good performance. Overall, Infrastructure
Services won in excess of £280m of new
business in 2006.
Infrastructure Services entered 2007 with 
a strong order book and over 83% of its
targeted revenues for the year secured. It has
secured £265m of new work so far in 2007.
This includes an additional four-year contract
worth at least £40m with EDF Energy Networks
for the installation and upgrade of high voltage
underground cabling as part of the capital
programme supporting its electricity network
in East of England, building on the £40m 
sub-station design and build contract with EDF
Energy Networks announced in January 2007.
In addition, we have now secured a new six
year £160m contract covering the replacement
of Victorian mains across south west London
for Thames Water. Finally, we have secured 
a two year extension, worth £25m, to our
existing highways maintenance contract 
with Suffolk County Council. This contract 
will now run until March 2009.
The strong momentum in this business gives
us confidence that it will maintain the positive
progress in 2007.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTINUED
£280m
of new business won by
Infrastructure Services in 2006. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200611
132kv
voltage engineering services.
1 0,800kms 
of overhead lines. 
When electricity supplies to 
homes and workplaces are
interrupted due to bad weather,
Alfred McAlpine works to carry
out emergency repair work 
and re-instate supplies for
customers of E.ON Central
Networks. Under an £80m
contract, Alfred McAlpine 
provides key support services 
to E.ON Central Networks.
£80m
total contract value.
6counties
with over 4.7m customers.
Alfred McAlpine provides a complete solution –
from the connection of low voltage electrical
services, design and project management
through to delivering engineering services at
high voltage. The service encompasses all types
of works at voltages up to 132,000 volts. 
The team works across the six counties –
Gloucestershire, Herefordshire, Leicestershire,
Northamptonshire, Warwickshire and
Worcestershire – that comprise the southern 
part of the region covered by Central Networks,
the electricity distribution business of E.ON. 
Over the past year we have installed 150kms 
of medium and high voltage cable, refurbished
or installed 420kms of overhead lines and nearly
200 sub-stations. In addition, the team
constantly patrols 10,800kms of overhead lines
and provides twenty-four hour reactive support
to client network problems and the maintenance 
of 1,200 sub-stations across the region.
The team has been working with Central
Networks for four years and the contract 
was renewed in 2006 for a further four years, 
with the potential to extend the work for
another five years after that. This is the only
outsourced contract of its kind in the industry.
Central Networks awarded Alfred McAlpine 
an all encompassing contract. Instead of the
contract being broken into packages of work
such as cable laying or being tendered as
individual projects, the contract covers the full
spectrum of operational delivery. This means 
that Alfred McAlpine is responsible for asset
inspections (sub-stations, telegraph poles etc),
maintenance and replacement as well as
managing new connections for the 4,769,190
customers – everything to do with medium 
and high voltage power supply across the 
six counties. 
One reason for the Alfred McAlpine team’ s
success to date has been having the right
operational structure which includes new offices
in Nuneaton, placing the team at the heart of
the Central Networks region. Alfred McAlpine
has adopted a proactive approach with the
customer on all reporting aspects and
development of common reporting procedures.
This means that the team works much more
closely with the customer; helping improve
safety, quality, delivery and service levels.
This vital work, ensuring the supply of electricity
to thousands of homes and businesses, goes
largely unseen and unnoticed by the domestic
and business users who rely upon their supply.
Alfred McAlpine ensures that E.ON gives its
customers the best possible service. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 12
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTINUED
2004 
£m and prior 2005 2006 T otal
Underlying PBT n/a 37.4 43.0* n/a
Sales fraud (6.1) (7.7) (9.1) (22.9)
Other current asset impairment (7.0) (3.7) (6.9) (17.6)
Restated: Underlying PBT n/a 26.0 27.0 n/a
Non-recurring costs
Fixed asset impairment and write-offs (6.1) (1.6) (1.8) (9.5)
Professional fees and other costs 0.00.0 (6.0) (6.0)
Slate impact (19.2) (13.0) (23.8) (56.0)
Tax 5.03.7 6.9 15.6
Net Slate impact (14.2) (9.3) (16.9) (40.4)
*2006 Underlying PBT as per the Group’s management accounts.
Slate
The impact of the accounting irregularities 
in the slate business on the Group’s Income
Statement for the year to 31 December 2006
and on its Balance Sheet as at 31 December
2006 is summarised in the table and was 
as follows:
(i) a reduction in reported Group revenue and
pre-tax profit in relation to the sales fraud 
in the years up to and including 2006 
of £22.9m, of which £5.4m represents
deferred income which will be recognised 
in 2007 – in line with the guidance given 
in the statement on 26 February 2007.
(ii) a reduction of £17.6m in the current assets
of the Group, as reflected in the Group
Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2006, 
in respect of the write down/impairment 
of the value of stock and work in progress
in the slate business.
(iii) a reduction of £9.5m in the fixed assets 
of the Group, as reflected in the Group
Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2006,
principally in respect of the overstatement
of quarry development costs in the 
slate business.
(iv) a one-off cost of £6.0m reflecting the 
costs of the independent investigation and
the costs of completing the arrangement
of new banking facilities with the 
Group’s bankers.
The cash impact on the Group of the accounting
irregularities and the non-recurring costs referred
to above is expected to be £30m in 2007. 
Having taken advice from an independent
expert geologist, the Board is satisfied that 
the value of the mineral reserves at Slate
remains prudent and appropriate. In addition,
independent review has confirmed that the
value of the investment in the new sawn 
plant at Slate remains appropriate.
The investigation concluded that personal 
gain was not the underlying motivation for 
the fraud. Ashurst have advised the Board that
there is little prospect of any material financial
recovery being obtained through civil
proceedings against those who instigated 
the fraud. The Board has asked North Wales
police to investigate the matter and take such
further action as they deem appropriate. 
The Group will co-operate fully with North
Wales police as required.
In addition to the investigation, the Board has
undertaken a number of actions to return Slate
to profitability. These include:
• the appointment of a new senior
management team led by Alan Smith,
formerly a senior director with Aggregate
Industries
• the establishment and implementation 
of a comprehensive recovery plan
• the immediate moth-balling of operations 
at the Cwt Y Bugail quarry
• the moth-balling of Slate’s architectural
business at Ffestiniog quarry
• the extensive restructuring of the business’
cost base, resulting in a headcount reduction
of 166.
Going forward, the Slate recovery plan 
reflects reduced revenues and a reduced 
cost structure. After the fulfilment of pre-paid
deeply discounted orders accepted by the
former management team in late 2006, 
it is expected that the business will make an 
operating loss in 2007 of around £5m from
targeted sales of £21m. With the fulfilment 
of these orders, the business is projected 
to return to at least break even in 2008.
Thereafter, the business will be working
towards operating margins of 15% on 
annual revenues of approximately £30m.  ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200613
Group financial results
Group revenues in the year rose to £1,123m
(restated 2005: £1,072m), an increase of 5%.
Group underlying profit was £27.0m 
(restated 2005: £26.0m), reflecting a PBT
margin of 2.4% in line with 2005. Reported
profit before tax was £18.7m (restated 
2005: £24.7m).
Underlying earnings per share were 22.8p
(restated 2005: 23.7p per share). Dividend
cover is 1.5x (restated 2005: 1.7x) based 
on underlying profit after tax and calculated
using the interim dividend for 2006 paid 
and the proposed final dividend for 2006.
Basic earnings per share were 16.8p. Diluted
earnings per share were 16.3p. These figures
are stated after a number of non-recurring
items including a net settlement gain of 
£3.8m generated by the reduction in liabilities
resulting from our pension liability management
programme, £7.8m of impairment and cost
provisions in respect of the slate business and
£4.3m (cash cost £2.7m) of additional non-
recurring costs relating to the completion 
of the previously announced exit from the
stand-alone Streetlighting and Rail Telecoms
businesses and discontinued contracts in our
Infrastructure Services business.
Free cash flow improved by £9.4m after
funding organic growth in our core business
and the investment of £10m in new systems
to support our people and our future growth
as described in the section on Sustainable
Business below. 
Average net borrowings through the year
were £54m (2005: £34m).
After the one-off costs of £5.5m, including
payments made under the pension liability
management programme amounting to
£2.8m, our year end net cash position was
£29.0m (2005: £32.8m). The bank interest
charge for the year was £3.4m, up from
£2.0m in the prior year, reflecting the higher
average borrowings through the year.
At 31 December 2006, the Group had a series
of committed bi-lateral facilities totalling £135m.
In March 2007, we successfully completed the
process of refinancing these facilities, which
commenced in January 2007 in the lead 
up to the Enviros acquisition. We now have
£180m of committed funds available to us
through a syndicated revolving credit facility.
This syndicated revolving credit facility will
mature in February 2011. In aggregate 
this facility is available to support general
corporate purposes.
We continue to review our Corporate Centre
costs to ensure that these remain appropriate. 
In 2006, centre costs, excluding the non-
recurring costs associated with our pension
liability management programme, amounted
to £7.2m (2005: £6.1m).
Shareholders’ funds total £263.2m (2005
restated: £259.2m).
During the year, our original investments 
in PFI joint ventures increased by £3.5m 
to £22.2m following our investment in the 
A1 (Darrington to Dishforth) and the sale 
of our 10% equity interests in the Enterprise 
PFIs (Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Exeter Courts
and Conwy Schools).
As at 31 December 2006, there was an IAS19
deficit on our four defined benefit pension
schemes totalling £29.6m, net of tax credit
(2005: £33.8m). Of this, the deficit in the
main Alfred McAlpine Pension Plan was
£25.2m net of tax credit (2005: £25.8m).
The Company and the Trustee of the Alfred
McAlpine Pension Plan recently agreed the
valuation of the Plan as at 31 December 2005,
and, as required by the Pensions Act 2004,
concluded a funding recovery plan to meet the
Plan’s Statutory Funding Objective. This recovery
plan is designed to remove the deficit in funding
revealed by the valuation as at 31 December
2005 by 31 December 2015. The recovery
plan is effective from 1 January 2006 and
under it the Company will make the following
cash contributions to the Plan:
2006: £6.6m (of which £4m was
contributed during 2006)
2007: £6.6m
2008: £8.5m
2009: £9.2m, plus the increase 
in RPI over 2008
2010-15: Prior year contribution plus the
increase in RPI over the preceding
12 months
The £1.0m reduction in the gross deficit 
as at 31 December 2006 reflects the £6.9m
reduction in liabilities secured by our liability
management programme and increases in 
the discount rate used to calculate the defined
benefit obligation as a result of increases 
to corporate bond yields over the year. 
This was countered by the strengthening of
the mortality assumption applied for IAS 19
purposes. This assumption is now based on
PA92 medium cohort projections, and is the
same as the assumption applied by the Plan
actuary in completing his most recent formal
actuarial valuation of the Plan for the Plan
Trustee as at 31 December 2005. Whilst some
scaling has been applied for current pensioners
to reflect actual experience in the Plan, 
no scaling has been applied for members 
pre-retirement. This change in the mortality
assumption increased the obligation by 
over 10%, as we anticipated in 2005. In
combination, these changes ensure that 
the assumptions remain in line with current
market best estimates. Further disclosures 
of the assumptions used (including mortality
assumptions) are provided in note 20 of the
consolidated financial statements. 
Our tax charge continues to benefit from
prudent planning and brought forward losses.
Our effective underlying tax rate was 17%
during 2006 (2005: 15%). We expect that we
will return to a normalised 28% rate by 2009.
Sustainable business
We are committed to ensuring that we and
our supply partners operate to the highest
safety standards. It is pleasing therefore to 
be able to report a step-change improvement
in the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (‘AFR’), GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTINUED
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 14
which now stands at a sector-leading 0.14
(2005: 0.24). This equates to 1.4 accidents 
for every million hours worked. We will 
continue to seek ongoing improvements 
in our safety performance to achieve our
objective of an AFR of 0.10 or less by 2010.
To deliver the excellent customer service, which
is fundamental to our offering, we need to
attract, develop and retain the best people. 
To this end, we aim to be an employer of
choice. We measure our performance in this
area through our annual employee survey,
which is conducted by MORI on our behalf.
Further details of the survey and results 
can be found in the People section of this
Business Review.
To support our people and our future growth,
we continue to invest in new systems. 2006
was a year of significant achievement, as 
we successfully completed a series of major
systems change programmes. These are 
aimed at ensuring that we capture and 
share the knowledge that exists across 
our business, which is vital to our ongoing
competitive success. 
We completed the implementation of our
Group-wide HR and payroll system, which 
will enhance operational efficiency and 
allow us to deliver a high quality service 
to our employees. The higher degree of IT
sophistication has allowed us to implement
operational processes which generated
immediate and ongoing benefits for both 
the Company and employees; in particular, 
it has reduced payroll processing costs in
Infrastructure Services and Project Services 
by more than 50%.
This project also necessitated an upgrade 
to the Causeway financial management
system to provide the interfaces required 
to allow the automated transfer of data to 
and from the HR and payroll system. As part
of this planned upgrade, we also introduced 
a major enhancement of system reporting 
capabilities and, as a result, were able to meet
the requirements of the new Construction
The five values are:
Alfred McAlpine values
winners – people who want to create success
for themselves, their company, and their
customers; people with real commitment.
Superior performance is born
out of passion. Alfred McAlpine values people
who are passionate about their work and about
doing the very best job for their customers.
Alfred McAlpine demands
honesty – honesty in dealing with each other
and honesty in dealing with all external
stakeholders.
The Company values people
who work openly and productively with each
other, clients and partners – people who listen,
people who explore new ideas and create 
new value.
The Company values job
satisfaction. People who enjoy what they 
do put more in – and get more out.
Employee survey
To gauge the extent to which we are meeting
the needs of employees and driving the
behaviour linked to the Company values, 
we work with MORI, the international market
and employee research organisation, using 
its employee advocacy model to survey 
our employees. We ask every employee 
to complete a questionnaire and, in 2006, 
we received a 65% response rate. We have
surveyed employees for three years and 
a consistent improvement has been apparent
year-on-year. The survey helps us to measure
how far we are along the ‘path to advocacy’;
we want our people to be so proud of working
for Alfred McAlpine that they recommend 
us to their customers, business partners and
friends as an employer and service provider.
The path starts with awareness and
understanding for both business and individual
objectives, moves through satisfaction,
commitment, pride, engagement and, 
finally, to advocacy.
Enjoyment
Collaboration
Honesty
Passion
Winning
Industry Scheme (CIS) which was introduced
by HMRC in April 2007.
In addition, in our facilities management
business, we introduced a new management
structure and implemented a new Oracle ERP
management platform to replace the existing
legacy systems. The successful implementation
of Oracle provides us with a scalable Tier 1
solution to support the planned growth of 
this business over many years to come and
there is now the opportunity to exploit the
functionality to extract further value from 
this investment.
People
Our employee strategy remains focused 
on supporting delivery and customer service,
through a motivated and engaged workforce.
The key differentiator in the service we provide
to our customers is the quality and motivation
of our employees. This is visibly demonstrated
through their performance: through productivity ,
quality , safety and customer service.
T o achieve a motivated and engaged workforce,
we support our employees through excellent
leadership, skilled management, investment in
development and training, involvement through
inclusive consultation and innovative internal
communications as well as a reward package
that motivates and supports them.
In addition, we utilise our HR, time
management, routing and knowledge
management systems to ensure that we
provide our customers with the right person,
with the right skills and motivation, at the 
right location, at the right time, with all the
knowledge of the Company at their disposal.
Culture and values
We believe that a positive culture is essential 
to high-quality customer service. Our values 
of winning, passion, honesty, collaboration 
and enjoyment have to be reflected in all our
practices and procedures. Our reputation has
been built on our people and we believe that
employees whose behaviours reflect our values
deliver excellent customer service.
Over 
65%
of our employees completed 
our annual employee survey. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200615
At £50m per year when fully operational, and
over a duration of 15 years, Alfred McAlpine’ s
contract with Mapeley to provide management
services across HMRC’ s entire property portfolio 
is the largest contract in the Group.
Alfred McAlpine has responsibility for over 700
UK properties occupied by HMRC and 3,500
people working on the contract. Under the
Strategic Transfer of the Estate to the Private
Sector (STEPS) programme, property specialists
Mapeley acquired HMRC’s estate – a vast array
of properties with a huge variety of styles and
uses – from dog kennels to data processing
sites, Grade I listed buildings, modern office
units of over 40,000m
2
, car parks and
detention cells. As well as office administration
across the UK, Alfred McAlpine is also responsible
for managing property maintenance at HMRC’s
tax offices.
Alfred McAlpine’ s experience and understanding
of the customer’ s values has contributed to 
the provision of a high quality service irrespective
of the location and size of the property. We
perform around 7,000 reactive tasks and 10,500
planned maintenance jobs every month. The key
services are as wide and varied as the buildings
themselves and include: mechanical and
electrical works, building fabric works, cleaning,
security, grounds maintenance and the control
and management of catering and childcare 
sub-contractors at around 15 sites.
The team operates alongside Mapeley personnel
from a dedicated office in Milton Keynes. A 24-
hour help desk controls and organises service
across all sites, manages reactive calls and
coordinates planned preventative maintenance
tasks. On average the team deals with 8,500
calls a month, but this can be as high as 10,000.
Performance management is undertaken by a
bespoke software system specifically tailored to
Mapeley’ s needs. It is vital that the services are
provided 24-hours a day, 365 days a year, and
performance measurements and financial penalties
are imposed for failing to meet objectives.
T ony Hampson, Operations Director overseeing
the Mapeley contract for Alfred McAlpine, said,
“Winning a contract of this length and
complexity is testament to Alfred McAlpine’ s
reputation for service, innovation and continuous
improvement. It confirms and reinforces Alfred
McAlpine’ s position as one of the UK’ s leading
providers of support services to both the public
and private sector.”
3 , 500
people working in over 700
occupied sites.
8,500
average help desk calls a month.
HM Revenue and Customs’ (HMRC)
operations encompass a diverse
property portfolio ranging from 
local tax offices to detention centres.
When HMRC decided to focus 
on its core activity and transfer 
the management of its estate to
Mapeley, Alfred McAlpine was
their partner of choice to provide
total facilities management.
£50 m  
annual contract value, 
over 15 years.
1 0,500
planned maintenance tasks 
a month. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 16
Our target in these key areas is to be in 
MORI’s Top 10 score for private sector UK
organisations. In 2006, we achieved this for
both satisfaction working for the Company
and commitment. When asked to rate
‘satisfaction at achieving something worthwhile
at work’, the score (79%) is the highest that
MORI has recorded.
Employee profile
In 2006, we successfully implemented 
a Group-wide HR system which allows us 
to capture and monitor information on our
employees. Not only does this increase the
efficiency of our administrative procedures, 
but we will be able to use the information
extracted to monitor the success of our
employee strategies. 
We employ 8,700 people, the majority based
in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
% 20 40 60 80 100
*Source: MORI
Awareness
Satisfaction
Commitment
Pride
Engagement
Advocacy
employer
Advocacy
services
2006       
2005       
2004
Employee survey results
*
(%)
Achieving an engaged workforce
Leadership
Motivated employees require great leaders 
and we have continued to focus on facilitating
and nurturing leadership. We have established
talent management programmes covering the
majority of our management team and these
provide both awareness of those who will
benefit from accelerated development and, 
more importantly, focus the development needs
of participants. Our 360 degree feedback
process, our performance management and
our employee survey all give us insight into the
behaviour of our leaders. Our employee survey
demonstrates that the improvements are visible
to our employees.
Training and development
We run a series of training and development
programmes operating across the core
businesses which ensure that we obtain
maximum value from our employees by
helping them reach their full potential.
When asked through the MORI survey whether
employees felt they had a clear career path,
MORI recorded the highest score that they
have recorded for any company.
Employee forums and consultation
We consult employees and listen to their
feedback through the annual employee survey
and a regular employee forum in each
Business Stream. We also publish a range 
of internal magazines and newsletters across 
the Group and use web-based knowledge
management systems. We also hold regular
team briefings and toolbox talks.
Reward and support
We pay competitive salaries, offer incentive pay
for performance and provide market competitive
and supportive benefits to our employees.
We have been refreshing our benefits package
to ensure that our benefits position us as an
attractive employer to the whole of the UK’s
diverse workforce.
In 2006, we introduced an employee assistance
programme for employees and their families,
offering confidential help and counselling
covering any of the life challenges that 
may arise.
We have also introduced a corporate discounts
scheme to enable our employees to save money
on what they spend and launched a Buy As You
Earn share scheme to foster share ownership
amongst our employees by enabling them 
to buy shares in a tax-efficient way. This has
already been taken up by approximately 
10% of our employees.
Finally, we have introduced childcare vouchers 
and combined this with a national emergency
childcare and elderly care programme to
enable employees to both save money 
and deal with situations where their normal
care arrangements break down.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
BUSINESS REVIEW
CONTINUED
Alfred McAlpine 
development 
programmes
Alfred McAlpine 
skills training
Management skills
Customer management skills
Interpersonal skills
Technical skills
Management programmes
Leadership programmes
Graduate programmes
First line manager programmes
Apprentice programmes
TALENT 
MANAGEMENT
Our training and development programmes help our employees reach their 
full potential ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200617
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board considers risk assessment,
identification of mitigating actions and internal
control to be fundamental to the achievement
of Alfred McAlpine’s strategic objectives. The
report on Corporate Governance on pages 24 
to 29 describes the systems and processes
through which the Board identifies, manages
and mitigates risks. Summarised below are 
the principal risks and uncertainties which the
Board considers face the Group and which
could impact on the Group’s ability to deliver
its strategic objectives. The nature and scope
of these principal risks and uncertainties can
change and so the Board regularly reviews
these, as well as the systems and processes 
for managing and mitigating them:
• the successful and timely execution of 
major contracts, including the robust 
control of the bid/tender process (to address
commercial risks, including pricing and
contract specification) and regular reviews
through the contract delivery stage to
completion to minimise the risk of financial
loss and associated reputational damage
• attracting, retaining and motivating the high
quality people on whom the Group’s future
success depends by becoming an employer 
of choice through maintaining the highest
levels of employee satisfaction, motivation
and commitment 
• the provision of excellent customer service 
to maintain the long-term client relationships
that we target which are essential to 
the maintenance of visible, long-term
earnings streams 
• the management of health and safety 
risks through an embedded core business
programme which demands an absolute
focus on providing the safest possible
working environments for our employees,
suppliers and the public
• nurturing a winning culture, on which 
service excellence depends
• maintaining a balanced business without 
over exposure to one sector, client 
or service 
• the winning of new business to deliver the
growth that we are targeting, which requires
us to continuously improve and extend our
offering and to deliver tailored solutions
which meet clients’ specific requirements
• successful implementation and management
of major systems and, particularly with
regard to contract mobilisation, change
management projects
• the management of environmental risk
through the maintenance of an effective
corporate responsibility programme
• the pro-active management of the risks
associated with the Group’s defined benefit
pension schemes.
Fuller details of the programmes and initiatives
that have been implemented to manage 
and mitigate these risks are included in 
this Business Review and the report on
Corporate Governance.
Outlook
We entered 2007 with a record order 
book and having delivered a step-change
improvement in our AFR and made further
good progress in our employee advocacy
programmes in 2006.
Our priorities for 2007 will be to continue 
to grow our core businesses to deliver the
strong profit and earnings growth that 
we are targeting and to return our slate
business to profitability. We will do this
through the continued execution of our
established strategy.
I M Grice
Group Chief Executive
11 May 2007 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate Responsibility reporting
This report provides a summary of
developments in our Corporate Responsibility
programme during 2006 and sets out our 
key objectives for 2007. 
The complete 2006 Corporate Responsibility
Report sets out our CR vision in more detail,
gives a full report on our progress against
objectives in 2006 and targets set for 2007
and provides some examples of the work we
have done. The full report is available on our
website at www.alfredmcalpineplc.com/cr06
The full 2006 CR Report is web-based only 
in line with our policy to reduce the resources
we utilise and minimise waste.
Our commitment
Our vision is to build a long-term sustainable
business. We aim to manage the risks we are
exposed to in terms of health and safety and
the environment (‘HSE’). We want people to
join our Company because they will be proud
that we act in a responsible way. We strive 
to minimise the impact we have on the
environment and to enhance the lives of 
the people in the communities affected by 
our business. 
We have defined Corporate Responsibility 
as our commitment to the positive impact 
that our business, through our people, can
make on society. That definition remains as
true today as it did when we first formulated 
our CR strategy. 
We continue to evolve our approach towards
being a responsible business and throughout
2006 focused on activities where we felt 
we were best placed to make a significant
contribution to the communities within 
which we operate.
The management of our CR programmes
reflects this increased sophistication, with
goals being selected following an analysis 
of the appropriate stakeholder needs and
programmes being developed to support 
the achievement of these goals.
Governance
HSE and Corporate Responsibility is a standing
item on the agendas of the Board of Directors
and the Group Executive Committee. HSE 
risks are also considered by the Corporate 
Risk Committee and, at Business Stream level, 
at the Business Stream board meetings.
Ian Grice, Group Chief Executive, is the 
Board Director who takes responsibility 
for Corporate Responsibility. The HSE and
Corporate Responsibility team reports to the
Group Chief Executive and is tasked with
monitoring and improving the health, safety
and environmental performance of the Group.
Independent assurance of our corporate
responsibility programme and of the full 
on-line CR Report is provided by csrnetwork.
Our corporate governance framework 
is explained in the report on Corporate
Governance on pages 24 to 29. 
CR programme
Our five critical areas for Corporate
Responsibility are:
• Health and Safety
• Workforce
• Environment
• Supply chain
• Community 
Health and safety
We promote a safety culture and made 
a considerable achievement in this area 
in 2006 by achieving an AFR of 0.14. Further
information on our approach to safety can 
be found in the Sustainable Business section
of the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review
on pages 13 to 14.
Our approach to our workforce
Employees who are skilled, motivated and
engaged perform well. Further information 
on our employee policies can be found in the
People section of the Group Chief Executive’s
Business Review on pages 14 to 16. 
Impact on the environment
Over 2006 our ‘Group Standards for
Environmental Management’ were reviewed
and further enhanced through the
implementation of a Group-wide consistent
approach to environmental incident reporting,
the requirement for all businesses to report on
CO 2 emissions and waste production and the
implementation of CO 2 emissions and waste
reduction programmes. The Group HSE audit
process was reviewed and revised over 2006
and a number of pilot audits were undertaken. 
An enhanced audit programme will be
introduced in 2007. All of our businesses
retained their ISO 14001: 2004 certification
status over 2006.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 18 During 2006, we continued to collect 
and collate environmental data across all 
of our businesses. Within Project Services,
Infrastructure Services and Slate we were 
able to collect data from all contracts. Within
Business Services data collection is complex
due to the nature of the work we undertake
and therefore only sample data was collected
during 2006. The data collection programme
will be further rolled out across the Group
over the course of 2007. 
All of our environmental data collected 
over 2006 may be viewed at
www.alfredmcalpineplc.com/cr06
Working with our supply chain partners 
We seek to build enduring relationships 
with our supply chain partners that deliver
value to our clients and improve our 
business performance. We foster long-term
relationships with our clients, suppliers 
and other business partners. We measure
customer satisfaction through customer
surveys to capture feed back. We build
effective relationships with suppliers.
Work with our supply chain partners continued
across all businesses throughout 2006. 
We continue to assess our sub-contractors
and suppliers in terms of performance,
predominately with regard to HSE although
this has developed to incorporate wider 
CR issues in some parts of the Group during
2006. We continue to develop tools to assess
performance against client requirements 
and client satisfaction; this will be ongoing
into 2007. 
In 2007, we propose to work with our top 
five suppliers in order to consider the
possibility of developing and implementing
joint CR-based programmes and activities.
We have begun to examine the areas of
product stewardship and how we can reduce
our impact on the environment through the
use of sustainable resources. Demonstrating
this commitment, one of the Group Chief
Executive’s Annual CR Awards was won by 
a team which achieved certification under the
Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody
Scheme for timber usage. This is an area we
will be extending further. 
Community 
Over 2006, our businesses continued to
support a wide variety of community and
charity initiatives. As an organisation we 
have been supporting community projects 
for many years. Our community initiative 
has flourished since it was formally launched 
in 2003, with a significant number of small
and large projects being supported across all 
of our businesses. The community initiatives
supported in 2006 ranged from undertaking
health and safety presentations to primary
schools, supporting local school football teams,
small scale environmental projects, such as the
regeneration of a wildlife trust area and the
landscaping of a small primary school garden.
Other achievements 
During 2006, we retained our membership 
of the FTSE4Good Index, and as part of the
CR reporting community we have provided
information for the EIRIS (Ethical Investment
Research and Information Service) Annual
Social, Governance and Environmental Surveys. 
Having entered the Business in the Community
(‘BITC’) Corporate Responsibility Index for the
first time in 2005, we were delighted in 2006 
to be listed as one of the most improved
companies participating and again to be
placed in the Top 100. We were also delighted
that our Project Services business was awarded
a BITC Big Tick Award in 2006 for their
ongoing commitment to sub-contractor
environmental training.
In addition, we became full members 
of BITC at the end of 2006.
We were pleased to launch our Group 
Chief Executive’s Annual CR Awards in 2006. 
Awards were presented in each of our five
critical CR areas in April 2007 and included 
a financial contribution to the winning contract
or individual plus a financial contribution to 
a charity of the winner’s choice.
As a FTSE 250 company and a major employer
in the UK, we recognise our responsibilities 
as a corporate citizen and our need to respect
the principles of sustainable development.
Our CR Report 2006 reflects our performance
and, more importantly, shows our progress
towards our commitment to the sustainable
success of our business that will allow us 
long-term profitable growth. 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200619 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 20
GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
DIRECTORS
1Oliver Whitehead CBE
Non-executive Chairman
Appointed to the Board in May 1993 as 
Group Chief Executive, became Chairman 
in May 2002. Formerly Group Chief Executive
of Babcock International Group plc, having
previously been an Executive Director of AMEC
plc and John Laing plc. Between March 2004
and February 2005 he was Non-executive
Chairman of ITNET plc. Currently Chairman 
of Minerva plc. Mr Whitehead will step down 
as Chairman of Alfred McAlpine plc at the
AGM on 26 June 2007. Age 65.
2 Ian Grice Group Chief Executive
Appointed to the Board in September 1995
and became Group Chief Executive in August
2003. A chartered engineer, previously 
a Director with John Mowlem plc where 
he worked for 17 years, having started his
career with Laing and Kier. Appointed 
a Non-executive Director of Diploma plc 
in January 2007. Age 54.
3 Christopher Collins Senior Independent
Non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board in September 2000. 
A chartered accountant who joined Hanson
plc in 1989, was Director of Corporate
Development from 1991 to 1995 and
Chairman from 1998 to 2005. Currently
Chairman of Old Mutual plc and Forth Ports
plc, as well as being a Non-executive Director
of the Go-Ahead Group plc. Age 67.
4 Robert Hough DL Independent 
Non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board in March 2003. 
A solicitor who, prior to being Executive
Deputy Chairman of Peel Holdings plc from
1989 to 2002, was for 15 years a partner 
in a major Manchester law firm. Currently
Non-executive Deputy Chairman of Peel
Holdings (Management) Limited, Chairman 
of the Cheshire Building Society and a Non-
executive Director of Provident Financial plc 
and Styles & Wood Group plc. Age 61.
5 Craig McGilvray Managing Director
Business Services
Appointed to the Board in March 2005. A
languages graduate and chartered accountant
who became Finance Director of Stiell Limited
in 1998. Following Alfred McAlpine’s acquisition
of Stiell in 2002, appointed Finance Director 
of Business Services before being appointed
Managing Director in March 2005. Age 40.
6 Alan Robertson Managing Director
Infrastructure Services
Appointed to the Board in May 2005. 
A chartered accountant, formerly Chief
Executive of Peterhouse Group plc from 
2002 until 2004, and was responsible for 
its integration into Babcock International
Group plc. Prior to that he was Chief 
Executive of Eve Group plc. Age 44.
A
23
145
BCD E F G ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200621
The GEC is responsible for the overall
management of the business. Led by Group
Chief Executive, Ian Grice, it comprises the
Executive Directors, the Director of Corporate
Development, the Group Director of Human
Resources and the Group Company Secretary.
A Ian Grice
Group Chief Executive
B Matt Swan
Managing Director Project Services
C Craig McGilvray
Managing Director Business Services
D Marc Barone
Director of Corporate Development
E Alan Robertson
Managing Director Infrastructure Services
F Chris Lee
Group Company Secretary
G Tor Farquhar
Group Director of Human Resources
7 Matt Swan Managing Director 
Project Services
Joined the Company in May 2002 and
appointed to the Board in August 2002.
Formerly Managing Director of Alfred
McAlpine Homes East Midlands, prior to
which he held senior positions with The
Berkeley Group plc and Crest Nicholson plc.
Age 43.
8Philip Swatman Independent 
Non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board in March 2003. A
chartered accountant who trained with KPMG.
Joined N M Rothschild & Sons Limited in 1979,
becoming a Director in 1986, and Co-Head 
of Investment Banking in 1999. He is currently
Vice Chairman, Investment Banking. 
He is a Non-executive Director of Atrium
Underwriting plc. Age 57.
9 Roger Urwin Independent 
Non-executive Director
Appointed to the Board in September 2006.
Formerly Group Chief Executive of National
Grid, having retired at the end of 2006. Joined
National Grid in 1995, having previously been
Chief Executive of London Electricity. Currently
a Non-executive Director of Utilico Investment
Trust plc and a Fellow of the Royal Academy
of Engineering. Age 61.
At the time of publication of this report, 
Mark Greenwood, Finance Director of Project
Services, is acting as interim Group Finance
Director but has not been appointed to the
main Board. A search is under way to fill 
the vacancy left following Dominic Lavelle’s
resignation as Group Finance Director 
on 23 April 2007.
BOARD COMMITTEES 
AUDIT COMMITTEE 
Mr P H Swatman (Chairman) 
Mr C D Collins, Mr R E Hough, Dr R J Urwin 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Mr R E Hough (Chairman)
Mr C D Collins, Mr P H Swatman, Dr R J Urwin 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Mr G O Whitehead (Chairman)
Mr C D Collins, Mr I M Grice, Mr R E Hough, 
Mr P H Swatman, Dr R J Urwin
67
89 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Principal activities and business review
The Group provides support services, principally in the UK, offering clients in the public, private and regulated sectors integrated solutions for all
their built environment needs. The Company is listed in the Support Services sector of the FTSE All Share indices. The operations of the Group are
reviewed on pages 8 to 12 of the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review.
More detailed information about the Group’s activities and the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance 
and position of the Group’s business can be found in the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review on pages 6 to 17. Details of the principal 
risks and uncertainties facing the Company can be found on page 17. Further information on employees, health and safety, environmental
matters and social and community matters can be found on pages 13 to 19 and in the Corporate Responsibility Report which is available 
on the Company’s website at www.alfredmcalpineplc.com/cr06
This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the principal risks and uncertainties facing Alfred McAlpine plc. By their
nature, these statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not
occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied
by these forward looking statements and forecasts. No assurances can be given that the forward looking statements are reasonable as they can
be affected by a wide range of variables. The forward looking statements reﬂect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation
of this Annual Report, and will not be updated during the year. Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a proﬁt forecast.
Disclosure of information to the Auditors
The Directors conﬁrm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s Auditors are unaware and 
that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditors
are aware of that information.
Proﬁts and dividends
The Group proﬁt for the year attributable to shareholders amounted to £16.8m (restated 2005: £26.5m) after tax and one-off items. The underlying
proﬁt for the year was £27.0m (2005 restated: £26.0m). Underlying proﬁt represents the result of ongoing operations, excluding the effect 
of non-recurring items.
After payment during the year of ordinary dividends amounting to £13.8m, the balance of £3m has been transferred to reserves (2005 restated:
£14.1m balance transferred to reserves after payment of ordinary dividends amounting to £12.4m).
The Directors recommend the payment of a ﬁnal dividend of 8.65p per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 6.0p already
paid, makes a total of 14.65p per ordinary share for the ﬁnancial year. If approved at the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) to be held on 26 June
2007, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 6 July 2007 to those shareholders on the register at close of business on 15 June 2007. 
Post balance sheet events
On 1 February 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of the entire issued ordinary share capital of Enviros Group Limited for a total
consideration of £30m. Further details of the acquisition are set out in note 29 to the Accounts on page 69.
On 26 February 2007, the Board announced that accounting irregularities had been discovered in the slate business. The Board immediately instigated
an independent forensic investigation which uncovered a systematic and extensive fraud within the slate business. Further details of the investigation
and its conclusions are set out in the Chairman’s Statement on pages 4 to 5 and the Group Chief Executive’s Review on pages 6 to 17. Details of
the ﬁnancial impacts are set out in the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review and in the ﬁnancial statements.
Substantial interests
At 11 May 2007, the following interests in 3% or more of the Company’s ordinary share capital had been notiﬁed to the Company:
Number Percentage held
of shares %
Schroders plc 12,392,768 12.10
Fidelity International Limited 5,689,539 5.55
New Star Asset Management Limited 5,160,248 5.04
Legal & General Group plc 3,431,476 3.26
Standard Life Group 3,203,719 3.13
Directors
Present members of the Board are shown on pages 20 to 21.
Dr R J Urwin, Non-executive Director, was appointed Director on 1 September 2006. All other Directors served throughout the year. 
Mr D Lavelle resigned as a Director on 23 April 2007.
Dr Urwin, having been appointed by the Board, offers himself for re-appointment at the AGM on 26 June 2007. Details of Dr Urwin’s terms 
of appointment appear in the Remuneration Report on page 35.
Article 73 of the Company’s articles of association requires each Director to retire from ofﬁce at the third AGM after the AGM at which he was
last elected. Mr M D Swan will retire and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the AGM on 26 June 2007. In line with best practice, 
the Board has decided that a third in number of all serving Directors should retire at the next AGM and, in consequence, Mr C M McGilvray 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 22 DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CONTINUED
offers himself for re-election at the AGM on 26 June 2007. Details of the service agreements of Messrs McGilvray and Swan appear in the
Remuneration Report on page 35. 
None of the Directors had a beneﬁcial interest in any contract or arrangement of signiﬁcance to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries 
was a party during the year.
Details of the Directors’ interests in shares in the Company appear in the Remuneration Report on page 35.
The Group maintains directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance.
Related party transactions
Details of transactions with related parties undertaken by the Group during the year are disclosed in note 30 to the Accounts on page 69.
Employees 
It is the Group’s policy to communicate with and involve employees on matters affecting their interests at work, and inform them of the performance
of the business. In addition to an annual employee survey and a regular employee forum in each Business Stream, this is achieved by publishing 
a range of internal magazines and newsletters across the Group and holding regular team brieﬁngs and toolbox talks.
It is also Group policy to treat all employees and potential employees equally and to give full consideration to suitable applications for employment
from disabled persons, where they have the necessary abilities and skills for the position, and wherever possible to re-train employees who become
disabled, so that they can continue their employment in another position.
During Autumn 2006, the Alfred McAlpine plc Buy As You Earn Share Scheme, an all employee HMRC approved share incentive plan, which was
approved by shareholders in 2000, was brought into operation. 745 employees now participate in the Scheme. The principal aim of the Scheme 
is to encourage eligible employees to become shareholders in the Company to align employees’ interests with those of shareholders. Further details
are set out on page 32 of the Remuneration Report. The Company also operates an all employee savings-related share option scheme. At 31 December
2006 there were 413 (2005: 1,117) employees participating in this scheme, details of which are set out in note 22 to the Accounts on page 63. 
Donations
Charitable donations of £68,240 (2005: £74,053) were made during the year to UK registered charities, including £22,800 to Crisis at Christmas
and £13,000 to CRASH. No political donations were made.
Share capital
At 31 December 2006, the trustee of the Alfred McAlpine Employee Beneﬁt Trust held 618,214 ordinary shares, being approximately 0.6% of the
Company’ s issued ordinary share capital.
On 8 February 2007, 526,543 ordinary shares of 25p were issued as part of the consideration in relation to the acquisition of Enviros Group Limited.
Details of shares issued during the year under the Company’s executive and employee share schemes are set out in note 21 to the Accounts 
on page 62. 
At the date of publication, the authority granted at the AGM held on 6 June 2006 to enable the Company to purchase up to 10,086,446
ordinary shares, representing 10% of its then issued ordinary share capital, was still valid. The Company has not made use of this authority since
shareholders renewed it at the AGM in June 2006. The authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 26 June 2007, and a
resolution to renew the authority in full will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have conﬁrmed their willingness to continue in ofﬁce, and a resolution concerning their re-appointment and
remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Supplier payment policy
It is the policy of both the Company and the Group to make payment on their standard terms to suppliers unless alternative terms are agreed.
The Company and the Group both seek to abide by these payment terms, provided that they are satisﬁed that the supplier has complied with 
the agreed terms and conditions. The Company’s average creditor days during the year were 27 (2005: 29).
Annual General Meeting
The AGM of the Company will be held at the Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on 26 June 2007 at 12.00 noon.
Full details of the business of the meeting, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions proposed, are set out in the enclosed Notice 
of Meeting.
By order of the Board
C M Lee
Group Company Secretary
11 May 2007
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200623 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Compliance
The Board of Alfred McAlpine plc is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance. This commitment is based on compliance 
with The Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the ‘Code’) issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, and established and
emerging best practice. Throughout 2006, the Company complied fully with the Code, save that the Board comprised ﬁve Executive and,
following the appointment of Dr R J Urwin, with effect from 1 September 2006, ﬁve Non-executive Directors (one of whom was the Chairman),
rather than an equal number of Executive and independent Non-executive Directors as recommended by principle A.3.2 of the Code.
The Board continues to believe that the current size of the Board is appropriate for the Company, and that the balance of Executive and 
Non-executive Directors is correct.
Review of the Group control framework
As reported on pages 4 to 5 of the Chairman’s statement and on page 12 of the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review, on 26 February 2007,
the Group announced that accounting irregularities involving the deliberate mis-statement of sales and production volumes had been uncovered
within the Group’s slate business. On discovering these irregularities, the Board immediately suspended two senior managers at Slate and
instigated an independent forensic investigation, which was led by Ashurst and Deloitte under the control of the Audit Committee. 
The independent forensic investigation concluded that a systematic and extensive fraud had been perpetrated by senior managers of the slate
business over a number of years. The fraud involved the systematic circumvention of the controls to overstate the business’ results, and the
investigation concluded that the behaviour and collusion of the managers responsible was entirely deliberate. 
Ashurst and Deloitte have advised that they believe that it is clear, given the extensive collusion of senior managers in the slate business, that 
steps would have been taken to attempt to circumvent whatever ﬁnancial controls were put in place. Notwithstanding this, the controls in the 
slate business have been reviewed and, in accordance with the recommendations made by Deloitte, further strengthened where possible. 
The remit of the Deloitte investigation also included a wider review of relevant key ﬁnancial control procedures in the Group’s core businesses. 
The review conﬁrmed that the Company has an established and sound corporate governance structure and an appropriate internal control
framework and validated the robustness and appropriateness of the control procedures in the Group’s core businesses. No material issues were
identiﬁed. The recommendations that Deloitte made following this review for further improving the Group’ s internal control framework are being
implemented as appropriate.
Governance structure
The overall corporate governance structure is illustrated in the diagram below. Each of the key components of the structure is described in the
headed paragraphs below.
Reviewed
BUSINESS
STREAMS
Business Services Project Services Infrastructure Services
Audit Committee Board Remuneration Committee
Group
authority
listing
Group
policy maual
Reviews
Approves
Group Risk Committee Corporate Audit
Internal
control
framework
Slate
GEC*
Routine Business
Committee
and approves
Nomination Committee
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 24
*Group Executive Committee ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200625
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
CONTINUED
The Board
The Board comprised ﬁve Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors (one of whom was the Chairman) until 1 September 2006 when
an additional Non-executive Director was appointed. Biographical details of the Directors can be found on pages 20 and 21 together with details 
of Committee memberships. At the time of publication of this Report, the search process is under way to recruit an Executive Director to ﬁll the
vacancy on the Board left following the resignation of Dominic Lavelle, Group Finance Director, on 23 April 2007.
A number of matters are reserved for the Board’s formal approval; these include major capital expenditure, treasury and dividend policy, overall
Group strategy and all Group budgets and business plans. These matters are clearly identiﬁed in the Group Authority Listing, which sets out the
requirements for notiﬁcation and authorisation of transactions and procedures throughout the Group. The Group Authority Listing is reviewed
regularly and at least annually and is readily available to all employees via the Group intranet.
Board meetings and attendance
Seven Board meetings were held during the year. In addition, Group strategy was reviewed at a meeting set aside for this purpose in July. 
The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, Board and principal Board Committee meetings during 2006.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination
meetings Committee Committee Committee
Number of meetings held 7 4 3 3
C D Collins 7433
I M Grice 74
(i)
3
(i)
3
R E Hough 7 4 3 3
D Lavelle 7 4
(i)
––
C M McGilvray 7–––
A R Robertson 7 – – –
M D Swan 7 – – –
P H Swatman 6
(ii)
433
R J Urwin1
(iii)
11
(iii)
–
G O Whitehead 74
(i)
3
(i)
3
(i)
Attendance by invitation for all or part of the meeting.
(ii)
Mr P H Swatman was unable to attend one scheduled meeting.
(iii)
Dr R J Urwin attended one of two Board meetings, one of two Remuneration Committee meetings and one Audit Committee meeting, held between 1 September 2006 (the date of his appointment) and 
31 December 2006. 
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive have distinct roles and there is clear division of responsibilities. The Chairman is responsible for
ensuring the effectiveness of the Board and proper communication with shareholders. The Group Chief Executive is responsible for implementing
Group strategy and ensuring the effectiveness of the executive functions. These respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief
Executive have been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The current Chairman, Mr G O Whitehead, is due to retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 June 2007, 
when he will be succeeded by Dr R J Urwin, who is currently considered to be independent.
The Non-executive Directors
The Non-executive Directors are appointed by the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, for speciﬁed terms. They are
subject to periodic re-appointment by shareholders following consideration by the Nomination Committee, and are subject to statutory provisions
regarding removal. The terms of appointment for each of the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection.
Each of the Non-executive Directors has signiﬁcant external commercial experience, and brings expert advice and strong judgement to the Board.
There are clear channels of communication between the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman, providing opportunities for private discussion
outside Board meetings. The Directors are of the opinion that, with the exception of the Chairman, each of the Non-executive Directors is
independent of the Company’s management and free from any restraint that could materially interfere with the exercise of his judgement. 
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors takes the form of an annual fee, which is set by the Board in line with market levels for the 
role undertaken. As Chairman, Mr G O Whitehead is the only Non-executive Director for whom pension and other beneﬁts are provided by 
the Company. Non-executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any bonus scheme or to receive options or awards under any of the
Company’s share schemes.  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
CONTINUED
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director
Mr C D Collins is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director. He was appointed to the Board in September 2000. Having completed two
three-year terms, his appointment has been reviewed and extended to the end of 2007.
Re-appointment of Directors
The Company’s articles of association require that all of the Directors submit themselves for re-appointment at every third Annual General
Meeting. Although the articles allow the Group Chief Executive to be excluded from this requirement, the Board has determined that all Directors
shall comply with the articles. The names of the Directors submitting themselves for re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting
are set out in the Directors’ Report on page 22.
Board evaluation
A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees was carried out in 2006. This considered the composition and
effectiveness of each body and its individual members. Individual interviews were conducted by the Chairman with each Board member, and 
the Senior Independent Non-executive Director reviewed the performance of the Chairman with each of the other independent Non-executive
Directors, taking into account the comments of the Executive Directors. 
As in previous years, Board members were asked to complete a detailed questionnaire on an extensive range of issues which included conduct 
of meetings, content and time allocation, availability and quality of information, numbers and quality of membership and the value of
presentations to the Board. Training and development needs, succession planning, quality of communications, both internally and externally, 
and the effectiveness of risk management policies and practices were also covered, as were questions on the appropriateness of and adherence 
to the Group strategy, corporate responsibility, culture and values.
Responses were largely positive with constructive and creative comments. As in previous years, the responses have been reviewed and, where
necessary, acted upon, with suggestions being agreed and implemented. The Board believes that this assessment of performance, both collectively
and individually, has been carried out in a thoroughly appropriate manner, and intends to repeat the process on an annual basis.
Board training and development
Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive a formal induction introducing them to the operations and management of 
the business. Site visits are also arranged so as to familiarise the newly appointed Director with the Group. 
All Directors receive up-to-date information about the Group’ s operations and periodic brieﬁngs on legal, regulatory and accounting developments.
The Secretary and independent advice
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations 
are complied with and advises the Chairman on governance matters. All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group
Company Secretary.
The Directors consider it reasonable for any Director who wishes to seek independent legal advice to consult the Company, before advice 
is sought and any costs are incurred by the Group.
Board and other Committees
The Board has established Audit, Nomination, Remuneration, Routine Business and Corporate Risk Committees. All are formally constituted 
with written terms of reference which are reviewed annually. Terms of reference are available to view and download from the Group website:
www.alfredmcalpineplc.com/investor/governance
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises the Independent Non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Mr P H Swatman who is appropriately qualiﬁed 
and has recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience. The Committee currently meets four times a year. The Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, 
the Group Finance Director and the external Auditors are invited to attend each meeting. The other Executive Directors, each of whom is
responsible for one of the three principal Business Streams, and the Group’s Head of Corporate Audit attend when required by the Committee.
Each meeting provides an opportunity for discussion between the Non-executive Directors and the external Auditors, from which the Executive
Directors and the Group Company Secretary are excluded. The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on matters discussed at each
Audit Committee meeting.
The Committee oversees the work of the Group’ s corporate audit team, formally reviewing the remit and scope of its plans in advance to ensure 
that the necessary resources are available and that appropriate priorities are set. In reviewing the ﬁndings of the corporate audit team, the Committee
pays particular attention to the effectiveness of the Group’ s system of internal control (summary details of which are set out on page 28). 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 26 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200627
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
CONTINUED
The Committee continues to review the resources available to the corporate audit team and to develop the corporate audit plan in the light of 
the Group’s development and ongoing risk assessments. Subsequent to the end of the 2006 ﬁnancial year, the Committee is also making use of
the Deloitte review of controls to further reﬁne the corporate audit plan. The Head of Corporate Audit is able to meet with the Audit Committee
Chairman, independently of the executive management team, as appropriate and will meet formally with the Audit Committee Chairman on 
a quarterly basis, again independent of the executive management team, to report on the progress made in progressing the agreed annual
corporate audit plan.
The Group’ s internal controls are reviewed annually by the external Auditors to the extent they are relied on as part of the audit process and are
developed in the light of recommendations made as a result of these reviews. Subsequent to the end of the 2006 ﬁnancial year, the Committee
has also made use of the Deloitte review of controls to further enhance the Group’ s internal control framework. The Committee also monitors 
the schedule of key risks identiﬁed by the Group Executive Committee (‘GEC’) and ranked according to materiality and probability. By reference 
to these sources, the Committee has reviewed and continues to review the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control and identiﬁes
any areas where improvement may be required. In relation to risk management, the Committee also considers the activities of the Corporate 
Risk Committee and the contract risk attaching to major projects undertaken by the Group. The review of systems of internal control and risk
management measures is also applied to the Group’s material joint ventures and associates.
The Audit Committee reviews arrangements by which employees across the Group may, in conﬁdence, raise concerns about possible
improprieties in matters of ﬁnancial reporting or other matters, with a view to ensuring arrangements are in place for the proportionate 
and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action. The whistle-blowing policy is described on page 29. 
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Group’s
external Auditors. The Committee also reviews the scope, result and cost-effectiveness of the external audit and the independence and objectivity
of the external Auditors. Details of non-audit services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to the Group during 2006 are set out in note 2 
to the Accounts on page 52. Such work is only awarded to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP following careful assessment of their expertise relative 
to that of other potential service providers; the value for money offered; and assurances that, individually or cumulatively with any other factors,
the independence of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is not at risk of compromise. The award of non-audit work to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
is subject to pre-determined fee thresholds, requiring prior approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the full Committee.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee is normally chaired by the Chairman, Mr G O Whitehead, and comprises the Non-executive Directors and the Group
Chief Executive. The Committee meets as required and nominates candidates for appointment and re-appointment to the Board. The Committee
met three times during the year to consider the appointment of a successor to the current Chairman. In accordance with the Code, Mr Whitehead
did not chair the meetings at which his successor was considered, Mr C D Collins took the chair. The Committee considered the qualities and
experience required of a Chairman and produced a job speciﬁcation for the role. Having considered a number of applicants identiﬁed using 
a specialist external search agency, the Committee recommended the appointment of Dr R J Urwin, who was appointed by the Board on 
1 September 2006. Dr Urwin will take over as Chairman when Mr Whitehead retires from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in 2007.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the Independent Non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Mr R E Hough. The Committee meets 
three or four times a year and is responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and key senior executives. 
The Committee’s Remuneration Report can be found on pages 30 to 38.
Routine Business Committee
The Routine Business Committee comprises any two Directors (one of whom has either to be the Group Chief Executive or the Group Finance
Director) and the Group Company Secretary. The Committee deals primarily with routine administrative and banking matters arising between
Board meetings and matters that have been approved in principle by the Board that do not warrant speciﬁc sub-committees.
Group Executive Committee
The Board delegates responsibility for the executive business of the Group not speciﬁcally reserved to the Board or Committees to the GEC.
Comprising the Executive Directors, the Group Director of Human Resources, the Group Company Secretary and the Director of Corporate
Development, the GEC is responsible for developing and implementing the Group strategy. The GEC meets twelve times a year, with additional
meetings as required to discuss speciﬁc issues. The GEC is also responsible for the ongoing management and monitoring of the Group’s system 
of internal control.
Corporate Risk Committee
The Corporate Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and comprises the Head of Corporate Audit, the Group Director of
Human Resources, the Group Company Secretary, the Group Director of HSE and Corporate Responsibility, the Group Legal Adviser, the Group
Tax Manager and the Group Insurance Manager. The Committee meets on a quarterly basis and considers areas of risk that are not business-
speciﬁc. The Committee also provides a means of disseminating risk management issues and best practice across the Group. Committee
proceedings are reported to the Audit Committee by the Group Finance Director. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
CONTINUED
Accountability and audit
Internal control
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control relating to operational, ﬁnancial and compliance
controls and risk management, in order to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s assets, and regularly, and at least annually,
reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control. Should the Board identify any signiﬁcant failings or weaknesses as part of this review
process, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings. The Board has therefore complied with provision C.2.1 
of the Code throughout the ﬁnancial year to 31 December 2006 and up to the date of approval of the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts. 
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control issued in 2005, a process has been established, and is ongoing, for identifying,
evaluating and managing the signiﬁcant risks faced by the Group. Such a system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Group’s
particular needs and mitigate the risks to which it is exposed, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Group has a control environment, with policies, processes and codes of conduct that are designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk
across a wide range of business activities. As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and appropriate
internal controls are embedded into the Group’s management systems wherever possible. In 2004, the Group embarked on a progressive and
detailed review of its principal IT systems. This process, which identiﬁes areas where upgrades are necessary to enhance consistency across the
Group’s various businesses and support future growth, continued through 2005 and 2006.
During 2006, the Corporate Risk Committee led a review of Group controls, including the Group Policy Manual. the Group Authority Listing 
and the Group’s whistle-blowing policy.
The key components of the Group’s system of internal control are: 
• The HSE and Corporate Responsibility team, which reports to the Group Chief Executive, with the objective of monitoring and improving the
health, safety and environmental performance of the Group.
• The Corporate Audit team, which reports regularly to the Audit Committee, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director 
on compliance with procedures and authority limits and on the effectiveness of the bottom-up risk management strategies of the businesses,
such that the principal areas of business risk and exposure are identiﬁed, evaluated and mitigated. The corporate audit function is also involved
in overseeing a system of peer reviews involving audit of business units by other operational staff.
• An established management structure for the major operating businesses, with short lines of communication to the Group Chief Executive,
Group Finance Director and Group Company Secretary.
• A comprehensive ﬁnancial reporting system of annual budgets, periodic forecasts and detailed monthly reporting, together with weekly cash
reporting. Budgets and forecasts are reviewed and approved by the Board.
• Delegation through the Group Policy Manual of clearly deﬁned responsibilities and procedures, with authorisation limits set at appropriate levels
for the maintenance of effective controls across the whole Group.
• A bottom-up system of self-assessment whereby each business and business unit within the Group addresses on a comprehensive basis 
its approach to controlling business risks, culminating in the annual completion of an internal control framework document. Management 
of operational risk is reviewed on a monthly basis, and risk registers are developed for each contract at the tender and approval stages. 
The corporate audit team conducts regular reviews of contracts at the execution stage.
• A top-down quarterly Group-level review carried out by the GEC to identify the major risks facing the Group and to develop and implement
appropriate initiatives to manage those risks. This information is summarised in the schedule of key risks. As an integral part of the GEC’s regular
meetings, assessment is made of the progress against objectives, changes to operational risk, adequacy of control and handling of any problems
which arise from such reviews.
• The twice-yearly review by the Board of the schedule of key risks identiﬁed by the GEC. Advised by the Audit Committee, the Board considers
the extent to which the measures taken by the Group address those risks.
• A Corporate Risk Committee, reporting to the Audit Committee, which co-ordinates risk management activities across the Group, focusing 
on those areas not covered by the GEC in its quarterly reviews.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 28 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200629
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
CONTINUED
Risk management process
The risk management process comprises the identiﬁcation and management of risk at both corporate and operational levels. 
The GEC assesses the signiﬁcant risks to the Group as a whole and to each part of the business and records its ﬁndings in the Key Risks document.
All risks identiﬁed by the GEC and by management are reviewed by the internal corporate audit team during the year. An overall risk map
summarising the likelihood and impact of each risk is reported to the Audit Committee. Any actions agreed to mitigate risk are monitored 
during the year. 
The internal audit team also reviews the Internal Control Frameworks which are completed by the senior management of each business 
to illustrate their monitoring of the control systems. 
Risk management is discussed at Business Stream level by the Business Stream board meetings which are held monthly and attended by either 
the Group Finance Director or the Group Chief Executive.
Fraud management policy
The Group has now consolidated its fraud risk management policies into a Group-wide fraud risk management policy. The Group Company
Secretary is responsible for the operation of this consolidated programme.
Whistle-blowing policy and ethics policy
Following a recommendation from the Corporate Risk Committee, the Audit Committee has commissioned independent advisers to review 
and update the Group’ s existing whistle-blowing policy. This policy actively encourages employees to report fraud and wrong-doing through 
line management, a member of the Human Resources team or the Group centre. A conﬁdential, anonymous and independently operated 
whistle-blowing hotline is being introduced.
The Group has an ethics policy which is disseminated to all employees on joining the Company and is available on the Company intranet. 
The policy is designed to encourage employees to ask questions to identify whether an action raises an ethical concern and, if such a situation
arises, to offer guidance including who to contact for further assistance. 
Relations with shareholders
The Group encourages two-way communications with its institutional and private investors. Each year, the Group Chief Executive and Group
Finance Director attend a series of meetings with analysts, shareholders and private client brokers, who are also invited to attend a number 
of business speciﬁc presentations at the Company’s sites. Feedback from these investor meetings, collected by the Company’s broker, is made
available to the Board. Analysts’ reports are also circulated to the Board, and feedback from analyst meetings is also made available to the Board
by the Group Chief Executive and the Group’s advisers. The Non-executive Directors attend the AGM each year. The Chairman and Senior
Independent Non-executive Director are available to meet with any major shareholder when reasonably requested. 
All queries from shareholders are dealt with in a timely manner, with welcome packs being sent to new shareholders.
Directors’ responsibilities
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with both of the reports of the Auditors set out on pages 39 and 70, is made 
with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditors in relation to the accounts: 
‘The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare accounts which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company 
and of the Group at the end of the ﬁnancial year and of the proﬁt or loss of the Group for the ﬁnancial year then ended. The Directors are 
also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and 
the Group and detect irregularities and fraud.
The Directors conﬁrm that in preparing the Group’ s accounts appropriate policies have been consistently applied and they have complied with 
the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards. These accounts have been produced in accordance with IFRS. Further, in all material
respects the accounts are supported by prudent judgements and estimates made by reference to information available at the time of preparation.’
The Directors are also responsible for the integrity and maintenance of the Group’s websites. The Group ﬁnancial statements are published on 
the Group’s main website www.alfredmcalpineplc.com and follow UK guidance as regards preparation and dissemination (requirements in other
jurisdictions may vary).
All Directors bring independent judgement to bear on deliberations concerning strategy and performance. The Directors are satisﬁed that
throughout the period they have had access to sufﬁcient information to enable them to make proper decisions in a timely manner, and the
Chairman has ensured that all Directors were kept properly briefed.
Going concern
After reviewing current performance and detailed forecasts and taking into account available bank facilities and making further enquiries 
as considered appropriate, the Directors are satisﬁed that the Company and Group have adequate resources to enable them to continue in
business for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the accounts which appear on pages 40 to 78 have been prepared on a going concern basis. REMUNERATION REPORT
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 30
The auditable part of the Remuneration Report is set out on pages 36 to 38.
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT
Membership and constitution of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) comprises the independent Non-executive Directors (all of whom served throughout the 
year apart from Dr R J Urwin who served from 1 September 2006, the date of his appointment to the Board) and is chaired by Mr R E Hough. 
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Company’ s overall framework for the remuneration of Executive Directors and certain
key senior executives, and determines the individual remuneration packages of the Executive Directors (including pension rights and compensation
payments). The Committee also reviews and sets the fee payable to the Chairman of the Company. The Committee consults the Group Chief
Executive on the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives, and is assisted by the Group Company Secretary. The Committee’s
terms of reference are available on the Company’s website.
The Committee met three times in the year. 
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP (‘NBSC’) advised the Committee during the year on all aspects of the Group’s reward policies and structures.
NBSC also provided services to the Company during the year in respect of the implementation of the Alfred McAlpine plc Buy As You Earn 
Share Scheme and in relation to pension matters. Hewitt Associates also advised the Committee on pension matters. The terms of reference 
of the independent consultants are available on request from the Group Company Secretary. Neither the Committee nor the Company is aware 
of any conﬂict of interest arising from these appointments. The Committee also received advice from the Group Chief Executive and the Group
Company Secretary. 
Compliance
The Committee is constituted and operates in accordance with the provisions of Section B of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
(the ‘Code’) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. In preparing this Report, the Board has complied with the provisions of the Companies 
Act 1985 as amended by the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Code.
Remuneration policy 
The Group’s aim is to provide remuneration packages that are sufﬁcient to attract, motivate and retain Executive Directors and senior executives 
of high calibre. The Committee believes that the base salary and beneﬁts for Executive Directors should represent a fair return for employment,
but that total reward for Executive Directors should be derived materially from the performance-related elements of the remuneration package
(annual bonus and awards under the Group’s Long Term Incentive Plan 2005). The policy adopted by the Committee is that Executive Directors’
base pay should be around median to ensure that the Company can attract and retain executives of the highest quality and that performance-
related incentives may bring total remuneration to the upper quartile.
Performance-related elements are therefore designed to form a material part of the total remuneration of Executive Directors, aligning their
interests with those of shareholders and providing incentives for performance. In designing schemes for performance-related remuneration, 
the Committee follows the provisions of the Code.
During the year, the Committee reviewed its policy on bonus payments and the operation of the LTIP 2005 with NBSC to ensure that these
continue to be appropriately linked to Group performance and increase in shareholder value and that attract, incentivise and retain key executives.
This review concluded that the Annual Bonus Scheme and the LTIP 2005 should be reﬁned to enhance the linkage between performance and
reward, to ensure that the Scheme and the Plan remain competitive and therefore act as a powerful retention tool, and to assist executives 
to build meaningful shareholdings in the Group. Details are set out below. ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200631
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Performance chart
The chart below, which has been prepared by NBSC, compares the growth in value (assuming that dividends were re-invested) of £100 invested 
in ordinary shares in Alfred McAlpine plc over the ﬁve years commencing 31 December 2001 with the performance of a similar investment 
in the shares of the constituents of the FTSE All Share Construction and Building Materials and the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector Indices.
The Directors are of the view that these constitute relevant broad equity market indices. The other points plotted are the values at intervening
ﬁnancial year-ends.
Base salary
The salary of each Executive Director is determined by the Committee, taking into account his personal performance and the prevailing rates 
in the employment market for executives of comparable status, responsibility, skill and position in other relevant companies. When determining
Directors’ salaries the Committee is always sensitive to pay and employment conditions throughout the Group. NBSC provided an analysis 
of salary levels in the Company’ s peer group and in the FTSE 250 in general for Executive Directors and senior executives during the year. 
Annual bonus scheme
For 2006, Executive Directors’ bonuses were based on year-on-year growth in Group proﬁt before tax (before the effect of non-recurring items)
(‘PBT’) and, if an Executive Director was responsible for a Business Stream, the PBT delivered by the relevant Business Stream compared with
target. In the light of the discovery of fraud in the slate business and its impact on PBT, the Committee did not approve any bonus payments for
the Executive Directors in respect of Group performance. The Committee considered, however, that to base bonus in 2006 for Executive Directors
responsible for a Business Stream on Group PBT would be unfair and demotivational since they had no direct responsibility for the slate business.
It was therefore agreed for these particular Executive Directors that, for 2006, their entire bonus should be based on Business Stream performance.
The level of bonus earned in relation to Business Stream performance varied in accordance with the performance of each Business Stream.
For 2007, the Committee has amended the Annual Bonus Scheme to enhance its retention capacity and help executives to develop meaningful
shareholdings in the Group. To these ends, for 2007:
• Executive Directors will be able to earn a bonus of up to 125% of base salary (2006: 100% of base salary).
• The targets will be stretching and designed to enhance the business. For Executive Directors, bonus will be based on growth in Group PBT and,
if an Executive Director is responsible for a Business Stream, the PBT delivered by the relevant Business Stream compared with budget. Full bonus
in respect of Group performance will require targets to be substantially exceeded. Bonus earned will be scaled back by up to 20% if targets
based on business critical Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) are not met at Group or at appropriate Business Stream level. The KPIs will be a
reduction in the Accident Frequency Rate; achievement of budgeted cash ﬂow; and improvement in employee satisfaction levels as measured 
by the annual employee survey.
• 20% of any bonus earned will be deferred into Alfred McAlpine plc shares with a two-year vesting period. As the holder of the shares during 
this period, the Executive Director will receive dividends payable on the shares. If the Executive Director leaves the Group during the deferral
period, the shares will normally be forfeited.
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
£
31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2005 31 Dec 2006
Alfred McAlpine plc
FTSE All Share Construction and Building Materials Index
FTSE All Share Support Services Index REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Share schemes 
The Company operates a number of share schemes.
During 2006, awards were made under the Alfred McAlpine LTIP 2005, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2005 and replaced
the Alfred McAlpine plc Restricted Share Plan. Entitlements under the Restricted Share Plan continue to vest in accordance with its rules, but 
no further awards will be made. 
Participants in the LTIP 2005 will not normally receive executive share options in the same year. 
Although a new executive share option scheme, the Alfred McAlpine Share Option Scheme 2005 (‘ESOS 2005’) was approved by shareholders 
at the AGM in 2005, no options have been granted under this scheme to date.
The Company also operates two all-employee share schemes, the Alfred McAlpine Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1998, further details 
of which may be found in note 22 to the Accounts on page 63, and the Alfred McAlpine plc Buy As You Earn Share Scheme (‘BAYE’). The BAYE 
is an HMRC approved ‘Share Incentive Plan’ which was implemented in Autumn 2006. The ﬁrst purchase of shares took place in March 2007. 
The BAYE (formerly known as the Alfred McAlpine Partnership Share Scheme 2000) was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2000.
Awards were granted under the LTIP 2005 over a maximum of (assuming full vesting at the end of the performance period) 752,189 ordinary 
shares (0.75% of the Company’ s issued share capital as at 1 January 2006) during 2006. No awards or options were granted under any other
share plan during the year. In settlement of rights under share plans or bonus arrangements, a total of 299,496 ordinary shares (representing
0.30% of shares in issue at 1 January 2006) were issued during the year to participants under discretionary plans and a further 685,767 ordinary
shares (representing 0.68% of shares in issue at 1 January 2006) were issued during the year to participants of the Savings Related Share Option
Scheme. A further 990,230 shares (representing 0.98% of shares in issue at 1 January 2006) were transferred from the Employee Beneﬁt Trust
(‘EBT’) to participants of both discretionary plans and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme. The shares held in the EBT are not voted on 
in general meetings.
Long-term incentives
Long-term incentives are provided through the Group’s LTIP 2005.
An award made under the LTIP 2005 represents a conditional right to receive ordinary shares in the Company at the end of a three-year period,
subject to the satisfaction of pre-set performance criteria and the individual remaining in the Group’s employment. The value of an award at the
date of grant may not exceed 100% of the recipient’s base salary in that year.
Vesting of the 2005 and 2006 awards is based on the Company’s Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) compared with a peer group of companies. 
If the Company’s TSR performance over the three-year period places it below median, the award lapses. Potential vesting rises on a straight-line
basis from 30% at the median to 100% for performance at or above the upper quartile. Irrespective of the TSR outcome, an award is then only
able to vest if the Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) of the Group has also increased over the period by at least 3% compound per annum in excess 
of the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’).
During the year, the Committee reviewed the performance condition for the LTIP and, in particular, the use of TSR as a performance measure.
Whilst the Committee considers that TSR remains an important indicator of the Group’s success, it considers that the link between management
performance and the reward received is not always strong, particularly where there is a relatively small group of comparators. Accordingly, and
subject to prior consultation with the Company’s largest investors and the major UK shareholder representative bodies, it is proposed that for
awards granted in and after 2007, two performance criteria will apply:
• 50% of an award will vest on the basis of the Group’s comparative TSR performance (as previously) against a peer group as follows:
Performance below the peer group median 0%
Performance at the median 30%
Performance between the median and the upper quartile pro rata vesting between 30% and 100%
Performance above the upper quartile 100%
always subject to the Group delivering real growth in EPS of at least 3% compound per annum over the three-year performance period.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 32 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200633
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
• 50% of an award will vest if the Group achieves targets relating to compound real growth in underlying EPS.
The exact targets for the 2007 awards will be determined by the Committee, which must consider that such EPS targets will be no less challenging
in the circumstances than the established TSR performance targets. Such EPS targets will be the subject of prior consultation with investors.
By adopting this dual approach, participants will be incentivised on the basis of the Company’s absolute and comparative performance.
Going forward, and assuming that an EPS target is adopted as above, the Committee will continue to review the appropriateness of EPS targets
when it is proposed that an LTIP award is granted and may revise these targets from time to time (subject to any revised EPS targets then adopted
being no less challenging than the established TSR targets above).
TSR calculations for the LTIP 2005 are independently calculated by NBSC and veriﬁed by the Committee, as are those for the Restricted Share Plan.
Awards are expected to be satisﬁed from newly issued shares.
The Restricted Share Plan
The Restricted Share Plan was approved by shareholders on 22 May 1996, and the ﬁnal initial awards were made on 22 April 2004. 
Awards made under the terms of the Restricted Share Plan represent a conditional right to receive ordinary shares in the Company, provided that
the Company satisﬁes speciﬁc performance conditions and the participant remains in the Group’s employment. The maximum value (based on
market value at date of award) of shares over which an initial award was made to a participant in any year did not normally exceed 50% of salary,
awards of a higher value requiring shareholder approval. Typically, initial awards were made each year following the preliminary announcement 
of the full-year results, but they have been made at other times when the Committee believed this to be justiﬁed.
The performance condition used to determine the vesting of initial awards is the comparative TSR performance against the peer group as shown
below, which was revised following the sale of the Homes business on 1 October 2001.
Original comparator group (to 2001):
AMEC plc Costain Group plc Montpellier Group plc
**
Taylor Woodrow plc
Beazer Group plc
*
Interserve plc Morrison Construction Group plc
*
Wainhomes
*
Birse Group plc
*
Kier Group plc Persimmon plc Westbury plc
Bryant Group plc
*
John Laing plc
*
Speedy Hire plc George Wimpey plc
*Beazer Group plc, Birse Group plc, Bryant Group plc, John Laing plc, Morrison Construction Group plc and Wainhomes were all taken over after the start of the performance periods for the Restricted Share Plan
awards. Wainhomes is not included as a comparator company for awards made after 1999. 
**Montpellier Group plc changed its name to Renew Holdings plc in 2006.
Amended comparator group (2002 onwards):
Amey plc
*
Birse Group plc
**
Interserve plc MITIE Group plc 
W S Atkins plc Costain Group plc Jarvis plc Morgan Sindall plc
Balfour Beatty plc Galliford Try plc Kier Group plc Serco Group plc
*Amey plc ceased to be listed on the London Stock Exchange on 26 June 2003, following its acquisition by Ferrovial Servicios SA. 
**Birse Group plc ceased to be listed on the London Stock Exchange on 21 July 2006 following its acquisition by Balfour Beatty plc.
Vesting may take place from the third anniversary of the initial award date. No awards vest if the Company’s performance is below the 
50th percentile. Vesting may start at the 50th percentile, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% of the initial award at the 40th percentile. 
If the Company’s performance exceeds the 40th percentile, the number of shares represented by the award increases on a proportionate basis, 
so that at 0 percentile (when the Company ranks ﬁrst in the comparator group) it is equal to 150% of the initial award. These additional rights
are known as exceptional performance awards. The rules allow for re-testing between the third and seventh anniversaries of the initial award date.
If initial awards and exceptional performance awards that have satisﬁed the performance condition remain in the Alfred McAlpine Employee Beneﬁt
Trust (the Employee Beneﬁt Trust) for a further three years as deferred awards, then they may be matched on a one-for-one basis, provided that 
the growth in EPS of the Company exceeds the growth in the RPI by 9% or more over the three year deferral period.
Where initial awards and exceptional performance awards remain in the Plan as deferred awards, the trustee of the Employee Beneﬁt Trust 
has waived its entitlement to dividends on the shares represented by these awards, but the Company may elect to make a discretionary payment
equivalent to the dividend payment to the participant. REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
ESOS 2005
The ESOS 2005 was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2005. No options have yet been granted under this scheme.
The ESOS 2005 provides for discretionary options (with a maximum value of 100% of base salary per annum) to be granted over ordinary shares
in the Company, at the market price prevailing at the date of grant. The performance condition attaching to these options requires the Company’s
EPS, measured over a three-year period, to grow by at least 3% compound per annum in excess of inﬂation. At this level, only 30% of an option
would be exercisable. For options to be exercisable in full, the Company’s EPS (measured over the same period) would have to grow by at least
5% compound per annum in excess of inﬂation. For EPS between these thresholds the exercisable proportion of an option would be calculated
on a straight-line basis. Any option, or part of an option, failing to satisfy the performance condition at the end of the three-year period lapses. 
All Employee Share Schemes
It is not envisaged that any further invitations will be issued under the Alfred McAlpine Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1998. The Alfred
McAlpine plc Buy As You Earn Share Scheme, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2000, was brought into operation in early
2007 with an invitation to all eligible employees to build a shareholding in the Company by purchasing ‘partnership’ shares out of pre-tax income.
Pension arrangements
During 2006, the Executive Directors participated in the McAlpine 2003 Pension Plan (‘the 2003 Pension Plan’), which is a contracted-in deﬁned
contribution pension arrangement. The 2003 Pension Plan is operated on behalf of the Company by Zurich Corporate Pensions and is subject 
to the Stakeholder Pensions regulations. The Company contribution in respect of the Executive Directors was 21% of base salary, limited by 
the annual contribution cap of £215k per annum. Until 6 April 2006 (the date on which various changes took effect, sometimes referred to 
as ‘A-day’), pension beneﬁts were subject to the HMRC earnings cap and the Group maintained a policy of providing those executives who
joined the Company after May 1989 and who were subject to this cap, with appropriate pension beneﬁts outside the pension arrangements
outlined above in relation to that part of their salary which exceeded the earnings cap. This was achieved by establishing a funded unapproved
retirement beneﬁt scheme (‘FURBS’) for each individual or, more recently, by paying a ‘pension supplement’ for the executive to invest as he
considered appropriate. In respect of Messrs Grice and Swan, the Company agreed in 1995 and 2002 respectively to target a pension of two
thirds of ﬁnal salary at normal retirement age. Such commitments, which were common at the time, will not be repeated. Details of the pension
beneﬁts provided for individual Directors may be found on pages 36 and 37.
Under the provisions of the Finance Act 2004 with effect from A-day, the earnings cap was replaced by a lifetime limit on the size of the fund 
that can be used to pay pension beneﬁts to any individual, and an annual cap on the contributions that may be made into registered pension
arrangements for the beneﬁt of any individual. With effect from A-day, the Group has sought to use one or more ‘registered’ pension
arrangements, such as the 2003 Pension Plan, and/or salary supplements. 
Longer-serving Executive Directors and senior executives also have ﬁnal salary pension beneﬁts under the Alfred McAlpine Pension Plan (the ‘Final
Salary Pension Plan’), which was closed to future accrual on 31 July 2003. Members of the Final Salary Pension Plan as at that date retain the link
to pensionable salary at their eventual date of leaving in respect of service up to 31 July 2003, but have ceased to accrue beneﬁts within the
Pension Plan in respect of service after 31 July 2003.
Life assurance cover of four times basic salary is provided to members of the 2003 Pension Plan whilst in service with the Group. Dependants’
pensions are provided on a member’s death in service or in retirement. In addition, former members of the Final Salary Pension Plan are currently
provided with a further life assurance cover of two times basic salary, on death in service, which must be used to provide a dependant’s pension.
The Company’s policy is that the cost of operating pension arrangements for Executive Directors and senior executives should not increase 
as a result of any changes in pension legislation, nor will Executive Directors be compensated for any adverse effect of these changes upon their
existing pension arrangements. The Remuneration Committee also takes into consideration the impact of base salary increases upon pension 
and associated employment costs.
Executive Directors retire at age 62.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 34 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200635
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Directors’ service agreements/terms of appointment
Details of the Executive Directors’ service agreements are set out below.
Effective date Notice period Notice period
Executive Director of agreement Unexpired term by Company by Director
I M Grice 10/08/03 12 months 12 months 12 months
D Lavelle* 30/10/03 12 months 12 months 12 months
C M McGilvray 17/03/05 12 months 12 months 12 months
A R Robertson 16/05/05 12 months 12 months 12 months
M D Swan 01/08/02 12 months 12 months 12 months
*
Mr Lavelle resigned as a Director on 23 April 2007.
The service agreements for the Executive Directors contain a provision allowing either party to terminate the agreement with immediate effect
during the period of 90 days following a change of control of the Company, whereupon a predetermined amount will be payable to the
Executive Director. There are no other provisions for compensation on early termination. 
Brief details of the terms of appointment for the Non-executive Directors are set out below. There are no provisions for compensation on 
early termination.
Notice period Notice period
Non-executive Director Appointed Unexpired term by Company by Director
C D Collins 07/09/00 7 months 6 months 6 months
R E Hough 13/03/03 22 months 6 months 6 months
P H Swatman 13/03/03 22 months 6 months 6 months
R J Urwin
(i)
01/09/06 28 months 6 months 6 months
G O Whitehead (Chairman)
(ii)
10/08/03 2 months 12 months 12 months
(i)
Subject to his re-election as a Director by shareholders at the AGM on 26 June 2007, Dr R J Urwin will be appointed as Chairman to succeed Mr Whitehead at the conclusion of the 2007 AGM.
(ii)
Up to August 2006, the Company provided certain other beneﬁts to Mr Whitehead (private healthcare, life insurance, disability insurance, allowance in lieu of fully expensed car and pension contributions) 
that were not provided to the other Non-executive Directors. Mr Whitehead’s term of ofﬁce will end at the conclusion of the AGM on 26 June 2007. 
The fees of the Non-executive Directors are approved by the Chairman and the Executive Directors. The fees are normally reviewed annually. 
The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are paid an additional £5,000 and £3,000 respectively in respect of these further 
additional responsibilities. 
External appointments of Executive Directors
The Board has agreed to allow the Group Chief Executive to accept a non-executive directorship of another company. Mr Grice took up his
appointment as Non-executive Director of Diploma plc with effect from 24 January 2007. Mr Grice receives a fee of £30,000 per annum in respect
of this appointment.
Policy on shareholdings of Directors
The Company encourages the Executive Directors to build up a meaningful holding in the Company’s shares over time. Executive Directors and all
senior executives are encouraged to accumulate a shareholding with a value of at least one year’s salary and to retain their shares after exercising
share options or after vesting under the long-term incentive plans, subject to the need to fund the acquisition of the shares and any associated 
tax and National Insurance liability. When making future awards under the LTIP , the Committee will take into consideration the number of shares
held by executives.
Directors’ interests
The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors and their immediate families in Alfred McAlpine plc shares at 31 December 2006 were as follows: 
Ordinary Restricted share LTIP 2005 Savings related Preference
shares plan awards
(i)
awards share options shares
2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005
G O Whitehead 593,371 591,530 106,825 214,975 – – – – – –
I M Grice 211,367 286,071 187,582 251,482 166,634 91,891 4,442 4,442 – –
R J Urwin
(ii)
10,000 – – – – – – – – –
C D Collins 30,000 30,000 – – – – – – – –
R E Hough 7,000 7,000 – – – – – – 6,000 6,000
P H Swatman 10,000 2,000 – – – – – – – –
D Lavelle 10,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 110,296 60,810 – – – –
C M McGilvray 25,380 90,380 38,467 38,467 105,335 58,108 – – – –
A R Robertson 2,000 – – – 105,335 58,108 – – – –
M D Swan 3,500 3,500 109,111 109,111 105,335 58,108 – – – –
(i)
The ﬁgures in the table comprise initial awards and deferred awards only. For details of outstanding exceptional performance awards, please refer to the table on page 38.
(ii)
Dr Urwin’ s interests are shown as at the date of his appointment on 1 September 2006 and as at 31 December 2006.  REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
The Alfred McAlpine Employee Beneﬁt Trust was established in 1998 and may beneﬁt employees, including the Executive Directors and the Non-
executive Chairman of the Group. The trustee of the Employment Beneﬁt Trust is able to subscribe for or purchase shares to fulﬁl obligations
under any of the Company’s share schemes. The trustee is Halifax EES Trustees International Ltd, based in the Channel Islands. As at 31 December
2006, 618,214 shares in the Company were held by the trustee. As potential beneﬁciaries, the Executive Directors and the Non-executive Chairman
are each deemed to have a beneﬁcial interest in all of the shares held in the Employee Beneﬁt Trust.
Between the year end (31 December 2006) and 11 May 2007, there were no changes in the interests of the Directors.
INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT
The auditable part of the Remuneration Report (as deﬁned in Part 3, Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985) is contained in the following tables
and notes.
Directors’ remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2006
Company contributions 
to deﬁned contribution
pension plans
Salary
Salaries/ Payments to Taxable supplement 2003 Total
fees former Directors beneﬁts
(i)
Bonus Total Total or FURBS
(ii)
Pension Plan
(ii)
company cost
2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 2006 2006 2005
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
I M Grice 364 – 19 – 383 526 394 44 219
D Lavelle 241 – 15 – 256 347 51 – 47
C M McGilvray 230 – 16 185 431 337 –7026
A R Robertson
(iii)
243 – 22 100 365 172 –7828
M D Swan 230 – 26 185 441 363 155 – 150
Non-executive Directors
C D Collins 34––– 34 31 –––
R E Hough 41––– 41 32 –––
P H Swatman 41––– 41 35 –––
G O Whitehead 100 – 14 – 114 115 38 – 158
R J Urwin
(iv)
17 – – 17 – –––
Former Director
J Hume
(v)
– 137 – – 137 186 –––
Total Board 2006 1,541 137 112 470 2,260 638 192
Total board 2005
(including former 
directors) 1,27918698581 2,14459236628
(i)
Taxable beneﬁts include private healthcare, company car and fuel beneﬁts (or the corresponding allowance), disability insurance and life insurance premiums in respect of earnings above the cap.
(ii)
Retirement beneﬁts above the former HMRC earnings cap have been provided through a FURBS and/or salary supplement paid to the relevant Director. Mr Lavelle, Mr McGilvray, Mr Robertson and Mr Swan 
each received a supplementary payment from the Company to enable them to make their own provision in respect of salary above the earnings cap.
(iii)
Mr Robertson’s salary includes arrears of £13,226 from 2005. 
(iv)
Dr Urwin’s emoluments are shown as at the date of his appointment on 1 September 2006 and as at 31 December 2006. 
(v)
Mr Hume resigned as a Director on 30 October 2003. In mitigation of Mr Hume’s contractual entitlement to two years’ notice under the terms of his service agreement dated 1 October 1998, the Committee 
agreed it was appropriate to continue payment of salary and beneﬁts to Mr Hume on a month by month basis. In the event of Mr Hume commencing prior to 30 October 2005 alternative employment that was
comparable with his former position with the Company, the Company undertook to make a lump sum payment to Mr Hume equivalent (after an adjustment to offset remuneration earned by Mr Hume since 
1 November 2003) to 50% of the salary and beneﬁts then outstanding under his notice period. Mr Hume commenced comparable alternative employment on 6 June 2005. A lump sum payment of £135,328 
was paid in respect of Mr Hume’s salary and beneﬁts in kind outstanding as at 6 June 2005 under his contractual notice period, as mitigated by the Committee. This amount was disclosed as payable in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report contained in the Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 and was included in the emoluments table for 2005. A payment of £137,076 was paid to Mr Hume in 2006
which includes an amount equivalent to the dividends accrued on shares released under the Restricted Share Plan as well as an amount in lieu of Mr Hume’s rights to additional shares under the Restricted Share
Plan, the payment of Mr Hume’s legal fees and £20,000 in respect of the foregone investment return on pension contributions from 1 August 2003 to 30 October 2005. 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 36 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200637
REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Directors’ deﬁned beneﬁt pension arrangements for the year ended 31 December 2006
With effect from 31 July 2003, when it closed for future beneﬁt accrual, the Directors ceased to accrue deﬁned beneﬁt pensions within the 
Final Salary Pension Plan. In common with other members of the Final Salary Pension Plan, the Directors continue to retain the link to pensionable
salary at their eventual date of leaving in respect of service accrued up to 31 July 2003, subject to appropriate HMRC limits.
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Gross increase Value of net Total Transfer value Transfer value
in accrued Decrease in T otal decrease in change in of accrued of accrued
pension during accrued pension accrued pension accrued pension transfer value pension pension
Age the year net of inﬂation
(i)
at 31/12/06 over the year during the year at 31/12/06 at 31/12/05
nearest£££££££
I M Grice 54 528 (141) 19,106 (1,783) 7,253 241,563 234,310
M D Swan 43 107 (12) 3,419 (96) 516 27,310 26,794
(i)
As the earnings cap has increased by less than the rate of inﬂation over the year to 31 December 2006, the increase in pension net of inﬂation and its value are negative.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN 11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The value of the net decrease in column (4) represents the incremental value to the Director of his service during the year, calculated on the
assumption that membership ceased at the year end. It is based on the accrued pension increase in column (2) and allows for the deduction 
of the Director’s contribution.
The change in the transfer value (5) includes the effect of ﬂuctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company 
and Directors, such as stock market movements, and is calculated after deducting the Director’s contribution.
Voluntary contributions paid by Directors and resulting beneﬁts are not shown.
LTIP 2005
Directors held awards over ordinary shares as follows as at 31 December 2006:
Market value Number of shares Number of shares
Date of at date Earliest under award Granted Vested Lapsed under award
award of award vesting date as at 01/01/06 in year in year in year as at 31/12/06
I M Grice 23/06/05 370.00p 23/06/08 91,891 – –
21/04/06 487.00p 21/04/09 74,743 – 166,634
D Lavelle 23/06/05 370.00p 23/06/08 60,810 – –
21/04/06 487.00p 21/04/09 49,486 – 110,296
C M McGilvray 23/06/05 370.00p 23/06/08 58,108 – –
21/04/06 487.00p 21/04/09 47,227 – 105,335
A R Robertson 23/06/05 370.00p 23/06/08 58,108 – –
21/04/06 487.00p 21/04/09 47,227 – 105,335
M D Swan 23/06/05 370.00p 23/06/08 58,108 – –
21/04/06 487.00p 21/04/09 47,227 – 105,335 REMUNERATION REPORT
CONTINUED
Restricted Share Plan 
Directors held awards over ordinary shares as follows as at 31 December 2006:
Initial awards At 1 January 2006 At 31 December 2006
Outstanding Number of Number of Value of Outstanding
Market value initial awards awards matching shares actually initial award Deferred
at date and exceptional Deferred satisfying shares vesting and exceptional awards held
Date of of award Number of performance awards held vesting criteria awarded during year performance in Employee
award (p) initial awards awards in EBT
(i)
during the year during the year (£) awards Beneﬁt Trust
(i)
I M Grice 29/10/97 139.00 25,000 – 1,302 – 1,302
(ii)
10,062 – –
27/04/00 188.00 46,250 6,777 62,598 – 62,598
(iii)
549,402 6,777 –
22/03/01 280.5035,65144,051 9,425 – – –19,67633,800
(iv)
23/04/02 436.10 24,650 36,975–––– 36,975 –
16/05/03 245.10 50,222 75,333–––– 75,333 –
11/09/03 309.40 23,917 35,875–––– 35,875 –
22/04/04 298.95 50,000 75,000–––– 75,000 –
D Lavelle 04/12/03 280.70 35,000 52,500–––– 52,500 –
22/04/04 298.95 35,000 52,500–––– 52,500 –
C M McGilvray 23/04/02 436.10 8,000 12,000–––– 12,000 –
16/05/03 245.10 20,467 30,700–––– 30,700 –
22/04/04 298.95 10,000 15,000–––– 15,000 –
M D Swan 23/04/02 436.10 35,000 52,500–––– 52,500 –
16/05/03 245.10 41,111 61,666–––– 61,666 –
22/04/04 298.95 33,000 49,500–––– 49,500 –
G O Whitehead 29/10/97 139.00 30,000 – 1,563 – 1,563
(ii)
12,079 – –
27/04/00 188.00 78,750 11,538 106,587 – 106,587
(iii)
935,478 11,538 – 
22/03/01 280.5059,71573,78515,787 – – –32,95856,614
(iv)
23/04/02 436.10 41,848 62,772–––– 62,772 –
(i)
Deferred awards may be eligible for matching under the rules of the Restricted Share Plan.
(ii)
Deferred awards and the award of the corresponding matching shares were released on 11 January 2006. The open market price for shares sold on behalf of participants immediately upon release was 386.4027p. 
(iii)
Deferred awards vested on 27 April 2006 and the open market price for shares sold on behalf of participants immediately upon release was 438.83p. 
(iv)
Initial awards and exceptional performance awards (24,375 awards for Mr Grice and 40,827 awards for Mr Whitehead) that had satisﬁed the performance requirement at 22 September 2005 were deferred for 
three years on 11 January 2006.
Alfred McAlpine Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1998
Directors held options over ordinary shares as follows as at 31 December 2006:
Date of Exercise price As at Exercised Lapsed As at Share price Date of Value
grant (p) 01/01/06 in year in year 31/12/06 at exercise exercise of gain
I M Grice 27/08/03 228.0 4,442 – – 4,442–––
Savings related share option normally exercisable during the six-month period following completion of a ﬁve year savings contract.
The market price of an ordinary share of 25p in the Company at 31 December 2006 was 579.0p (31 December 2005: 397.0p) and the highest
and lowest market prices during the year were 583.5p and 378.0p.
This report has been approved by the Board of Directors and has been signed on behalf of the Board by
R E Hough
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
11 May 2007
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 38 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200639
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ALFRED McALPINE PLC
We have audited the Group ﬁnancial statements of Alfred McAlpine plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise the Group 
Income Statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash ﬂow statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expenditure, the
accounting policies and the related notes. These Group ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Alfred McAlpine plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 
and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a 
body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group ﬁnancial statements
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We report to you whether in our
opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements. The information given in the Directors’
Report includes that speciﬁc information presented in the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review
section of the Directors’ Report. We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require 
for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reﬂects the Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined
Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider
whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group ﬁnancial statements. 
The other information comprises only the Directors’ Report, the Chairman’s Statement, the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review and the
Corporate Governance Statement. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material
inconsistencies with the Group ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group ﬁnancial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group ﬁnancial statements, and of whether
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide 
us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the 
Group ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the Group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Group’s
affairs as at 31 December 2006 and of its proﬁt and cash ﬂows for the year then ended;
• the Group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the Group ﬁnancial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
1 Embankment Place, London, WC2N 6RH
11 May 2007 GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
2006 2005
£m £m
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 NOTES Restated
Continuing operations
Revenue from services 693.9 637.3
Revenue from construction contracts 402.3 414.0
Sale of goods 27.0 20.9
Total revenue 1 1,123.2 1,072.2
Cost of sales (1,000.6) (978.6)
Gross proﬁt 122.6 93.6
Administrative expenses (106.5) (82.8)
Share of post-tax proﬁts from joint ventures and associates 1.5 3.3
Proﬁt on disposal of joint ventures and associates 5 – 13.5
Proﬁt before interest and tax 17.6 27.6
Finance income 4 8.9 4.1
Finance costs 4 (7.8) (7.0)
Proﬁt before taxation
Underlying proﬁt 27.0 26.0
Proﬁt on disposal of joint ventures and associates 5 – 13.5
Non-recurring costs 5 (8.3) (14.8)
1, 2 18.7 24.7
T axation
Tax charge on underlying proﬁt (4.2) (2.7)
Tax credit on non-recurring items 2.3 4.5
6 (1.9) 1.8
Proﬁt for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 16.8 26.5
Earnings per share
– basic 8 16.8p 26.9p
– diluted 8 16.3p 26.2p
Dividend per ordinary share
– paid in the year 7 13.85p 12.6p
– interim paid in the year and proposed ﬁnal for the year 7 14.65p 13.3p
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 40 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200641
GROUP STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND EXPENDITURE
2006 2005
£m £m
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 NOTES Restated
Net revaluation of tangible ﬁxed assets 11, 23 – 7.5
Exchange differences on translation of foreign currency investments 23 (0.6) 0.2
Actuarial (losses)/gains on deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 20, 23 (9.6) 27.3
Hedging gains/(losses) relating to share of joint ventures and associates 23 3.0 (0.3)
Tax on items taken directly to equity 6, 23 2.0 (10.4)
Transfer on disposal of property 23 0.1 –
Net income recognised directly in equity (5.1) 24.3
Proﬁt for the year 16.8 26.5
Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 11.7 50.8
Impact of opening adjustment due to accounting irregularities at Slate (23.5) –
Share of joint ventures and associates opening IAS 32 and IAS 39 adjustment* – (2.1)
(11.8) 48.7
*The impact of the adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 was to reduce net assets by £2.1m in relation to the fair value of interest rate swaps held within the Group’s PFI joint venture arrangements.  GROUP BALANCE SHEET
2006 2005
£m £m
AT 31 DECEMBER 2006 NOTES Restated
Non-current assets
Goodwill 9 155.5 155.5
Other intangible assets 10 15.2 –
Property, plant and equipment 11 45.7 49.0
Investments in joint ventures and associates 13 39.1 30.6
Deferred tax asset 6 24.4 23.1
279.9 258.2
Current assets
Inventories 14 22.0 29.3
Trade and other receivables 16 311.5 302.2
Current corporation tax recoverable 10.6 7.0
Cash and cash equivalents 24, 26 37.9 41.0
382.0 379.5
Total assets 661.9 637.7
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (332.8) (307.1)
Financial liabilities:
– obligations under ﬁnance leases 17, 24, 26 (0.5) (0.6)
– bank loans and overdrafts 24, 26 (0.2) (0.3)
(333.5) (308.0)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 18 (13.0) (12.9)
Retirement beneﬁt obligation 20 (42.2) (48.2)
Financial liabilities:
– long-term provisions 19 (1.8) (2.1)
– preference shares 24, 26 (4.5) (4.5)
– obligations under ﬁnance leases 17, 24, 26 (2.0) (2.6)
– bank loans and other borrowings 24, 26 (1.7) (0.2)
(65.2) (70.5)
Total liabilities (398.7) (378.5)
Net assets 263.2 259.2
Equity
Share capital 21, 23 25.4 25.2
Share premium account 23 91.5 89.2
Revaluation reserve 23 5.3 5.4
Employee beneﬁt trust reserve 23 (0.8) (1.2)
Foreign currency translation reserve 23 (0.8) (0.2)
Other reserves 23 61.6 61.6
Retained earnings 23 81.0 79.2
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 263.2 259.2
These ﬁnancial statements, which comprise the income statement, balance sheet, cash ﬂow statement, statement of recognised income and
expenditure, signiﬁcant accounting policies and the related notes, were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 May 2007 and signed on 
its behalf by:
I M Grice
Group Chief Executive
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 42 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200643
GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT
2006 2005
£m £m
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 NOTES Restated
Operating activities
Cash generated from operations 25 28.4 30.2
Non-recurring costs paid (5.5) (13.1)
Interest received 1.7 2.9
Interest paid (4.6) (4.4)
Corporation tax paid (3.1) (1.6)
Net cash inﬂow from operating activities 16.9 14.0
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (10.2) (15.4)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 2.8 4.9
Dividend received from joint ventures and associates 0.6 1.4
Investments in and loans to joint ventures (4.2) (2.2)
Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired – (1.2)
Disposal of joint ventures and associates 2.0 10.9
Net cash used in investing activities (9.0) (1.6)
Financing activities
Issue of ordinary shares 2.5 1.9
Increase in debt 1.4 0.2
Payment of ﬁnance lease obligations (0.7) (1.4)
Equity dividends paid (13.8) (12.4)
Preference dividends paid (0.4) (0.4)
Net cash used in ﬁnancing activities (11.0) (12.1)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (3.1) 0.3
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 41.0 40.7
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 26 37.9 41.0
Reconciliation of net cash ﬂow to movement in net funds
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year (3.1) 0.3
Decrease in ﬁnance leases 0.7 1.4
Increase in debt (1.4) (0.2)
(Decrease)/increase in net funds 26 (3.8) 1.5
Opening net funds at 1 January 26 32.8 31.3
Closing net funds at 31 December 29.0 32.8 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of accounting
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), International Financial Reporting
Interpretations Committee interpretations (IFRICs) as endorsed by the European Union (EU), and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985
applicable to companies applying IFRS.
The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain tangible ﬁxed assets and disclosures 
relating to share based payments, pension costs and ﬁnancial instruments. 
At the date of authorisation of these ﬁnancial statements the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these
ﬁnancial statements, were in issue but not yet effective:
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures; and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures
IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial reporting and impairment
IFRS 8 Operating segments
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives
IFRIC 11 Group treasury and share transactions
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2
IFRIC 7 Applying IAS 29 for the ﬁrst time
IAS 23 Amendment to IAS 23 – Borrowing costs
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the ﬁnancial
statements of the Group, except for IFRIC 12 (see the paragraph below on accounting for service concessions) and additional disclosures 
on capital and ﬁnancial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007. 
The 2005 ﬁgures have been restated due to accounting irregularities discovered in the Slate division and the reclassiﬁcation of the Stirling Water
contract. The impact of these are discussed in note 5 and note 13 respectively.
The principal accounting policies which have been adopted, and consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated, are set out below.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial statements of the Company and all entities controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries)
made up to 31 December each year. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements further include the Group’s share of the results up to 31 December 
of the Group’s jointly controlled entities, associates and jointly controlled operations.
(a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and deconsolidated from the date at which control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the ﬁnancial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain beneﬁts
from its activities.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The cost of an acquisition is measured 
at the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. The assets and liabilities of a subsidiary are measured 
at their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities
acquired is recognised as goodwill.
(b) Jointly controlled entities and associates
A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more
other venturers under a contractual arrangement. An associate is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and over whose operating
and ﬁnancial policies the Group exercises a signiﬁcant inﬂuence but not control. Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates are
accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Group’s share of post acquisition proﬁts or losses is recognised in the income statement within proﬁt before interest and tax as these entities’
results are considered to be an integral part of the Group’s operations. The cumulative post acquisition movements are adjusted against the
carrying amount of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in a jointly controlled entity or associate exceeds its interests in the
investment, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made
payments on its behalf.
(c) Jointly controlled operations
The Group has certain contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in joint operations that do not create an entity carrying on 
a trade or business of its own. The Group includes its share of assets, liabilities and cash ﬂows in such joint arrangements, measured in accordance
with the terms of each arrangement, which is usually pro-rata to the Group’s interest in the risks in the joint arrangement. 
Any subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and joint arrangements that are not entities acquired or disposed of during the year are
included from or up to the dates of change of control. Accounting policies of subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that differ from Group
accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation. All intra-Group transactions are eliminated on consolidation. 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 44 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200645
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
CONTINUED
Key accounting estimates and judgements
The preparation of consolidated ﬁnancial statements under IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts
recognised for assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses incurred during the reporting period.
Actual outcomes may therefore differ from these estimates and assumptions.
The Group’s revenue recognition and long-term contract accounting (set out below) are central to the way the Group values the work it has
carried out in each ﬁnancial year. These policies require forecasts to be made of the outcomes of long-term construction and service contracts,
which require assessments and judgements to be made on recovery of pre-contract costs, changes in work scopes, contract programmes and
maintenance liabilities.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided
in the normal course of business net of value added tax.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed. Revenue from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with
the Group’s accounting policy on construction contracts. Revenue in respect of land sales is recognised on the exchange of unconditional contracts. 
Revenue from service agreements, where the substance of a contract is that the Group’s contractual obligations are performed gradually over time,
is recognised as the contract activity progresses to reﬂect the Group’s partial performance of its contractual obligations. The amount of revenue
reﬂects the accrual of the right to consideration as contract activity progresses by reference to value of the work performed. Where the substance
of the contract is that a right to consideration does not arise until the occurrence of a critical event, revenue is not recognised until that event occurs. 
Segmental reporting
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are
different from those of other business segments. A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic
environment that are subject to risks and returns which are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Construction and other long-term contracts
Where the outcome of the contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred that
it is probable will be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the contract will be proﬁtable, revenue and cost
are recognised over the period of the contract. Where it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss
is recognised as an expense immediately.
The Group uses the ‘percentage of completion method’ to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period. The stage of completion
is measured by reference to the contract costs incurred up to the balance sheet date as a percentage of the total estimated costs for each contract.
The Group presents as an asset the gross amount due from customers for contract work for all contracts in progress for which costs incurred plus
recognised proﬁts (less recognised losses) exceed progress billings. Progress billings not yet paid by customers are included within trade and other
receivables. The Group presents as a liability the gross amount due to customers for contract work for all contracts in progress for which progress
billings exceed costs incurred plus recognised proﬁts (less recognised losses).
Purchased goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration for shares in subsidiary undertakings, 
joint ventures and associates over the fair value to the Group of the net assets acquired. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and 
is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment 
at least annually. Any impairment is recognised immediately in proﬁt or loss and is not subsequently reversed. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to beneﬁt from the synergies
of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually through ‘value in use’ calculations
based on discounted cash ﬂows, or more often when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated ﬁrst to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill
allocated to the unit and then to their other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment
loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. 
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the proﬁt on disposal. 
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRSs has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being 
tested for impairment at that date. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
CONTINUED
Other intangible assets
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the speciﬁc software. These
costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives. For assets acquired during the year, amortisation is calculated from the date of acquisition.
Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs that are directly
associated with the development of identiﬁable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably generate economic
beneﬁts exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. Costs include the software development employee costs and an
appropriate portion of relevant overheads. 
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful life.
Property, plant and equipment
Fixtures and ﬁttings and leasehold improvements are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss. This value
is reviewed for impairment at least annually. 
Land is held at deemed cost and buildings are held at deemed cost less accumulated depreciation. 
Minerals relate to slate reserves and are stated in the balance sheet at their revalued amounts, being the fair value at the date of revaluation, 
less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Revaluations are performed with sufﬁcient regularity such that the 
carrying amount does not differ materially from that which would be determined using fair values at the balance sheet date.
The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Depreciation
Depreciation, based on estimated useful lives, is charged on a straight line basis as follows:
Freehold properties – 2% per annum;
Leasehold properties – over the lease term; 
Plant and equipment – at rates between 10% and 33% per annum; and
Slate reserves (minerals) are depreciated by reference to production, where the quarry life is less than ten years.
Inventories
Inventories and work in progress, including land held for and in the course of development, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable
value. Cost includes, where appropriate, labour and production overheads which have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present
location and condition. 
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less
provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be
able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial difﬁculties of the debtor, probability that the
debtor will enter bankruptcy or ﬁnancial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable
is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash
ﬂows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, 
and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within ‘administrative expenses’. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, 
it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against
‘selling and marketing costs’ in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 46 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200647
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
CONTINUED
T axation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for the year. Taxable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the income statement 
because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable 
or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability
method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent
that it is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities 
are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities (other than 
in a business combination) in a transaction that affects neither the tax proﬁt nor the accounting proﬁt.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is calculated based on the laws enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement except 
when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Rates of exchange
The income statements of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year. Assets and liabilities 
are translated into sterling at the closing rate of exchange. The difference arising from the re-translation at the closing rate of the opening 
net assets and the retained proﬁts and losses for the current year is taken to reserves.
Financial instruments and equity
Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised on the Group’s balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions
of the instrument. 
Trade payables and receivables are initially stated at their fair value. Trade receivables are reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated
irrecoverable amounts. Subsequently trade payables and receivables are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. 
Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges and direct issue costs are
accounted for on an accrual basis in proﬁt or loss using the effective interest rate method, and added to the carrying amount of the instrument 
to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise. 
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 
Provisions
Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are
discounted to present value where the effect is material. 
Retirement beneﬁt costs
The Group operates six main deﬁned contribution pension schemes. The contributions paid by the Group and the employees are invested within
the individual pension funds in the month following the month of deduction. The amount contributed by the Group is charged to proﬁt or loss 
as the contributions fall due.
The liabilities of the Group’s four deﬁned beneﬁt schemes and the related current service cost are determined using the projected unit credit method,
with actuarial valuations being carried out at least every three years. Actuarial advice is received from external consultants. The plans are wholly
funded, with the assets of the schemes held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES
CONTINUED
The Group has adopted the Amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee Beneﬁts – Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures’ and has
recognised actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside of proﬁt or loss and are presented 
in the statement of recognised income and expense. Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the beneﬁts are already vested,
and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the beneﬁts become vested. 
The retirement beneﬁt obligations recognised in the balance sheet represent the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations as adjusted for
unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service
cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme. 
Leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term. Assets held under ﬁnance leases
are recognised as assets of the Group at the lower of their fair value or the present value of the minimum lease payments and the capital elements
of the commitments are shown as obligations under ﬁnance leases. Payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements. The capital
element is applied to reduce the outstanding obligations and the interest element is charged against proﬁt in proportion to the reducing capital
element outstanding. Assets held under ﬁnance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives. Operating lease
income is credited to the income statement as it is earned. 
Share-based payments
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’. In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied
to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were not vested at 1 January 2006.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non market-
based vesting conditions) at the grant date. The fair value determined at the grant date of the share-based payments is expensed on a straight
line basis over the vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusting for the effect of non market-
based vesting conditions. 
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial, Black Scholes or Monte Carlo model as appropriate for each scheme. The expected life used in the model
has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. 
Non-current assets held for sale
Non-current assets classiﬁed as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are classiﬁed as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing
use. This condition is only met when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Management
must be committed to the sale which should be expected to occur within one year from the date of classiﬁcation.
Accounting for service concessions
In November 2006, the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) issued IFRIC 12 ‘Service Concession Arrangements’. 
The guidance is expected to be endorsed by the EU in 2007 and adopted on a mandatory basis from 2008. The Group’s share of infrastructure
assets built under PFI contracts that are currently recognised either as ﬁxed assets or as contract debtors on the balance sheet will be required to
be recognised as ﬁnancial, intangible or bifurcated assets depending on the degree to which income is guaranteed by the commissioning lessee.
This may require the Group to restate the carrying value of the asset going forwards such that a proﬁt margin is recognised on construction 
where previously no recognition had been allowed.
In 2006 the Group has recognised FRS 5 ﬁnance debtors relating to concession arrangements held by PFI jointly controlled entities at amortised
cost per the guidance of IAS 39. FRS 5 ﬁxed assets relating to concession arrangements will be accounted for in accordance with IAS 16 ‘Property,
plant and equipment’. The effect of adopting this policy is to maintain the accounting within PFI associates and jointly controlled entities in line
with existing UK GAAP (with the exception of the treatment of interest rate derivatives under IAS 39 (see below)), whilst ensuring that 
the accounting treatment remains consistent with existing IFRS.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 48 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200649
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
CONTINUED
The PFI associates and jointly controlled entities use derivatives to manage the ﬁnancial risks to which they are exposed in relation to changes 
in interest rates and to the Retail Price Index (RPI). Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments that are designated and effective 
as hedges of future cash ﬂows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Any hedged movements are recycled through the income statement on the sale of PFI associates. Changes in the fair value of derivative ﬁnancial
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise. 
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take 
a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are
substantially ready for their intended use or sale, at which time they are amortised over the life of the asset. The amortisation charge is calculated
using an annuity based methodology.
Financial risk management
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of ﬁnancial risks: market risk (including foreign exchange risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and
fair value interest rate risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s ﬁnancial
performance. The Group’s treasury function provides written policies for overall risk management, as well as written policies for speciﬁc areas such
as interest rate risk and investing excess liquidity. 
The treasury function implements the agreed policies on a day-to-day basis to meet the treasury objectives. These objectives include ensuring that
the Group has sufﬁcient liquidity to meet its day-to-day needs and to fund its capital commitments and working capital requirements; deploying
any surplus liquidity in a prudent and proﬁtable manner; managing interest rate and credit exposures; and managing the Group’s relationship 
with banks and ﬁnancial institutions.
Market risk (including currency, fair value and price risk)
Foreign currency risk
The Group operates predominantly within the UK such that its exposure to currency risk is considered to be minimal with only a small proportion
of items both in terms of volume and value transacted in a foreign currency. As a result, there are no hedges in place with respect to any potential
currency exposure. 
Price risk
The Group does not have signiﬁcant equity investments or investments in commodities and does not consider itself to be exposed to any signiﬁcant
equity, commodity or other price risk. 
Credit risk
The Group has no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk. It has policies in place to ensure that sales of products and services are made to customers
with an appropriate credit history. 
Surplus funds held in the Group are invested, in line with Board-approved policy, in high quality, short-term liquid instruments, usually money
market funds or bank deposits. Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregate exposure to any one individual counterparty, taking into account
its credit rating. Such counterparty exposures are regularly reviewed and adjusted as necessary. Accordingly, the possibility of material loss arising 
in the event of non-performance by counterparties is considered to be unlikely.
Liquidity risk
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufﬁcient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate
amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions including by entering into non-recourse ﬁnancing arrangements
with third parties. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury aims to maintain ﬂexibility in funding by keeping
committed credit lines available. 
Cash ﬂow and fair value interest rate risk
The Group’s income and operating cash ﬂows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. The interest rates of ﬁnance
leases to which the Group is lessee are ﬁxed at inception of the lease. The leases expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. 
The Group’s cash ﬂow interest rate risk arises from the credit facilities available to it. Current borrowing facilities are at variable rates and as such
expose the Group to cash ﬂow interest rate risk. The Group monitors its exposure on a regular basis to ensure that this is maintained within
acceptable levels. 
Once facilities are drawn down, the related rate of interest is ﬁxed and as such exposes the Group to fair value interest rate risk. Given the short-
term nature of such ﬁxed borrowings, this is not considered to be a signiﬁcant risk to the Group.  NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
1. Segmental analysis
The Group is currently organised into three main business streams, Business Services, Infrastructure Services and Project Services plus two smaller
business units, Slate and Corporate Centre. These businesses are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segmental information.
Corporate
Business Infrastructure Project Centre and 
Services Services Services Slate Eliminations Unallocated Group
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Total revenue 430.8 315.2 402.1 19.7 8.8 – 1,176.6
Intra-Group elimination –––– (53.4) – (53.4)
430.8 315.2 402.1 19.7 (44.6) – 1,123.2
Proﬁt
Underlying proﬁt from operations 23.5 5.8 11.0 (9.1) (6.8) – 24.4
Share of post-tax proﬁt from joint ventures 
and associates – – 1.9 – (0.4) – 1.5
Non-recurring costs – (4.3) – (1.8) (2.2) – (8.3)
Proﬁt before interest and tax 23.5 1.5 12.9 (10.9) (9.4) – 17.6
Net ﬁnance income/(costs) 0.1 (1.7) 4.5 (1.3) (0.5) – 1.1
Proﬁt before tax
Underlying proﬁt 23.6 4.1 17.4 (10.4) (7.7) – 27.0
Non-recurring costs – (4.3) – (1.8) (2.2) – (8.3)
23.6 (0.2) 17.4 (12.2) (9.9) – 18.7
T axation (1.9)
Proﬁt for the period 16.8
Balance sheet
Segment assets 304.9 150.7 247.2 26.5 (141.5) – 587.8
Investment in equity accounted joint ventures
and associates 0.1 – 39.4 – (0.4) – 39.1
Corporation tax recoverable ––––– 10.6 10.6
Deferred tax asset ––––– 24.4 24.4
Total assets 305.0 150.7 286.6 26.5 (141.9) 35.0 661.9
Segment liabilities (215.1) (137.9) (214.2) (54.4) 222.9 – (398.7)
Net assets 89.912.872.4 (27.9) 81.035.0 263.2
Other information
Capital expenditure 14.9 1.3 0.3 4.4 2.5 – 23.4
Depreciation 2.61.00.23.30.4– 7.5
Amortisation –0.1–––– 0.1
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 50 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
1. Segmental analysis continued
Restated Corporate
Business Infrastructure Project Centre and 
Services Services Services Slate Eliminations Unallocated Group
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2005 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue
Total revenue 361.1 364.1 372.9 19.9 1.1 – 1,119.1
Intra-Group elimination –––– (46.9) – (46.9)
361.1 364.1 372.9 19.9 (45.8) – 1,072.2
Proﬁt
Underlying proﬁt from operations 21.1 5.8 11.0 (6.2) (6.1) – 25.6
Share of post-tax proﬁt from joint ventures 
and associates – 1.2 2.1––– 3.3
Proﬁt on disposal of joint ventures and associates – 6.0 7.5––– 13.5
Non-recurring costs – (13.2) – (1.6) – – (14.8)
Proﬁt before interest and tax 21.1 (0.2) 20.6 (7.8) (6.1) – 27.6
Net ﬁnance income/(costs) 0.3 (2.8) 3.4 (0.9) (2.9) – (2.9)
Proﬁt before tax
Underlying proﬁt 21.4 4.2 16.5 (7.1) (9.0) – 26.0
Proﬁt on disposal of joint ventures and associates – 6.0 7.5––– 13.5
Non-recurring costs – (13.2) – (1.6) – – (14.8)
21.4 (3.0) 24.0 (8.7) (9.0) – 24.7
T axation 1.8
Proﬁt for the period 26.5
Balance sheet
Segment assets 198.4 277.2 278.2 27.3 (204.1) – 577.0
Investment in equity accounted joint ventures 
and associates – – 30.5 – 0.1 – 30.6
Corporation tax recoverable ––––– 7.0 7.0
Deferred tax asset ––––– 23.1 23.1
Total assets 198.4 277.2 308.7 27.3 (204.0) 30.1 637.7
Segment liabilities (119.9) (268.3) (243.7) (37.8) 291.2 – (378.5)
Net assets 78.5 8.9 65.0 (10.5) 87.2 30.1 259.2
Other information
Capital expenditure 7.7 0.8 0.3 4.6 2.0 – 15.4
Depreciation 4.01.40.32.60.3–8.6
As the Group’s activities are almost entirely domestic, no geographical segmental analysis is required.
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices.
Consolidation journals raised are passed back to the segment to which they relate. 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200651 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
2. Proﬁt for the year
2006 2005
IS STATED AFTER CHARGING/(CREDITING): £m £m
Staff costs (see note 3) 283.2 299.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7.5 8.6
Amortisation of intangible assets 0.1 –
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 26.0 20.8
Proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.2) (0.9)
Hire of plant and machinery 71.9 40.8
Rentals under operating leases 27.2 22.3
Auditors’ remuneration – audit fees
(i)
0.8 0.7
(i)
Amounts payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings in respect of non-audit services in 2006 were £0.4m (2005: £0.5m). A more detailed analysis of auditors’
remuneration is provided below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Audit services:
– fees payable to the Company’s Auditor for the audit of the parent Company and consolidated ﬁnancial statements 0.7 0.6
– fees payable to the Company’s Auditor for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1
0.8 0.7
Fees payable to the Company’s Auditor and its associates for other services:
– other services pursuant to legislation – –
– tax services 0.4 0.5
0.4 0.5
Fees in respect of the ESPS pension scheme:
– audit 0.1 –
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 26 to 27 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and
independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the Auditors.
3. Staff costs
(a) Employee costs during the year, including Directors
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 260.0 257.4
Social security costs 26.5 30.1
Charge in respect of share option awards 1.8 1.3
Other pension (income)/costs (5.1) 10.4
283.2 299.2
(b) Average number employed during the year, including Directors
2006 2005
Number Number
Production 4,165 4,907
Sales and distribution 2,850 2,604
Administration and services 1,598 1,367
8,613 8,878
(c) Directors’ emoluments
An analysis of individual Director’s emoluments and pension entitlements (including those of the highest paid Director) and their interests in the
share capital of the Company is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 38. Aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise 
of share options and awards amounted to £1.5m (2005: £0.9m). 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 52 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
4. Net ﬁnance costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Restated
Finance income
Interest receivable from short-term bank deposits 1.2 1.5
Net ﬁnance income of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes 3.7 –
Interest receivable from investments in joint ventures and associates 1.6 1.3
Other interest 2.4 1.3
8.9 4.1
Finance costs
Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts (4.6) (3.5)
Finance charges payable under ﬁnance leases (0.2) (0.2)
Preference dividend paid (0.4) (0.4)
Net ﬁnance cost of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes – (2.1)
Other interest (2.6) (0.8)
(7.8) (7.0)
Net ﬁnance income/(costs) 1.1 (2.9)
2005 has been restated to reﬂect interest earned on loans to joint venture companies. This income was previously recognised in share of post-tax proﬁts
from joint ventures and associates. This adjustment is purely an income statement reclassiﬁcation and therefore has no impact on proﬁt before tax.
5. Proﬁt on disposal of joint ventures and associates and other non-recurring income and costs
2006 2005
£m £m
Restated
Proﬁt on disposal of joint ventures – 7.5
Proﬁt on disposal of associates – 6.0
– 13.5
Provision against old contract issues – (5.6)
Slate accounting irregularities (7.8) (1.6)
Exit and other non-recurring costs (4.3) (7.6)
Other non-recurring income 3.8 –
(8.3) (14.8)
Non-recurring costs of £4.3m have been incurred in 2006 within Infrastructure Services in respect of the exit from one non-performing contract
and two loss making businesses as previously indicated in 2005.
Other non-recurring income includes a £6.9m settlement in the Company’s main deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme liabilities offset by £3.1m 
of associated costs resulting from the pension liability management programme. 
The impact of the Slate accounting irregularities on the Group’s income statement for the year to 31 December 2006 and on its balance sheet 
as at 31 December 2006 were as follows:
• Sales fraud resulting in a reduction in reported 2006 Group revenue and pre-tax proﬁt of £9.1m (2005: £7.7m) and £22.9m cumulatively, 
of which £5.4m represents deferred income which will be recognised in 2007.
• A reduction of £17.6m in the current assets of the Group, as reﬂected in the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2006, in respect of the
impairment of the value of stock and work in progress. This results in a charge to the income statement of £6.9m in 2006 (2005: £3.7m).
• A reduction of £9.5m in the ﬁxed assets of the Group, as reﬂected in the Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2006, principally in respect 
of the overstatement of quarry development costs. This results in a charge to the income statement of £1.8m in 2006 (2005: £1.6m).
• A one-off cost of £6.0m reﬂecting the costs of the independent investigation and the costs of completing the arrangement of new banking
facilities with the Group’s bankers.
Details of the exceptional disposals of joint ventures and associates and non-recurring costs incurred in 2005 can be found in the 2005 Annual
Report and Accounts.
6. Taxation
2006 2005
£m £m
ANALYSIS OF CHARGE IN THE YEAR Restated
Current tax 0.5 4.1
Current tax of prior periods 0.9 (3.6)
1.4 0.5
Deferred tax 0.5 (2.3)
Total tax charge/(credit) 1.9 (1.8)
Corporation tax is calculated at 30% (2005: 30%) of the estimated assessable proﬁt for the year. Taxation in other jurisdictions is calculated 
at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200653 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
6. Taxation continued
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the proﬁt per the income statement as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Restated
Proﬁt before tax 18.7 24.7
Proﬁt before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% (2005: 30%) 5.6 7.4
Effects of:
– expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.1 1.0
– tax effects of share of jointly controlled entities and associates (0.4) (1.1)
– adjustments to tax in respect of prior periods (current and deferred) (3.8) (4.5)
– higher rates of tax on overseas activities and DTR 0.1 –
– tax effect of proﬁts on disposals that do not form part of taxable proﬁts (0.8) (4.7)
– preference share dividends 0.1 0.1
Total taxation charge/(credit) for the year 1.9 (1.8)
In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, a deferred tax liability of £1.8m (2005: £9.7m) has been charged directly to equity 
(see deferred taxation table below).
Retirement Short-term
beneﬁt Accelerated timing Revaluation
obligations tax depreciation differences of ﬁxed asset Tax losses Total
DEFERRED TAXATION ASSET £m £m £m £m £m £m 
At 1 January 2005 24.5 3.3 2.0 – 0.4 30.2
(Charge)/credit to income (2.0) 5.3 (1.0) – – 2.3
(Charge)/credit direct to equity (8.1) – 0.7 (2.3) – (9.7)
Acquisition of subsidiary – – 0.3 – – 0.3
At 1 January 2006 14.4 8.6 2.0 (2.3) 0.4 23.1
(Charge)/credit to income (4.6) 2.3 2.2 – (0.4) (0.5)
Credit/(charge) direct to equity 2.9 – (1.1) – – 1.8
At 31 December 2006 12.710.93.1(2.3) – 24.4
Of the deferred tax asset £5.9m (2005: £2.1m) will reverse within one year. 
At the balance sheet date the Group has unused tax losses of £98.5m (2005: £102.4m) available for off-set against future proﬁts. This is made 
up of £0.8m (2005: £2.1m) of income losses and £97.7m (2005: £100.3m) of capital losses. A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect
of £nil (2005: £1.3m) of income losses. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses, due to the unpredictability
of future proﬁt streams against which these losses could be off-set. Under present tax legislation, these losses may be carried forward indeﬁnitely. 
At the balance sheet date there was an unrecognised deferred tax asset of £1.7m (2005: £1.7m) in respect of ACT recoverable. 
In March 2007, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the reduction in the main rate of corporation tax from 30% to 28%, effective from 
1 April 2008. Additionally, it was proposed that Industrial Building Allowances will be phased out over three years. This could potentially have 
an impact on the carrying value of the investment in joint ventures. However, the current position is uncertain and further guidance from HMRC 
is anticipated.
7. Dividends
2006 2005
AMOUNTS RECOGNISED AS DISTRIBUTIONS TO EQUITY HOLDERS IN THE YEAR: £m £m
Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2005 of 7.85p (2004: 7.15p) per share 7.8 7.0
Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 6.0p (2005 interim: 5.45p) per share 6.0 5.4
13.8 12.4
Proposed ﬁnal dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of 8.65p (2005: 7.85p) per share 8.8 7.7
The proposed ﬁnal dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these
ﬁnancial statements. The ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 6 July 2007 to all members registered at 15 June 2007. 
The trustee of the Alfred McAlpine Employee Beneﬁt Trust has waived its right to receive any dividends (except for 0.001p per share) in respect 
of shares held in the trust. The total value of the dividend waived in the year was £0.2m (2005: £0.2m).
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 54 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
8. Earnings per share
2006 2005
£m £m
Restated
Earnings
Basic earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share 16.8 26.5
Adjustments to basic earnings
Proﬁt on disposal of joint ventures and associates – (13.5)
Non-recurring costs 8.3 14.8
Tax on non-recurring items (2.3) (4.5)
Underlying earnings for the purposes of underlying earnings per share 22.8 23.3
Number of shares
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 99,855,042 98,350,375
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares arising out of issue of share options 3,296,316 2,901,082
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 103,151,358 101,251,457
Underlying earnings per share 22.8p 23.7p
Basic earnings per share 16.8p 26.9p
Diluted underlying earnings per share 22.1p 23.0p
Diluted earnings per share 16.3p 26.2p
Underlying earnings per share of 22.8p (2005: 23.7p) is calculated by dividing the earnings excluding proﬁt on disposal of joint ventures and associates
and non-recurring costs of £22.8m (2005: £23.3m) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year of 98,855,042 
(2005: 98,350,375). In the Directors’ opinion the underlying EPS provides a more meaningful view of the Group’ s underlying operating performance.
9. Goodwill
2006 2005
£m £m
Cost
At 1 January 155.5 148.8
Recognised on acquisition of a subsidiary (see note 27) – 6.7
At 31 December 155.5 155.5
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units (CGUs) that are expected to beneﬁt from
that business combination. The Directors consider the operating segments to be the lowest aggregation for cash ﬂows and are therefore appropriate
CGUs. Before recognition of impairment losses, the carrying amount of goodwill had been allocated as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Business Services 80.8 80.8
Infrastructure Services 68.0 68.0
Project Services 6.7 6.7
155.5 155.5
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations. The key assumptions for the value in use calculations 
are those regarding the discount rates and growth rates applied. 
Discount rates are estimated by management using post-tax rates that reﬂect current market assessments of the time value of money and the
risks speciﬁc to the CGUs. Consequently the Group post-tax discount rate of 7.6% (2005: 7.6%) has been applied to each CGU that is not
considered to be exposed to a materially different level of risk. The pre-tax discount rate is 9.2% (2005: 8.9%).
The Group prepares cash ﬂow forecasts derived from the most recent ﬁnancial forecasts approved by management for the next three years where
the growth rates applied are based on industry growth forecasts. The forecast cash ﬂow position is extrapolated based on an estimated growth
rate of 2.25% (2005: 2.25%). This rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the relevant markets. Changes in selling prices
and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200655 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
10. Other intangible assets 
Software
costs
£m 
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2005 and 1 January 2006 –
Additions 14.1
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 2.4
Disposals (0.9)
At 31 December 2006 15.6
Amortisation
At 1 January 2005 and 1 January 2006 –
Charge for the year 0.1
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 0.3
Disposals –
At 31 December 2006 0.4
Net book value at 31 December 2005 –
Net book value at 31 December 2006 15.2
Software costs are amortised at rates between 16% and 33% per annum.
The net book value of intangible assets consists of £7.3m of internally generated assets and £7.9m of purchased assets.
11. Property, plant and equipment
Restated Plant and Land and
equipment buildings Minerals T otal
£m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
As at 1 January 2005 42.3 18.6 9.7 70.6
Additions 9.2 4.3 1.9 15.4
Revaluation increase – – 7.5 7.5
Disposals (7.8) (1.4) – (9.2)
At 1 January 2006 43.7 21.5 19.1 84.3
Additions 6.9 0.2 2.2 9.3
Transfer to intangible assets (2.4) – – (2.4)
Disposals (3.4) (0.4) – (3.8)
At 31 December 2006 44.821.321.387.4
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 January 2005 23.0 4.8 3.9 31.7
Charge for the year 6.2 0.8 1.7 8.7
Disposals (4.6) (0.5) – (5.1)
At 1 January 2006 24.6 5.1 5.6 35.3
Charge for the year 4.5 2.1 2.3 8.9
Transfer to intangible assets (0.3) – – (0.3)
Disposals (2.1) (0.1) – (2.2)
At 31 December 2006 26.77.17.941.7
Net book value at 31 December 2005 19.1 16.4 13.5 49.0
Net book value at 31 December 2006 18.114.213.445.7
The carrying amount of the Group’s plant and equipment includes an amount of £2.6m (2005: £3.3m) in respect of assets held under ﬁnance leases.
Minerals relate to slate reserves and were valued at £11.3m at 3 May 2005. The Directors are of the opinion that the fair value at 31 December
2006 is materially the same as that at 3 May 2005. 
At 31 December 2006, the book value of minerals includes £11.3m (2005: £11.3m) which relates to mineral reserves carried at valuation.
Had these assets been carried at historical cost less any impairment losses, their carrying amount would have been approximately £2.4m
(2005: £2.4m). The revaluation surplus, which is not distributable, is disclosed in note 23.
At 31 December 2006, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting 
to £nil (2005: £nil).
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 56 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
12. Subsidiaries
A list of the signiﬁcant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given 
in note 5 to the Company’s separate ﬁnancial statements.
13. Interests in joint ventures and associates
A list of the signiﬁcant investments in associates and joint ventures, including the name, country of incorporation, proportion of ownership interest
is given in note 5 to the Company’s separate ﬁnancial statements.
The Group has investments in joint ventures established to provide long-term services to Government agencies as part of the Private Finance
Initiative (PFI), which it accounts for using the equity method. The Group’s share of the joint ventures’ revenue, proﬁts, current and long-term
assets and current and long-term liabilities is included below:
2006 2005
£m £m
SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Restated
Current assets 50.2 52.1
Long-term assets 185.9 186.0
Total assets 236.1 238.1
Current liabilities (6.0) (8.6)
Long-term liabilities (191.0) (198.9)
Total liabilities (197.0) (207.5)
Total net assets 39.1 30.6
Revenue 18.2 53.2
Expenses (15.5) (38.0)
Proﬁt before interest and tax 2.7 15.2
During the year management has changed the accounting for a contract within Infrastructure Services from equity accounting as a Joint Venture
to contract accounting which was deemed to be more appropriate. Therefore, the 2005 ﬁgures have been restated to be on a consistent basis. 
The impact of this change on the 2005 ﬁgures is an increase in Group turnover of £41.1m, an increase in Group gross proﬁt of £3.7m and 
a decrease in share of post tax proﬁts from Joint Ventures of £3.7m. There is no impact on proﬁt before tax. In addition, there is a reallocation 
in the cash ﬂow statement of £3.7m from dividends received from joint ventures to cash generated from operations. There is no impact 
on net cash.
The liabilities of the associate and joint venture investments are without recourse to the Group.
The Group has a commitment to invest £3.8m in relation to Addenbrooke’s Hospital (2005: £3.8m).
14. Inventories
2006 2005
£m £m
Restated
Raw materials 4.8 5.9
Plant spares and consumable stores 0.5 0.6
Work in progress 11.9 13.7
Finished goods and goods for resale 4.8 9.1
22.0 29.3
15. Construction contracts
2006 2005
£m £m
Restated
Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date:
– amounts due from contract customers 66.3 90.7
– payments received on account (13.5) (16.2)
Net amounts due from contract customers 52.8 74.5
Contract costs incurred plus recognised proﬁts 1,786.6 1,560.0
Less: recognised losses to date (17.2) (11.8)
Less: progress billings (1,716.6) (1,473.7)
52.8 74.5
At 31 December 2006, retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to £11.1m (2005: £11.3m).
It has been determined that it is more appropriate to account for service contracts within Infrastructure Services under IAS 18 rather than IAS 11.
Therefore, the 2005 ﬁgures have been restated to be on a consistent basis which results in a balance sheet reclassiﬁcation only. The impact was 
to move £69.2m from ‘amounts due from contract customers’ to ‘prepayments and accrued income’ and £2.4m from ‘payments received on
account’ to ‘accruals and deferred income’.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200657 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
16. Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
£m £m
Restated
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade debtors 75.4 64.7
Amounts due from construction contract customers (note 15) 62.9 87.6
Prepayments and accrued income 99.0 114.5
Other debtors 53.3 26.6
290.6 293.4
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Amounts due from construction contract customers (note 15) 3.4 3.1
Other debtors 17.5 5.7
311.5 302.2
17. Obligations under ﬁnance leases
Minimum lease Present value of minimum
payments lease payments
2006 2005 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Amounts payable under ﬁnance leases:
– within one year 0.7 0.8 0.5 0.6
– between two and ﬁve years 1.7 2.0 1.4 1.8
– greater than ﬁve years 0.7 1.0 0.6 0.8
3.1 3.8 2.5 3.2
Less: future ﬁnance charges (0.6) (0.6) – –
Net lease liabilities 2.5 3.2 2.5 3.2
It is the Group’s policy to lease certain assets under ﬁnance leases. The average lease term is 3.7 years (2005: 3.3 years). For the year ended 
31 December 2006, the average effective borrowing rate was 4.9% (2005: 5.0%). Interest rates are ﬁxed at the contract date and all lease
obligations are sterling denominated. All leases are on a ﬁxed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent 
rental payments. 
All ﬁnance lease obligations are secured by the lessors’ rights over the leased assets. 
18. Trade and other payables
2006 2005
£m £m
Restated
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade creditors 109.9 106.2
Amounts due to construction contract customers (note 15) 13.5 16.2
Accruals and deferred income 140.7 121.1
Other taxation and social security 31.9 25.8
Other creditors 36.8 37.8
332.8 307.1
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Trade creditors 3.3 3.6
Other creditors 9.7 9.3
13.0 12.9
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 58 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
19. Long-term provisions
Discontinued
Property business T otal
provisions provisions provisions
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2005 0.6 1.5 2.1
Unwinding of discount 0.1 – 0.1
Amounts utilised (0.1) – (0.1)
At 1 January 2006 0.6 1.5 2.1
Unwinding of discount 0.1 – 0.1
Amounts utilised (0.4) – (0.4)
At 31 December 2006 0.31.51.8
(a) Property provisions
These relate to onerous property leases which were either acquired with Raine plc in June 1997 or became surplus as a result of the closure of 
the old building division. The maximum outstanding period for any of these leases is eight years and the provision is based upon the discounted
committed head lease expenditure offset by committed and estimated sub-lease income.
(b) Discontinued business provisions
These represent the estimated costs remaining from the Group’s withdrawal from discontinued operations. The amount provided represents 
the best estimate of obligations under completed contracts and other costs and is expected to be utilised over the period to 31 December 2010.
20. Pension costs
Deﬁned contribution pension schemes
The Group operates six main deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt schemes for all qualifying employees. The assets of the schemes are held
separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees. The amount contributed by the Group is charged to the income
statement as the contributions fall due. The total amount charged to the income statement in respect of deﬁned contribution schemes was 
£4.9m (2005: £4.1m).
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
The Group currently operates or participates in four deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes. These are the ‘Alfred McAlpine Pension Plan’ (‘the Plan’) which
was the primary scheme for employees before it was closed to future service accrual from 31 July 2003, the ESPS scheme of which a number 
of Infrastructure Services employees are members, and two small local government schemes relating to contracts operated by Infrastructure Services. 
Each scheme is administered by its own trustees, the funds being independent of the Group’s ﬁnances. Under the schemes, employees are entitled
to retirement beneﬁts varying according to their age at retirement, service and salary. No other post-retirement beneﬁts are provided. The schemes
are funded schemes. 
In respect of the valuation for the Group accounts, the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations, the related current service costs and past
service costs were measured using the projected unit credit method. 
For reasons of materiality, detailed disclosures have only been provided for the Plan and the ESPS scheme. 
In calculating the liabilities for the purposes of the Group accounts, the following assumptions have been used:
At At At At
31/12/06 31/12/06 31/12/05 31/12/05
the Plan ESPS the Plan ESPS
% pa % pa % pa % pa
Discount rate 5.45.4 4.9 4.7
Salary growth 3.93.4 3.5 3.1
RPI 2.92.9 2.5 2.6
Expected return on scheme assets 6.97.7 6.0 7.2
Increases to pensions in payment 2.92.9 2.5 2.6
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200659 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
20. Pension costs continued
Mortality tables
The following assumptions have been applied to the charges in respect of and valuations of the pension schemes for 2006 and 2005. The updated
2006 post-retirement mortality assumptions in respect of the Plan are in line with those recommended by the scheme trustee’ s actuary .
The Plan
2006 2005
Pre-retirement Post retirement Pre-retirement Post retirement
Pensioners Non-pensioners Pensioners Non-pensioners
Age Mortality
Men: A67/70-3 PA92 mc YOB PA92 mc YOB Men: A67/70-3 PA(90)-2 20-27 PA 92-4 
Women: FA75/78-3 (rated up three years Women: FA75/78-3 28-37 PA 92-3
for males and four 38-47 PA 92-2
years for females) 48-57 PA 92-1
58 and over PA 92 
ESPS
Pre-retirement
Men – standard table AM92 unrated with 75% scaling factor.
Women – standard table AF92 unrated with 75% scaling factor.
Post-retirement
Pensioners
Normal health – as for future pensioners (without the 0.2% per annum compound reduction before retirement).
Ill health retirements – standard table PMA92/PFA92 base year 2002 rated up six years reducing 0.4% per annum compound throughout. 
Non-pensioners
Men/widowers and women/widows – standard table PMA92 base year 2002 (for men/widowers) and PFA92 base year 2002 (for women/widows),
with both tables rated up one year reducing by 0.2% per annum compound before retirement and 0.4% per annum after retirement. 
Ill health retirements – standard table PFA92/PFA92 base year 2002 rated up six years reducing by 0.2% per annum compound before retirement
and 0.4% per annum after retirement.
Deferred pensions are revalued to retirement age in line with the RPI assumptions unless otherwise prescribed by statutory requirements or 
the rules of the schemes.
Other deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes disclosures
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of these deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are as follows:
the Plan ESPS the Plan ESPS
2006 2006 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m
Current service cost 0.10.5 0.1 0.5
Interest cost 14.52.5 15.4 3.4
Expected return on scheme assets (17.9) (3.1) (13.4) (3.3)
Past service cost –– ––
Settlement (income)/cost (6.9) – – 0.7
(Income)/expense (10.2) (0.1) 2.1 1.3
Of the income for the year, current service cost, curtailment and settlement costs have been included in administrative expenses and interest
income including expected returns on scheme assets has been included in ﬁnance income. Actuarial gains and losses have been reported 
in the statement of recognised income and expense. Cumulative actuarial gains recognised in the statement of recognised income and
expenditure were £18.5m (2005: £28.1m).
The income statement includes £3.8m of net proﬁt generated by the reduction in liabilities resulting from the pension liability reduction programme.
The actual return on scheme assets was £27.8m (2005: £53.2m). 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 60 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
20. Pension costs continued
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its deﬁned beneﬁt retirement schemes is as follows: 
the Plan ESPS Total the Plan ESPS Total
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Net present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 
for the Plan and ESPS (317.1) (50.1) (367.2) (301.2) (54.7) (355.9)
Fair value of scheme assets for the Plan and ESPS 281.345.0 326.3 264.4 44.2 308.6
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (35.8) (5.1) (40.9) (36.8) (10.5) (47.3)
Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 
for local government pension schemes (1.3) (0.9)
Total net liability recognised at 31 December (35.8) (5.1) (42.2) (36.8) (10.5) (48.2)
Movements in the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations were as follows:
the Plan ESPS Total the Plan ESPS Total
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 301.254.7 355.9 290.5 63.9 354.4
Service cost 0.10.50.6 0.1 0.5 0.6
Interest cost 14.52.517.0 15.3 3.5 18.8
Contributions from scheme members –0.20.2 – 0.2 0.2
Net actuarial losses/(gains) 20.6(4.6) 16.0 6.7 2.5 9.2
Curtailments ––– – 0.7 0.7
Settlements (6.9) – (6.9) – (15.3) (15.3)
Beneﬁts paid (12.4) (3.2) (15.6) (11.4) (1.3) (12.7)
At 31 December 317.150.1 367.2 301.2 54.7 355.9
Movements in the fair value of deﬁned beneﬁt plan assets were as follows:
the Plan ESPS Total the Plan ESPS Total
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 264.444.2 308.6 226.1 47.5 273.6
Expected return on scheme assets 17.93.121.0 13.4 3.3 16.7
Net actuarial gains/(losses) 7.2(0.4) 6.8 32.1 4.4 36.5
Contributions from scheme members –0.20.2 – 0.2 0.2
Contributions from scheme sponsoring companies 4.21.15.3 4.2 1.9 6.1
Settlements ––– – (11.8) (11.8)
Beneﬁts paid (12.4) (3.2) (15.6) (11.4) (1.3) (12.7)
At 31 December 281.345.0 326.3 264.4 44.2 308.6
The expected rates of return of the scheme assets at the balance sheet date were as follows:
At At At At
31/12/06 31/12/06 31/12/05 31/12/05
the Plan ESPS the Plan ESPS
% pa % pa % pa % pa
Equities 8.58.5 8.0 8.1
Corporate bonds 5.55.5 4.9 4.8
Government bonds 4.64.6 4.1 4.1
Property 7.54.8 7.0 n/a
Cash and other 4.84.8 4.5 4.5
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200661 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
20. Pension costs continued
The fair values of the scheme assets were as follows:
At 31/12/06 At 31/12/06 Total At 31/12/05 At 31/12/05 Total
the Plan ESPS 2006 the Plan ESPS 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Equities 187.834.4 222.2 178.3 32.9 211.2
Corporate bonds 28.24.432.6 31.9 4.2 36.1
Government bonds 50.75.656.3 38.9 5.7 44.6
Property 13.5 n/a 13.5 11.5 n/a 11.5
Cash and other 1.10.61.7 3.8 1.4 5.2
281.345.0 326.3 264.4 44.2 308.6
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered market expectation at the beginning of the
period for returns over the entire life of the beneﬁt obligation. 
History of experience adjustments
the Plan ESPS Total the Plan ESPS Total the Plan ESPS Total
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 2004 2004 2004
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Present value of deﬁned
beneﬁt obligations (317.1) (50.1) (367.2) (301.2) (54.7) (355.9) (290.5) (63.9) (354.4)
Fair value of 
scheme assets 281.345.0 326.3 264.4 44.2 308.6 226.6 47.0 273.6
Deﬁcit in the schemes (35.8) (5.1) (40.9) (36.8) (10.5) (47.3) (63.9) (16.9) (80.8)
Experience adjustments 
on scheme liabilities:
– amount (£m) –0.10.1 12.0 2.5 14.5 0.3 0.1 0.4
– percentage of 
scheme liabilities –0.2% – 4.0% 4.6% 4.1% 0.1% 0.2% 0.1%
Experience adjustments 
on scheme assets:
– amount (£m) 7.3(1.0) 6.3 31.7 4.4 36.1 11.1 0.9 12.0
– percentage of 
scheme assets 2.6% 2.2% 1.9% 12.0% 10.0% 11.7% 4.9% 1.9% 4.4%
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during the 2007 ﬁnancial year is £10.9m.
21. Share capital
2006 2005 2006 2005
No. 000 No. 000 £m £m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 25p each 181,973 181,973 45.5 45.5
2006 2005 2006 2005
No. 000 No. 000 £m £m
Allotted and fully paid
Ordinary shares at beginning of year 100,832 100,063 25.2 25.0
Issued during the year 985 769 0.2 0.2
Ordinary shares at end of year 101,817 100,832 25.4 25.2
During the year 985,263 ordinary shares were allotted on exercise of share options, for a total consideration of £2,505,529.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 62 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
22. Committed but unissued share capital
Options and awards over the Company’s ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 were as follows:
Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS 1991* and ESOS 2000
#
)
2006 2005
Date of grant 13/05/98* 18/04/00* 22/03/01
#
23/04/02
#
03/09/03
#
18/10/04
#
Price 158.5p 178.0p 280.5p 436.1p 304.5p 262.6p T otal T otal
Employees 1,560 39,760 27,870 114,000 96,244 28,868 308,302 685,298
Ex-employees – – – 12,000 11,000 – 23,000 –
At 31 December 1,560 39,760 27,870 126,000 107,244 28,868 331,302 685,298
Ordinarily, options granted under the terms of the ESOS 1991 and the ESOS 2000 are exercisable between three and ten years from the date 
of grant, subject to the Company achieving speciﬁc performance targets.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme
2006 2005
Date of grant 27/08/03 27/08/03
Price 228.0p 228.0p
Exercisable from 01/11/06 01/11/08 T otal T otal
Directors
†
– 4,442 4,442 4,442
Employees 83,366 810,518 893,884 1,896,097
At 31 December 83,366 814,960 898,326 1,900,539
Savings related share options are normally exercisable during the six-month period following completion of either a three-year or ﬁve-year 
savings contract.
Restricted Share Plan
2006 2005
Date of award 22/03/01 23/04/02 16/05/03 11/09/03 04/12/03 22/04/04
Value of each award at 31/12/06 579.0p 579.0p 579.0p 579.0p 579.0p 579.0p Total Total
Directors
†
103,770 109,498 111,800 23,917 35,000 128,000 511,985 686,900
Employees 158,933 158,066 363,987 10,019 – 169,500 860,505 1,051,021
Ex-employees
(i)
– 8,026 37,844 – – 5,000 50,870 255,596
At 31 December 262,703 275,590 513,631 33,936 35,000 302,500 1,423,360 1,993,517
†
An analysis of Directors’ interests is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 38.
(i)
These awards continue to subsist in accordance with the rules of the Restricted Share Plan.
Awards made under the Restricted Share Plan are normally able to vest between three and seven years from the date of initial award, subject 
to the Company achieving speciﬁc performance targets. Vesting may be deferred for a further period of three years, during which the shares 
are held in the Employee Beneﬁt Trust and may become eligible for matching under the rules of the Restricted Share Plan.
The growth in the Company’s earnings per share over the three-year period ending on 26 April 2006 exceeded the Retail Price Index by more
than the requisite 9%. Consequently, 523,390 shares representing 261,695 awards for which vesting had been deferred in April 2003, together
with the corresponding matching shares, were released to participants on 23 and 30 May 2006.
On 27 October 2006, 291,285 shares were released to Mr J Hume, a former Director, in accordance with the rules of the Restricted Share Plan. 
The remainder of Mr Hume’s outstanding awards lapsed.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200663 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
22. Committed but unissued share capital continued
LTIP 2005
2006 2005
Date of grant 23/06/05 11/01/06 21/04/06
Value of each award at 31/12/06 579.0p 579.0p 579.0p T otal T otal
Directors
†
327,025 – 265,910 592,935 327,025
Employees 418,326 18,847 461,489 898,662 462,860
Ex-employees 22,715 – 5,943 28,658 –
At 31 December 2006 768,066 18,847 733,342 1,520,255 789,885
†
An analysis of Directors’ interests is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 38.
Awards made under the LTIP 2005 are normally able to vest following the third anniversary of the date of grant. Vesting may be in full or in part
(with the balance of the award lapsing), and is subject to the Company achieving speciﬁc performance targets. 
A description of these schemes and the terms of conditions of each scheme are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 38.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:
2006 2005
Scheme Long Term Long Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP) Incentive Plan (LTIP) 
Pricing model Monte Carlo Monte Carlo
Grant date 21 April 2006 23 June 2005
Share price at grant (£) 4.98 3.70
Exercise price (£) nil nil
Option life (years) 3 3
Expected vesting life (years) 3 3
Risk free rate (%) 4.5 4.1
Expected volatility (%) 23.1 27.2
Expected dividend yield (%) 2.7 3.3
Forfeiture rate (%) nil nil
Value per option (£) 2.52 1.60
The assumptions used for the valuation of the options granted on 21 April 2006 were also applied to the options granted on 11 January 2006.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the last three years. The expected vesting life is the average expected period to exercise.
The forfeiture rate has been based on the numbers of options forfeited within each scheme over the last three years due to the impacts of non-
transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. The risk free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds
of a term consistent with the assumed option life. 
A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2006 is shown below: 
Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average
share options exercise price (£) share options exercise price (£)
2006 2006 2005 2005
Restated
Outstanding at 1 January 5,369,239 1.23 6,189,367 1.37
Granted during the year 755,826 0.00 851,495 0.00
Forfeited during the year (439,002) 2.11 (444,854) 2.39
Exercised during the year (1,512,820) 1.66 (1,226,769) 0.66
Outstanding at 31 December 4,173,243 0.76 5,369,239 1.23
Exercisable at 31 December 613,852 1.67 1,131,625 1.16
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for options exercised over the year was £5.06 (2005: £3.57). The options outstanding 
at 31 December 2006 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.44 years (2005: 4.03 years). The total charge for the year relating 
to employee share-based payment plans was £2.0m (2005: £1.3m), all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 64 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
23. Statement of changes in Shareholders’ equity
Restated Foreign
Share Share Revaluation Other EBT currency Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserves reserve translation earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Balance at 1 January 2005 as restated 25.0 87.4 0.3 61.6 (1.4) (0.4) 44.4 216.9
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign currency investments ––––– 0.2 – 0.2
Actuarial gains on deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension schemes –––––– 27.3 27.3
Deferred tax on actuarial gains on 
deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes –––––– (8.1) (8.1)
Transfer on disposal of property – – (0.1) – – – 0.1 –
Net revaluation of tangible ﬁxed assets – – 7.5–––– 7.5
Deferred tax on net revaluation of 
tangible ﬁxed assets – – (2.3) –––– (2.3)
Share of joint ventures and associates–––––– (0.3) (0.3)
Proﬁt for the period –––––– 26.5 26.5
Total recognised income for the period – – 5.1 – – 0.2 45.5 50.8
Shares issued 0.2 1.8––––– 2.0
Share-based payments –––– 0.2 – 1.0 1.2
Deferred tax on share schemes –––––– 0.7 0.7
Dividends –––––– (12.4) (12.4)
Balance at 31 December 2005 
as restated 25.289.25.461.6(1.2) (0.2) 79.2 259.2
Balance at 1 January 2006 
as previously reported 25.289.25.461.6(1.2) (0.2) 102.7 282.7
Impact of Slate accounting 
irregularities* –––––– (23.5) (23.5)
Balance at 1 January 2006 
as restated 25.289.25.461.6(1.2) (0.2) 79.2 259.2
Exchange differences on translation 
of foreign currency investments ––––– (0.6) – (0.6)
Actuarial gains on deﬁned beneﬁt 
pension schemes –––––– (9.6) (9.6)
Deferred tax on actuarial gains on 
deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes –––––– 2.9 2.9
Share of joint ventures and associates–––––– 3.0 3.0
Deferred tax on share of joint ventures 
and associates –––––– (0.9) (0.9)
Transfer on disposal of property – – (0.1) – – – 0.1 –
Proﬁt for the period –––––– 16.8 16.8
Total recognised income for the period–– (0.1) – – (0.6) 12.311.6
Shares issued 0.2 2.3––––– 2.5
Share-based payments –––– 0.4 – 1.6 2.0
Deferred tax on share schemes –––––– (0.2) (0.2)
Current tax on share schemes –––––– 1.9 1.9
Dividends –––––– (13.8) (13.8)
Balance at 31 December 2006 25.491.55.361.6(0.8) (0.8) 81.0 263.2
*
The impact of the accounting irregularities at Slate at 1 January 2006 is to reduce net assets by £23.5m (1 January 2005: £14.2m).
Other reserves include £53.3m (2005: £53.3m) of merger reserve and £8.3m (2005: £8.3m) of capital redemption reserve.
The EBT reserve represents the cost of shares in Alfred McAlpine plc purchased in the market and held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust to satisfy
options under the Group’s share option schemes. At 31 December 2006, the number of shares held by the EBT was 618,214 (2005: 1,608,444).
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200665 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
24. Financial instruments
The Group’s approach to managing exposures to interest rate, currency and liquidity risks are set out in the ﬁnancial risk management section 
of the Accounting Policies on page 49.
Short-term debtors and creditors 
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from all the following disclosures, other than deferred consideration, receipts on account,
shared equity debtors and the currency risk disclosures. Allowances are made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale goods and
services of £1.1m (2005: £1.8m) as determined by reference to past default experience.
Fair values
Other than the preference shares, the book value of the Group’s ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities at the balance sheet date approximated 
to their fair value. The book value of the preferences shares was £4.5m (2005: £4.5m) compared with a fair value based on market value 
of £6.1m (2005: £6.4m).
The fair value of the Group’s bank loans approximates to the carrying value reported in the balance sheet as the loans are ﬂoating, with payments
reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year. The fair value of short-term deposits, cash and overdrafts approximates to the carrying
amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of other ﬁnancial assets approximates to the carrying amount because of the ongoing trading nature of these items and the effect
of increasing expected recovery offsetting the effect of discounting. The fair value of other ﬁnancial liabilities reﬂects the discounting of the
liabilities at an effective rate of interest of 5%.
Proﬁle of ﬁnancial assets
Cash at Other Cash at Other
bank and Short-term ﬁnancial bank and Short-term ﬁnancial
Total in hand deposits assets Total in hand deposits assets
2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 2005
Currency £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling 73.832.33.837.7 51.3 23.7 13.3 14.3
US dollars 0.80.8–– 3.2 3.2 – –
EU currencies 1.01.0–– 0.8 0.8 – –
At 31 December 75.634.13.837.7 55.3 27.7 13.3 14.3
Floating rate 37.834.1– 3.7 42.0 27.7 – 14.3
Fixed rate 31.0– 3.827.2 13.3 – 13.3 –
No interest 6.8–– 6.8 ––––
At 31 December 75.634.13.837.7 55.3 27.7 13.3 14.3
Due within one year 39.934.13.82.0 43.9 27.7 13.3 2.9
Due one to two years 6.3–– 6.3 1.0 – – 1.0
Due two to ﬁve years 6.2–– 6.2 1.0 – – 1.0
Due after ﬁve years 23.2–– 23.2 9.4 – – 9.4
At 31 December 75.634.13.837.7 55.3 27.7 13.3 14.3
The ﬁxed rate short-term deposits in sterling are placed with banks on a rolling basis and earn interest at between 4.0% and 5.0% per annum.
Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents.
Interest rate proﬁle of ﬁnancial liabilities
Financial Financial
liabilities liabilities
Floating rate Fixed rate on which Floating rate Fixed rate on which
ﬁnancial ﬁnancial no interest ﬁnancial ﬁnancial no interest
Total liabilities liabilities is paid Total liabilities liabilities is paid
2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 2005
Sterling liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations under ﬁnance leases 2.5– 2.5– 3.2 – 3.2 –
Bank loans and overdrafts 1.9– 1.9– 0.5 0.3 0.2 –
Deferred consideration 4.9–– 4.9 3.5 – – 3.5
Other short-term creditors 13.3–– 13.3 ––––
Other long-term creditors 9.5–– 9.5 10.0 0.6 1.7 7.7
Preference shares 4.5– 4.5– 4.5 – 4.5 –
At 31 December 36.6– 8.927.7 21.7 0.9 9.6 11.2
All the Group’s creditors falling due within one year (other than bank and other borrowings) are excluded from the above tables either due to the
exclusion of short-term items or because they do not meet the deﬁnition of a ﬁnancial liability.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 66 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
24. Financial instruments continued
In addition to the above, the Group’s provisions of £0.3m (2005: £0.6m) for vacant leasehold properties (note 19) meet the deﬁnition of ﬁnancial
liabilities. These ﬁnancial liabilities are considered to be ﬂoating rate ﬁnancial liabilities as, in establishing the provisions, the cash ﬂows have been
discounted and the discount rate is re-appraised at each half-yearly reporting date to ensure that it reﬂects current market assessments of the time
value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the liability.
The average interest rate for preference shares in both 2005 and 2006 was 9%, for ﬁnance leases it was 4.9% in 2006 (2005: 5.0%) and for
other ﬁxed rate liabilities 6.0% (2005: 6.0%). This is ﬁxed for an indeﬁnite period for the non-redeemable preference shares and for a weighted
average period of 4.6 years (2005: 4.4 years) for other ﬁxed rate liabilities. Floating rate ﬁnancial liabilities bear interest at rates based on relevant
LIBOR equivalents, which are ﬁxed in advance for periods up to three months. The weighted average period until maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities 
on which no interest is paid is 6.6 years (2004: 2.0 years).
The preference shares have the following rights:
(a) a ﬁxed cumulative preference dividend of 9% per annum payable half yearly on 30 April and 31 October;
(b) they rank with regard to dividend (including any arrears to the commencement of a winding up) and return on capital in priority to ordinary
shares. On a return of assets on liquidation or reduction in capital, there is a premium entitlement (calculated in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the articles of association) but no further right to participate in the proﬁts or assets;
(c) there is no redemption entitlement; and
(d) where any preference dividend is in arrears, holders are entitled to attend any general meeting, with the right to vote on a show of hands 
or by poll, with one vote for each share held.
Maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities
Other Other
Finance ﬁnancial Finance ﬁnancial
T otal Debt leases liabilities T otal Debt leases liabilities
2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year, or on demand 17.10.20.716.2 1.4 0.3 0.8 0.3
Between one and two years 5.90.50.64.8 12.9 0.2 2.0 10.7
Between two and ﬁve years 4.40.71.12.6 2.9 – 1.0 1.9
Over ﬁve years 9.85.00.74.1 5.2 4.5 – 0.7
37.26.43.127.7 22.4 5.0 3.8 13.6
Finance charges allocated 
to future periods (0.6) – (0.6) – (0.7) – (0.6) (0.1)
At 31 December 36.66.42.527.7 21.7 5.0 3.2 13.5
Debt due after ﬁve years includes £4.5m (2005: £4.5m) in respect of the Company’s preference shares.
At 31 December 2006 there were no bank loans outstanding under the committed revolving credit facilities (2005: £nil). The undrawn elements
of the Group’s committed borrowing facilities at 31 December 2006 total £135m (2005: £105m). Before its replacement in April 2007, this facility
was due to expire in February 2011 and incurred commitment fees at ﬁxed contractual rates.
Currency exposures
There are no signiﬁcant external monetary assets and liabilities held by Group companies in currencies other than their local currency.
Hedges
There were no signiﬁcant off balance sheet hedges at 31 December 2006.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200667 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
25. Reconciliation of proﬁt before interest and tax to net cash ﬂow from operating activities
2006 2005
£m £m
Restated
Proﬁt before interest and tax 17.6 27.6
Proﬁt on disposal of joint ventures and associates – (13.5)
Share of post-tax proﬁts from joint ventures and associates (1.5) (3.3)
Non-recurring costs included in proﬁt before interest and tax 8.3 14.8
Depreciation 7.5 8.6
Proﬁt on disposal of tangible ﬁxed assets (0.2) (0.9)
Change in non-current assets held for sale – 14.9
Change in inventories 7.4 (3.4)
Change in receivables (14.3) (71.1)
Change in payables 6.2 60.3
Pensions adjustment (4.6) (5.0)
Share schemes adjustment 2.0 1.2
Net cash ﬂow from operating activities before non-recurring items 28.4 30.2
2005 has been restated for the change in accounting of the Stirling Water contract which is now treated as a joint arrangement rather than 
a joint venture. The impact of this is to reduce the adjustments for the share of proﬁt from joint ventures and associates by £3.7m and to reduce
dividend received from joint ventures and associates on the face of the cash ﬂow statement. The net impact on cash is nil.
26. Analysis of Group net funds
At At
01/01/06 Cash ﬂow 31/12/06
£m £m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 27.7 6.4 34.1
Bank term deposits 13.3 (9.5) 3.8
41.0 (3.1) 37.9
Loan notes:
– due within one year (0.3) 0.1 (0.2)
– due after one year (0.2) (1.5) (1.7)
(0.5) (1.4) (1.9)
Obligations under ﬁnance leases:
– due within one year (0.6) 0.1 (0.5)
– due after one year (2.6) 0.6 (2.0)
(3.2) 0.7 (2.5)
Preference share capital (4.5) – (4.5)
Net funds 32.8 (3.8) 29.0
27. Acquisitions of subsidiaries 
On 21 April 2005 the Group acquired Lodge Park Limited, a provider of social, low-cost and mixed accommodation, for cash consideration 
of £0.5m and deferred consideration of £6.6m, of which £4.9m is outstanding at 31 December 2006. In addition, net cash of £0.7m was
acquired. The ﬁnalised fair value of net assets acquired were equal to the provisional fair valuation of net assets acquired as disclosed in the 
2005 Annual Report and Accounts.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 68 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
28. Operating lease commitments
At the balance sheet date the Group had outstanding commitments for future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases, which fall due as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Leases which expire:
– within one year 20.1 13.5
– between two and ﬁve years 65.4 33.4
– over ﬁve years 18.8 23.9
104.3 70.8
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its ofﬁce properties and IT assets.
29. Post-balance sheet events
On 1 February 2007, Alfred McAlpine plc completed the acquisition of the entire ordinary share capital of Enviros Group Ltd, one of the UK’s
largest independent environmental consultancies. Total consideration for the acquisition, excluding costs, was £30m (£27m in cash and 526,543
in new Alfred McAlpine ordinary shares). IFRS 3 disclosures have not been presented as the fair valuation of net assets acquired is ongoing and 
the details of this will be included in the 2007 interim ﬁnancial statements.
30. Related party transactions
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed 
in this note. Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are disclosed below. 
During the year the Group entered into the following material transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group:
Post Post
Joint employment Joint employment
ventures Associates beneﬁt plans ventures Associates beneﬁt plans
2006 2006 2006 2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Sale of services 6.7– 1.3 12.1 4.3 0.9
Purchase of services ––– 0.4––
Write off of joint ventures debt (0.6) – – –––
Sub-debt injected 5.8–– 1.1––
Amounts owed by related party 15.0– 0.3 9.9 0.3 0.1
Amounts owed to related party ––– –––
All transactions with related parties take place on an arms-length basis. 
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made
for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties. 
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel of the Group as speciﬁed in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ is set out below:
2006 2005
£m £m
Salaries and short-term employee beneﬁts 3.3 2.7
Post-employment beneﬁts 0.4 0.4
Share-based payments 0.7 0.3
4.4 3.4
Key management personnel is deﬁned as members of the GEC (as deﬁned in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report and Accounts).
31. Contingent Liabilities
There are contingent liabilities in respect of:
(a) completed and uncompleted contracts of the Group, its related undertakings and joint ventures; and
(b) legal or potential claims, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
Appropriate provision has been made in these accounts for all liabilities that are, in the opinion of the Directors, likely to materialise.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200669 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 70
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Alfred McAlpine plc for the year ended 31 December 2006 which comprise 
the balance sheet, the accounting policies and the related notes. These parent company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described as having 
been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group ﬁnancial statements of Alfred McAlpine plc for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company ﬁnancial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set
out in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, including the
opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and
for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company
ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report is consistent with the parent
company ﬁnancial statements. The information given in the Directors’ Report includes that speciﬁc information presented in the Group Chief
Executive’s Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors’ Report. We also report to you if, in our opinion, 
the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, 
or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company ﬁnancial
statements. The other information comprises only the Directors’ Report, the unaudited part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report, the 
Chairman’s Statement and the Group Chief Executive’s Business Review. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware 
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend 
to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the
part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgments made by the
Directors in the preparation of the parent company ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2006;
• the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
1 Embankment Place, London, WC2N 6RH
11 May 2007 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200671
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
2006 2005
AT 31 DECEMBER 2006 NOTES £m £m
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 4 4.2 3.4
Investments 5 359.1 382.6
363.3 386.0
Current assets
Debtors: due within one year 6 399.6 396.3
Debtors: due after one year 6 3.1 2.2
Cash at bank and in hand 10.2 13.2
412.9 411.7
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Bank and other loans 7 – (1.3)
Other creditors 7 (404.5) (419.6)
(404.5) (420.9)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 8.4 (9.2)
Total assets less current liabilities 371.7 376.8
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year
Preference shares 7 (4.5) (4.5)
Net assets excluding pension liability 367.2 372.3
Pension liability 8 (25.2) (25.8)
Net assets including pension liability 342.0 346.5
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 10 25.4 25.2
Share premium 11 91.5 89.2
Other reserves 11 188.6 188.6
Employee beneﬁt trust reserve 11 (0.8) (1.2)
Proﬁt and loss account 11 37.3 44.7
Shareholders’ funds 342.0 346.5
These ﬁnancial statements, which comprise the balance sheet, signiﬁcant accounting policies and the related notes, were approved by the Board
of Directors on 11 May 2007 and signed on its behalf by:
I M Grice
Group Chief Executive SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of accounting 
The separate ﬁnancial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985. They have been prepared under the
historical cost convention, except for disclosures relating to share based payments and pension costs and in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom Accounting Standards and law. 
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding year 
unless otherwise noted. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation, based on estimated useful lives, is charged on a straight line basis as follows:
Leasehold improvements – over the lease term; 
Plant and equipment – at rates between 10% and 33% per annum.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are shown at cost less provision for impairment. 
Retirement beneﬁt costs
The Company operates a deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt scheme whereby the contributions paid by the Company and the employees 
are invested within the individual funds in the month following the month of deduction. The employer contribution rates are determined 
by reference to an age, service or grade related scale or are at a ﬁxed, level percentage. The amount contributed by the Company is charged 
to the proﬁt and loss account as the contributions fall due. 
The Company also operates a deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme, which is now closed to future service accrual. The cost of providing beneﬁts 
is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur through the statement of total recognised gains and losses. 
The liability recognised on the balance sheet is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations less the fair value of plan assets.
T axation
The taxation expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. The tax currently payable is based on taxable proﬁt for 
the year. Taxable proﬁt differs from net proﬁt as reported in the proﬁt and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are
taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Company’s liability for current tax 
is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the ﬁnancial
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable proﬁt, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it 
is probable that taxable proﬁts will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not
recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax
proﬁt nor the accounting proﬁt. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date. 
Deferred tax is calculated based on the laws enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the proﬁt and loss account except
when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Share-based payments
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20 ‘Share-based Payment’. In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been
applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were not vested at 1 January 2005. The Company issues equity-settled
share-based payments to certain employees, which are measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions) 
at the grant date. The fair value determined at the grant date of the share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting
period, based on the Company’s estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusting for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. 
Fair value is measured by use of a binomial, Black Scholes or Monte Carlo model as appropriate for each scheme. The expected life used 
in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, 
and behavioural considerations. 
Financial risk management
The Company’s policy for managing ﬁnancial risk is in line with the Group’s ﬁnancial risk management policy as set out in the notes to the
consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 72 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200673
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
1. Proﬁt for the year
As permitted by Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 1985, the proﬁt and loss account of the Company is not presented as part of the accounts.
The parent company proﬁt after tax of £14.4m (2005: £10.3m) is included in the Group proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year. 
The Auditors’ remuneration for audit services to the Company was £0.1m (2005: £0.1m). A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set
out on page 26 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided 
by the Auditors.
2. Staff costs
(a) Employee costs during the year, including Directors
2006 2005
£m £m
Wages and salaries 4.4 3.6
Social security costs 0.8 0.4
Charge in respect of share option awards 1.8 1.3
Other pension (income)/costs (10.0) 2.2
(3.0) 7.5
(b) Average number employed during the year, including Directors
2006 2005
Number Number
Administration and services 63 61
(c) Directors’ emoluments 
An analysis of individual Directors’ emoluments and pension entitlements (including those of the highest paid Director) and their interests in the
share capital of the Company is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 38. Aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise 
of share options amounted to £1.5m (2005: £0.9m). 
3. Dividends
Dividends proposed and paid in the year are disclosed in note 7 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
4. Property, plant and equipment
Plant and Leasehold
equipment improvements T otal
£m £m £m
Cost or valuation
As at 1 January 2005 0.9 1.4 2.3
Additions 1.9 – 1.9
Disposals (0.1) – (0.1)
As at 1 January 2006 2.7 1.4 4.1
Additions 2.5 – 2.5
Disposals (1.4) – (1.4)
At 31 December 2006 3.81.45.2
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
As at 1 January 2005 0.2 0.3 0.5
Charge for the year 0.2 0.1 0.3
Disposals (0.1) – (0.1)
At 1 January 2006 0.3 0.4 0.7
Charge for the year 0.1 0.2 0.3
At 31 December 2006 0.40.61.0
Net book value at 31 December 2005 2.4 1.0 3.4
Net book value at 31 December 2006 3.40.84.2
At 31 December 2006, the Company had entered into contractual commitments amounting to £nil (2005: £nil). NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
5. Fixed asset investments
2006 2005
£m £m
Shares in joint ventures 6.7 6.7
Loans to joint ventures 6.0 6.0
Shares in Group undertakings
At 1 January 369.9 378.8
Disposals – (8.9)
Impairment provision (23.5) –
At 31 December 346.4 369.9
The Company has investments in the following subsidiaries and associates which principally affect the proﬁts or net assets of the Group. 
To avoid statements of excessive length, details of investments which are not signiﬁcant have been omitted. 
All undertakings are incorporated in the UK, unless otherwise indicated, and operate mainly in the country of incorporation. The Company’s
interest is in equity share capital in all cases and is stated as at 31 December 2006.
Subsidiary undertaking Principal activity Interest %
Business Services
Alfred McAlpine Asset Management Limited Provision of plant and site accommodation services 100.0
Alfred McAlpine Business Services Limited Facilities management and support services 100.0
Alfred McAlpine – IT Services Limited IT support services 100.0
Infrastructure Services
Alfred McAlpine Infrastructure Services Limited Utility infrastructure services 100.0
Alfred McAlpine Government Services Limited Highway maintenance services 100.0
Project Services
Alfred McAlpine Project Services Holdings Limited
#
Holding company 100.0
Alfred McAlpine Capital Projects Limited Construction services 100.0
Alfred McAlpine Project Investments Limited
#
Project appraisal and management 100.0
Slate
Alfred McAlpine Slate Limited Slate quarrying and marketing 100.0
Hilltop Slate Inc* Slate quarrying 100.0
Joint ventures Principal activity Share capital Interest %
Road Management Group Limited Road management £25,335,000 25.0
East Leake Schools (Holdings) Limited School development £10,000 50.0
Key Health Services Holdings (Addenbrooke’s) Limited Hospital development £5,000 50.0
#
Owned directly by Alfred McAlpine plc.
*Incorporated and operating in the US.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 74 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200675
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
6. Debtors
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 389.4 394.1
Taxation and social security 9.6 –
Prepayments and accrued income 0.3 0.2
Other debtors 0.3 2.0
399.6 396.3
Amounts falling due after one year
Deferred tax asset 3.1 2.2
Movements in the deferred tax asset are analysed as follows:
At 1 January 
– deferred tax on pension scheme liability (note 8) 11.0 19.2
– other deferred tax 2.2 2.7
13.2 21.9
– charged to proﬁt and loss account (3.0) (1.2)
– booked to statement of total recognised gains and losses 3.5 (7.5)
At 31 December 
– deferred tax on pension scheme liability (note 8) 10.6 11.0
– other deferred tax 3.1 2.2
13.7 13.2
7. Creditors
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts falling due within one year
Borrowings*:
– loan notes – 0.3
– overdrafts – 1.0
– 1.3
Trade creditors 1.1 1.5
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 391.9 412.5
Accruals and deferred income 9.9 3.5
Taxation and social security – 1.8
Other creditors 1.6 0.3
404.5 419.6
Amounts falling due after one year
Preference share capital (see note 24 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements) 4.5 4.5
*All borrowings are unsecured. NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
8. Pension costs
Deﬁned contribution pension schemes
The Company operates the ‘McAlpine 2003 Pension Plan’ which is a deﬁned contribution retirement beneﬁt scheme for all qualifying employees.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Company in funds under the control of trustees. The amount contributed by 
the Company is charged to the proﬁt and loss account as the contributions fall due. The total amount charged to the proﬁt and loss account 
in respect of deﬁned contribution schemes was £0.2m (2005: £0.2m).
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
The Company operates The Alfred McAlpine Pension Plan (‘the Plan’) pension scheme for employees, a deﬁned beneﬁt scheme which closed 
to future service accrual from 31 July 2003. The scheme is administered by a trustee, the funds being independent of the Company’s ﬁnances.
Under the scheme, employees are entitled to retirement beneﬁts varying according to their age at retirement, service and salary. No other 
post-retirement beneﬁts are provided. The scheme is a funded scheme. 
The mortality tables used in the valuation of the pension scheme are disclosed in note 20 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
In calculating the liabilities the following assumptions have been used:
At At At
31/12/06 31/12/05 31/12/04
% pa % pa % pa
Discount rate 5.4 4.9 5.4
Salary growth 3.9 3.5 3.6
RPI 2.9 2.5 2.6
Expected return on scheme assets 6.9 6.0 6.3
Increases to pensions in payment 2.9 2.5 2.6
Deferred pensions are revalued to retirement age in line with the RPI assumptions unless otherwise prescribed by statutory requirements or the
rules of the schemes.
Amounts recognised in income in respect of the Plan are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Current service cost (0.1) (0.1)
Total operating charge (0.1) (0.1)
Settlement cost 6.9 –
Interest cost (14.5) (15.4)
Expected return on scheme assets 17.9 13.4
Net return/(charge) 10.2 (2.1)
Of the charge for the year, current and past service cost have been included in administrative expenses and interest costs net of expected returns
on scheme assets have been included in ﬁnance costs. Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of total recognised gains
and losses. 
The actual return on scheme assets was £25.2m (2005: £45.5m). 
The amount included in the reserves in respect of the Plan is as follows: 
2006 2005
£m £m
Difference between actual and expected return on scheme assets 7.3 31.7
Experience gains arising on scheme liabilities – 12.0
Effects on changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities (20.6) (18.8)
Total actuarial gains and losses recognised in the reserves (13.3) 24.9
The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Company’s obligations in respect of the Plan is as follows: 
2006 2005
£m £m
Present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations (317.1) (301.2)
Fair value of scheme assets 281.3 264.4
Related deferred tax asset (note 6) 10.6 11.0
Liability recognised in the balance sheet (25.2) (25.8)
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 76 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200677
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
8. Pension costs continued
Movements in the present value of deﬁned beneﬁt obligations were as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 January 301.2 290.5
Current service cost 0.1 0.1
Interest cost 14.5 15.3
Actuarial gains and losses 20.6 6.7
Settlements (6.9) –
Beneﬁts paid (12.4) (11.4)
At 31 December 317.1 301.2
Movements in the fair value of deﬁned beneﬁt scheme assets were as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1 January 264.4 226.1
Expected return on scheme assets 17.9 13.4
Actuarial gains and losses 7.2 32.1
Contributions from scheme sponsoring companies 4.2 4.2
Beneﬁts paid (12.4) (11.4)
At 31 December 281.3 264.4
The analysis of the scheme assets and the expected rate of return at the balance sheet date was as follows:
At At At
31/12/06 31/12/05 31/12/04
% pa % pa % pa
Equities 8.5 8.0 6.6
Corporate bonds 5.5 4.9 5.0
Government bonds 4.6 4.1 4.1
Property 7.5 7.0 n/a
Cash and other 4.8 4.5 4.1
The fair values of assets in the scheme were:
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Equities 187.8 178.3 155.6
Corporate bonds 28.2 31.9 41.6
Government bonds 50.7 38.9 26.8
Property 13.5 11.5 n/a
Cash and other 1.1 3.8 2.6
281.3 264.4 226.6
To develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption, the Company considered market expectation at the beginning of the
period for returns over the entire life of the beneﬁt obligation. 
History of experience gains and losses
2006 2005 2004 2003
Difference between the experience and actual return on scheme assets (£m) 7.3 31.7 11.1 13.4
Percentage of scheme assets (%) 3 11 5 6
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities (£m) – 12.0 0.3 (4.2)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) – 4– 2
Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses (£m) (13.3) 24.9 0.7 (1.6)
Percentage of scheme liabilities (%) 2 8 – (1)
The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the scheme during the 2007 ﬁnancial year is £9.1m. NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS
CONTINUED
9. Operating lease commitments
The minimum annual commitments at 31 December 2006 under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
Land and Land and
buildings buildings
2006 2005
£m £m
Leases which expire:
– within one year – –
– between two and ﬁve years 0.8 0.3
– over ﬁve years 0.2 0.8
1.0 1.1
10. Share capital
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to ﬁxed income. The detailed breakdown of share capital is set out in note 21
to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 
Options and awards over the Company’s ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December are disclosed in note 22 of the consolidated 
ﬁnancial statements. 
11. Reserves
Share Share Other EBT Proﬁt and Total
capital premium reserves reserve loss account equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2006 25.2 89.2 188.6 (1.2) 44.7 346.5
Proﬁt for the year –––– 14.4 14.4
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year –––– (13.8) (13.8)
25.2 89.2 188.6 (1.2) 45.3 347.1
Share-based payment – – – 0.4 1.6 2.0
Movement on deferred tax relating to share schemes –––– (0.4) (0.4)
Actuarial gain/loss on pension scheme –––– (13.3) (13.3)
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension liability –––– 4.1 4.1
Shares issued 0.2 2.3––– 2.5
At 31 December 2006 25.491.5 188.6(0.8) 37.3 342.0
The EBT reserve represents the cost of shares in Alfred McAlpine plc purchased in the market and held by the Employee Beneﬁt Trust to satisfy
options under the Group’s share option schemes. At 31 December 2006, the number of shares held by the EBT was 618,214 (2005: 1,608,444).
Other reserves are discussed in note 23 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 78 ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200679
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Financial calendar
23 April 2007 Results announcement for year to 31 December 2006
13 June 2007 Ex-dividend date
15 June 2007 Record date
26 June 2007 Annual General Meeting
6 July 2007 Final dividend payment date
2 August 2007 2007 interim results announcement
Mid August 2007 Interim report published
Analysis of holders of Ordinary shares at 31 December 2006
Number of % of Number % of
shareholders shareholders of shares shares
Range of holdings
1-1,000 3,387 62.29 1,292,140 1.27
1,001-10,000 1,695 31.18 4,648,993 4.57
10,001-50,000 187 3.44 4,383,274 4.30
50,001-100,000 51 0.94 3,853,013 3.78
Over 100,000 117 2.15 87,640,504 86.08
T otal 5,437 100.00 101,817,924 100.00
Types of shareholders
Private shareholders 4,371 80.39 6,580,599 6.46
Pension funds 3 0.06 9,501 0.01
Nominee companies 936 17.22 90,968,134 89.34
Limited companies 95 1.75 787,421 0.77
Banks and bank nominees 4 0.07 3,306,128 3.25
Other institutions 28 0.51 166,141 0.16
T otal 5,437 100.00 101,817,924 100.00
Shareholder enquiries
Enquiries relating to matters such as loss of a share certiﬁcate, dividend payments or notiﬁcation of a change of name or address should 
be directed to the Company’s registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, telephone: 0870 600 3970.
Shareholders with hearing difﬁculties may prefer to use the textphone number: 0870 600 3950.
Lloyds TSB Registrars also provide a website which enables you to view up-to-date information about your shareholding and to buy and sell 
shares in the Company on-line. Further details may be found at: www.shareview.co.uk
As part of our commitment to shareholders, we can arrange to send you literature in the following formats:
• large print 
• braille 
• audio tape 
If you would like to receive shareholder communications in alternative formats, please register your name, address, shareholder account number
and preferred format with Lloyds TSB Registrars, as above.
Amalgamation of shareholdings
If you have received more than one copy of this Annual Report, it is likely that there is more than one account in your name on the Company’s
register of members. If you wish to amalgamate your holdings into a single account, please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address 
shown above.
Individual Savings Account (ISA)
A corporate ISA for Alfred McAlpine plc shares is available, operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars on behalf of the Company. For further details 
please contact the Lloyds TSB Registrars ISA Helpline on 0870 24 24 244.
Share price information
If you have access to the internet, you can obtain up-to-date share price information from the London Stock Exchange website:
www.londonstockexchange.com. Share price information on Alfred McAlpine plc can also be found on page 222 of Ceefax or by calling 
the London Stock Exchange’s automated quotation service on 09058 890 190. Calls are charged at 55p per minute (plus VAT) at all times. SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
CONTINUED
Share dealing services
In addition to the Shareview on-line dealing service offered by Lloyds TSB Registrars, the Company operates a low-cost share dealing service
through JPMorgan Cazenove Limited. Details of this service, and sale and purchase forms, may be obtained by calling 020 7155 5155.
ShareGift
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme (ShareGift) for shareholders with small holdings of shares whose value
makes it uneconomic to sell them. Details of the scheme can be obtained from the Company’s registrars. Information is also available on the
ShareGift website: www.sharegift.org
Website
The Group’s website can be found at www.alfredmcalpineplc.com, and our corporate responsibility report is published on the website each year.
In addition to general information about the Group and its activities, the website includes an investor centre that may be of particular interest 
to shareholders. The investor centre contains press releases and regulatory announcements as well as presentations made to analysts. The terms 
of reference of the various Board Committees may be downloaded from the corporate governance section within the investor centre.
Registered and Group head ofﬁce
Kinnaird House
1 Pall Mall East
London SW1Y 5AZ
Registered in England No. 1367044
Website: www.alfredmcalpineplc.com
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
1 Embankment Place
London WC2N 6RH
Stockbrokers and ﬁnancial advisers
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited
20 Moorgate 
London EC2R 6DA
Tricorn Partners LLP
27 Knightsbridge
London SW1X 7LY
Bankers
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Lloyds TSB Bank plc
Principal solicitors
Ashurst
Broadwalk House 
5 Appold Street 
London EC2A 2HA
ALFRED McALPINE PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 80 Designed and produced by Merchant 
in collaboration with Ammunition.
T ypeset by Saffron Digital Production Ltd.
This Report is printed on Era Silk which
contains 50% recycled and de-inked pulp from
post consumer waste. The remaining part of
the base paper is made from FSC certiﬁed
(volume credit method) pulp from well
managed forests. This pulp formula provides a
robust environmental footprint with the added
advantage of being produced in the UK. 
This report has been printed by an ISO
14001:2004 accredited, FSC certiﬁed and
Carbon Neutral Printer (Westerham Press).
Chain of Custody number SGS-COC-1732. Alfred McAlpine plc 
Kinnaird House
1 Pall Mall East 
London SW1Y 5AZ
Telephone 020 7930 6255 
Facsimile 020 7839 6902 
www.alfredmcalpineplc.com
