 Annual Report and  
Financial Statements 2013
Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 1
2
4
5
3
Our locations
1 Gemﬁelds’ headquarters,
 London, UK
2 Kagem Mining Limited, Zambia
3 Kariba Minerals Limited, Zambia
4 Montepuez Ruby Mining 
 Limitada, Mozambique
5 Prospective licences, Madagascar
 Fabergé boutiques
 Gemﬁelds’ global oﬃces
Gemfields at a Glance
Above Employees from Kagem Mining Ltd
Gemfields is the world’s single 
largest producer of coloured 
gemstones, positioned at the 
intersection of exploration, 
mining and marketing. 1 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Kagem Mining Limited – Emeralds (75% interest and 
Gemfields’ principal operating asset)
•	 Licence over an area of approximately 41 square kilometres, 
encompassing six known emerald bearing belts, and of which only 
1.78 square kilometres is currently being mined;
•	 30 million carats produced from Kagem Mining Limited (“Kagem”) 
in the year to 30 June 2013;
•	 Open cast mining operation on the Fwaya‑Fwaya emerald belt 
scheduled until H2 2015, with an underground feasibility study 
prepared by SRK projecting an underground mine life of 20 years 
producing around 34 million carats per year; and
•	 Partnership with the Government of the Republic of Zambia 
(“GRZ”), which owns a 25% interest.
Montepuez Ruby Mining Limitada – Rubies (75% interest)
•	 Licence over an area of approximately 340 square kilometres;
•	 Potentially believed to be the largest known ruby concession 
in the world;
•	 Bulk sampling under way to identify the most attractive deposits 
and a resource evaluation;
•	 1.8 million carats produced from this preliminary bulk sampling 
work in 2013 financial year; and
•	 First ruby auction expected by 30 June 2014.
Kariba Minerals Limited – Amethyst (50% interest)
•	 World’s single largest amethyst mine;
•	 Partnership with GRZ, which owns a 50% interest; and
•	 Strategy to significantly increase production following recent 
investment by both Gemfields and GRZ.
Oriental Mining SARL – Rubies, Emeralds and Sapphires 
(100% interest)
•	 1 5 exploration licences covering emeralds, rubies, sapphires, tourmalines 
and garnets in the Antananarivo, Fianarantsoa and T oliara provinces 
of Madagascar;
•	 Stage I Geological evaluation completed on 20 licence areas; and
•	 Nine licence areas identified as being either prospective or 
highly‑prospective.
Fabergé Limited
•	 Acquired in January 2013 for US$90.3 million via an all 
share transaction;
•	 Provides Gemfields with a direct route into the luxury goods market 
and a greater influence over the positioning and growth in demand 
for coloured gemstones;
•	 Four directly‑operated retail outlets across New York, London 
(in Mayfair and in Harrods) and Geneva, as well as selected wholesale 
customers in valuable luxury markets; 
•	 New products launched to promote the use of coloured gemstones 
in support of the new brand strategy; and
•	 The combination of Fabergé Limited (“Fabergé”) and Gemfields set the 
stage for the creation of a globally recognised coloured gemstone champion.
Above Aerial view of Zambian landscape
Our Assets 2
Below Mila Kunis, Gemfields’ Global 
Ambassador, wears the Fabergé 
‘Romanov’ necklace, featuring 63 
Gemfields’ Zambian emeralds, 
totalling 274.44 carats.
Company Overview
1 Our Assets
3 Highlights
4 Chairman’s Statement
Business Review
6 Market Overview
8 Chief Executive Officer’s Review
10 Operational and Financial Review
22 Corporate Social Responsibility
Governance
28 Board of Directors
30 Senior Management
32 Report of the Directors
36 Corporate Governance Report
40 Directors’ Remuneration Report
Financial Statements
44 Report of the Independent Auditors
45 Consolidated Income Statement
46 Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income
47 Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity
48 Consolidated Statement of 
Financial Position
49 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
50 Notes Forming Part of the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
79 Company Statement of Financial Position 
80 Company Statement of Changes 
in Equity 
81 Company Statement of Cash Flows
82 Notes Forming Part of the Company 
Financial Statements
95  Company Contacts and Advisers 3 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
   
 
0
20
40
60
80
100
2012 2013
100
80
60
20
40
Revenue
US$ million
   
 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
2012 2013
60
40
20
EBITDA
US$ million
   
 
2012 2013
200
150
100
50
-50
Net Prot/Loss
US$ million
Highlights
Financial Highlights
•	 Revenue of US$48.4 million (2012: US$83.7 million).
•	 EBITDA
(a)
 of US$1.2 million
(b)
 (2012: US$54.6 million).
•	 Net loss of US$22.8 million
(b)
 (2012: profit of US$161.5 million
(c)
).
•	 Cash at bank at 30 June 2013 of US$11.2 million 
(2012: US$36.7 million).
•	 Estimated cost of inventory on hand, excluding fuel and 
other consumables, US$76.3 million (2012: US$26.6 million).
Operational Highlights
Amethyst
•	 Gemfields and ZCCM‑IH, equal partners in amethyst 
producer Kariba Minerals Limited (“Kariba”), have 
recapitalised Kariba with US$1.25 million each, the largest 
single cash injection that Kariba has received to date.
•	 Mining and processing equipment has been purchased 
with a view to doubling monthly revenue during 2014.
Emerald
•	 Annual production of emerald and beryl from Kagem 
increased 42% to 30.0 million carats in the year to 
30 June 2013 (2012: 21.1 million carats). 
•	 Emerald and beryl grade for the year increased 38% 
to 283 carats per tonne (2012: 205 carats per tonne).
•	 Average monthly operating costs at Kagem were 
US$1.37 million, or US$2.68 million on a cash cost basis 
(2012: US$1.34 million, or US$2.51 million on a cash 
cost basis).
•	 Unit production costs for emerald and beryl decreased by 
26% to US$0.55 per carat, or by 25% to US$1.07 on a cash 
cost basis (2012: US$0.74 per carat, or US$1.43 on a cash 
cost basis).
•	 Cash rock handling unit costs at Kagem decreased by 2% 
to US$3.35 per tonne (2012: US$3.43 per tonne). 
•	 Sustained increase in achieved quality‑for‑quality sales prices 
for emeralds.
•	 Three million injury‑free shifts and a zero LTIFR (lost time 
injury frequency rate) achieved since taking over operational 
control at Kagem.
•	 Completion of preliminary bio‑diversity and 
socio‑anthropological baseline studies at Kagem in 
conjunction with the World Land Trust and the University 
of East Anglia.
•	 Post period end
 – auction of predominantly higher quality emeralds held 
from 15–19 July 2013 in Lusaka, Zambia, generating 
aggregate revenues of US$31.5 million, the second highest 
aggregate auction revenues achieved to date, and a record 
average price of US$54.00 per carat (reflecting an increase 
of 26% over the previous high of US$42.71 per carat 
achieved at the July 2011 auction in Singapore).
 – US$3.5 million direct sale agreed in respect of 11,286 
kilograms of Kagem’s lowest two grades of beryl, 
which have accumulated over the past few years.
Fabergé
•	 Completed the acquisition of 100% of the globally recognised 
Fabergé jewellery brand.
•	 Fabergé achieved record revenues, margins and unit sales 
during the reporting period.
•	 New Fabergé advertising campaign entitled ‘The Art of 
Colour’ launched globally on 2 October 2013 to support 
the Gemfields coloured gemstone strategy.
Marketing & Corporate
•	 Dynamic marketing initiatives implemented, including 
the appointment of Mila Kunis as Gemfields’ global 
brand ambassador and the face of its rare coloured 
gemstones campaign.
•	 Growth opportunities are currently focused on sapphire 
prospects with a number of other gemstone opportunities 
also being evaluated.
Ruby
•	 1.8 million carats of ruby extracted from preliminary bulk 
sampling at the ruby deposit of, 75% owned, Montepuez Ruby 
Mining Limitada (“Montepuez”) in Mozambique (2012: nil).
•	 Ongoing development of the world’s first comprehensive 
grading and sorting framework for rough rubies. 
•	 Gemfields’ first ruby auction is expected before 30 June 2014.
(a) EBITDA – Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and mining asset 
impairment reversal.
(b) Includes the results of Fabergé from the date of acquisition until 30 June 2013.
(c) Includes exceptional item – impairment reversal in the amount of US$201.1 million 
in the financial year to 30 June 2012. 
High quality Zambian emeralds are our specialty, 
though we also produce Zambian amethyst and 
more recently, rubies from Mozambique. We do 
so ethically and transparently.  4 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Our mission
T o be recognised as the 
world’s number one coloured 
gemstone company and to 
maintain our success in 
mining, distribution 
and marketing.
GRAHAM MASCALL
NON‑Ex Ecutiv E c h AiRMAN
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholder,
I am pleased to update you on one of the busiest years in Gemfields’ history, 
a year underpinned by strong operational performance at our 75% owned 
Kagem emerald mine in Zambia, despite setbacks in our anticipated auction 
schedule. While these disruptions have clearly had an adverse effect on the 
Group’s financial performance for the year, we are encouraged by the 
progress made in this area over the past few months.
Gemfields saw significant increases in emerald and beryl production 
at Kagem, which enjoyed higher grades and a decrease in gemstone and 
rock handling unit costs. This accomplishment encapsulates Gemfields’ 
commitment to improving performance at every conceivable opportunity, 
and across all of our operations.
The Group has extended this approach to the Montepuez ruby deposit 
in Mozambique. The preliminary results of the bulk sampling activities 
are encouraging with the extraction of 1.8 million carats during the year. 
Our first ruby auction is expected to take place before 30 June 2014, and will 
provide an increased level of confidence in, and understanding of, the ruby 
market and the value of our production profile. Montepuez is expected 
to add significant additional revenue to the Group. Our customers, both 
existing and new, stand to benefit from the reliable and regular supply of 
rubies that are expected to flow from Montepuez as the operation scales up.
In tandem with the growth in production this year, Gemfields’ reputation 
as the leading producer, marketer and distributor of high quality rough gems 
has developed apace, with ever‑increasing consumer appetite for our ethically 
sourced and consistently supplied coloured gemstones. The record (average) 
auction price of US$54 per carat achieved at our July 2013 emerald auction 
in Zambia (just three weeks after the close of this reporting period) clearly 
illustrates the increased demand and other benefits we continue to derive 
from our global marketing campaigns. 5 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
The three auctions originally planned for the financial year to 30 June 2013 
would undoubtedly have seen the Company report another year of solid 
financial performance. Unfortunately however, our intended auction 
schedule was impeded by the widely reported discussions between Gemfields 
and GRZ regarding their proposed ban on the auctioning of emeralds outside 
of Zambia. As a result, we managed only two auctions during the year rather 
than three, with a corresponding adverse effect on revenues. While the 
revenues from the third auction therefore did not arise in the year ending 
30 June 2013, they will do so in the year to 30 June 2014. 
We believe that it is important for Zambia to be included as one of the 
locations on an international auction circuit. To attract and sustain the 
highest attainable prices for Zambia’s gemstones, we must continue to 
do whatever it takes to support their competitiveness with respect to other 
supplying countries and competing luxury goods, ensuring direct, continued 
and expanded exposure to international markets. We remain hopeful that 
such an approach will be agreed upon in the near future.
Gemfields continues to expand both organically and via acquisitions. Trial 
mining is due to commence at Kagem’s Fibolele pit, the proposed underground 
mining expansion at Kagem’s Chama pit is being scrutinised and operations 
at the Montepuez ruby deposit continue to ramp up. We have also secured 
additional licences adjacent to Montepuez in a prolific and emerging gemstone 
district, and achieved encouraging progress toward our goal of adding a 
sizeable sapphire deposit to our asset base. Significantly, we also completed 
our acquisition of the world famous Fabergé luxury brand and business. 
The acquisition of Fabergé extended our reach across the coloured gemstone 
sector, augmenting our ‘Mine and Market’ strategy, and which is expected 
to add considerable direct and indirect value in the coming years. We have 
already observed increased confidence among our emerald customers 
(as evidenced by the most recent auction), who see our commitment to driving 
industry and consumer demand via the acquisition of Fabergé as an important 
positioning tool for coloured gemstones. Gemfields is increasingly cultivating 
an enviable rapport with leading stakeholders within the burgeoning luxury 
and coloured gemstones industry. 
Our pursuit of dynamic and targeted marketing to position Gemfields 
as an internationally renowned coloured gemstone brand culminated in the 
appointment of Mila Kunis as our brand ambassador in February of this year. 
We have grown into a unique gemstone producer, marketer and distributor, 
and Mila has assisted us greatly in telling our story to the world.
I would like to thank the management team, staff and business partners 
across all of our operations for their tireless efforts and enthusiasm in steadily 
pursuing Gemfields’ considerable ambitions, and I look to the future with 
a distinct sense of excitement.
Graham Mascall
Non‑Executive c hairman
2 October 2013
Above Aerial of c hama Pit, Kagem Mining Ltd 6 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Market Overview
Global imports of rough  
coloured gemstones (in 2011)
US$2.4 billion
 increasing by 
36
 %
The global market value of Colored Gemstone Association (“ICGA”) traditional 
coloured gemstones (emeralds, rubies, sapphires) imports reached US$2.4 billion 
in 2011, up 36% on the previous year, according to data provided by UN 
COMTRADE. In the absence of exacting and updated official data, Gemfields’ 
in‑house analysis estimates a marked value increase during the interim year to 
2012, driven by numerous factors.
Emerald
With respect to emeralds, the market value increase has been driven 
primarily by heightened levels of production from the Kagem mine. As the 
world’s largest operating emerald mine at an average output (emerald and 
beryl) of 2.5 million carats per month, Kagem continues to represent a major 
platform from which to assess market progression and trends. This continued 
and consistent supply of ethically sourced emeralds has increased consumer 
confidence in the market.
Building on historical data from the US Geological Society for global 
jurisdictions leading emerald export volume, Gemfields views Zambia, 
Colombia and Brazil as three emerald producing countries which will 
continue to reign supreme. The Company has seen sustained consumer 
demand most notably from Japan, China, India and the Gulf Cooperation 
Council countries (“GCC”). 7 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
Ruby buyers and sellers
The ruby price per carat has continued to increase by an average of 10%, year 
on year since 2010. This is primarily down to the rarity of this gemstone and 
a continued increase in demand from North America and the Far East. 
Publicly available peer analysis suggests that rubies have appreciated in 
value by as much as 47% between January 2006 and January 2013 (source: 
Gemval); a dramatic increase, even when compared with diamonds which, 
according to industry estimates, increased in value by 32% during that 
period (source: RapNet Diamond Index).
As ruby prices have increased substantially, the supply‑demand map has 
matured. Where Myanmar historically dominated the market as the top 
exporter of rubies, Africa has risen to the world stage, largely piloted by 
Mozambique. As Mozambique assumes its rank among the leading ruby 
exporting countries, Gemfields’ focus on the Montepuez ruby deposit and 
securing of additional licences, provides the Company with an invaluable 
first‑mover advantage in a major emerging gemstones district.
Amethyst, beryl, sapphire
Kariba, in which Gemfields has a 50% interest, continues to account 
for as much as 40% of global amethyst production, and the gemstone 
remains a staple amongst buyers outside of the traditional and new 
classics International Colored Gemstone Association (“ICA”) parameters. 
Synonymous with the colour of royalty, amethyst’s desirable natural state 
continues to garner favour given their relative hardness, cost, aesthetic 
variety and global opportunities for production and supply.
As evidenced by the success of our most recent high quality rough emerald 
and beryl auction at Kagem, beryl remains the subject of a buyer’s market 
and a staple in its gemstone family. Beryl demand continues to grow from 
Israel to India, supporting ongoing production in numerous global regions, 
notably West and Central Africa, led by Kagem, as well as Russia and the 
United States. 
Global gemstone trade associations continue to maintain strong demand 
guidance for blue sapphires, largely accounted for by buyers in China, the 
Far East and the United States. Sri Lanka remains a major sapphire trading 
centre and significant sources of supply include operations based in Africa, 
notably from Madagascar (source: Sri Lanka Gem and Jewellery Association 
(“SGJA”) report, July 2013). Global sapphire prices are estimated to 
have increased by as much as 37% from January 2006 to January 2013 
(source: Gemval).
top Zambian emerald rough
Middle Mozambican ruby rough
Bottom Zambian amethyst rough 8 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Our strategic goals
• 	 	 Th e 	 c o n s o l i d a t i o n 	 o f 	 th e	
coloured gemstone industry, 
with a view to become the 
ultimate industry authority.
• 	 	 Th e 	 p r o v i s i o n 	 o f 	 a 	 c o n s i s t e n t	
supply of coloured gemstones 
to the world markets.
• 	 	 T o 	 l e ad 	 th e 	 wa y 	 i n 	 c o l o u r e d	
gemstone exploration and 
operational efficiency  
and mining ethics.
IAN HAREBOTTLE
chi EF Ex Ecutiv E OFFic ER
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
2013 marked another year of growth for Gemfields across each of our 
mining and marketing divisions. At our 75% owned Kagem emerald mine in 
Zambia, production of emeralds and beryl rose by 42% to 30 million carats, 
supported by higher grades, a continued decrease in unit costs and a third 
consecutive year of zero reportable accidents, equivalent to three million 
injury‑free shifts. These reduced operating costs are a tremendous 
achievement and predominantly the result of improved mining efficiencies 
employed by Gemfields since it acquired the Kagem mine in 2007.
These operational successes were delivered concurrent to the ongoing 
high‑wall push programme at Kagem’s principal Chama pit, which has 
opened up new areas of ore to be mined for the next 18 months before 
pushback four is required; this will see the stripping ratio decrease 
accordingly for the short term.
Our continued evaluation of the expansion opportunities on our extensive 
licence area saw good progress, especially at our trial underground mining 
operation at Kagem, and the neighbouring Fibolele pit. A trial mining 
operation has been agreed to commence in 2014 at the Fibolele pit which 
will target the near surface mineralisation, allowing for a low cost, albeit, 
small‑scale operation. At the underground trial mining project, production 
continues to provide Gemfields with a high degree of confidence that a 
larger scale underground mining project could be safely and effectively 
implemented within the Zambian emerald belt, thereby increasing the 
projected life of mine at Kagem by at least 20 years. Further analysis 
remains on track in order to allow the Board to finalise development 
of a larger scale operation in 2014. 9 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
Elsewhere in Zambia, the period saw US$2.5 million invested into our 
50% owned Kariba amethyst mine, which includes US$1.25 million from 
GRZ, through ZCCM‑IH. This is the largest single cash injection that this 
operation has received to date and has allowed for the purchase of large scale 
mining equipment which will considerably increase production in 2014.
One of the main objectives from last year was to commence ruby production 
at Montepuez in Mozambique. I am pleased to report that early production 
via a bulk sampling operation commenced in August 2012, with the washing 
of this material beginning in earnest in December 2012. Adjustments to the 
processing plant, arising from the optimisation of the ore washing and 
cleaning process during trial commissioning, resulted in significantly higher 
production in the second half and produced a total of 1.8 million carats as at 
30 June 2013. This material is now being sorted and graded in line with the 
established parameters of our newly established, and proprietary, rough ruby 
grading system – a world first for this gem. We will continue to refine our 
operations at Montepuez over the coming months, but work to date has 
created an excellent platform in order for us to offer rubies to our customers 
for the first time in H1 2014.
In addition to our operational achievements, I am pleased to report the progress 
from our mergers and acquisitions team, which saw the Company enter into an 
agreement to acquire up to 330 square kilometres adjacent to our 340 square 
kilometres Montepuez licence. We remain committed to adding a significant 
sapphire deposit to our portfolio, and with the extensive efforts that we have 
directed toward the task, we remain hopeful that we are able to generate 
traction in this regard in the short to medium term.
Arguably one of the most important achievements made during the year 
was the acquisition of Fabergé, further supported by the signing of actress 
Mila Kunis as Gemfields’ global brand ambassador. These two high profile 
additions demonstrate how far the Company has come in a very short space 
of time. The perceived benefits that these two partners have had on the 
continued increase in demand, sales and achievable rough prices, are clear 
indications of the value they bring, and will continue to bring, to the Group.
Finally, I would like to thank each and every member of both our original 
Gemfields team and the newly acquired Fabergé team, your dedication is 
greatly appreciated and has not gone unnoticed. The primary reason for our 
successes to date stems from the way in which each of you has approached 
the tasks at hand, in a manner that extends far beyond doing a good job and 
is much closer to that of a lifelong passion – you are the true gems within 
our Company. It is a pleasure to share these successes with you and I look 
forward to all that the future holds for Gemfields and our shareholders.
Ian Harebottle
c hief Executive Officer
2 October 2013
Above Aerial view of Zambian landscape 10 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
   
 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
2012 2013
30
20
10
Kagem gemstone production
(emerald + beryl)
million carats
   
 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2012 2013
120
100
60
80
20
40
Kagem ore production
(reaction zone)
thousand tonnes
   
 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
2012 2013
300
250
150
200
50
100
Kagem grade (emerald + 
beryl reaction zone)
carats/tonne
1
2
1. Kagem Mining Limited
2. Kariba Minerals Limited
The Kagem licence covers an area of 
approximately 41 square kilometres, 
encompassing six known emerald 
bearing belts, and of which only 
1.78 square kilometres is currently 
being mined.
Operational and Financial Review
Kagem – operating performance
 ZAMBIA 11 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
0 1km
Scale
Libwente
Fibolele
Sandwana
Kanchule
Dabwisa
FF-Chama-F10 Pit
Fwaya-fwaya Belt
Mbuva-Chibolele
Lushingwa
Kafue River
Kafubu River
N
Key
     Gemﬁelds 
 Licence Area
     Kagem’s 
 Active 
 Mining Area
     Kagem 
 License 
 Boundary
     TMS Belts
1
2
Highlights of the year
Annual production of emerald 
and beryl increased by 42% 
to 30.0 million carats.
Emerald and beryl grade 
increased by 38% to 283 
carats per tonne.
Mining
The 75% owned Kagem emerald mine is presently Gemfields’ only operating 
emerald mine and is the single largest emerald mine in the world. 
The high‑wall pushback programme to open up new areas of ore continued 
during the year with 9.5 million tonnes of waste and talc‑ magnatite schist 
(“TMS”) mined (2012: 8.7 million tonnes). With 106,000 tonnes of reaction 
zone (ore) having been mined (2012: 103,000 tonnes), a stripping ratio of 90:1 
(2012: 84:1) was achieved. This slight increase in stripping ratio was anticipated 
due to the accelerated and expanded pushback programme. The stripping ratio 
is expected to reduce gradually in the coming year given that the third and 
fourth phases of the pushback are not required until 2015.
The pushback programme provides access to new areas of ore for future 
production and seeks to increase the ore mining rate. These efforts run in 
tandem with an ongoing drive to improve efficiencies at Kagem, which has 
seen unit production costs for the year decrease by 26% to US$0.55 per carat 
(2012: US$0.74 per carat) and cash rock handling unit costs decrease by 2% 
to US$3.35 per tonne (2012: US$3.43 per tonne). These reduced operating 
costs are predominantly the result of improved mining efficiencies delivered 
by Gemfields since it acquired the Kagem mine in 2008.
Annual gemstone production increased by 42% to 30 million carats 
(2012: 21.1 million carats) partly as a result of a 38% increase in the 
grade to 283 carats per tonne (2012: 205 carats per tonne). 
• 	 	 P r o j e c t e d 	 2 0‑ y e ar 	 l i f e‑ o f ‑ m i n e 	 p r o d u c i n g 	 a p p r o xi m a t e l y 	 3 4 	 m ill i o n	
carats per annum.
• 	 	 G e mf i e l ds 	 t o 	 c o m m e n c e 	 ac c e l e r a t e d 	 un d e r g r o un d 	 c o n s t ru c ti o n	
development in FY201 5.
• 	 	 P r o j e c t e d 	 di s c o un t e d 	 cas h 	 f l o w 	 o v e r 	 th e 	 l i f e‑ o f ‑ m i n e 	 o f	
approximately US$350 million.
Kagem Mining Limited
Kagem operations  12 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Operational and Financial Review continued
Kagem’s key annual production parameters are summarised below:
KAGEM Annual Production Summary Units
Year to  
30 June 2007
Year to  
30 June 2008
Year to  
30 June 2009
Year to 
30 June 2010
Year to 
30 June 2011
Year to 
30 June 2012
Year to 
30 June 2013
Gemstone production (emerald + beryl) million carats 9.4 9.9 28 17.4 33 21.1 30.0
Ore production (reaction zone) thousand tonnes 29 42 80 61 69 103 106
Grade (emerald + beryl/reaction zone) carats/tonne 325 233 349 286 478 205 283
Waste Mined (including TMS) million tonnes 2.8 5.1 4.0 2.5 3.9 8.7 9.5
Stripping ratio 96 120 50 42 57 84 90
The trial underground mining project at Kagem achieved total linear 
development during the year of 300 metres (2012: 283 meters) with a total 
of 4,918 tonnes of ore produced during the year (2012: 4,174 tonnes). 
The underground trial mining operation produced approximately 381,395 
carats (2012: 353,222 carats) at a grade of 77.5 carats per tonne (2012: 103.2 
carats per tonne). The decrease in grade and increase in carats produced was 
the result of trialling stope‑type operations. 
The underground trial mining project continues to provide Gemfields with 
a high degree of confidence that a larger scale underground mining project 
could be safely and effectively implemented on the Zambian emerald belts. 
This could increase the projected life‑of‑mine at Kagem by at least 20 years. 
Further analysis is under way in order to allow the Company to consider the 
investment required to implement the large scale underground operation.
At Kagem, Gemfields maintained its excellent safety record with another 
year of zero reportable accidents, and achieving three million shifts free of 
reportable injuries since taking over responsibility for the mine. The Mines 
Safety Department of Zambia awarded Kagem with a Certificate of 
Commendation in 2012 and it is a true testament to the level of professionalism 
adopted by Kagem that this standard has been maintained again this year.
During the year, US$4.6 million (2012: US$4.5 million) was invested 
in new mining and ancillary equipment, as well as the improvement 
of Kagem’s facilities.
Geology and exploration
Exploration activities at Kagem concentrated on the Fibolele and Libwente 
emerald belts, both of which are on the Kagem licence area. Exploration 
carried out in 2012, which consisted of 3,000 metres of core drilling, 
confirmed the down‑dip extension of the TMS and pegmatites to a vertical 
depth of at least 200 metres from surface. Exploration in 2013 continued 
with a total of 10,534 metres of drill core recovered from 112 boreholes. 
The drilling results allowed a bulk sample pit in the Fibolele area to be 
defined. Bulk sampling commenced in September 2012 and as at 30 June 
2013 the pit had been opened up along 170 metres of strike. The delineated 
TMS body has been exposed with associated quartz tourmaline veins, which 
are responsible for the emerald mineralisation. Three distinct mineralisation 
zones have been identified and developed to study the dynamics and yield of 
the ore. A trial mining operation will commence in 2014 and the Fibolele pit 
will benefit from a stripping ratio of approximately 40:1 as a result of the 
TMS being near the surface, allowing for a relatively low cost when 
considering the small scale of the initial operations.
Gemfields has professionalised 
the sourcing of rough emerald 
by implementing high levels 
of trust, responsibility, 
organisation, and consistency 
in the supply process. t his 
has considerably helped the 
emerald trade flourish by 
adding much needed stability 
and transparency in the 
generally erratic and ethically 
opaque global gemstone 
mining industry.
Vibhor Saraf of Trillion Emerald 13 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
Rough sales and auctions
Gemfields typically offers its rough production to selected market 
participants by way of sealed bid auctions where all gemstones tendered 
are certified by Gemfields as natural, untreated and of Zambian origin. 
Many of the world’s top gem houses and emerald lapidaries are invited 
to attend these events.
In the first half of the financial year, Gemfields held an auction of 
higher‑quality rough emeralds in Singapore. Approximately 37 companies 
from Germany, India, Israel and the United States attended this event, with 
0.93 million carats of rough emeralds offered in 19 separate lots. The sales 
from this auction totalled US$26.8 million, with 16 out of the 19 lots 
being sold. 
While there is presently no law in Zambia that prohibits the export of 
emeralds for auction purposes, in the second half of the financial year, 
Gemfields was asked by the Zambian Ministry of Mines, Energy and Water 
Development to host its auctions in Zambia rather than abroad. As a result 
of this request, Gemfields’ auction schedule was disrupted and led to only 
one auction taking place in the second half of the financial year. This auction 
was of predominantly lower quality emerald and beryl, and was held in 
Lusaka from 15–19 April 2013. Of the 31 companies invited to the auction, 
25 attended with all attendees placing at least two bids. The auction saw 
17.3 million carats of emeralds and beryl placed on offer, with 6.3 million 
carats sold, generating auction revenues of US$15.2 million.
 
 
 
 
A summary of the auctions held is set below:
Auction results October/November 2012 April 2013
Dates 29 Oct–2 Nov 2012 15–19 Apr 2013
Location Singapore Lusaka, Zambia
Type Higher quality Lower quality
Carats offered 0.93 million 17.34 million
Carats sold 0.90 million 6.30 million
Number of companies placing bids 35 25
Average number of bids per lot 11 6
Number of lots offered 19 28
Number of lots sold 16 23
Percentage of lots sold 84% 82%
Percentage of lots sold by weight 98% 36%
Percentage of lots sold by value 90% 76%
Total sales realised at auction US$26.8 million US$15.2 million
Average per carat sales value US$29.71/carat US$2.42/carat
top Gemfields’ Zambian emerald rough being examined at auction
Above Gemfields’ auction in Singapore, November 2012 14 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Operational and Financial Review continued
Gemfields continues to interact with GRZ (which owns 25% of Kagem) in 
seeking to optimise the competitiveness of Zambian emeralds, and in selling 
them in a manner and in locations which optimise the prices received. 
Security
The safety and security of Gemfields’ assets, protecting its people and 
limiting the theft of gemstones remain key operational priorities. Security 
initiatives implemented to date continue to yield positive results, as shown 
by the reduction in the volume of material available in the local, informal 
markets. However, the reduction of theft and physically securing the sizeable 
mining licence area remain ongoing challenges.
During the year, the existing CCTV infrastructure was further upgraded at 
the Kagem sort‑house and ore washing plant. CCTV was also installed in the 
newly completed sort‑house extension and the radio communication system 
was digitised and its range of coverage extended. 
Above c hama Pit, Kagem
Some of the unheated rubies 
from Montepuez combine 
a rich colour with excellent 
crystallisation qualities 
producing truly beautiful gems 
with a deep red colour, high 
transparency and fine lustre.
Vincent Pardieu,  
GIA Laboratory Bangkok 15 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
Montepuez 
In 2012, Gemfields completed the acquisition of a 75% interest in 
Montepuez Ruby Mining Limitada, which owns the Montepuez ruby 
deposit in Mozambique. The licence covers an area of 340 square kilometres 
and is believed to represent the most significant global ruby discovery 
in recent years. 
During the year, Gemfields completed construction of the core infrastructure 
required for bulk‑sampling operations. This included the base camp, sort 
house and the design, fabrication and commissioning of a pilot, semi‑mobile, 
ore processing plant to test the characteristics of the ore.
Preliminary bulk sampling commenced in August 2012, with the washing 
of this material beginning in earnest in December 2012 following the 
installation and trial commissioning of a 50 tonnes of ore per hour washing 
plant. The washing plant achieved its initial design capacity by the end 
of the financial year.
Approximately 89,731 tonnes were excavated and 13,285 tonnes of material 
were washed during the year. Adjustments to the processing plant – arising 
from the optimisation of the ore washing and cleaning process during 
commissioning – resulted in significantly higher production in the second 
half of the financial year. Gemfields continues to evaluate data from the bulk 
sampling operation and is considering the purchase of a DMS (dense media 
separation) plant to further increase production. Montepuez will continue 
to refine its operations during the months ahead, but the work completed 
to date has created an excellent platform to continue to learn more about 
the prolific ruby occurrences within the licence area.
Gemfields was also delighted to host a visit during the year by His Excellency 
Armando Guebuza, the President of Mozambique.
Montepuez’s key ore assessment parameters for the financial year are 
summarised below:
•	 A total of 89,731 tonnes were excavated from the “Maninge‑Nice”, 
“Central” and “Glass‑A” areas. This included 58,113 tonnes of waste top 
soil, mineralised overburden of 10,307 tonnes, alluvial gravel bed of 9,076 
tonnes, a mix of gravel bed and in‑situ ore of 113 tonnes and exclusive 
in‑situ ore of 7,209 tonnes; 
•	 A total of 13,285 tonnes of excavated materials were washed;
•	 The highest recoveries in each of the “Maninge‑Nice”, “Central” and 
“Glass‑A” (maximum grade 150 carats per tonne) were achieved from 
the alluvial gravel bed layer; 
•	 An average recovery of 31.2 carats per tonne was achieved from the 
mineralised overburden, 110.0 carats per tonne from the gravel bed, while 
31.9 carats per tonne was achieved from the mix of gravel bed and in‑situ 
ore; and 
•	 1.8 million carats of rubies were recovered.
Montepuez’s total capitalised costs (excluding capitalised infrastructure costs) 
for the 12 months ending 30 June 2013 totalled US$4.6 million. T otal investment 
in property, plant and equipment at 30 June 2013 stood at US$7 .4 million.
top Ruby rough being sorted at Montepuez Ruby Mine
Above Ruby rough from Montepuez 16 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Development of a comprehensive grading and sorting framework for rough 
rubies, based on similar principles to those successfully applied by Gemfields 
to emeralds and amethyst, was initiated during the year. This system, the 
first of its kind for rubies, requires the categorising of a sizeable number of 
ruby grades and will be deployed in advance of Gemfields’ first ruby auction, 
which is expected before 30 June 2014. 
During the period, Gemfields entered into a conditional agreement to 
acquire a controlling interest in an additional ruby deposit located adjacent 
to Montepuez. The agreement included the initial acquisition of a 75% 
interest in one exploration licence, with a one year option to acquire 75% 
of a second licence, covering 18.4 square kilometres and 14.9 square 
kilometres respectively.
Geology and exploration
Montepuez rubies are hosted by alluvial material (derived by secondary 
deposition and typically made up of a variety of materials), eluvial 
material (derived by in‑situ weathering of the primary deposit), and 
primary underlying amphibolite. The latter is part of the Montepuez 
Complex, a suite of metamorphosed sedimentary rocks (amphibolite‑grade 
schists and gneisses) that are intruded by granite, granodiorite, and tonalite. 
In the deeply weathered area, the eluvium appears to lie directly on 
Montepuez gneisses, which are cross‑cut by light‑coloured veins mostly 
weathered to clay. These veins extend up to 20cm in thickness and 
most probably originally consisted of syenitic (silica‑deficient) 
pegmatites and aplites.
The core area includes an east‑west striking low‑magnetic highly folded 
signature which correlates with the amphibolite as is intersected in the 
“Central” area. Also associated with this are several radiogenic (high 
potassium) signatures which correlate with the known mineralised areas 
in the “core area” and at the “Ntoro” occurrence. These high potassium 
signatures may represent intrusive lithologies, potassium rich alteration 
due to fluids, or possible potassic pegmatites. Similar signatures are 
also present at the ruby mineralised “Namahaca” occurrence.
The exploration programme for the Montepuez licence area is designed – 
considering the above geological information – to generate a solid base map 
with sufficient subsurface data to understand the extent of mineralisation and 
to define the trend of the amphibolites (the primary mineralisation) as well as 
the alluvial/regolith deposit. Ore grades have been initially assessed through 
exploration pits. Work continues on the applicability of various geophysical/
geochemical methods required to conduct exploration in virgin areas of the 
vast license area. 
Exploration includes:
•	 Definition of the primary (amphibolite/pegmatite) and secondary 
(alluvial) ore geometry (boundaries/thickness/depth) through core drilling 
in regular grid pattern;
•	 Digging of small test pits at regular intervals across strike;
•	 Estimation of the ore grade through larger exploration pits;
•	 Bulk sampling in target areas;
•	 Delineation of ‘negative areas’ for planning of waste dumps/service areas; and
•	 Testing the applicability of various geophysical/geochemical 
methodologies.
Various exploration targets have been identified within the licence area and 
being assessed for priority. Rock sampling by pitting and drilling continues 
in the “Maninge‑Nice”, “Ntoro” and “Glass A” areas.
Operational and Financial Review continued
top Ruby rough being graded at Montepuez
Above c ore drilling at Montepuez 17 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
Security
The physical protection systems at Montepuez consist of a balanced blend 
of three fundamental security elements:
•	 Architectural (barriers, locks and lighting systems etc);
•	 Operational (guarding services, quick reaction teams, and an intervention 
team which includes Mozambican police); and
•	 Infrastructure (CCTV systems, security communication and access 
control systems).
The security setup has been established to address personnel and equipment 
safety, and to minimise internal and external theft potential. The prevailing 
security setup at Montepuez has contributed to a significant reduction in 
illegal mining activity on the licence area since Gemfields first began 
operations in the area in early 2012.
Kariba 
Kariba is the world’s single largest operating amethyst mine. During 
the year, GRZ elected to transfer its 50% stake in Kariba (with Gemfields 
owning the remaining 50%) to the state‑owned resources holding company, 
ZCCM‑IH. While the transfer of these shares has yet to be completed, 
Gemfields and ZCCM‑IH agreed to recapitalise the Kariba operations with 
US$2.5 million (with each party contributing their US$1.25 million during 
the year). This is the largest single cash injection that Kariba has received 
to date. Mining and processing equipment has been purchased with a view 
to doubling monthly revenue during 2014.
As at 1 September 2013, all rehabilitation and construction projects were 
95% complete and within budget including:
•	 Rehabilitation of the sort‑house;
•	 Construction of the new workshop; and
•	 Improvements to the washing plant, water management and low grade 
stock management areas.
Mining development includes plans to connect the Francis pits (Main Francis, 
Lower Francis, Top Francis west and Sinamaani pits) and to operate the Basil 
and Curlew pits over the coming months.
Oriental Mining SARL
Gemfields owns 100% of Oriental Mining SARL (“Oriental”), a company 
incorporated in Madagascar. Oriental has 15 exploration licences covering 
emeralds, rubies, sapphires, tourmalines and garnets in the Antananarivo, 
Fianarantsoa and Toliara provinces of Madagascar. In addition, Oriental has 
the right to five exploration licences that are pending transfer approval from 
the Madagascan Ministry of Energy and Mines.
Madagascar is recognised as one of the most exciting coloured gemstone 
provinces in the world, with several key discoveries made during the last 
decade. Gemfields believes that, in the medium to long term, gemstone‑related 
activity in the country has the potential to become a valuable part of the 
Group’s asset portfolio. Given Madagascar’s improving political and security 
environment, Gemfields has begun to increase its level of in‑country focus.
During the year, Gemfields completed the preliminary geological evaluation 
on 20 licence areas with nine licence areas identified as being either 
prospective or highly‑prospective. Second stage geological investigation on 
the key target sites was initiated during the second half of the year to evaluate 
potential emerald, ruby and sapphire targets.
Above Zambian amethyst vein  18 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Fabergé 
During the year, Gemfields completed the acquisition of 100% of Fabergé. 
The consideration was satisfied by the issue of 213,999,999 new Gemfields’ 
shares, with a market price of 42.22 US cents per share (26.83p), totalling 
US$90 million at the date of completion. 
Included in the group results for Gemfields is a loss in respect of Fabergé 
of US$6.9 million. This loss represents a five month trading period which 
management are reviewing and implementing strategies to achieve 
profitability at Fabergé in the medium term.
Fabergé is one of the world’s most recognised luxury brand names, 
underscored by a well‑documented and globally recognised heritage. This 
acquisition, which was completed on 28 January 2013, enables Gemfields 
to take its vision for coloured gemstones to the next level, harnessing the 
Fabergé name to boost the international presence and perception of 
coloured gemstones and to advance the ‘Mine and Market’ vision.
The first steps in this approach were taken in April at BaselWorld 2013. 
Following the acquisition and an internal strategic review, the core positioning 
of the brand has been defined as ‘The Art of Colour’, with Fabergé’s design 
teams concentrating on creating new jewellery pieces and collections that 
reflect the artistic use of coloured gemstones in support of this new brand 
strategy. Various other steps have also been implemented, including the 
appointment of a new Chief Operating Officer with a proven track record 
within the luxury sector, who will further optimise the operations and the 
alignment of its marketing efforts and product offerings to support increased 
sales opportunities and the sustainable growth of the brand. 
Customer response to the progress made at Fabergé is evidenced by the brand 
achieving record revenues, margins and unit sales during the reporting period. 
Fabergé launched its first ad campaign under the new Gemfields strategy 
after the year end, entitled ‘The Art of Colour’. The first campaign image 
depicts the Fabergé ‘Emotion’ rings, which showcase pavé‑set coloured 
gemstones and are enjoying strong client interest. Each ring is unique 
and is set with over 300 coloured gemstones.
In December 2012, in Kiev, Fabergé opened its first standalone store owned and 
operated by a local partner. The store, which purchases its stock from Fabergé 
at wholesale prices, has already reported robust onward sales to consumers. 
Mergers and acquisitions
Gemfields is increasingly consolidating its position as a global leader in the 
exploration, mining and marketing of coloured gemstones. Considerable 
potential remains with respect to the further development and consolidation 
of this sector, and a small mergers and acquisitions project team has been 
established within Gemfields.
During the year, Gemfields secured additional licences adjacent to Montepuez 
in Mozambique and acquired the world famous Fabergé luxury brand.
Gemfields continues to evaluate opportunities involving the three precious 
coloured gemstones (emeralds, rubies and sapphires) and, during the year, 
entered into an initial memorandum of understanding in respect of sapphire 
licences in India. Due diligence is ongoing.
Operational and Financial Review continued
You don’t want to endorse 
something that you don’t 
believe in… i believe in this 
company and i believe in what 
they stand for, and they’ve been 
so great at letting me be a part 
of anything. i chose them in the 
same way that they chose me 
and i have honestly never 
worked for a better company.
Mila Kunis interviewed by British V ogue 19 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
Marketing and communications
Appointment of Mila Kunis as Global Brand Ambassador
Gemfields’ marketing and communications aptitude has grown markedly 
during the year. With the Josephine Skriver ‘Rare Coloured Gemstone’ 
campaign running throughout 2012, the marketing team was able to sign 
the actress Mila Kunis as its global brand ambassador. Mila has featured in 
Gemfields’ 2013 advertising campaign, endorsing Gemfields as the world’s 
leading coloured gemstone mining company and further building aspiration 
for coloured gemstones among consumers. She visited the Kagem emerald 
mine in early 2013 and a film made during her trip has since featured on 
the Gemfields website. 
The partnership with Mila Kunis was announced in Los Angeles on 
19 February 2013. The first advertising campaign, captured by the renowned 
photographer Mario Sorrenti, launched in April 2013 in leading luxury 
publications around the world. The PR initiative surrounding the 
announcement saw coverage by international media outlets in the UK, 
Europe, Africa, USA, China and India. In addition to the campaign, 
Mila Kunis wore Gemfields’ coloured gemstones on the red carpet 
at several international film premieres.
Advertising campaign
As part of Gemfields’ ongoing global marketing strategy, the Company 
undertook several international advertising initiatives, in addition to print 
and digital advertising, in target markets such as North America, Europe, 
UAE, India and Asia. Examples of the initiatives undertaken included 
sponsoring the arrivals terminal at Cape Town International Airport during 
the international ‘Mining Indaba – Investing in Africa’ conference in 
February 2013, co‑sponsoring the Retail Jewellery Awards in India alongside 
Rio Tinto in June 2013, and sponsoring the IIFA Awards with Gitanjali 
in July 2012.
Global Launch Event
In March 2013, Gemfields held its ‘Global Launch Event’ in London. 
The event showcased the acquisition of Fabergé and the appointment of 
Mila Kunis as Gemfields’ global brand ambassador, and was combined with 
a jewellery exhibition of 36 bespoke coloured gemstone pieces created by 
some of the most prestigious designers in the industry. The ‘Global Launch 
Event’ continued into North America, with Gemfields hosting an event at 
the Couture Show in Las Vegas in June 2013 and to India, visiting Mumbai, 
Delhi, Bangalore and Calcutta.
New consumer website
The new Gemfields consumer website was launched in March 2013 
in co‑ordination with the ‘Global Launch Event’.
New offices
In September 2012, Gemfields opened a marketing and sales office in 
New York to spearhead the Group’s growth in the US market. 
Collaboration
Gemfields has continued to work in collaboration with some of the industry’s 
leading jewellery designers to incorporate Gemfields’ gemstones into fine 
jewellery pieces. Collaborations in the period included Alexandra Mor, 
Amrapali, Dominic Jones, Monica Vinader, Solange Azagury‑Partridge, 
Shaun Leane, Stephen Webster, Theo Fennel and The Gem Palace of Jaipur.
Above Gemfields digital banner advertisement 20 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
The 2013 Zambian Emerald Summit
In order to facilitate dialogue between key stakeholders within the emerald 
industry, Gemfields hosted the first ever ‘Zambian Emerald Summit’ 
in Lusaka, Zambia from 30–31 May 2013. The summit, which comprised 
of presentations, panel discussions and Q&A sessions, and considered 
inter‑alia, how the Zambian emerald sector might best be developed into 
a world leader. International experts, bankers, government representatives 
and key industry stakeholders in the region were invited to participate. 
The event was well received.
Public relations
Gemfields continues to receive consistent, high quality press coverage 
in global luxury publications. To supplement this coverage, the Company 
attended a multitude of worldwide trade shows to showcase its products 
in collaboration with a variety of jewellery designers.
Gemfields has also agreed to selectively sponsor several unique events 
including the ‘International Herald Tribune conference’ in November 2013 
and the ‘Cheapside Hoard’ in London, an event which showcases an 
extraordinary and priceless cache of late 16th and early 17th century jewels 
and gemstones discovered in 1901, buried in a cellar in Cheapside in London.
In addition, public relations efforts were made in Zambia to promote 
Gemfields’ principal asset, the Kagem emerald mine. 
Fabergé
Fabergé undertook a large number of marketing initiatives in the period 
including hosting the ‘Then & Now’ exhibition of pre‑1917 antique Fabergé 
pieces in Hong Kong in September 2012. This was accompanied by a trunk 
show in which the sales team organised appointments with VIP clients 
alongside extensive press briefings with the Asian press.
Other events saw Fabergé collaborate with private jet company VistaJet on the 
‘Egg Miles’ project. A selection of limited‑edition Fabergé fine jewellery egg 
pendants were made available for purchase on board selected VistaJet aircraft. 
Fabergé attended BaselWorld, the world’s largest watch and jewellery fair 
in April 2013. The team organised appointments with over 200 members 
of the international press and media, and promoted the latest jewellery 
and watch collections.
During the course of the year Fabergé dressed a number of celebrities 
including Kate Hudson, Diane Kruger, Naomi Watts, Amy Adams, 
Andrea Riseborough, Keira Knightley, Kristin Davis, Lana del Rey, 
Amber le Bon and Erin O’Connor.
Fabergé organised a series of private dinners and intimate events with 
high‑net‑worth individuals in London, Geneva, New York and Cap Ferrat, 
and which included collaborations with partners such as Barclays Private 
Wealth, Coutts and Rothschild.
Post reporting period events
July Auction
From 15–19 July 2013, after the end of the financial year, an auction of 
predominantly higher quality emeralds was held in Lusaka, Zambia and 
yielded aggregate revenues of US$31.5 million, the second highest aggregate 
auction revenues achieved to date. The auction generated a record average 
price of US$54.00 per carat (reflecting an increase of 26% over the previous 
high of US$42.71 per carat, achieved in the July 2011 Singapore auction).
Operational and Financial Review continued
top Ring by Alexandra Mor with Gemfields’ Zambian emerald
Above Sean Gilbertson presents at the 2013 Zambian Emerald 
Summit, Lusaka 21 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
Production update – Montepuez
Bulk sampling activities have continued and monthly gemstone extraction 
has increased at Montepuez. In each of the months of July and August, 
close to 1 million carats were produced. The ramp‑up continues and a target 
production rate of 2.5 million carats per month is expected during 2014.
Production update at Kariba
On 1 September 2013, the rehabilitation and construction projects facilitated 
by the US$2.5 million recapitalisation of Kariba by Gemfields and GRZ, 
were 95% complete and within budget.
Change of Group Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
The Company is pleased to announce the appointment of Ms Janet Blas as 
Group Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary. Janet has replaced 
Mr Mark Summers who has relocated to be with his family in Australia. 
Outlook and objectives for the year ahead
Objectives:
•	 Continue to increase the scale and volume of emerald production 
at Kagem through:
 – Development of the large scale underground mine plan for Kagem;
 – Development of a bulk sampling programme at the Fibolele pit;
•	 Ramp up commercial production at Montepuez to 2.5 million carats 
of rubies per month;
•	 Continue to increase the level of marketing and promotion being carried 
out in relation to each of our current ranges of core products, including 
emeralds, rubies, amethyst and Fabergé jewellery;
•	 Continue the transformation process within Fabergé, ensuring our ability 
to position it as the recognised ‘go‑to’ jeweller for fine to high‑end 
jewellery and coloured gemstones; and
•	 Leverage Gemfields’ clear strategic advantages within the coloured 
gemstone sector and look to use these to drive additional organic and 
acquisition‑driven growth to position Gemfields as the world’s leader 
in the mining, marketing and the supply of precious coloured gemstones.
Outlook
Gemfields remains in an exciting growth phase spurred by a unique portfolio 
of complimentary and high‑potential assets spanning exploration, mining, 
marketing and luxury. 
The Group has continued to see an increase in gemstone prices year on year, 
reflecting a combination of its dynamic marketing efforts and the reliable 
and regular gemstone supply. Emerald production at Kagem continues to 
look promising, and the proposed expansions, both underground and at 
new pits, hold much potential for growth. 
Rubies typically command significant premiums to emeralds and the 
progress at the Montepuez sets the stage for exciting developments in the 
ruby market in 2014. With its recent recapitalisation, new equipment and 
processing plant, Kariba’s fortunes should improve markedly. The prospective 
addition of sapphires to the Gemfields stable would complete the ambition 
of producing the ‘big three’ precious coloured gemstones, being emeralds, 
rubies and sapphires.
Finally, developments at Fabergé, which resulted in record revenues, 
margins and unit sales during the reporting period, look set to continue, 
underpinning a similar trajectory in the year ahead. 
Above Fabergé Emotion rings 22 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
This is the first time we have included our Corporate Social Responsibility 
(“CSR”) programme in our Annual Report. For this reason, in addition to 
describing the year’s activities and achievements, we have appended a copy 
of our new CSR mission statement: What we believe in. As a result of the 
Company’s growth we feel the time has come to further strengthen our 
commitment to CSR. It is our plan to appoint a non‑executive main board 
director, who will be responsible for overseeing CSR activities, as well as a 
senior manager to be based in London. Gemfields is perceived as an ethical 
producer of coloured gemstones and we are aware of how important it is to 
incorporate socially responsible business practices into our operations. 
Activity for the year ended 30 June 2013
Montepuez, Mozambique
The main focus of CSR activity for the year 2012–13 has been centered 
on the Mozambican project at Namanhumbir, Mozambique. As the project 
has grown exponentially since acquisition in January 2012, the need for 
meaningful community projects has also grown. Montepuez has employed 
a dedicated community relations manager to oversee all community‑based 
projects. Major projects undertaken include; the construction of two 
drinking water wells for the villages of Namanhumbir, Nacoja and 
Minheune; the purchase of two tractors for the use of local farmers; the 
construction and renovation of schools in the villages of Npene, Nsewe, 
and Nanune; the rehabilitation of the maternity ward at Mirate; construction 
of sports facilities at Namanhumbir and purchase of sports equipment for 
several local teams. To date we have also contributed to two important 
community projects in Namanhumbir, namely a complete upgrade of the 
village market facilities and the renovation of the local school. Montepuez 
has also contributed to several smaller projects that have made a real 
difference to people’s lives in the immediate area, which include the 
upgrade and maintenance of various roads, several community events 
and direct aid to victims of flooding.
Corporate Social Responsibility 
For Gemfields c SR is not 
simply about ticking boxes. We 
wish to integrate the principles 
we believe in into every area 
of our business.
Ian Harebottle, Chief Executive Officer
Above v ictoria Falls, Zambia 23 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
Kagem, Zambia
CSR activity at Kagem has been primarily focused on the running and 
maintaining of projects that were initiated in the last few years. These 
projects were developed in conjunction with key local stakeholders with 
a view to creating long‑term sustainable benefits for the local population. 
Highlights of the programme include; the construction of three classrooms 
and sporting facilities for the village of Chapula; three classrooms and 
sporting facilities for the community of Kapila; clinics for the communities 
of Nkana and Pilala and outreach programmes with local cooperative 
farming projects, who sell fresh produce directly to the mine. Furthermore, 
Kagem has ensured the ongoing upkeep of the schools by supplying 
permanent maintenance staff, and constructed 11 kilometres of gravelled 
roads to facilitate access for local communities.
The community relations manager based at Kagem has identified projects 
for future development that are in line with Gemfields’ development 
goals. These include the construction of a secondary school at Chapula, 
a vocational skills training centre at Chantete and mini hospital facilities 
at Nkana, which are already under way.
World Land Trust 
Gemfields support the work of the World Land Trust (“WLT”), 
an international wildlife conservation charity that takes action to save 
threatened habitats and species worldwide. Over the last 24 years, WLT 
and its network of in‑country project partners have been instrumental 
in the purchase and protection of over 400,000 acres of tropical forest 
and other threatened habitats in 20 countries.
Gemfields have been supporting the WLT since 2010. The financial 
donations provided to WLT help support its conservation programmes with 
26 worldwide partners all working on the ground to save real acres, in real 
places. During 2012, WLT supporters enabled its worldwide partners to 
purchase 18,780 acres of threatened habitats. In addition to the land purchase 
work, WLT also provides support to its overseas project partners to help 
protect the reserves that have been created through their Keepers of the 
Wild programme.
Gemfields is working with WLT to ensure that its environmental credentials 
meet the highest possible standards. And to this end Gemfields have already 
funded studies of the biodiversity and socioeconomic status of the people 
around the Kagem mine. Over the next few years, as funding becomes 
available, when appropriate, the recommendations of these studies will 
be implemented.
Expenditure
Gemfields remains committed to the local communities living in and 
around the areas in which it operates. Over this period, Gemfields has spent in 
excess of US$100,000 on community‑based projects. In addition amounts have 
been set aside by Montepuez and Kagem for environmental regeneration once 
operations cease. Furthermore, Gemfields is committed to the provision of 
medical programmes for all of Kagem’s employees as part of its commitment 
to maintaining a healthy workforce, and purchased a fully equipped 
ambulance at each of its Kagem and Montepuez operations for the use 
of all mine employees.
top Zambian elephant
Above Bird life, Zambia 24 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
New CSR policy
Gemfields has decided to overhaul the way it conducts its community 
projects across the Group in order to take a more unified approach. 
The overall aim of the new CSR policy is to ensure that local communities 
benefit from the presence of Gemfields in a way that is both sustainable and 
meaningful, and will continue to yield results after operations cease. To this 
end, the Company is currently searching for a group CSR Manager with a 
view to creating a group CSR department. In August 2013, the Company 
held a seminar for senior management and key members of the WLT, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers’ sustainability unit and the University of East 
Anglia in order to identify key issues facing the Group and form a cohesive 
CSR strategy for the coming years. Please see the resulting CSR statement 
established by Gemfields’ senior management on the pages that follow.
Key points of the new strategy include fixing a percentage of sales from each 
mine as the budget for CSR programmes and deciding to focus on projects 
that will bring long‑term and meaningful benefits to the communities that 
we operate in. These include broad‑based educational and vocational projects 
such as model farms and tree nurseries that will teach local communities 
about sustainable agriculture techniques, develop transferable agrarian 
expertise, and provide fresh produce that can be sold back to the mine. 
Furthermore, the nursery will provide the mine with the resources it needs 
to regenerate the land back to its natural state once operations cease. Other 
plans include partnering with worthwhile local or regional non‑governmental 
organisations and environmental projects because we realise that mining 
operations are environmentally disruptive, and we want to ensure that 
we are doing our part to safeguard local biodiversity.
This is not about ticking boxes
There is barely a company in the world of any size that doesn’t boast a 
CSR policy. For many, I suspect, CSR is viewed as a cost of doing business 
and largely an exercise in ticking boxes. Such companies commission some 
reports, give some money to charity, engage in some community activities, 
reduce their carbon footprint and announce to the world that they are ethical.
At Gemfields we aspire to be more than that. I use the word ‘aspire’ 
advisedly. We have found it isn’t easy. When we started our operations in 
2009 we took some significant first steps towards being the sort of business 
that makes CSR central to its philosophy. Then the demands of running a 
rapidly expanding group of companies in an extremely challenging sector 
took its toll. CSR wasn’t entirely neglected, but nor did it enjoy the emphasis 
we would have liked.
Now we have taken a decision to invest more resources into this important 
area. We have allocated a larger budget to the programme and we are in the 
process of developing a plan to take us through to the end of 2016. To put 
everything into context we are also publishing this guide: What we believe in. 
For Gemfields CSR is not simply about ticking boxes. We wish to integrate 
the principles we believe in into every area of our business.
I see CSR as a work in progress and welcome input from all our stakeholders.
Ian Harebottle
c hief Executive Officer
Corporate Social Responsibility continued
Our approach has set 
new benchmarks for 
environmental, social and 
safety standards within the 
sector; and by doing so is 
able to provide discerning 
customers the assurance 
they require of the responsible 
journey their gemstones have 
taken from mine, to market. 25 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
What we believe in 
This short document, prepared and approved by the Board of Gemfields, 
sets out the principles by which we run our business. 
We believe in behaving in as ethical a way as we know how. For us the 
cornerstones of ethical behaviour are honesty, integrity and transparency. 
We strive to:
•	 Take every conceivable measure to avoid harming people;
•	 Protect the environment;
•	 Contribute in a meaningful way to the societies in which we operate;
•	 Publicly report on our performance;
•	 Ensure that we promote best practice in everything we do; and
•	 Create a culture by which all our employees share our goals.
It is our duty to look after the interests of our customers, employees, 
shareholders, suppliers and society as a whole.
It is the responsibility of our managers to lead by example and to ensure that 
all our employees understand the principles underpinning our business.
Deeds not words
We are a relatively young company and when we launched our corporate 
social responsibility initiatives our approach was with significant enthusiasm 
and resources.
As we have gained in experience, however, we have come to realise that 
a better policy would be to let our actions speak for themselves.
This is because although we have had some notable successes we have become 
increasingly aware that we could be doing more. In fact, we now realise that 
it is impossible to ever do enough.
Going forward our policy will be to advise our stakeholders, in plain English 
and without hyperbole, what we have achieved and what we intend to achieve.
Transparency
We operate in a sector where we are regularly faced with complex challenges. 
Sometimes it comes down to deciding on the best, if not perfect, of several 
options. Our policy is to acknowledge this and to be open about our 
decision making process as part of our values and efforts to continue 
to promote transparency.
Above Kagem employee 26 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Taking responsibility
Our primary business activity is the mining of precious coloured gemstones. 
Some of the challenges we face include:
•	 Ensuring the safety, health and welfare of our employees in extremely 
remote locations that lack basic infrastructure.
•	 Operating in countries where bribery and corruption may be endemic.
•	 Operating in countries where land rights can be complicated, uncertain 
and unjust.
•	 Operating in countries where legislation may be inadequate to protect 
both people and the environment and/or erratically enforced.
•	 Avoiding the displacement of indigenous people and, where it occurs 
(or has occurred in the past), protecting their interests and ensuring 
their future welfare. 
•	 Providing tangible and meaningful benefits to the local communities 
in which we operate.
•	 Providing meaningful alternative forms of sustainable employment for 
artisanal and small‑scale miners.
•	 Protecting the environment in the areas in which we operate given that 
our core activity requires damage to the natural environment.
•	 Providing tangible and meaningful benefits to the entire population 
of the countries in which we operate.
We acknowledge that we have chosen to engage in a demanding sector. 
We believe that the advantage of this is that there is greater scope to do good. 
As a company we take full responsibility for all our decisions and actions 
and welcome comment and constructive criticism.
Duty of care
We have a duty of care to our employees, the communities in which we 
operate, the flora and fauna in the area where we operate and the people 
of the countries in which we operate. We take this duty of care very 
seriously and aim to achieve best practice in everything we do.
Below we set out our principles. To understand how we apply these principles 
we recommend reading our CSR Plan.
Our employees
Our employees’ welfare is of paramount importance to us. We make every 
effort to ensure that our workplaces are safe and secure. We pay fair and 
competitive wages. We supply safety equipment and, where relevant, 
transport. We aim to offer other benefits to our employees such as clean, 
comfortable onsite accommodation, food and health care. We do not exploit 
our employees. We do not, for instance, employ children in our mines, 
by which we mean anyone under the age of 18.
The communities in which we operate
We wish to benefit the communities in which we operate in a meaningful 
way. We believe in consulting those communities in order to ascertain how 
to best support them, and so that they are involved in the decisions affecting 
their future.
Corporate Social Responsibility continued
top Football kit provided by Montepuez for local teams
Middle Women from the farming co‑operative
Bottom Produce from the farming co‑operative 27 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Governance Financial Statements Business Review Company Overview
The environment
We understand the importance of the environment. It is our long‑term goal 
to restore the areas we mine in such a way as to encourage the maximum 
biodiversity. It is our short‑term goal to protect the biodiversity of the areas 
we mine as best as possible. It is our overall goal to minimise our effect on the 
environment and to be as sustainable a business as it is as possible for us to be.
The people of the countries in which we operate
We wish to benefit the countries in which we operate in a meaningful way 
through the payment of tax and by other means such as the provision of 
employment, education, healthcare, infrastructure and other facilities.
Complying with the law
Naturally, it is our policy to comply with all the laws of all the countries 
in which we operate. In particular, we do not condone bribery and/or other 
forms of corruption. Any director or employee found to have engaged in 
any corrupt or illegal activity faces instant dismissal.
Doing more than the law requires
The laws of the countries in which we operate require us to maintain certain 
standards with regard to such areas as employee welfare, environmental care, 
health and safety and so forth. It is generally our aim to do more in all such 
areas than the law requires of us.
Political support
We will not make political donations.
top Entrance to Kapila c ommunity School, Lufwanyama
Above Students from the Kapila c ommunity School, Lufwanyama 28 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Board of Directors
Graham Mascall
Non‑Executive Chairman
Ian Harebottle
Chief Executive Officer
Devidas Shetty
Chief Operating Officer 
Sean Gilbertson
Executive Director
Finn Behnken
Non‑Executive Director
Clive Newall
Non‑Executive Director
Experience Graham Mascall graduated 
in 1969 as a mining engineer 
from the Camborne School of 
Mines and gained a Master of 
Engineering, Mineral Economics 
from McGill University, 
Montreal in 1972. He developed 
his career in the mining finance 
sector and from 1997 to 2001 
held various senior level positions 
with Billiton PLC.
Ian was appointed as Chief 
Executive Officer of Gemfields 
on 12 February 2009 and 
is a veteran of the coloured 
gemstone industry. Ian has 
been instrumental in pioneering 
many of the coloured gemstone 
industry’s most innovative 
strategies and has extensive 
operational experience spanning 
both mining and marketing. 
He graduated in 1985 and holds 
a Graduate Diploma in 
Management from Henley.
Devidas Shetty was appointed 
Chief Financial Officer of 
Gemfields on 1 January 2010, he 
was promoted to Chief Operating 
Officer in September 2012. 
He is a chartered accountant 
by profession, with more than 
15 years of experience in start‑ups, 
mergers and acquisitions, business 
turnaround, strategic planning, 
treasury, tax and financial 
reporting. Prior to joining 
Gemfields, Devidas worked 
with an Indian conglomerate and 
private equity firm in London.
Sean Gilbertson graduated 
as a mining engineer from the 
University of the Witwatersrand 
in South Africa in 1994, having 
spent time in the country’s 
deep‑level gold and platinum 
mines. From 1995 he worked for 
Deutsche Bank AG and Deutsche 
Morgan Grenfell in Frankfurt 
and London specialising in 
project finance. He co‑founded 
globalCOAL in 1998 and was 
appointed chief executive officer 
in 2001 when the business was 
acquired by industry players 
including inter alia, Anglo 
American PLC, BHP‑Billiton 
Ltd, Glencore International AG 
and Rio Tinto PLC. He joined 
the office of Brian Gilbertson in 
late 2003, working on a variety 
of natural resource projects, 
culminating in the establishment 
of Pallinghurst Resources LLP 
in 2005.
Finn Behnken graduated as 
a mining engineer from the 
University of the Witwatersrand, 
South Africa in 1994, having 
worked in coal and gold mining. 
He furthered his career by 
specialising in mining finance 
and spent almost 10 years with 
South Africa’s Nedbank Ltd 
serving, inter alia, as a 
non‑executive director in relation 
to certain mining investments 
productions. Nedbank moved 
him to London in 2006 to 
develop their international 
business. He has had wide 
ranging interaction with small 
and mid‑size listed mining 
companies, across the commodity 
spectrum and has travelled 
extensively visiting mines 
around the globe.
Clive Newall graduated from 
the Royal School of Mines in 
1971 and has an MBA from the 
Scottish Business School. He is 
President and Non‑Executive 
Director of First Quantum 
Minerals Ltd. Earlier in his career 
he held senior management 
positions with Amax Exploration 
Inc and the Robertson Group.
External  
appointments 
He has also held the following 
positions of responsibility: 
Director of Morgan Grenfell 
International; Vice President 
(Corporate Development) 
of Outokumpu Metals & 
Resources; Assistant Director 
of Kleinwort Benson Securities; 
Assistant Director (Mining 
Finance) at Barclays Bank; 
Non‑Exectuive Director of 
Ncondezi Energy; and 
Independent Director of Walter 
Energy, Inc. Graham has been a 
Director of the Company since 
29 November 2004.
Sean is a partner of Pallinghurst 
Resources LLP and a director 
of certain Pallinghurst 
portfolio companies.
Finn is presently residing 
in South Africa and is Chief 
Executive Officer for Tshipi é 
Ntle Manganese Mining who 
are developing a R1.7 billion 
new open pit manganese mine. 
Finn has been a Director of the 
Company since 6 June 2008.
More recently, he has been a 
director of a number of junior 
mining companies including 
Anvil Mining Ltd and 
Kensington Resources Ltd. 
Clive has been a Director of 
Gemfields since 19 April 2005.
Committee  
membership
His responsibilities on the Board 
include serving on the Audit and 
Risk, Nominations, Remuneration 
and Health, Safety, Environmental 
and Community Committees.
His responsibilities on the Board 
include serving on the Audit and 
Risk, Nominations, Remuneration 
and Health, Safety, Environmental 
and Community Committees.
Clive’s responsibilities on the 
Board include serving on the 
Audit and Risk, Nominations, 
Remuneration and Health, 
Safety, Environmental and 
Community Committees. 29 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Graham Mascall
Non‑Executive Chairman
Ian Harebottle
Chief Executive Officer
Devidas Shetty
Chief Operating Officer 
Sean Gilbertson
Executive Director
Finn Behnken
Non‑Executive Director
Clive Newall
Non‑Executive Director
Experience Graham Mascall graduated 
in 1969 as a mining engineer 
from the Camborne School of 
Mines and gained a Master of 
Engineering, Mineral Economics 
from McGill University, 
Montreal in 1972. He developed 
his career in the mining finance 
sector and from 1997 to 2001 
held various senior level positions 
with Billiton PLC.
Ian was appointed as Chief 
Executive Officer of Gemfields 
on 12 February 2009 and 
is a veteran of the coloured 
gemstone industry. Ian has 
been instrumental in pioneering 
many of the coloured gemstone 
industry’s most innovative 
strategies and has extensive 
operational experience spanning 
both mining and marketing. 
He graduated in 1985 and holds 
a Graduate Diploma in 
Management from Henley.
Devidas Shetty was appointed 
Chief Financial Officer of 
Gemfields on 1 January 2010, he 
was promoted to Chief Operating 
Officer in September 2012. 
He is a chartered accountant 
by profession, with more than 
15 years of experience in start‑ups, 
mergers and acquisitions, business 
turnaround, strategic planning, 
treasury, tax and financial 
reporting. Prior to joining 
Gemfields, Devidas worked 
with an Indian conglomerate and 
private equity firm in London.
Sean Gilbertson graduated 
as a mining engineer from the 
University of the Witwatersrand 
in South Africa in 1994, having 
spent time in the country’s 
deep‑level gold and platinum 
mines. From 1995 he worked for 
Deutsche Bank AG and Deutsche 
Morgan Grenfell in Frankfurt 
and London specialising in 
project finance. He co‑founded 
globalCOAL in 1998 and was 
appointed chief executive officer 
in 2001 when the business was 
acquired by industry players 
including inter alia, Anglo 
American PLC, BHP‑Billiton 
Ltd, Glencore International AG 
and Rio Tinto PLC. He joined 
the office of Brian Gilbertson in 
late 2003, working on a variety 
of natural resource projects, 
culminating in the establishment 
of Pallinghurst Resources LLP 
in 2005.
Finn Behnken graduated as 
a mining engineer from the 
University of the Witwatersrand, 
South Africa in 1994, having 
worked in coal and gold mining. 
He furthered his career by 
specialising in mining finance 
and spent almost 10 years with 
South Africa’s Nedbank Ltd 
serving, inter alia, as a 
non‑executive director in relation 
to certain mining investments 
productions. Nedbank moved 
him to London in 2006 to 
develop their international 
business. He has had wide 
ranging interaction with small 
and mid‑size listed mining 
companies, across the commodity 
spectrum and has travelled 
extensively visiting mines 
around the globe.
Clive Newall graduated from 
the Royal School of Mines in 
1971 and has an MBA from the 
Scottish Business School. He is 
President and Non‑Executive 
Director of First Quantum 
Minerals Ltd. Earlier in his career 
he held senior management 
positions with Amax Exploration 
Inc and the Robertson Group.
External  
appointments 
He has also held the following 
positions of responsibility: 
Director of Morgan Grenfell 
International; Vice President 
(Corporate Development) 
of Outokumpu Metals & 
Resources; Assistant Director 
of Kleinwort Benson Securities; 
Assistant Director (Mining 
Finance) at Barclays Bank; 
Non‑Exectuive Director of 
Ncondezi Energy; and 
Independent Director of Walter 
Energy, Inc. Graham has been a 
Director of the Company since 
29 November 2004.
Sean is a partner of Pallinghurst 
Resources LLP and a director 
of certain Pallinghurst 
portfolio companies.
Finn is presently residing 
in South Africa and is Chief 
Executive Officer for Tshipi é 
Ntle Manganese Mining who 
are developing a R1.7 billion 
new open pit manganese mine. 
Finn has been a Director of the 
Company since 6 June 2008.
More recently, he has been a 
director of a number of junior 
mining companies including 
Anvil Mining Ltd and 
Kensington Resources Ltd. 
Clive has been a Director of 
Gemfields since 19 April 2005.
Committee  
membership
His responsibilities on the Board 
include serving on the Audit and 
Risk, Nominations, Remuneration 
and Health, Safety, Environmental 
and Community Committees.
His responsibilities on the Board 
include serving on the Audit and 
Risk, Nominations, Remuneration 
and Health, Safety, Environmental 
and Community Committees.
Clive’s responsibilities on the 
Board include serving on the 
Audit and Risk, Nominations, 
Remuneration and Health, 
Safety, Environmental and 
Community Committees. 30 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Senior Management
Janet Blas
Chief Financial Officer
Mark Summers
Chief Financial Officer 
(September 2012 – 
September 2013)
Anna Haber
Director of Global Marketing
Janet joined Gemfields as Chief 
Financial Officer and Company 
Secretary on 5 August 2013. 
Janet has the overall 
responsibility for the financial 
management and control, 
reviewing financial performance, 
and managing external financial 
reporting to stakeholders. Prior  
to joining Gemfields, Janet 
worked for Eurasian Natural 
Resources Corporation Plc, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers 
and Ernst & Young. 
Mark Summers was Chief 
Financial Officer of Gemfields 
from September 2012 until 30th 
September 2013. With over 16 
years’ experience in the mining 
and resources industry, Mark has 
worked in both executive and 
non‑executive director capacities 
in various listed and unlisted 
mining and resources related 
businesses, responsible for all 
aspects of finance, tax, structuring 
and corporate finance.
With over 15 years’ experience 
in the jewellery and gemstone 
industry, Anna is involved for 
the creation and implementation 
of Gemfields’ marketing and 
communications strategy, 
which aims to reposition global 
perceptions of, and demand 
for, coloured gemstones.
Adrian Banks 
Product and Sales Director
Gabriella Harvey
Director Cut and 
Polished Sales
Kartikeya Pariksjya
Director, Mergers and 
Acquisitions
Adrian oversees both the grading 
and sales of rough emeralds and 
rubies, from both mined and 
traded sources. He also manages 
the auction schedule, which is 
the current sales method being 
adopted by the Group, and 
follows market dynamics in 
order to make recommendations 
to the Board, ensuring optimal 
sales and prices.
With over 20 years of experience, 
Gabriella manages the Group’s 
global cut and polished sales 
offices. By working closely 
with stakeholders, to buy back 
polished gemstones cut from 
Gemfields’ rough to sell on 
to the market, Gemfields can 
guarantee a transparent route 
from mine to market for every 
gemstone sold. Gabriella is a 
certified gemmologist.
Kartikeya leads the global mergers 
and acquisition team and is 
responsible for analysing and 
reviewing prospective 
opportunities from geological, 
environmental, legal, social 
and economic perspectives. 
He is actively engaged in the 
budgeting, planning and execution 
of all exploration projects. 31 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Sanjay Kumar
Project Manager, Montepuez 
Ruby Mining Limitada
Katharina Flohr
Creative and Managing 
Director, Fabergé
Sanjay is responsible for the 
planning, implementing and 
monitoring of all operations at 
Montepuez. As Project Manager, 
he has managed all aspects of the 
project’s set up to date, ensuring 
that the team is fulfilling all 
operational objectives.
Katharina joined the founding 
team at Fabergé as Creative 
Director in 2008, and was 
appointed Managing Director 
in 2010. Responsible for defining 
both the creative and business 
blueprints, Katharina is involved 
in setting design direction, and 
in ensuring new creations are true 
to Fabergé’s heritage of excellence 
in creativity, design and 
craftsmanship.
Cyrille Djankoff
Head of Fine Gemstones/
Managing Director, Kariba 
Minerals Limited
CV Suresh
Director Operations, 
Kagem Mining Limited
Yogesh Khatoria
Director, India
With over 25 years’ experience 
in the gemstone industry, both 
trade and mining, Cyrille heads 
up Gemfields’ fine gemstones 
division with amethyst and 
tourmalines in its portfolio. 
In addition to this, Cyrille also 
oversees operations at Kariba 
Minerals, Gemfields’ amethyst 
mine in Zambia. Cyrille is a 
certified gemmologist from 
the ING Paris. 
 
CV is responsible for the 
planning, implementing and 
monitoring all operations in 
Zambia, the foremost amongst 
which is Kagem Mining Ltd. 
In addition to this, CV liaises 
with Government agencies, 
communicates with local press 
and ensures that the Company 
fulfils its CSR responsibilities.
With over 20 years’ experience in 
the coloured gemstone industry, 
specifically in emerald, ruby 
and sapphire, Yogesh has been 
involved in the development 
of Gemfields’ rough emerald 
grading system. He has also 
developed the rough traded 
auctions, which run alongside 
the Kagem Mining Ltd auctions. 
Based in Jaipur, Yogesh manages 
the Indian operation. 32 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
The Directors present their report together with the audited 
financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2013. 
Principal activities
The Group is in the business of exploring, mining, processing 
and selling coloured gemstones. The acquisition of Fabergé 
Limited has expanded the activities of the Group to include 
developing the luxury brand as a designer, creator and 
purveyor of high end jewellery and decorative pieces.
The Company provides global marketing services to the 
Group and is responsible for the management of the rough 
international gemstone auctions. There is also a cut and 
polished emerald sales function.
Business review and results
The consolidated income statement is set out on page 45 
and shows a loss after tax for the year of US$22.8 million 
(2012: profit of US$161.5 million). 
A review of the business and its operations including mining 
key performance indicators and retail sales measures for 
Fabergé is contained in the following:
Chairman’s Statement, on pages 4–5;
CEO’s Review, on pages 8–9; and
Operational and Financial Review, on pages 10–21.
Dividends
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 
(2012: Nil).
Statement of capital
Ordinary shares of £0.01
The Company’s ordinary shares represent 100% of its total 
issued share capital. At a general meeting of the Company 
every member present in person or by proxy shall, have one 
vote for every ordinary share of which they are the holder. 
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends. 
On a winding‑up or other return of capital, holders are entitled 
to a share in any surplus assets pro rata to the amount paid 
up on their ordinary shares. The ordinary shares are not 
redeemable at the option of either the Company or the holder. 
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
As at 30 June 2013, there were 540,003,208 ordinary shares 
in issue (2012: 324,706,551). During the year, 213,999,999 
ordinary shares were issued as consideration for the purchase 
of 100% of the share capital of Fabergé Limited and 1,296,658 
ordinary shares issued to employees due to the exercise of 
share options.
Authority to purchase own shares
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held 
on 20 December 2012, shareholders approved a resolution to 
authorise the Company to make one or more market purchases 
of its ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal 
value of £539,773.20 or 539,773,200 ordinary shares 
(representing 100% of the Company’s then issued ordinary 
share capital). No ordinary shares were purchased under 
this authority during the year. No purchases have been made 
pursuant to this authority and a resolution will be put to 
shareholders to renew this authority for a further year at 
the 2013 AGM.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are 
set out in the Articles. The Articles of Association may only be 
changed by the shareholders by special resolution.
Voting
Subject to the Articles of Association generally, and to any 
special rights or restrictions as to voting attached by, or in 
accordance with, the Articles of Association to any class of 
shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in 
person at a general meeting shall have one vote and, on a poll, 
every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have 
one vote for every ordinary share of which he/she is the holder. 
Deadlines for exercising voting rights
Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in 
respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard. 
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to 
corporate members, by corporate representative. The Articles 
of Association provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms 
of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the 
holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Restrictions on voting
No member shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, 
be entitled to vote in respect of any ordinary share held by 
him/her either personally or by proxy at a shareholders’ 
meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by membership 
in relation to shareholders’ meetings if any call or other sum 
presently payable by him/her to the Company in respect of that 
share remains unpaid. In addition, no member shall be entitled 
to vote if he/she has been served with a notice after failing to 
provide the Company with information concerning interests 
in those shares required to be provided under the Law.
Future developments
While Gemfields prefers not to make any forward looking 
statements, but has developed a reputation for under promising 
and over delivering as and when any future projections have 
been made, our core focus over the coming year will primarily 
be directed at the following key areas:
•	 Continuing to strengthen the level of interaction and 
communication that has recently been re‑established 
between ourselves and the relevant Ministers and 
individuals within the Government of the Republic of 
Zambia, our operating partners in each of the Kagem 
and Kariba Minerals mines;
•	 Building on the success we have already achieved at the 
Kagem mine over the past four years with respect to cost 
containment, increased production outputs and demand, 
whilst at the same time looking to expand these successes 
to some of our other operating divisions including the 
Kariba Minerals amethyst mine and the Montepuez;
•	 With demand having already been established and the 
preliminary results from our various bulk sampling projects 
producing pleasing results, the plan for this coming year is 
for the Montepuez to shift from being a purely start‑up 
exploration project to that of an operating mining project 
further supporting Group revenues and profitability;
•	 Steady state activity within our Mergers and Acquisitions 
department should hopefully see Gemfields being able 
to add a further deposit/gemstone to its current portfolio 
in the not too distant future;
Report of the Directors
fo R the yea R en De D 30 June 2013 33 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
•	 The transformation and repositioning of Fabergé as a 
champion of colour and one of the world’s best recognised 
luxury brands is already well underway and with the impact 
of our efforts over the past few months, is likely to deliver 
measurable successes over the coming year; and finally
•	 As a Company that is committed to the mining, distribution 
and sales of ethical coloured gemstones, we will continue 
to evaluate all of our environmentally and socially focused 
projects to ensure that they continue to develop in line with 
the success of the Group and our passion for the world in 
which we live and operate.
Going concern
Following a review of the Group’s financial position, the 
Directors have concluded that sufficient financial resources 
will be available to meet the Group’s current and foreseeable 
capital requirements. On this basis, they consider it appropriate 
to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Financial instruments and risks
The Group’s financial instruments comprise trade and 
other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, available‑for‑sale 
investments, other receivables and borrowings and items 
arising directly from its operations such as trade payables. 
The main financial risks arising from the Group’s activities 
are credit risk, price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and 
currency risk. These are monitored by the Board of Directors 
and, other than price risk and liquidity risk, are not considered 
to be significant.
The Company’s financial performance is closely linked to 
the price of emeralds (and other gemstones in the Group’s 
portfolio) which are influenced by numerous factors beyond 
the Company’s control, including international economic 
conditions, world gemstone production levels and consumer 
trends. This also extends to the Fabergé retail business. 
Management closely monitors developments in the 
international gemstone market (across the pipeline from the 
rough market to the retail consumer market) to be in a position 
to react in a timely manner to changes in rough gemstone 
prices and demand.
Through its cash deposits the Group is exposed to interest‑rate 
risk and credit risk. The Group’s policy to mitigate these risks 
as far as possible is to keep cash balances in UK Pounds and US 
Dollars (“US$”) unless immediately required in another currency 
and to place cash on deposit with reputable institutions. 
The Group does not use any hedging instruments.
The majority of the Group’s sales are rough emeralds in the 
current year. These are sold by way of auction and hence have 
minimal credit risk because the Group’s policy is generally 
to ship the emeralds to the customer only once payment 
has been received.
The Group entered into a US$15 million debt facility 
with Barclays Bank Zambia plc. This facility was entered 
into by Kagem Mining Limited in 2012 and was drawn down 
within one year and is repayable over a period of 36 months 
in monthly instalments from the date of first drawdown. 
The balance outstanding at the year end is US$11.6 million 
(2012: US$2.9 million).
The above loan facility was subject to four financial covenants, 
which were tested half yearly. One of the covenants was 
however not met at the reporting date due to the auction 
planned in June 2013, being delayed to July 2013. Post 
reporting date, this covenant has been fulfilled and on 
21 August 2013, the bank signed a waiver not to demand 
immediate payment. In line with IAS 1, the total outstanding 
loan amount has been reported under current liabilities.
The Directors have considered the Group’s exposure to 
liquidity and cash flow risks and they consider that the Group 
has adequate funds to finance current operations (note 25).
Principal risks and uncertainty
Exploration and development risk 
There is no assurance that the Group’s exploration and 
development activities will be successful, expenditures may not 
be fully recovered and depleted ore reserves may not be replaced. 
There is a risk that exploration activities may not identify 
viable mineral resources or the Group may fail to identify 
attractive acquisition or other investment opportunities. 
Furthermore, ineffective management of projects can result 
in cost overruns and costly delays in going into production 
that could prevent it from benefiting from favourable 
market developments.
The Group is seeking to balance this risk by building a 
portfolio of projects and licence areas that carry a range of 
differing technical and commercial risks, and keeping under 
careful review the amount invested in any one project. There 
is also rigorous and focused cost control management on all 
exploration projects, with regular revaluations carried out on 
exploration projects to assess the benefits to shareholders.
The Group assesses a wide range of potential growth 
opportunities, both from its internal portfolio and external 
opportunities, to maximise the growth profile of the Group. 
Despite identifying a number of potentially viable projects in 
Sri Lanka, Brazil and Madagascar, these projects could take 
longer than expected to reach full production, during which 
time the economic feasibility of the project may be subject to 
change and the depleted ore reserves in the Group’s current 
portfolio may not be replaced. 
The Group’s investments are focused in the resources and 
luxury retail sectors. All such investments have associated 
operational performance, political, economic, litigation, foreign 
currency and country risks. If the resources and luxury goods 
sector suffers from any such difficulties, these could adversely 
affect more than one investment simultaneously. Below we 
summarise a number of other risks which may impact on the 
principal risk (as noted above) and which are monitored by 
the Board. 34 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Retention of key personnel
The successful achievement of the Group’s strategies, business 
plans and objectives depends upon its ability to attract and 
retain key personnel.
Part of Gemfields’ success is due to the management structure 
where innovation and creativity is encouraged. Gemfields’ 
employment terms and remuneration structures are designed 
to attract, incentivise and retain individuals of the right calibre 
to mitigate, as far as possible, the loss of key personnel.
Regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainty
The Group’s mining operations are predominantly based 
in Zambia, with lesser exposure to Mozambique. Emerging 
markets such as these are generally subject to greater risk 
and may be affected by political instability or regulatory 
developments. These may result in changes in legal 
requirements, royalty rates, taxation policies or restrictions 
on export of currency or production, which may have a 
material adverse impact on the Group’s current operations 
or future development projects.
Political instability may also result in civil unrest, labour 
disputes or withdrawal or variation of existing agreements, 
mining licences and permits. Any of these threats may 
adversely affect the Group’s operations or the results of 
those operations.
The Gemfields team is highly experienced at operating 
in Africa. The Group encourages active engagement and 
dialogue with the relevant government bodies and ministries. 
The Group’s relationships with the various governments of the 
countries where it operates are actively managed by the Group’s 
Executive Directors and senior management.
Liquidity risk 
The Group has significant capital expenditure (“Capex”) 
plans over the next year, with approximately US$7 million 
being planned to be spent in Mozambique and US$12 million 
in Zambia. Funding is planned to come from operating 
cashflows and Group debt facilities. Lack of adequate 
available cashflows could delay development work.
The Group has a strong statement of financial position with 
sufficient headroom to raise further debt should the need arise. 
Management prepares detailed plans and regularly compare 
actual Capex and operational requirement estimates and 
budgets. Cash flow planning and review is carried out 
continually to ensure both Capex and operational 
requirements are adequately financed.
In addition to the risks stated above there are several risks 
associated with acquisition of Fabergé.
Distribution model (Fabergé)
The Group presently relies on a combination of online sales, 
directly operated boutiques in Geneva, London and New York, 
concession in Harrods (London), and international client 
events. The focus of the Group during the financial year was 
to develop a new range of products which would attract retail 
and wholesale clients from different countries, opening new 
boutiques and expanding its retail presence. Failure of the 
distribution model either wholly or partially would have a 
material adverse impact on the Group. The Group continues 
to monitor the distribution model and agreements to provide 
flexibility to react to market trends.
Product design (Fabergé)
The strategy of the Group relies on creating products attractive 
to its target customers, which will motivate them to develop an 
enduring relationship with Fabergé. If this strategy fails either 
wholly or partially, the Group would suffer a material adverse 
impact. The Directors seek to mitigate this risk by developing 
product ranges which meet demand in the chosen markets.
Counterfeit and parallel retail networks (Fabergé)
The Fabergé brand, expertise and production methods can 
be counterfeited or copied. Its products may be distributed in 
parallel retail networks, including web‑based sales networks, 
without the Group’s consent.
Counterfeiting and parallel distribution have an immediate 
adverse effect on revenue and profit. Activities in these 
illegitimate channels may damage the brand image of the 
relevant products over time and may also lower consumer 
confidence. The Group aims to protect itself against these risks 
through the systematic protection of its brand and trademarks. 
This involves close co‑operation with governmental authorities 
and lawyers specialising in these matters.
Directors 
The names of the Directors who served during the year, 
together with their details, are shown in the Board of Directors 
section on pages 28–29. 
Messrs Graham Mascall and Sean Gilbertson retire in 
accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and, 
being eligible, offer themselves for re‑election. 
Subject to the conditions set out in the United Kingdom 
(“UK”) Companies Act 2006, the Company has arranged 
appropriate Directors’ and Officers’ insurance to indemnify 
the Directors against liability in respect of proceedings brought 
by third parties. Such provisions remain in force at the date 
of this report.
Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors 
have elected to prepare the Group and Company financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the European 
Union (the “EU”). Under company law the Directors must 
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied 
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group 
for that period. The Directors are also required to prepare 
financial statements in accordance with the rules of the 
London Stock Exchange for companies trading securities 
on the Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”). 
Report of the Directors continued
fo R the yea R en De D 30 June 2013 35 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are 
required to:
•	 select suitable accounting policies and then apply 
them consistently;
•	 make judgements and accounting estimates that are 
reasonable and prudent;
•	 state whether they have been prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the EU, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and
•	 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis 
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company 
will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
requirements of the Companies Act 2006. They are also 
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Website publication
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Annual Report 
and the financial statements are made available on a website. 
Financial statements are published on the Company’s website in 
accordance with legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from 
legislation in other jurisdictions. The maintenance and integrity 
of the Company’s website is the responsibility of the Directors. 
The Directors’ responsibility also extends to the ongoing 
integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Policy and practice on the payment of creditors
Whilst no formal code is adopted, the Company’s current 
policy concerning the payment of its creditors is to:
•	 agree the terms of payment with creditors when agreeing the 
terms of each transaction; 
•	 ensure that these creditors are made aware of the terms of 
payment by the inclusion of relevant terms in contracts; and
•	 pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
At the reporting date, creditor payment days for the Group 
were 52 (2012: 39) and for the Company were 91 (2012: 37).
Charitable and political donations
During the year, the Company donated £72,000 (2012: 
£20,000) to the World Land Trust. The World Land Trust is 
an international conservation charity. The Company did not 
make any political donations. For disclosure of the Group’s 
CSR programme see pages 22–27.
Post balance sheet events
Details of events after the reporting date for the Group are 
disclosed in note 28 and for the Company note 20.
Related party transactions
Details of related party transactions for the Group are given in 
note 22 and for the Company in the note 16. Key management 
personnel compensation disclosures are given in note 6.
Independent auditors
BDO LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in 
office and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed 
at the AGM.
Disclosure of information to the independent auditors
All of the current Directors have taken all the steps they 
ought reasonably to have taken to make themselves aware of 
any information needed by the Company’s auditors for the 
purposes of their audit and to establish that the auditors are 
aware of that information. The Directors are not aware of any 
relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
By order of the Board
Devidas Shetty
Director
2 October 2013 36 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Introduction
The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of good corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all its 
activities. Under the rules of AIM, the Group is not required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”). 
Nevertheless, the Group has identified areas of the Code it considers relevant to the current size and nature of its operations. 
It does not seek to comply with all the requirements of the Code. The Board is continuing to consider other aspects of the 
Code for appropriateness and these may be introduced when it becomes relevant for the Group to do so.
Responsibilities of the Board
The Board is responsible for formulating, reviewing and approving the Company’s strategy, financial activities and operating 
performance. The Board delegates the day‑to‑day management of the business to the Executive Directors who consults with 
the Board on all significant financial and operational matters.
The Board structure provides demonstrable separation of executive responsibility for running the business and responsibility for 
running the Board. This structure ensures there is appropriate accountability to the Board and helps safeguard the independence 
and objectivity of the Board. 
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) are vested in separate individuals, each with clear allocation of 
accountability and responsibility. The Chairman has prime responsibility for running the Board and the CEO has executive 
responsibilities for the Company’s strategic development, operations and results.
Board composition
The Board considers that the Directors represent a wide range of skills and expertise that are relevant to the successful operation 
and development of the business. The Directors encompass a substantial set of skills and experience in the mining industry, 
which is complemented by the required financial, corporate and strategic skills which the Board as a whole considers appropriate. 
The balance between Executive and Non‑Executive Directors has been reviewed by the Nominations Committee and the Board. 
Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board are approved by the Board, following recommendations from the 
Nomination Committee. The Board and Nomination Committee will continue to evaluate the skills, experience and diversity 
of the Board going forward.
The Board currently comprises:
Ian Harebottle – Executive Director and CEO
Devidas Shetty – Executive Director and COO
Sean Gilbertson – Executive Director
Graham Mascall – Non‑Executive Director and Chairman
Finn Behnken – Non‑Executive Director
Clive Newall– Non‑Executive Director
It is the Company’s policy and a term of the Relationship Agreement with The Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P. to ensure that 
the number of Independent Directors shall at all times comprise at least 50% of the Board. 
The Board has considered the independence of each Director, including assessment of their character and judgement and free from 
any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement. 
As of 29 November 2013, Mr Mascall will have served on the Board of the Company for more than nine years which is stated in 
the Code to potentially affect his independence as a Non‑Executive Director. However, notwithstanding Mr Mascall’s length of 
service, the Board has concluded that he is still independent as he has no other relationships or circumstances which could affect 
his independence; he continues to perform his role with unbiased character and judgement and to provide a valuable contribution 
to the Board. All the other Non‑Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in line with the guidelines 
of the Code.
Individual shareholdings for Directors can be seen below. Mr Mascall holds shares in the Group but as his holding is not 
significant, he is considered to remain independent.
Number of shares held by the Directors at 30 June 2013 directly or indirectly:
At 30 June 2013 
Number of 
shares held 
Percentage 
holding
Executive Director – Ian Harebottle 200,000 0.037%
Executive Director – Devidas Shetty 100,000 0.019%
Executive Director – Sean Gilbertson 300,000 0.056%
Non‑Executive Director – Finn Behnken Nil Nil
Non‑Executive Director – Clive Newall Nil Nil
Non‑Executive Director – Graham Mascall 150,000 0.028%
Total 750,000 0.14%
Corporate Governance Report 37 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Board and Board Committee meeting attendance
The Board of Directors meets regularly at a minimum of four times per year.
Number of meetings attended
Director Board
Audit and Risk 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Nominations 
Committee*
Health, Safety, 
Environmental 
and 
Community
Committee*
Ian Harebottle 11 – – – –
Devidas Shetty 11 – – – –
Sean Gilbertson 5 – – – –
Graham Mascall 11 2 3 – –
Finn Behnken 11 2 3 – –
Clive Newall 11 2 3 – –
*The Nominations and Health, Safety, Environmental and Community Committees were established in the year but no formal meetings took place before 30 June 2013. 
A Relationship Agreement exists between The Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P. and Gemfields which seeks to manage the 
relationship between the two entities. Sean Gilbertson is a Director of Pallinghurst Resources Limited, The Pallinghurst Resources 
Fund L.P. (“PRF”) is a subsidiary of Pallinghurst Resources Limited, and therefore was considered a concert party in the Fabergé 
transaction. Accordingly Mr Gilbertson did not attend any board meetings to consider or vote on the Fabergé transaction.
Board Committees
The Board has established the following Committees, each with its own terms of reference. All following Committees of the 
Board to which significant powers, authorities and discretions are delegated, shall at all times be made up of at least two 
Non‑Executive Directors. In carrying out its responsibilities, the Committees have the right to: 
•	 obtain independent outside professional advice to assist with the execution of its duties, at the Company’s cost, subject to 
a Board approved process being followed; and 
•	 access the Company’s records, facilities, employees and any other resources, within the scope of its responsibilities, as set out 
in the terms of reference.
Audit and Risk Committee
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are Graham Mascall, Clive Newall and Finn Behnken, who chairs the 
Committee. The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for assuring accountability and effective corporate governance within 
the Company. It provides recommendations to the Board on matters concerning the Company’s accounting policies, financial, 
risk and compliance control, records and reporting.
The Audit and Risk Committee’s main responsibilities include the following:
•	 monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company including the annual and interim financial statements 
of the Company;
•	 review and challenge, where necessary, the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of 
the financial statements;
•	 review the scope and the results of the audit with the external auditors;
•	 review the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors and make recommendations to the Board on the 
appointment/dismissal of the external auditors and terms of reference and remuneration;
•	 oversee the compliance with applicable laws and regulations; and
•	 review and recommend to the Board for approval risk management policies and procedures. 38 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Remuneration Committee
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Graham 
Mascall, Finn Behnken and Clive Newall, who chairs the 
Committee. Its principal responsibility is to determine and review 
the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the framework and 
broad policy for the remuneration of the executive management. 
Within the terms of the agreed remuneration policy, it determines 
the individual remuneration package of executive management 
including incentive payments and long‑term performance 
incentive arrangements. It also arranges performance evaluations 
for the CEO, COO and CFO and reports the results of these 
evaluations to the Board. The remuneration of the Non‑Executive 
Directors is a matter for the Chairman and the Executive 
Directors or, where required by the Articles of Association, 
the shareholders.
Nominations Committee
The members of the Nominations Committee are Clive 
Newall, Finn Behnken and Graham Mascall, who chairs the 
Committee. The Chairman of the Board shall not chair the 
Nomination Committee when it is dealing with the succession 
of the chairmanship of the Board. The Nominations 
Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, 
size and composition (including skills, knowledge and 
experience) required of the Board compared to its current 
position and make recommendations to the Board with regard 
to any changes. The Nominations Committee is responsible 
for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, 
candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise and 
makes recommendations to the Board concerning succession 
planning for both Executive and Non‑executive Directors. 
In addition, the Committee keeps under regular review any 
authorisations granted by the Board in connection with 
a Director’s conflict of interest. 
Health, Safety, Environmental and Community Committee 
The members of the HSEC Committee are Finn Behnken, 
Graham Mascall and Clive Newall, who chairs the Committee. 
The HSEC Committee is responsible for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the Group’s policies and systems for identifying 
and managing health, safety, social, security and environmental 
risks within the Group’s operations. It is also responsible for 
assessment of the Group’s performance with regard to the 
impact of health, safety, security, social and environmental 
decisions and actions upon employees, communities and other 
third parties and the impact of such decisions and actions on 
the reputation of the Group, as well as evaluate and oversee, 
on behalf of the Board, the quality and integrity of any 
reporting to external stakeholders concerning health, 
safety, security or environmental issues.
Relationship with shareholders
The Directors consider the clear and timely communication 
of information to shareholders as an important part of their 
duties. The Company has procedures in place to ensure 
that all price sensitive information is identified, reviewed by 
management and disclosed to the AIM market in a timely 
manner. Significant developments are disseminated through stock 
exchange announcements and regular updates of the Company 
website. The Executive Directors meet with institutional investors 
and analysts after the announcement of the interim and year end 
results. Additional meetings are arranged during the year by the 
Company’s brokers and financial advisors on an ad‑hoc basis when 
required. Feedback arising from these meetings is communicated 
to the Board. 
Notwithstanding Pallinghurst being a major shareholder 
in the Company, the Company ensures that it operates and 
makes decisions for the benefit of the shareholders as a whole 
and independently from Pallinghurst. The Company and 
Pallinghurst entered into a relationship agreement in 2013 
which contractually ensures that Pallinghurst cannot control 
Gemfields. Due to this agreement, and in accordance with the 
definitions within International Financial Reporting Standards 
(“IFRSs”), Pallinghurst is neither the Parent Company nor the 
ultimate controlling party. 
Annual General Meeting
Shareholders have an opportunity at the AGM to meet the 
Chairman and other Directors, to receive an update on the 
development of the business and to ask questions of the Board. 
The Group proposes a separate resolution for each substantially 
different item of business, giving shareholders the opportunity 
to vote on each issue. 
Performance evaluation
The Board undertakes a regular evaluation of its own 
performance. The review involved detailed interviews 
with each Director and covers the functioning of the Board 
as a whole, and the operation of each of the Committees. 
The review confirmed the high level of commitment and 
professionalism exercised by the Board in the strategic and 
commercial leadership of the Group. It also concluded that 
the Board and its individual members continue to perform 
effectively and operate within a framework of sound 
governance and practices, which wherever it is reasonably 
practicable, are considered to be in the spirit and the 
principles set out in the Code.
Risk management and internal control
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system 
of internal controls and risk management to safeguard 
shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets and for 
reviewing the effectiveness of that system. Any internal control 
system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, 
the risk of failure to achieve in part or in whole business 
objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, 
assurance against material misstatement or loss. 
Corporate Governance Report continued 39 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Due to the size of the Group’s operations, the Executive 
Directors and senior management are very closely involved 
in the day‑to‑day running of the business. The Directors have 
reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control 
presently in place and consider that they are still appropriate 
to the nature and scale of the operations of the Group. This 
has involved considering the present needs of the business, 
the risks it faces and appropriate control measures.
There is currently no separate internal audit function. The 
structure of the Group and the level of control exercised by the 
management team are currently sufficient such that an internal 
audit function continues to be neither necessary nor cost 
effective at this time. 
Key controls and procedures
The Board maintains full control and direction over 
appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance 
issues, and has put in place an organisational structure with 
defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority. 
The Board is committed to employing suitably qualified staff 
so that appropriate levels of authority can be delegated with 
regard to accountability and acceptable levels of risks.
The annual budget and forecasts are reviewed by the Board 
prior to approval being given. This includes the identification 
and assessment of the business risks inherent in the Group 
along with associated financial risks. Monthly and other 
period reports of actual results (financial and non‑financial) 
are produced and reviewed by the Directors and 
senior management.
Management control is exercised at all levels of the Group 
and is regulated by appropriate limits of authority.
Future plans to develop governance arrangements
A formal “whistle blowing” procedure has been put in place 
where employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about 
possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or 
other matters. In addition corporate governance arrangements 
will be reviewed periodically and their appropriateness and 
effectiveness evaluated and new policies developed and 
introduced accordingly.
Significant shareholdings
As at 30 June 2013, the Company is aware of the following 
interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital 
of the Company:
Shareholder
Number 
of shares
Percentage 
holding
The Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P. 208,502,556 38.61%
Fabergé Conduit Ltd 98,647,407 18.27%
 NGPMR (Cayman) LP 53,491,818 9.91%
 Investec Pallinghurst (Cayman) LP 44,428,505 8.23%
 BlackRock Inc 16,243,221 3.00%
 Others 118,689,701 21.98%
Total 540,003,208 100% 40 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the annual Directors’ Remuneration Report summarising Gemfields’ remuneration 
policy and providing information on the Group’s remuneration approach and arrangements for Executive Directors, Non‑Executive 
Directors and senior executive management for the year ended 30 June 2013.
The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to attract and retain high calibre talent who are focused to deliver the Group’s 
strategic and business objectives, while relating reward to performance in the context of appropriate risk and safety management, 
and aligning the interests of Executive Directors and senior executive management with those of shareholders to build a 
sustainable performance culture. 
The Group’s key remuneration policies were reviewed this year against new guidelines, market best practice and a review of the 
risk environment surrounding the Group’s remuneration arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee is primarily responsible for determining and recommending to the Board the framework for executive 
remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior executive management.
Clive Newall
Director
2 October 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report
fo R the yea R en De D 30 June 2013 41 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Under the rules of AIM, the Group is not required to 
prepare the Directors’ Remuneration Report in accordance 
with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium Sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. 
Nevertheless, the Group has taken steps to address some of 
the requirements of Schedule 8 in so far as it can be applied 
practically and appropriately, given the size of the Group and 
the nature of its operations. The report also provides the 
information required to be reported on Directors’ 
remuneration under AIM Rule 19. 
Remuneration Committee 
Composition of the Committee
The members of the Committee, all of whom were 
independent, who served throughout the year were:
•	 Clive Newall (Chairman)
•	 Graham Mascall 
•	 Finn Behnken
Role of the Committee
The key responsibilities of the Committee are to:
•	 determine and agree with the Board the broad policy and 
elements for the remuneration of the Executive Directors 
and senior executive management;
•	 determine all individual elements of the remuneration of 
those Executive Directors and senior executive management; 
•	 recommend for approval of the Board long‑term 
performance incentives; and 
•	 set the scope and terms of engagement of any third party 
experts engaged to provide professional advice and 
assistance to the Committee.
No Director takes part in any discussion directly concerning 
his own remuneration.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior 
executive management
The remuneration policy is based on the following broad 
principles set by the Committee:
•	 to provide a competitive remuneration package to attract 
and retain quality individuals;
•	 to align remuneration to drive the overall objectives of 
the business; 
•	 to align the interests of management with the interests 
of shareholders; and
•	 to set the pay of the Executive Directors and senior 
executive management with due account taken of pay and 
conditions throughout the Group and corporate governance 
best practice.
The objective of this policy is aligned with the 
recommendations of the Code as they relate to Directors’ 
remuneration. That is to provide a level of remuneration to 
attract, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required 
to run the Company successfully, but avoid paying more than 
is necessary for this purpose. As explained below, a significant 
proportion of Executive Directors’ and senior executive 
managements’ remuneration is structured to link rewards 
to corporate and individual performance.
The Company has undertaken a review, with the assistance of 
external independent remuneration consultants, of its executive 
remuneration structures. This is to ensure that these structures 
take due account of market and best practice in addition to 
incentivising and rewarding the Executive Directors and senior 
executive management for achieving the Company’s strategic 
goals. These strategic goals are established with the intention 
of generating outstanding returns for shareholders.
Furthermore, the Committee has appointed the independent 
remuneration consultants to advise on certain aspects of senior 
executive performance based share options. Currently, the 
Company has a time based vesting share option plan and the 
Committee considers a performance based vesting option plan 
to be more appropriate for the Executive Directors and certain 
senior executive employees going forward. 
Remuneration of Non‑Executive Directors 
The fees of the Chairman and Non‑Executive Directors are 
set by the Executive Directors. When setting these fees, due 
account is taken of fees paid to Non‑Executive Directors of 
similar companies, the time commitment of each Director 
and any additional responsibilities undertaken, such as acting 
as Chairman to one of the Board Committees or as Senior 
Independent Director. For 2013 the basic fee for acting as a 
Non‑Executive Director was £45,000 (US$73,000) per annum 
and £85,000 (US$137,000) is paid for chairing the Board. 
Elements of remuneration
The below summarises the components of the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration.
(i) Basic salary 
The salary of individual Executive Directors is reviewed 
annually. Account is taken of the performance of the individual 
concerned, together with any change in responsibilities that 
may have occurred and the rates for similar roles within the 
appropriate comparator groups.
As of 30 June 2013, the following increases have been effected:
30 June 2012  
salary
30 June 2013  
salary
Change from  
2012
Ian Harebottle £250,000 £275,000 10%
Devidas Shetty £180,000 £200,000 11%
Sean Gilbertson Nil Nil Nil
These increases are believed to reflect the calibre of the 
individuals and are in line with the salary increases awarded 
to high performing individuals across the Group as a whole.
(ii) Performance related bonus
Bonus awards were evaluated against both business and personal 
performance measures for the period. The Remuneration 
Committee set and reviewed the key performance targets for 
the period under review.
The bonuses paid to Ian Harebottle and Devidas Shetty of 
US$107,900 and US$105,190 were 25% and 33.5% of their 
basic salaries respectively (2012: US$397,000 and US$286,000 
were 100% and 100% of their then basic salaries respectively). 42 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
(iii) Long‑term incentive arrangements
(a) Unapproved Share Option Scheme
The Company’s Unapproved Share Option Scheme was approved by the shareholders at the 2010 AGM and currently operates 
as the Company’s primary executive long‑term incentive arrangement. Annual awards are made in the form of share options. 
The contractual life of the options was ten years from the date of grant. One‑third of the options granted vests at 31 December 
each year over a three year period, during which the person has to remain in employment. Directors plan to implement a move 
to a performance related award scheme in the year to June 2014.
Share options held as at 30 June 2013
Name of Director
Share options  
held at  
1 July 2012
Share options  
granted during  
the year
Share options  
exercised 
during  
the year
Share options  
lapsed during  
the year
Share options  
held at  
30 June 2013 Exercise price
Exercise  
period
Ian Harebottle 2,550,000 1,250,000 – – 3,800,000 8p–29.28p (12.4¢–44.3¢) 10 years
Devidas Shetty 1,750,000 1,000,000 – – 2,750,000 8p–29.28p (12.4¢–44.3¢) 10 years
Sean Gilbertson – – – – – 8p–29.28p (12.4¢–44.3¢) 10 years
Finn Behnken – – – – – 8p–29.28p (12.4¢–44.3¢) 10 years
Clive Newall 900,000 – – – 900,000 8p–29.28p (12.4¢–44.3¢) 10 years
Graham Mascall 1,300,000 – – – 1,300,000 8p–29.28p (12.4¢–44.3¢) 10 years
Name of Director
Share options  
held at  
1 July 2011
Share options  
granted during  
the year
Share options  
exercised 
during  
the year
Share options  
lapsed during  
the year
Share options  
held at  
30 June 2012 Exercise price
Exercise  
period
Ian Harebottle 1,950,000 600,000 – – 2,550,000 8p–19.95p (12.4¢–31.02¢) 10 years
Devidas Shetty 1,250,000 500,000 – – 1,750,000 8p–19.95p (12.4¢–31.02¢) 10 years
Sean Gilbertson – – – – – 8p–19.95p (12.4¢–31.02¢) 10 years
Finn Behnken – – – – – 8p–19.95p (12.4¢–31.02¢) 10 years
Clive Newall 700,000 200,000 – – 900,000 8p–19.95p (12.4¢–31.02¢) 10 years
Graham Mascall 1,000,000 300,000 – – 1,300,000 8p–19.95p (12.4¢–31.02¢) 10 years
(b) Approved Company Share Option Plan (“CSOP”)
In the second part of 2013, the Company decided to implement a new remuneration performance related plan. It is a discretionary 
plan whereby each participant can be granted options over shares worth up to £30,000 (measured at grant date). Options will be 
granted at not less than market value. This plan was approved by the Board but to date no awards have been made in terms of this 
new plan.
(iv) Other benefits 
No other benefits are paid to Executive Directors and senior executive management.
(v) Pensions 
There is no pension plan currently in operation by the Group.
Directors’ service contracts, notice periods and termination payments
Executive Directors
The contract dates and notice periods for the Executive Directors are as follows:
Notice period  
from Director
Notice period from  
the Company
Ian Harebottle 6 months 6 months
Sean Gilbertson By rotation By rotation
Devidas Shetty 3 months 3 months
The service contracts of all Directors, which are rolling contracts, are subject to standard terms in the event of termination.
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued 43 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Executive Directors’ external appointments
Board approval is required before any external appointment can be accepted by an Executive Director. Whether the Executive 
Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services or whether such fees are remitted to the Company will be 
determined on a case by case basis. 
Non‑Executive Directors
The Non‑Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but are appointed for an initial three‑year term. 
Non‑Executive Directors are typically expected to serve for two three‑year terms, although their appointment can be terminated 
either by them or by the Company on one month’s written notice. The Chairman’s notice period is one month. The Company 
may invite a Non‑Executive Director to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three‑year terms subject to a particularly 
rigorous review of performance and taking into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board. Under the Company’s 
Articles of Association, all Directors are required to stand for re‑election by shareholders at least once every three years.
Directors’ emoluments
For the year ended 30 June 2013
In US$’000 Fees/salary 
Bonus 
payments
Share‑based 
payments Total
Executive Director – Ian Harebottle 432 108 232 772
Executive Director – Devidas Shetty 314 105 177 596
Executive Director – Sean Gilbertson – – – –
Non‑Executive Director – Finn Behnken 73 – – 73
Non‑Executive Director – Clive Newall 73 – 44 117
Non‑Executive Director – Graham Mascall 137 – 64 201
Total 1,029 213 517 1,759
For the year ended 30 June 2012 
In US$’000 Fees/salary 
Bonus 
payments
Share‑based 
payments Total
Executive Director – Ian Harebottle 397 397 163 957
Executive Director – Devidas Shetty 286 286 113 685
Executive Director – Sean Gilbertson – – – –
Non‑Executive Director – Finn Behnken – – – –
Non‑Executive Director – Clive Newall 34 – 57 91
Non‑Executive Director – Graham Mascall 85 – 83 168
Total 802 683 416 1,901 44 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Gemfields PLC
We have audited the financial statements of Gemfields PLC for the year ended 30 June 2013 which comprise the consolidated 
and Company statement of financial position, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, the consolidated and the Company’s statement of cash flows, the consolidated and the Company’s statement of changes 
in equity and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006. 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required to 
state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at  
www.frc.org.uk/auditscopeukprivate.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion: 
•	 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s affairs as at 30 June 2013 
and of the Group’s loss for the year then ended;
•	 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union;
•	 the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and
•	 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared 
is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Anne Sayers (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor
55 Baker Street 
London  
United Kingdom
2 October 2013
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (with registered number OC305127).
Report of the Independent Auditors 45 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
In thousands of US$ Note 2013 2012
Revenue 2 48,394 83,715
Increase in inventory 12,412 7,936
Purchases (8,153) (5,683)
Mining and production costs 3 (18,719) (17,668)
Depreciation and amortisation 10,11, 12 (20,289) (6,624)
Total cost of sales (34,749) (22,039)
Gross profit 13,645 61,676
Other income 89 316
Administrative expenses
Other administrative expenses 4 (32,858) (14,193)
Impairment reversal of evaluated mining properties 26 – 201,115
Impairment charge on available‑for‑sale investments and other receivables 26 (684) (158)
Total administrative expenses (33,542) 186,764
(Loss)/profit from operations 5 (19,808) 248,756
Finance income 7 593 246
Finance expenses 7 (880) (76)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (20,095) 248,926
Tax charge 8 (2,698) (87,460)
(Loss)/profit after taxation (22,793) 161,466
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the parent (22,790) 120,228
Non‑controlling interest (3) 41,238
(22,793) 161,466
(Loss)/earnings per share for (loss)/profit attributable to the owners of the parent during the year
Basic 9 (US$0.05)  US$0.37 
Diluted 9 (US$0.05) US$0.36
The notes on pages 50 to 78 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated Income Statement
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 46 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012 
(Loss)/profit after taxation (22,793) 161,466
Other comprehensive income
Exchange gains arising on translation of foreign operations 311 307
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (22,482) 161,773
Total comprehensive (loss)/income attributable to:
Owners of the parent (22,479) 120,535
Non‑controlling interest (3) 41,238
(22,482) 161,773
The notes on pages 50 to 78 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 47 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Attributable to equity holders of the parent
In thousands of US$
Share  
capital
Share  
premium
Merger  
reserve
Option  
reserve
Cumulative 
translation 
reserve
Retained 
deficit Total
Non‑ 
controlling 
interest Equity
Balance at 1 July 2011 6,164  96,853 121,005 450 (7) (186,350) 38,115 4,915 43,030
Profit for the year – – – – – 120,228 120,228 41,238 161,466
Other comprehensive income – – – – 307 – 307 – 307
Issue of shares 5 48 – – – – 53 – 53
Share‑based payments – – – 896 – – 896 – 896
Cancelled options – – – (8) – 8 – – –
Balance at 30 June 2012 6,169 96,901 121,005 1,338 300 (66,114) 159,599 46,153 205,752
Loss for the year – – – – – (22,790) (22,790) (3) (22,793)
Other comprehensive income – – – – 311 – 311 – 311
Issue of shares for Fabergé 
acquisition 3,367 – 86,981 – – – 90,348 – 90,348
Other share issues 21 313 – – – – 334 – 334
Share‑based payments – – – 1,398 – – 1,398 – 1,398
Balance at 30 June 2013 9,557 97,214 207,986 2,736 611 (88,904) 229,200 46,150 275,350
The nature and purpose of each reserve within Shareholders’ equity is described as follows:
Reserve Description and purpose
Share capital Amount subscribed for share capital at nominal value.
Share premium Amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value.
Merger reserve The difference between the fair value of the shares issued as consideration for the 
acquisition of subsidiaries in excess of the nominal value of the shares, where 90%  
or more of shares are acquired.
Option reserve Cumulative fair value of options charged to the income statement net of transfers  
to the profit and loss reserve on exercised and cancelled/lapsed options.
Cumulative translation reserve Cumulative gains and losses on translating the net assets of overseas operations  
to the presentational currency.
Retained deficit Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Non‑controlling interest Amounts attributable to non‑controlling shareholders.
The notes on pages 50 to 78 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in e quity
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 48 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
In thousands of US$ Note 2013 2012 
Non‑current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 229,309 224,865
Available‑for‑sale investments 13 482 1,567
Intangible assets 10 48,003 2,634
Other non‑current assets 12 3,519 –
281,313 229,066
Current assets
Inventory 15 77,861 27,979
Trade and other receivables 16 8,292 4,309
Cash and cash equivalents 11,222 36,737
Total current assets 97,375 69,025
Total assets 378,688 298,091
Non‑current liabilities
Deferred tax liability 8 (73,216) (76,400)
Borrowings 19 – (1,917)
Other non‑current liability 18 (2,461) (1,353)
(75,677) (79,670)
Current liabilities 
Trade and other payables 17 (10,094) (8,102)
Current tax payable (5,972) (2,720)
Borrowings 19 (11,595) (1,000)
Current provisions – (847)
(27,661) (12,669)
Total liabilities (103,338) (92,339)
Total net assets 275,350 205,752
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share capital 20 9,557 6,169
Share premium 97,214 96,901
Merger reserve 207,986 121,005
Option reserve 2,736 1,338
Cumulative translation reserve 611 300
Retained deficit (88,904) (66,114)
229,200 159,599
Non‑controlling interest 46,150 46,153
Total equity 275,350 205,752
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 2 October 2013.
Devidas Shetty
Director
Company registration number 05129023
The notes on pages 50 to 78 form part of these financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of f inancial Position
At 30 June 2013 49 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
In thousands of US$ Note 2013 2012
Cash flows from operating activities
(Loss)/profit for the year after tax (22,793) 161,466
Depreciation and amortisation 10, 11, 12 20,289 6,624
Taxation charge 8 2,698 87,460
Impairment reversal of evaluated mining properties 26 – (201,115)
Impairment charge on available‑for‑sale investments and other receivables 26 684 158
Share‑based payments 24 1,398 896
Finance income 7 (593) (246)
Finance expense 7 880 76
Loss on sale of available‑for‑sale investments 13 168 –
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment – (144)
Increase in trade and other receivables (2,431) (727)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (2,363) 3,445
Increase in non‑current liabilities 861 489
Increase in inventory (13,442) (7,925)
Net cash (used for)/generated from operating activities (14,644) 50,457
Taxation paid (4,113) (6,878)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of intangible assets (1,988) (1,784)
Cash acquired with Fabergé 27 11,524 –
Sale of available‑for‑sale investment 13 309 –
Interest received 7 593 246
Loan granted to Kariba (1,462) –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11 (8,099) (7,811)
Stripping costs 11 (15,777) (14,490)
Sale of property, plant and equipment 11 – 147
Net cash used for investing activities (14,900) (23,692)
Cash flows from financing activities
Issue of ordinary shares 20 33 53
Repayment of borrowings 19 (3,322) (83)
Receipt of loans 19 12,000 3,000
Interest paid 7 (880) (76)
Net cash generated from financing activities 7,831 2,894
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (25,826) 22,781
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 25 36,737 13,649
Exchange differences on translation 311 307
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 25 11,222 36,737
Consolidated Statement of Cash f lows
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 50 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
1 Accounting policies 
Basis of preparation
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are set out below. The policies have been 
consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
In forming its opinion as to going concern, the Board prepares a working capital forecast based upon its assumptions as to trading 
as well as taking into account the available borrowing facilities in line with the capital management policies referred to in note 25. 
The Board also prepares a number of alternative scenarios modelling the business variables and key risks and uncertainties. Based 
upon these, the Board has concluded that the Group has adequate working capital and therefore confirm their belief that it is 
appropriate to use the going concern basis of preparation for the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
The financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2013 have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and Interpretations (collectively “IFRS”) issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) as adopted by the EU.
The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as 
the “Group”). The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not 
about its Group.
The IFRS financial statements have been drawn up on the basis of accounting standards, interpretations and amendments 
effective at the beginning of the accounting period on 1 July 2012 as described below.
(a) Standards, amendment and interpretations effective in the year ended 30 June 2013
The following were amendments to published standards and interpretations to existing standards effective in the year and adopted 
by the Group.
Name Mandatory effective date Description and guidance
Presentation of Items of Other 
Comprehensive Income (Amendments 
to IAS 1)
1 July 2012 This amendment requires companies 
to group together items within Other 
Comprehensive Income (“OCI”) that may 
be reclassified to the profit or loss section 
of the income statement. The amendment 
also seeks to reaffirm existing requirements 
that items in profit or loss and OCI should 
be presented as either a single statement 
or two consecutive primary statements.
The changes do not address which items 
should be presented in OCI or which items 
should be recycled through profit or loss 
and when this should occur. 
No amendments were necessary as 
the Group has only one OCI item. The 
application of the amendments to IAS 1 
does not result in any impact on profit or 
loss, other comprehensive income and total 
comprehensive income.
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 51 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
(b) Standards, amendments and interpretations, which are effective for reporting periods beginning after the date of these financial 
statements which have not been adopted early: 
Standard Description
Effective for 
annual periods  
beginning 
 on or after
Expected to  
be initially  
applied in  
the financial  
year ending 
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 30 June 2015
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 30 June 2015
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 30 June 2015
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 30 June 2014
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2014 30 June 2015
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014 30 June 2015
IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation – Offsetting Financial 
Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 30 June 2015
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures – Offsetting Financial 
Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 30 June 2014
IFRS 9* Financial instruments and relevant amending standards 1 January 2015 30 June 2016
Amendments to IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 30 June 2014
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013 30 June 2014
Annual improvements to 
IFRS 2009–2011 Cycle
Annual improvements issued by the IASB in May 2012
1 January 2013 30 June 2014
Amendments to IFRS 10, 
IFRS 11 and IFRS 12
Transitional Guidance (issued 28 June 2012)
1 January 2013 30 June 2014
At the date that these financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board, item marked * had not yet been 
endorsed by the EU.
The Group has not yet assessed the impact of IFRS 9. The adoption of IFRS 9 will eventually replace IAS 39 in its entirety 
and consequently may have a material effect on the presentation, classification, measurement and disclosures of the Group’s 
financial instruments.
The above standards, interpretations and amendments will not significantly affect the Group’s results or financial position 
(other than any potential impact from adoption of IFRS 9 as discussed above).
Basis of consolidation
Where the Company has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of another entity 
or business so as to obtain benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary. The consolidated financial statements present 
the results of the Group as if they formed a single entity. Intercompany transactions and balances between Group companies are 
therefore eliminated in full. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with 
the policies adopted by the Group.
Business combinations
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the purchase method. In the 
consolidated statement of financial position, the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are initially 
recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date, which is the date when control passes to the Company. The results of 
acquired operations are included in the consolidated income statement from the date on which control is obtained. Any difference 
arising between the fair value and tax base of the acquiree’s assets and liabilities that give rise to a taxable deductible difference 
results in recognition of deferred tax liability. No deferred tax liability is recognised on goodwill.
The difference between the fair value of the shares issued as consideration for the acquisition of subsidiaries in excess of the 
nominal value of the shares, where 90% or more of shares are acquired, is included in merger reserve.
1 Accounting policies continued 52 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Non‑controlling interests
For business combinations completed prior to 1 January 2010, the Group initially recognised any non‑controlling interest in the 
acquiree at the non‑controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. For business combinations completed on 
or after 1 January 2010 the Group has the choice, on a transaction by transaction basis, to initially recognise any non‑controlling 
interest in the acquiree which is a present ownership interest and entitles its holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net 
assets in the event of liquidation at either acquisition date fair value or, at the present ownership instruments’ proportionate 
share in the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Other components of non‑controlling interest such as 
outstanding share options are generally measured at fair value. The Group has not elected to take the option to use fair value 
in acquisitions completed to date.
From 1 January 2010, the total comprehensive income of non‑wholly owned subsidiaries is attributed to owners of the parent 
and to the non‑controlling interests in proportion to their relative ownership interests. Before this date, unfunded losses in such 
subsidiaries were attributed entirely to the Group. In accordance with the transitional requirements of IAS 27 (2008), the carrying 
value of non‑controlling interests at the effective date of the amendment has not been restated.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over, in the case of business combinations completed prior to 
1 January 2010, the Group’s interest in the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired and, in the 
case of business combinations completed on or after 1 January 2010, the total acquisition date fair value of the identifiable assets, 
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. 
Cost comprises the fair value of assets given, liabilities assumed and equity instruments issued, plus the amount of any 
non‑controlling interests in the acquiree plus, if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity 
interest in the acquiree. Contingent consideration is included in cost at its acquisition date fair value and, in the case of contingent 
consideration classified as a financial liability, remeasured subsequently through the income statement. For business combinations 
completed on or after 1 January 2010, direct costs of acquisition are recognised immediately as an expense.
Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying value being charged to the income statement. 
Where the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceed the fair value of consideration paid, the excess 
is credited in full to the income statement on the acquisition date.
Foreign currency
The Group financial statements are presented in thousands of US$ unless otherwise stated.
Transactions entered into by the Group entities in a currency other than the currency of the primary economic environment 
in which it operates (the “functional currency”) are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur. Foreign currency 
monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the reporting date. Exchange differences arising on the 
translation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities are similarly recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are translated into US$ at rates approximating those prevailing when 
the transactions took place. All assets and liabilities of overseas operations, including goodwill arising on the acquisition of those 
operations, are translated at the rate ruling at the reporting date. Exchange differences arising on translating the opening net assets 
at opening rate and the results of overseas operations at actual rate are recognised directly in equity the “cumulative translation 
reserve” account in equity.
Exchange differences recognised in the income statement of the Group entities’ separate financial statements on the translation 
of long‑term monetary items forming part of the Group’s net investment in the overseas operation concerned are reclassified to 
the cumulative translation reserve on consolidation.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are non‑recurring material items which are outside the normal scope of the Group’s ordinary activities such as 
liabilities and costs arising from a fundamental restructuring of the Group’s operations. Such items are disclosed separately within 
the financial statements.
Financial assets and liabilities
The Group classified its financial assets into one of the categories discussed below, depending on the purpose for which the 
asset was acquired. The Group has not classified any of its financial assets as either held to maturity or fair value through profit 
and loss.
Loans and receivables: these are non‑derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost. 
1 Accounting policies continued
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 53 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
The Group’s loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial 
position. Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand and short‑term deposits made for varying periods of between one 
day and three months.
Available‑for‑sale: non‑derivative financial assets not included in the above categories are classified as available‑for‑sale 
and comprise principally of the Group’s strategic investments in entities not qualifying as subsidiaries, associates or jointly 
controlled entities. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised directly in a separate component of equity 
(available‑for‑sale reserve). Where there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an available‑for‑sale financial 
asset (which constitutes objective evidence of impairment), the full amount of the impairment, including any amount previously 
charged to equity, is recognised in the income statement. Purchases and sales of available‑for‑sale financial assets are recognised 
on settlement date with any change in fair value between trade date and settlement date being recognised in the income statement. 
On sale, the amount held in the available‑for‑sale reserve associated with that asset is removed from equity and recognised in the 
income statement.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities include the following items:
•	 Trade payables and other short‑term monetary liabilities, which are initially measured at fair value and subsequently recognised 
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
•	 Borrowings are measured at inception at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequently they are 
measured at amortised cost using effective interest rate method.
The Group has not classified any financial liabilities as “fair value through profit or loss” financial liabilities.
Unevaluated mining properties
Initial exploration and evaluation expenditure incurred in relation to project areas to which the Group’s licences and rights relate are 
capitalised on a project‑by‑project basis pending determination of the feasibility of the project within intangible assets – unevaluated 
mining properties. Costs incurred include appropriate technical and administrative expenses but not general overheads. If a mining 
development project is successful, the related expenditures are transferred to property, plant and equipment at which point they are 
assessed for impairment. Subsequently, costs are amortised over the estimated life of the commercial ore reserves using a unit of 
production method. Ore reserves used in the calculation are the probable ore resource and mineral reserve attributable to the specific 
asset. Where a licence is relinquished, a project is abandoned, or is considered to be of no further commercial value to the Group, 
the related costs are written off.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the 
carrying value may not be recoverable. Any reversal of the impairment is determined using the depreciated historic cost of the 
specific asset. 
Other intangible assets 
Externally acquired intangible assets are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration paid and subsequently amortised on 
a straight‑line basis over their useful economic life, except for trademark, which has indefinite useful economic life and is being 
reviewed for impairment annually. The amortisation expense is included within administrative expenses in the consolidated 
income statement.
The significant intangibles recognised by the Group, their useful economic lives and the methods used for initial valuation are 
as follows:
Intangible asset Useful economic life Initial valuation method
Trademarks Indefinite Cost less impairment 
Software 3 years Cost less amortisation on a straight‑line basis 
over the useful economic life 
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from 
contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably. The amounts attributed to such intangibles are arrived 
at using appropriate valuation techniques (see section on critical estimations and judgements).
1 Accounting policies continued 54 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Stripping costs
Stripping costs incurred in the development of a pit in‑house or by an independent contractor before production commences 
are capitalised as part of the cost of developing the pit and subsequently amortised over the mining of the ore (known as reaction 
zone). The “unit of ore mined” policy for the depreciation of evaluated mining properties is similar to the unit of production 
method that is common in the mining sector. Deferred stripping costs are amortised over the expected useful life of the identified 
component of the ore body that becomes more accessible as a result of the stripping activity. Specifically, the calculation of 
amortisation for deferred stripping costs is the ratio of ore mined within the reaction zone (the ore body that becomes more 
accessible as a result of the stripping activity) to the total ore estimated and identified within the reaction zone.
Mining asset
From the moment proven reserves are determined, the relevant expenditure, including licence acquisition costs, is transferred from 
unevaluated mining assets within intangible assets to evaluated mining asset within property, plant and equipment. Exploration 
expenditure transferred to property, plant and equipment is subsequently depreciated on a “unit of ore mined”. The Group 
calculates depreciation based on the ratio of ore mined during the period to the total volume of ore to be mined in the future 
based on the estimated reserves. Expenditure deemed to be unsuccessful is written off to the income statement. Exploration 
expenditure which is incurred in order to extend an already proven reserve is expensed as incurred.
Investment in joint ventures
Joint ventures are entities in which the Group holds a long‑term interest and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one 
or more joint venture partners under contractual arrangements. The Group’s interest in such jointly controlled entities is accounted 
for using the equity method in accordance with IAS 31. 
Revenue
Gemstones
Revenue and associated costs from the sale of gemstones are recognised when control together with the risks and rewards of 
ownership is transferred to the customer. For rough gemstones, this transfer of ownership is deemed to occur at the date of receipt 
of cash while for cut and polished gemstones, transfer of ownership is deemed to occur at the date the invoice is raised and the 
customer has taken ownership of the gemstones.
Retail, wholesale and web sales
Revenue from retail, wholesale and web sales is recognised when goods are delivered to the customer and title passes. Returns are 
accounted for at the point when the customer returns the item in accordance with terms and conditions published on the Fabergé 
website and a credit note is issued to the customer. 
Share‑based payments
The Company issues equity‑settled share‑based payments in the form of share options to certain employees. The Fabergé sub‑group 
operates a cash‑settled shared based remuneration scheme. The share‑based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. 
The fair value determined at the date of grant of the share‑based payments is expensed on a straight‑line basis over the vesting period, 
based on the Company’s estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
If an option is cancelled or settled in advance of the vesting date, the cancellation or settlement is accounted for as an acceleration 
of vesting. Therefore, the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the 
vesting period is recognised immediately. 
Fair value is estimated using a Black‑Scholes valuation model.
Impairment
Impairment tests on goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful economic lives are undertaken annually at the 
financial year end.
Other non‑financial assets are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their 
carrying amount may be different to the recoverable amount. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount 
(i.e. the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the asset is written down. Where the carrying value of an asset 
is below its recoverable amount, any impairment charged in respect of the asset is reversed accordingly. 
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the level of 
the cash generating unit (“CGU”) the asset is part of (i.e. the lowest level group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there 
are separately identifiable cash flows).
Impairment charges are included in the consolidated income statement within administrative expenses.
The Group’s CGUs are determined on an operational basis and have been identified as the Kagem mine, Mozambican operations, 
Fabergé and the UK head office.
1 Accounting policies continued
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 55 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Leased assets
Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are retained by the lessor (an “operating lease”), the total 
rentals payable under the lease are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight‑line basis over the lease term. The 
aggregate benefit of any lease incentive is recognised as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease term on a straight‑line basis.
Property lease premiums are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at cost and subsequently amortised over the 
term of the lease.
Rent deposits
Long‑term rent deposits are initially recognised at fair value of the deposit paid and subsequently measured at amortised cost using 
effective interest rate method.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. As well 
as the purchase price, cost includes directly attributable costs and the estimated present value of any future unavoidable costs of 
dismantling and removing items. The corresponding liability is recognised within provisions.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Evaluated mining properties are amortised on the basis of ore mined in the year, set against 
the total probable ore reserves as detailed in the SRK resource statement, which is publicly available at  
http://corporate.gemfields.co.uk/images/stories/reports/353.pdf.
Depreciation is provided on all other items of property, plant and equipment to write off the carrying value of items over their 
expected useful economic lives. It is applied at the following rates:
Freehold buildings – 5% per annum straight‑line.
Plant, machinery and motor vehicles – 20–25% per annum straight‑line.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 20–33% per annum straight‑line.
Evaluated mining properties – unit of ore mined. 
The Group calculates depreciation based on the ratio of ore mined during the period to the total volume of ore to be mined in the 
future based on the estimated reserves.
Inventory
Inventory relating to rough and finished emeralds has been valued at lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes direct 
production costs, depreciation of mining equipment and amortisation of mining asset and amortisation of deferred stripping costs. 
Net realisable value is the estimated market value based on past auctions, less estimated costs to sell. The internal valuation of the 
cut and polished emeralds has been estimated using the assumed value of the rough emeralds and adding the costs of cutting 
and polishing. 
During the process of extracting emeralds, beryl is also produced. This production is treated as a by‑product, and is measured at 
net realisable value. The net realisable value is accounted for as a contribution to the costs of producing emeralds in the equivalent 
period. Upon sale of the beryl, the sale is recognised as revenue, with any profit over its previous carrying value being recognised 
within revenue in the period of sale.
Cut and polished gemstones, including all retail inventory, and all inventory in the Fabergé business are initially recognised 
at cost, and subsequently at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost comprises all costs of purchase, costs of conversion 
and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Consignment inventory
The terms of agreements with customers who request the Group to onward sell their polished gems normally note that no 
legal title to the polished gems passes to Gemfields. For each particular arrangement an analysis whether all significant risks and 
rewards of ownership of polished gemstones have passed to the Group is undertaken, in order to determine, if it is to be recognised 
as the Group’s inventory. If no significant risks and rewards have passed to the Group, then such gemstones are considered to be 
consignment goods and are not recorded as part of the Group’s inventory. Revenue and related costs on polished gemstones on 
consignment are recognised when the gemstones are sold to the end party purchaser. 
1 Accounting policies continued 56 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement of financial 
position differs to its tax base, except for differences arising on:
•	 the initial recognition of goodwill;
•	 the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business combination and at the time of the 
transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit; and
•	 investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the 
difference and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the difference can be utilised.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting 
date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are settled/(recovered).
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities 
and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either:
•	 the same taxable Group company; or
•	 different Group companies which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis, or to realise the assets 
and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax assets or liabilities 
are expected to be settled or recovered.
Provision for decommissioning and restoration
A provision for decommissioning and restoration costs is recognised at the commencement of mining. The amount recognised is the 
present value of the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and requirements. A corresponding 
property, plant and equipment asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created, which is subsequently depreciated as part 
of the cost of production. Any change in the present value of the estimated future expenditure is reflected and adjusted against the 
provision and evaluated mining property, unless the asset to which the provision relates has been impaired in which case the reversal 
of the provision is taken through the income statement.
Other provisions
Provisions are recognised for liabilities of uncertain timing or amounts that have arisen as a result of past transactions. Kagem 
mining employees are on fixed term contracts and most of them are entitled to end of contract benefits. From time to time it is 
necessary for the Group to defend itself against legal claims that may or may not result in the Group having to make a financial 
settlement. Provisions for anticipated settlement costs and associated expenses arising from any legal and other disputes are made 
where a reliable estimate can be made of the probable outcome of the dispute. Where it is not possible to make such an estimate, 
no provision is made.
Critical accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions
In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, which are described above, the Directors have made judgements, 
estimations and assumptions regarding the future. The judgements, estimations, and assumptions that have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are detailed below. 
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of 
future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. In the future, actual experience may differ from these 
estimates and assumptions.
(a) Useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (note 10 and 11)
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful lives. Useful lives are based 
on the management’s estimates of the period that the assets will generate revenue, which are periodically reviewed for continued 
appropriateness. Changes to estimates can result in significant variations in the carrying value and amounts charged to the 
consolidated income statement in specific periods.
(b) Carrying values of evaluated mining properties (note 26)
The Directors took the decision to write down the value of Kagem to zero in the Gemfields’ 2009 financial statements, driven 
largely by the ongoing uncertainty in the global economy, the loss‑making performance of the Kagem mine during the preceding 
year and the lack of reliable emerald prices, therefore making it difficult to justify forecasts showing a positive cash flow with 
reasonable certainty. In view of the continued improvement in the market for emeralds and increasing production, the Directors 
undertook to reassess and revalue the Kagem mining asset.
1 Accounting policies continued
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 57 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Following the completion of the feasibility study and resource statement by SRK Consulting, the Directors decided to reverse the 
value of the mine asset previously impaired. This reversal impacted the 2012 financial statements.
The “value‑in‑use” assessment of the recoverable amount of the mining asset was considered to be relevant in the determination 
of carrying value as this is how the economic value of the asset will be ultimately recovered. The determination of value‑in‑use and 
hence the recoverable amount of the Kagem asset is complex and detailed. The financial model is based on cash flow projections 
and assumptions which represent the best estimate of the economics that will exist over the remaining life of the mine.
The key estimates, judgements and assumptions which affect the financial model are:
•	 emerald prices;
•	 resource and reserve classification;
•	 the life of mine; and
•	 applicable discount rate.
(c) Stripping costs (note 11)
Stripping costs incurred in opening up new ore areas are capitalised as part of the cost of developing the pit and subsequently 
amortised over the mining of the ore (known as the reaction zone). This is reported under property, plant and equipment. 
Deferred stripping costs are amortised over the expected useful life of the identified component of the ore body that becomes more 
accessible as a result of the stripping activity. Specifically, the calculation of amortisation for deferred stripping costs is the ratio of 
ore mined within the reaction zone (the ore body that becomes more accessible as a result of the stripping activity) to the total ore 
estimated and identified within the reaction zone. Judgement is required to estimate the total ore within the reaction zone and 
the expected useful life of the identified component. The judgements made are supported by technical data.
(d) Inventories (note 15) 
The Group reviews the net realisable value of, and demand for, its inventory, including the inventory acquired with Fabergé 
business, on a quarterly basis to provide assurance that recorded inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. 
Factors that could impact estimated demand and selling prices include competitor actions and economic trends. Judgement is 
required in predicting market trends and the Directors and management use their experience, market data and trend analysis 
(as referenced earlier in the report) when undertaking these reviews.
(e) Share‑based payments (note 24)
The Group has an equity‑settled share‑based remuneration scheme for employees and Directors. Employee services received, 
and the corresponding increase in equity, are measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date of grant, 
excluding the impact of any non‑market vesting conditions. The fair value of share options is estimated by using the Black‑Scholes 
valuation model on the date of grant based on certain assumptions. Those assumptions are described in note 24 and include, 
among others, the dividend growth rate, expected volatility, expected life of the options and number of options expected to vest. 
Many of the inputs are factual. Others are based on market data and strategic Board decisions.
(f) De‑commissioning provision (note 18)
The Company is required to restore the mining sites at the end of their useful lives to a condition acceptable to the relevant 
authorities and consistent with the Company’s environmental policies.
The expected cost of any committed decommissioning or restoration programme, discounted to its net present value, is provided 
and capitalised at the beginning of each project. The capitalised cost is depreciated over the expected life of the asset and the 
increase in the net present value of the provision for the expected cost is included in the income statement.
Subsequent changes in the initial estimates of rehabilitation and decommissioning costs that result from changes in the estimated 
timing or amount of the outflow of resources embodying economic benefits required to settle the obligation, or a change in the 
discount rate are added to or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period. 
Where the change results in a reduction in the liability, the cost deducted from the asset shall not exceed the carrying amount. 
If a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where the change results in an increase in the cost of the asset, the amount is capitalised as part of the cost of the item and 
depreciated over the remaining life of the item to which it relates. The new carrying amount is also compared to the recoverable 
amount of the asset and if there is any indication that the carrying amount is not fully recoverable, an impairment test is 
conducted in accordance with the impairment policy. These estimates are reviewed annually.
The provision represents the managements’ best estimate of the costs that will be incurred based on legislative and regulatory 
requirements. Significant judgement is required as these costs will not crystallise until the end of the life of the mine. Management 
utilise the expertise of independent third parties in determining the level of provision to be provided. Key considerations relate to 
the scope of the work, life of mine, cost estimates and inflation.
1 Accounting policies continued 58 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
(g) Available‑for‑sale investments (note 13)
There was a prolonged decline in the market value of the investment in Richland Resources Limited which management considers 
to be of a permanent nature. The Group exercises judgement in assessing whether there is any objective evidence that a financial 
asset is impaired and determination of whether there has been ‘significant’ or ‘prolonged’ decline in the fair value below original 
cost and estimation of future cash flows, based on publicly available market prices.
(h) Impairment testing of non‑current assets (note 26)
Where the recoverable amounts are assessed by analyses of discounted cash flows, significant judgement is used and the resulting 
valuations are particularly sensitive to changes in estimates of long‑term commodity prices, capital and operating expenditures, 
discount rates and available reserves and resources and future production profile. Events or changes in circumstances can give 
rise to significant impairment charges or reversals of impairment in a particular period. 
(i) Impairment testing of trademark (Fabergé) (note 10)
The Directors make certain accounting estimates and assumptions regarding the future, all of which could result in a significant 
impact on the Group’s financial results. Any impairment of the trademarks required in the future would have a significant impact 
on the Group’s financial results and financial position; however, this would have no impact on the Group’s cash flows.
The Fabergé trademarks are a key asset in the Group’s Statement of Financial Position. They were recognised in the Group 
financial statements at acquisition in January 2013 at provisional fair value of US$40,737,000 (note 27). The Directors believe 
that the asset has an indefinite useful life as it is probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will 
flow to the entity indefinitely, and in accordance with IAS 36, have considered the asset for impairment. 
Key estimates relating to the valuation of Fabergé trademarks are disclosed in the note 10.
2 Segmental analysis
In 2012, the Group operated in three principal operating segments: Zambia (mining), Mozambique (exploration), UK and all 
other units are included in ‘Others’. Group companies included into ‘Others’ mostly deal with marketing and trading in various 
parts of the world (India, South Africa, USA, Canada and Singapore). In 2013, after completion of the acquisition of Fabergé 
(wholesale and retail sales of jewellery and cut polished stones), the Group’s management decided that it should be reported 
as a separate operating segment. 
2013 
In thousands of US$ Zambia Mozambique
UK 
(Corporate) Fabergé Other Total
Revenues from external customers 42,020 – 1,766 4,187 421 48,394
Share of operating profit/(loss) 10,227 (4,846) (16,344) (7,326) (1,519) (19,808)
Finance income – – 384 9 200 593
Finance expenses (639) (209) (24) (6) (2) (880)
Profit/(loss) after tax 6,892 (5,056) (15,984) (7,339) (1,306) (22,793)
Total non‑current assets 223,021 10,545 3,014 44,666 67 281,313
Total non‑current liabilities 73,931 36 – 1,710 – 75,677
Total assets 260,203 13,074 14,898 88,040 2,473 378,688
Total liabilities 95,220 125 4,672 3,155 166 103,338
Other charges
Depreciation and amortisation 19,531 356 44 345 13 20,289
Impairment charge – – 684 – – 684
Share‑based payments charge – – 1,398 – – 1,398
These figures are presented after intercompany adjustments have been accounted for. Revenue from the Zambian operations 
is derived from rough emeralds while revenue for the UK and Indian operations (included in ‘Other’) is derived from rough 
emeralds and cut and polished emeralds. UK (Corporate) is the combination of UK companies, British Virgin Islands companies, 
Canadian and Singaporean companies. The Zambian segment’s revenue is normally received though conducting an auction, 
which is attended by the customers by invitation. Fabergé revenues consist of wholesale and retail sales of jewellery and cut 
and polished stones. No reliance is placed on any particular major customer.
1 Accounting policies continued
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 59 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
2012
In thousands of US$ Zambia Mozambique
UK 
(Corporate) Others Total 
Revenues 57,833 – 3,300 22,582 83,715
Share of operating profit/(loss) 240,312 (970) (10,201) 19,615 248,756
Finance income – – 135 111 246
Finance expenses (47) (2) (18) (9) (76)
Profit/(loss) after tax 153,593 (972) (10,094) 18,939 161,466
Total non‑current assets 221,043 3,338 4,603 82 229,066
Total non‑current liabilities (79,670) – – – (79,670)
Total assets 257,151 3,467 26,092 11,381 298,091
Total liabilities (88,351) (205) (3,772) (11) (92,339)
Other charges
Depreciation and amortisation 6,573 – 37 14 6,624
Impairment (reversal)/charge (201,115) – 158 – (200,957)
Share‑based payments charge – – 896 – 896
3 Mining and production costs
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012 
Labour costs 7,923 5,848
Mineral royalties 2,522 3,971
Fuel costs 2,406 2,729
Repairs and maintenance 1,630 2,609
Security costs 1,532 103
Blasting 864 733
Camp costs 831 656
Other mining and processing costs 1,011 1,019
18,719 17,668
4 Other administrative expenses
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012 
Advertising and marketing 9,767 1,626
Labour and related costs 8,763 4,572
Consulting fees 3,714 568
Travel and accommodation 2,466 1,479
Rent and rates 1,528 277
Share‑based payment 1,398 896
Office expenses 471 309
Accounting and audit fees 371 143
Other administrative expenses 4,380 4,323
32,858 14,193
2 Segmental analysis continued 60 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
5 (Loss)/profit from operations
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012 
The (loss)/profit from operations has been arrived at after charging:
Auditors’ remuneration
 – Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Group and Company’s annual accounts 106 81
 – Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for other services 85 –
 – Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the foreign subsidiaries 131 37
 – Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for tax related matters across the Group 13 –
Staff costs (note 6) 16,118 9,320
Directors’ remuneration (note 6) 1,759 1,901
Depreciation and amortisation (notes 10, 11 and 12) 20,289 6,624
Reversal of impairment of evaluated mining properties (note 26) – (201,115)
Impairment of available‑for‑sale investments and other receivables (note 26) 684 158
Operating lease costs – land and buildings 1,436 89
Share‑based payments (note 24) 1,398 896
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (note 11) 168 144
Exchange differences 397 (136)
Included in the Group audit fee is an amount of US$29,200 (2012: US$28,600) in respect of the Company.
Included in the Group’s Other Comprehensive Income is an amount of foreign exchange gains of US$311,219 (2012: 
US$307,646) arising on translation of foreign operations, that will be reclassified to the income statement upon the disposal 
of foreign operation or partial disposal of foreign operation, when the partial disposal involves loss of control over that operation, 
at the same time when the gain or loss from disposal is recognised.
6 Employees and Directors
2013 
Number
2012 
Number
Administration staff 155 143
Fabergé staff 49 –
Mining staff 491 380
Average number of employees 695 523
In thousands of US$
Gross salaries 15,529 9,995
Share‑based payments 1,398 896
Social security costs 950 330
17,877 11,221
Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling 
the activities of the Group. Key management personnel are considered to be the Directors of the Company. Directors’ detailed 
remuneration is disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 43. No Directors have exercised share options during 
the year (2012: none).
7 Finance income and expense
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012 
Finance income
Interest received 593 246
593 246
Finance expense
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (880) (212)
Exchange differences on translation – 136
(880) (76)
Net finance expense (287) 170
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 61 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
8 Taxation
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012 
Current tax
Tax charge for year 7,345 8,855
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (4,647) 78,605
Total tax expense 2,698 87,460
The reasons for the difference between the actual tax charge for the year and the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 
applied to (losses)/profits for the year are as follows:
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012 
(Loss)/profit on ordinary activities before tax (20,095) 248,926
Profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24% (2012: 26%) (4,823) 64,721
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,442 563
Different tax rates applied in overseas jurisdictions and other temporary differences 6,079 22,176
Total tax expense 2,698 87,460
The UK Finance Act 2012 includes provision for the main rate of corporation tax to reduce from 26% to 24% on 1 April 2012, 
and to 23% on 1 April 2013. The UK Finance Act 2013 includes a further reduction to bring the main rate to 21% from 1 April 
2014. This will reduce the Company’s future tax charge accordingly. The rate of 24% was substantially enacted on 26 March 
2012, the rate of 23% was substantially enacted on 6 July 2012 and the rate of 21% was substantially enacted on 17 July 2013.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the balance sheet liability method using a tax rate of 35% 
(2012: 35%). The tax rate of 35% was used in the current year, being the rate applicable in Zambia where the liability arises. 
Temporary differences between the tax bases and net carrying values arise in regards to the effect of differences between tax 
and accounting depreciation and tax losses generated in 2012. 
Details of the deferred tax liability, amounts recognised in the income statement and other comprehensive income are as follows:
In thousands of US$
Assets 
2013 
Assets 
2012 
Liabilities 
2013
Liabilities 
2012
Net 
2013 
Net 
2012 
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Property, plant and equipment – – 2,110 2,884 2,110 2,884
Deferred stripping costs – – 689 3,478 689 3,478
Mining property – – 67,692 70,390 67,692 70,390
Other provisions (801) (352) – – (801) (352)
Inventory valuation in Kagem – – 2,063 – 2,063 –
Business combinations – – 1,463 – 1,463 –
(801) (352) 74,017 76,752 73,216 76,400 62 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
The movement on the deferred tax account is as shown below:
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012 
At 1 July 76,400 (2,205)
Origination and reversal of temporary differences:
– Deferred stripping costs (2,789) 3,586
– Difference of capital allowances over depreciation (774) 1,146
– Carried forward tax losses – 3,836
– Other provisions (449) (353)
– Fair value deferred tax liability on mining property (2,699) 70,390
– Inventory valuation in Kagem 2,064 –
Recognised in income statement in the year (4,647) 78,605
Fair value of the trademark and other net assets of Fabergé (note 27) 1,463 –
At 30 June 73,216 76,400
The deferred tax liability of US$73.2 million (2012: US$76.4 million) includes US$66.7 million (2012: US$70.3 million) due in 
more than one year.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised in relation to tax losses and other temporary differences which would give rise to deferred tax 
assets where it is considered probable that the losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future, and therefore the asset is recoverable.
No deferred tax is recognised in relation to:
•	 deductible temporary differences in the amount of US$4,957,590 (2012: US$6,063,583) arising on the write off of 
available‑for‑sale investments; and
•	 unused tax losses in the amount of US$22,017,231 (2012: US$9,368,368).
9 (Loss)/earnings per share
Earnings per ordinary share has been calculated using the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. During the 
year, the weighted average number of equity shares in issue is 417,318,587 (2012: 324,556,550) and the loss after tax attributable 
to equity holders of the parent is US$22,790,591 (2012: profit of US$120,227,816).
Diluted (loss)/earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the (loss)/profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity 
holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, plus the weighted average 
number of shares that would be issued on the conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. The calculation 
of the dilutive potential ordinary shares related to employee and Director share option plans includes only those options with 
exercise prices above the average share trading price for each period.
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012 
(Loss)/earnings per share for (loss)/profit attributable to the owners of the parent during the year used 
in basic and dilutive calculation, in thousands of US$ (22,790) 120,228
Basic weighted average number of shares 417,318,587 324,556,550
Dilutive potential of ordinary shares
Employee and Director share option plans 8,256,712 11,578,332
Diluted weighted average number of shares 425,575,299 336,134,882
(Loss)/earnings per share, in US$
– basic (0.05) 0.37
– diluted (0.05) 0.36
Details of the share options are in note 24. The calculation of the diluted earnings per share assumes all criteria giving rise to the 
dilution of the earnings per share are achieved and all outstanding share options are exercised.
8 Taxation continued
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 63 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
10 Intangible assets
In thousands of US$ Software Goodwill Trademarks
Unevaluated 
mining 
properties 
Zambian 
projects
Unevaluated 
mining 
properties 
Mozambican 
project Total
Cost
At 1 July 2011 – – – 12,514 – 12,514
Additions – – – – 2,634 2,634
At 30 June 2012 – – – 12,514 2,634 15,148
Additions – – – – 2,595 2,595
Acquisitions through business combinations 12 1,463 40,737 – – 42,212
Transferred from property plant and equipment – – – – 567 567
At 30 June 2013 12 1,463 40,737 12,514 5,796 60,522
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 July 2011 – – – 12,514 – 12,514
At 30 June 2012 – – – 12,514 – 12,514
Charge in the year 5 – – – – 5
At 30 June 2013 5 – – 12,514 – 12,519
Net book value
At 30 June 2013 7 1,463 40,737 – 5,796 48,003
At 30 June 2012 – – – – 2,634 2,634
At 1 July 2011 – – – – – –
Unevaluated mining properties – Zambian projects comprise Kamakanga emerald mine, Ndola Rural Emerald Restricted Area 
(NRERA) prospecting licences and the Jagoda option.
Unevaluated mining properties – Mozambican project comprises Montepuez.
The amount of depreciation capitalised as a part of unevaluated mining properties in the current year is US$317,364 (2012: nil).
On 28 January 2013, the Company bought 100% of the share capital of Fabergé (note 27). A provisional fair value of the Fabergé 
trademark acquired is included above. The provisional goodwill arises on the acquisition of Fabergé Limited as a result of the 
requirement to recognise deferred tax liabilities on the fair value adjustments.
The Fabergé intangible asset provisional value of US$40.7 million was arrived at utilising a discounted cash flow model. Fabergé as 
a business, was valued and the value of inventory, cash and other net current assets/liabilities at value was subtracted in order to achieve 
the resultant value reflecting the value of the intangible assets. There is no fair intangible value ascribed to significant customer contracts, 
boutique leases, wholesale and other Company contracts and/or employee contracts.
The discounted cash flow model was initially based on a 20 year period. It is the Directors’ view that the Fabergé intangible asset 
has an indefinite useful life, based on the long heritage and history of the Fabergé name. The period of 20 years and utilising a 
terminal value at the end of such 20 year period is therefore considered justified. The discount rate used in the discounted cash 
flow model was 13.4%. The model was primarily based on the following significant assumptions:
•	 Increase in the number of boutiques with revenue per new store of US$3 million per annum – based on actual achieved results 
to date plus an uplift for additional new product ranges;
•	 Operating costs of US$1 million per new store per annum – based on actual results and operating costs to date;
•	 An estimate of US$0.75 million capital expenditure per new store for shop fitting, store layout and design;
•	 Marketing, public relations and events budget comprise 6.5% of revenue, with a minimum marketing spend of US$5.5 million 
per annum;
•	 US inflation rate of 4% per annum; and
•	 The terminal value was calculated as a multiple of the final year (2033) EBITDA. The multiple was 10 times 2033 EBITDA, 
and this was discounted back to the date of valuation. 64 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
11 Property, plant and equipment
In thousands of US$
Freehold land 
and buildings
Plant, 
machinery and 
motor vehicles
Fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
Evaluated 
mining 
properties
Deferred 
stripping costs Total
Cost
At 1 July 2011 1,505 16,098 579 269,753 – 287,935
Additions 520 6,400 324 567 14,490 22,301
Disposals – (726) – – – (726)
At 30 June 2012 2,025 21,772 903 270,320 14,490 309,510
Additions 852 6,859 388 – 15,777 23,876
Acquisitions through business combinations – – 1,708 – – 1,708
Transferred to intangible assets – – – (567) – (567)
Disposals – (7) (9) – – (16)
Foreign exchange differences – – (94) – – (94)
At 30 June 2013 2,877 28,624 2,896 269,753 30,267 334,417
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 July 2011 116 9,744 246 269,753 – 279,859
Provided during the year 18 2,732 72 – 3,802 6,624
Reversal of impairment (note 26) – – – (201,115) – (201,115)
Disposals – (723) – – – (723)
At 30 June 2012 134 11,753 318 68,638 3,802 84,645
Provided during the year 74 4,277 496 7,711 7,969 20,527
Disposals – (6) (2) – – (8)
Foreign exchange differences – – (56) – – (56)
At 30 June 2013 208 16,024 756 76,349 11,771 105,108
Net book value
At 30 June 2013 2,669 12,600 2,140 193,404 18,496 229,309
At 30 June 2012 1,891 10,019 585 201,682 10,688 224,865
At 30 June 2011 1,389 6,354 333 – – 8,076
12 Other non‑current assets
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Long‑term rent‑deposit – Fabergé shops 703 –
Long‑term receivable from Kariba (joint venture) (note 22) 2,434 –
Property lease premium – Fabergé shops 382 –
3,519 –
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 65 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
In thousands of US$
Property lease 
premium
Cost
At 1 July 2011 and 30 June 2012 –
Acquisitions through business combinations 456
At 30 June 2013 456
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 July 2011 and 30 June 2012 –
Provided during the year 74
At 30 June 2013 74
Net book value
At 30 June 2013 382
At 30 June 2012 and 1 July 2011 –
13 Available‑for‑sale investments
In thousands of US$
Richland  
Resources  
Limited 
Cost
At 1 July 2011 and 30 June 2012 7,631
Disposals (2,191)
At 30 June 2013 5,440
Provision for impairment
At 1 July 2011 (5,906)
Impairment (note 26) (158)
At 30 June 2012 (6,064)
Disposals 1,741
Impairment (note 26) (635)
At 30 June 2013 (4,958)
Net book value
At 30 June 2013 482
At 30 June 2012 1,567
At 1 July 2011 1,725
During the year ended 30 June 2009, the Group acquired a total of 11,668,330 shares (9.88%) in Richland Resources Limited 
a miner of the gemstone tanzanite, listed on the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange for a total cost of US$7,630,781. 
During the current year, the Company sold 3,350,000 shares (2012: nil), as a result a loss of US$168,416 (2012: US$nil) based 
on the written down value as at 31 June 2012 was recognised in the Group’s income statement. Cash proceeds from sale of these 
shares were US$308,736 (2012: US$nil).
At 30 June 2013, the Company held 8,318,330 shares, representing 7.04% of Richland Resources Limited share capital 
(2012: 11,668,330, representing 9.88% of Richland Resources Limited share capital), the market value on that date was 
US$482,380 (2012: US$1,567,197).
There has been a further decline in the market value of the shares in Richland Resources Limited. Consequently, an impairment 
loss of US$634,873 (2012: US$157,762) was recognised in this year’s income statement.
12 Other non‑current assets continued 66 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
14 Investments
In thousands of US$ Joint venture
Cost
At 1 July 2011, 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013 287
Impairment
At 1 July 2011, 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013 (287)
Net book value
At 30 June 2013 –
At 30 June 2012 and 1 July 2011 –
At 30 June 2013, the Group held a 50% interest in a joint venture Kariba, which is incorporated and registered in Zambia and 
its nature of business is gemstone mining.
The Group’s share of the joint venture was:
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Non‑current assets 158 591
Current assets 1,012 299
Current liabilities (2,932) (2,233)
Share of net liabilities (1,762) (1,343)
Revenue 232 319
Operating expenditure 847 800
The Group equity accounts for its investment in joint venture and does not recognise its share of losses in excess of the carrying amount 
of the investment. The Group’s share of unrecognised losses for the year is US$696,990 (2012: US$481,185). The Group’s share of cumulative 
unrecognised losses at the end of the year is US$2,482,809 (2012: US$1,391,878). The recapitalisation programme of US$2.5 million was 
agreed in 2013 between Gemfields and ZCCM‑IH (Kariba’s other 50% stakeholder). Both parties have contributed US$1.25 million, which 
represent their respective 50% share of this funding requirement. At 30 June 2013 cash has been provided to Kariba and all equipment was 
acquired and in the process of delivery. By the date these accounts were authorised for issue, the equipment arrived at the mine site and was 
in the process of being assembled.
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 67 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Subsidiary undertakings
The following were subsidiary undertakings at the end of the year and have all been included in the consolidated financial statements:
Name
Country of incorporation  
or registration
Proportion of 
voting rights 
and ordinary 
share capital  
held in 2013
Proportion of 
voting rights 
and ordinary 
share capital  
held in 2012 Nature of business
Gemfields Limited BVI British Virgin Islands 100% 100% Gemstone marketing
Almizan Development Limited British Virgin Islands 100% 100% Gemstone marketing
Sarina Global Limited British Virgin Islands 100% 100% Non–trading
Gemfields Canada Inc. (b) Canada 100% 100% Non–trading
Gemfields Mining Limited Zambia 100% 100% Gemstone mining
Gemfields Holdings Zambia Limited (a) Zambia 100% 100% Non–trading
Mbuva Mining Company Limited (a) Zambia 100% 100% Non–trading
Gemhouse Mining Zambia Limited (c) Zambia 100% 100% Non–trading
Gemfields India Pvt Limited (b) India 100% 100% Gemstone marketing
Krinera Group S.A. Panama – 100% Non–trading
Greentop International Inc. British Virgin Islands – 100% Non–trading
Hagura Mining Limited (d) British Virgin Islands – 100% Non–trading
Hagura Mining Limited (d) United Kingdom 100% 100% Holding company
Kagem Mining Limited (e) Zambia 75% 75% Gemstone mining
Oriental Mining SARL Madagascar 100% 100% Non–trading
Gemfields Singapore Pte Limited Singapore 100% 100% Gemstones auctions
Gemfields Mauritius Limited Mauritius 100% 100% Non–trading
Montepuez Ruby Mining Limitada (f) Mozambique 75% 75% Gemstone mining
Fabergé Limited Cayman Islands 100% – Retail
Fabergé S.à.r.l. (h) Luxembourg 100% – Non–trading
Fabergé Hospitality Limited (h) British Virgin Islands 100% – Advisory and administrative support in 
connection with hospitality projects
Fabergé Services Limited (h) United Kingdom 100% – Advisory and administrative support in 
connection with the Fabergé trademarks 
and UK retail
Fabergé Suisse SA (h) Switzerland 100% – Retail activity and promotion  
of the Fabergé collection of  
jewellery and watches
Fabergé Inc. (h) USA 100% – Retail activity and promotion  
of the Fabergé collection of  
jewellery and watches in America
Gemfields CDJ Mauritius Mauritius 100% – Non–trading
Campos de Joia, Limitada (g) Mozambique 100% – Gemstone mining
Gemfields South Africa (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 100% – Gemstone marketing
Gemfields USA, Inc. USA 100% – Gemstone marketing
Gemholds Limited United Kingdom 100% – Non–trading
Megaruma Mining Lda (f) Mozambique 75% – Gemstone mining
Mkushi Tourmaline Mining Limited (i) Zambia 75% Non–trading
(a) Interest held indirectly through interest in Gemfields Canada Inc.
(b) Interest held indirectly through interest in Gemfields Limited BVI.
(c) Interest held indirectly through interest in Gemfields Holdings Zambia Limited.
(d) Interest held indirectly through interests in Krinera Group S.A. and Greentop International Inc.
(e) Interest held indirectly through interest in Hagura Mining Limited.
(f) Interest held indirectly through interest in Gemfields Mauritius Limited.
(g) Interest held indirectly through interest in Gemfields CDJ Mauritius.
(h) Interest held indirectly through interest in Fabergé Limited.
(i) Interest held indirectly through interest in Gemholds Limited.
14 Investments continued 68 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
The acquisition of Fabergé is considered a related party transaction (note 27).
For all undertakings listed above, the country of operation is the same as its country of incorporation or registration with the 
exception of Gemfields Limited BVI whose operations are in the UK.
During the year ended 30 June 2013 Krinera Group S.A., Greentop International Inc., Hagura Mining Limited (BVI) 
were dissolved.
Megaruma Mining Lda
During the financial year, Gemfields entered into a conditional agreement to acquire a 75% interest in a ruby deposit located adjacent to 
the Montepuez site. The agreement stipulates initial acquisition of 75% of one exploration licence with a one year option to acquire 75% 
of a second licence, covering 18,400 and 14,900 hectares respectively (the “Mining Titles”). The Mining Titles are located adjacent to 
Gemfields’ existing 75% owned Montepuez. The consideration for each Mining Title is US$1.75 million. The Mining Titles are 
expected to provide a platform, alongside the Montepuez, for the expansion and development of Gemfields’ Mozambique operations.
As at 30 June 2013, the first instalment of the consideration of US$250,000 was paid but the conditions have not yet been met 
for the agreement to be completed. The first instalment has therefore been accounted for as a prepayment. It is expected that the 
agreement will be completed, and second instalment paid, by December 2013.
15 Inventories
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Rough and cut and polished emeralds 39,418 26,617
Fabergé inventory 36,848 –
Fuel and consumables 1,595 1,362
77,861 27,979
16 Trade and other receivables
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Trade receivables 1,185 760
Other receivables 5,202 2,693
Prepayments 1,905 856
8,292 4,309
All amounts shown under receivables fall due for payment within one year. Further information on other receivables is provided 
in note 25.
17 Trade and other payables
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Trade payables 5,404 2,387
Other payables 4,690 5,715
10,094 8,102
In thousands of US$
Total 
provisions
Current provisions
At 1 July 2011 816
Additions in the year 31
At 30 June 2012 847
Reclassed to other payables (847)
At 30 June 2013 –
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013
14 Investments continued 69 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
18 Other non‑current liabilities
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Non‑current provisions 2,214 1,353
LTIP liability in Fabergé sub‑group 247 –
At 30 June 2,461 1,353
In thousands of US$
Environmental 
restoration 
provision
Other 
provisions
Total 
provisions
Non‑current provisions
At 1 July 2011 690 205 895
Additions in the year – 458 458
At 30 June 2012 690 663 1,353
Additions in the year 214 647 861
At 30 June 2013 904 1,310 2,214
Environmental restoration provision relates to the environmental restoration obligations in accordance with the Company’s 
environmental policy and relevant local legislative requirements. The other non‑current provisions consist of employee end 
of contract benefits and are payable in three years’ time.
Fabergé sub‑group LTIP
The Fabergé sub‑group operates a cash‑settled share‑based remuneration scheme which is open to officers or employees of the Fabergé 
sub‑group (‘Qualified Persons’) as determined by the Board of Fabergé, that determines the level of award granted to each Qualified 
Person. Qualified Persons are entitled to a grant of awards at the commencement date of their employment. Further grants of awards 
may be made at a future date. The value of the award is based on the value of the Fabergé sub‑group.
The awards are measured at fair value using an appropriate pricing model. The fair value of the awards is charged to the income 
statement over the vesting period.
Under the terms of the scheme, awards vest in three equal parts on the first, second and third anniversary of the date of grant 
and can only be settled in cash. Awards lapse on the tenth anniversary of the date of grant. In addition, any award shall lapse 
six months following an award holder ceasing to be employed by any Group company under the terms of his/her contract.
The earliest vesting date is the first anniversary of the date of grant of any award. None of the awards were exercised during 
the period. The total number of awards vested but not exercised at 30 June 2013 was 26,791 (2012: nil) and the weighted average 
fair value was US$8 (2012: US$46). The value of awards outstanding at the period end ranged between US$3 and US$12 
(2012: US$25 and US$55) and their weighted average remaining contractual life was five years (2012: nil).
19 Borrowings
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
At 1 July 2,917 –
Received during the year 12,000 3,000
Repaid during the year (3,322) (83)
Total borrowings at 30 June 11,595 2,917
At 30 June
Payable within one year included under current liabilities (11,595) (1,000)
Payable after one year included under non‑current liabilities – 1,917
The borrowing relates to a US$15 million loan, of which the amount of US$9,275,000 bears interest at a rate of three‑month 
LIBOR plus 4.75% and the amount of US$5,725,000 bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 4.75%. The loan was entered into 
by Kagem with Barclays Bank Zambia plc. An initial drawdown of US$3 million of the facility occurred in 2012 and the 
remainder was drawn down in the 2013 financial year. The loan is repayable in monthly instalments over a period of 36 months 
from the date of first drawdown of the loan. 70 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Security for this loan comprises a fixed and floating charge of all of the Kagem net assets to a level to cover the US$15 million 
facility, a mortgage over a property registered in the name of Kagem Mining Limited and a corporate guarantee from Gemfields 
PLC. The facility of US$9,275,000 was used to pay the contractor undertaking the removal of waste in the Chama section of the 
Kagem mine and is an initial step towards Kagem becoming a fully independent and self‑funding operation. The second part 
of the loan in the amount of US$5,725,000 was used to purchase various mining and other equipment.
The above loan facility was subject to four financial covenants, which are tested half yearly. One of the covenants was however not 
met at the reporting date due to the auction planned in June 2013, being delayed to July 2013. Post reporting date, this covenant 
has been fulfilled and on 21 August 2013, the bank signed a waiver not to demand immediate payment. In line with IAS 1, the 
total outstanding loan amount has been reported under current liabilities.
20 Share capital
2013 2012
Number of shares US$’000 Number of shares US$’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each
At 1 July 324,706,551 6,169 324,339,883 6,164
Issued during the year for acquisition of Fabergé 213,999,999 3,367 – –
Issued during the year – other 1,296,658 21 366,668 5
At 30 June 540,003,208 9,557 324,706,551 6,169
Share capital is denominated in Pounds Sterling.
Details of the share option scheme are set out in note 24.
21 Capital commitments
At year end the Group had following capital commitments:
•	 US$nil (2012: $2,487,000) for the purchase of mining equipment in Kagem;
•	 US$853,900 (2012: estimated US$18,919,000) for the overburden removal in Kagem; and
•	 US$634,381 (2012: US$nil) for the contract for erection and commissioning for HT overhead electrical lines around 
Namanhumbir Camp and Mine Camp at Montepuez.
In July 2013, an agreement was signed by Kagem for overburden removal costs with estimated value of US$4.8 million.
22 Related party transactions and ultimate controlling party
Balances with related parties
In thousands of US$
Receivable by the Group from 
related parties at 30 June 2013
Receivable by the Group from 
related parties at 30 June 2012
Payable to the Group by  
related parties at 30 June 2013
Payable to the Group by  
related parties at 30 June 2012
Entities with significant interest in the 
Company (d) – – 40 1
Joint ventures (in respect of operating and 
capital expenditure) (a), (b), (c) 2,434 2,302 – –
Key management personnel of the entity (e) – – 88 –
Other related parties 18 18 – –
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013
19 Borrowings continued 71 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Transactions during the year
2013 
In thousands of US$
Goods/services sold by the 
Company and its subsidiaries  
to related parties
Goods/services purchased by the 
Company and its subsidiaries 
from related parties
Expenses paid by related party on 
behalf of the Group
Loans received by related parties 
from the Group
Entities with joint control or significant 
influence over the Company (d) – – – –
Fabergé (before being acquired by 
Gemfields PLC on 28 January 2013) 742 – – –
Joint ventures – – 10 1,452
Key management personnel of the entity (e) 4 – – –
Other related parties (f) 59 – 115 –
2012 
In thousands of US$
Goods/services sold by the 
Company and its subsidiaries  
to related parties
Goods/services purchased by the 
Company and its subsidiaries 
from related parties
Expenses paid by related party on 
behalf of the Group
Loans received by related parties 
from the Group
Entities with joint control or significant 
influence over the Company (d) – – – –
Fabergé 282 – – –
Joint ventures – – 280 542
Key management personnel of the entity (e) 15 – – –
Other related parties (f) 15 – 133 –
(a)  Gemfields Mining Limited had a receivable of US$142,757, which represents historical receivable of US$1,623,757 less 
a provision of US$1,481,000 from Kariba at 30 June 2013 and 2012.
(b)  Gemfields PLC had a receivable of US$2,283,375 (2012: US$821,850) from Kariba at the year end. This was in respect 
of operating and capital expenditures.
(c)  Kagem Mining Limited had a receivable of US$7,114 (2012: US$nil) from Kariba at the year end. This was in respect 
of operating and capital expenditures.
(d) The Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P. (“PRF”) owns a see‑through interest of 47.95% in the Company.
(e)  All Directors of Gemfields PLC are considered to be key management personnel. The list of all the Directors is set 
on pages 28–29.
(f) Other related parties include transactions and balance with Brian Gilbertson and Pallinghurst Advisors LLP.
Pallinghurst Advisors LLP is based in the United Kingdom and acts as an investment advisor to Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P. 
which is based in the Cayman Islands. Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P. acts as investment manager to some of the Group’s largest 
shareholders. These shareholders include PRF, which owns a see‑through interest of 47.95%, NGPMR (Cayman) L.P. which owns 
a see‑through interest of 13.43% and Investec Pallinghurst (Cayman) L.P. which owns a see‑through interest of 12.65%. The 
percentages above include indirect interests in Gemfields PLC by PRF, NGPMR (Cayman) L.P. and Investec Pallinghurst 
(Cayman) L.P. of 9.34%, 5.20% and 2.74% respectively through their holdings in Fabergé Conduit Ltd.
The Group made payments to Pallinghurst Advisors LLP during the year in relation to expenses it incurred on behalf of the 
Group. These expenses were mainly related to travel and administrative costs, including IT support.
PRF is a subsidiary of Pallinghurst Resources Limited, which is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and Bermuda Stock 
Exchange. Brian Gilbertson is the Chairman of Pallinghurst Resources Limited, a Partner of Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P. and a 
member of Pallinghurst Advisors. Brian Gilbertson is also the father of Sean Gilbertson, who is a Director of Gemfields PLC and various 
other Group companies. During the year the Group sold certain polished stones to Brian Gilbertson for US$59,159 (2012: US$152).
Gemfields PLC acts as a guarantor for a US$11,595,278 loan facility (2012: US$2,916,667) taken by Kagem in Zambia, a 100% 
owned subsidiary of the Company (note 19).
All transactions with related parties for years ending 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 were carried out at arm’s‑length.
Ultimate controlling party
The Group does not have an ultimate controlling party or parent company.
PRF owned an interest of 33% in the Group at 30 June 2012. Following the acquisition of Fabergé during the year, PRF’s 
see‑through interest in the Group increased to 47.95%. This interest gives PRF significant influence over the Group. In addition, 
PRF shares an affiliation with certain other Gemfields shareholders, including NGPMR (Cayman) L.P. and Investec Pallinghurst 
(Cayman) L.P., as all share the same investment manager, Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P.
Gemfields PLC and PRF entered into a relationship agreement in August 2013 which governs the relationship between the Group 
and PRF and clarifies that the Group is managed autonomously and operates for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole, rather 
than solely for the benefit of PRF or any of its affiliates.
22 Related party transactions and ultimate controlling party continued 72 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
23 Commitments under operating leases
The Company had total future minimum lease payments under non‑cancellable operating leases as set out below:
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Not later than one year 2,037 89
Later than one year but not later than five years 3,897 –
Later than five years – –
5,934 89
Total future minimum payments mostly relate to rent of the office in London as well as rent of space for Fabergé boutiques 
Worldwide.
24 Share‑based payments
Share option scheme
The share capital of the Company is denominated in Pounds Sterling. Therefore, the following disclosures are presented in 
Sterling and US$.
On 1 January 2013, 9,285,000 share options were granted to the Directors and key employees of the Company. One third of the 
options granted vests at 31 December each year over a three year period, during which the grantee has to remain in employment.
The total expense recognised for 2013 arising from equity‑settled share‑based payment transactions was US$1,398,402 
(2012: US$895,693).
At 30 June 2013, the following share options have been granted and are outstanding in respect of the ordinary shares:
Number of options
Exercise price
Outstanding  
1 July 2012 Granted Cancelled Exercised
Outstanding 
 30 June 2013 Final exercise date
12¢ (8p) 8,028,332 – (116,667) (236,668) 7,674,997 December 2020
32¢ (20p) 3,550,000 – (125,000) (10,000) 3,415,000 December 2021
46¢ (29p) – 9,285,000 (20,000) – 9,265,000 December 2022
Total 11,578,332 9,285,000 (261,667) (246,668) 20,354,997
The options exercisable as at 30 June 2013 were 6,197,222 (2012: 2,664,999).
The exercise price of options outstanding at 30 June 2013 ranged between 8p and 29p (2012: 8p and 20p) and their weighted 
average contractual life was 8.6 years (2012: 9 years). The weighted average exercise price for options issued to Directors was 
30¢ (19p) (2012: 17¢ (11p)). The weighted average share price (at the date of exercise) of options exercised during the year was 
48¢ (30p) (2012: 42¢ (27p)).
The cash that may be received upon exercise of the options that are outstanding at the year end is estimated US$5,956,001 
(2012: US$2,108,252).
At 30 June 2012, the following share options had been granted and are outstanding in respect of the ordinary shares:
Number of options
Exercise price
Outstanding  
1 July 2011 Granted Cancelled Exercised
Outstanding  
30 June 2012 Final exercise date
12¢ (8p) 8,345,000 – (250,000) (66,668) 8,028,332 December 2020
15¢ (9p) – 300,000 – (300,000) – May 2014
32¢ (20p) – 3,550,000 – – 3,550,000 December 2021
Total 8,345,000 3,850,000 (250,000) (366,668) 11,578,332
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 73 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
The fair values of the options are calculated using the Black‑Scholes method. The number of options granted in 2013 are 
9,285,000 (2012: 3,850,000). Assumptions used in this model for the 12 months ended 30 June were:
2013 2012
Fair value at measurement date 27¢ (18p) 59¢ (38p)
Exercise price 44¢ (29p) 32¢ (20p)
Share price at date of grant 52¢ (34p) 37¢ (23p)
Expected volatility 41.62% 55%
Option life 10 years 10 years
Expected dividends – –
Risk free interest rate (based on Bank of England rate) 0.50% 0.50%
The expected volatility was based on the historical volatility data.
During the year to 30 June 2013, 1,049,990 restricted shares were issued in relation to the acquisition of a controlling interest in the 
Montepuez ruby licences. The shares were granted with condition that 50% of them were restricted for trading within 12 months from 
the grant date and the remaining 50% were restricted for trading within 24 months from grant date. The number of shares issued was 
based on the market rate of Gemfields’ shares at the date the licences were transferred. The value of those restricted shares in the 
amount of US$300,167 (2012: US$nil) has been capitalised within the Montepuez mining asset and they were valued based on 
the price of the service provided.
25 Financial instruments
The principal financial instruments used by the Group, are as follows:
Financial assets include trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and available‑for‑sale investments.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables and borrowings.
Financial assets
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Available‑for‑sale investments (Richland Resources Limited) 482 1,567
The available‑for‑sale investments is Tier 1, for which quoted prices on active market are available (AIM).
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Held at amortised cost:
Other non‑current assets 3,137 –
Trade and other receivables 6,387 3,453
Cash and cash equivalents 11,222 36,737
Financial assets measured at amortised cost 20,746 40,190
Prepayments (outside of scope of IFRS 7) 1,905 856
Total financial assets 22,651 41,046
Financial liabilities
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Held at amortised cost:
Trade and other payables 9,024 8,102
Borrowings 11,595 2,917
Total financial liabilities held at amortised cost 20,619 11,019
24 Share‑based payments continued 74 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
At 30 June 2013 and 2012, the carrying value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities approximated their fair values.
Financial risk management
The Group is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments. It is the overall responsibility of the Directors to 
determine the risk management objectives and policies of the Group. While retaining the ultimate responsibility for them, the 
Directors have delegated the authority for designing and operating processes that ensure the effective implementation of these 
objectives and policies to the finance function of the Group. The Directors regularly review the effectiveness of the processes 
put in place and, when required, approve specific policies and procedures designed to mitigate the financial risks.
There have been no substantive changes in the Group’s exposure to financial instruments risks other than stated in the note.
The principal financial instruments used by the Group, from which financial risk arises, are as described below:
•	 cash and cash equivalents;
•	 trade and other receivables;
•	 available‑for‑sale investments;
•	 trade and other payables; and
•	 borrowings.
Credit risk
The Group has low credit risk because it does not ship emeralds sold at auction to customers until payment has been received. 
There is a receivable balance at the end of the year relating to cut and polished emerald sales. The entire balance has been received 
post year end.
Credit risk in relation to the Fabergé Group is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument 
fails to meet its contractual obligations. Fabergé is mainly exposed to credit risk from credit sales. It is Fabergé policy, implemented 
locally, to assess the credit risk of new customers before entering into contracts. The Group impaired receivables during the year for 
the amount of US$38,636 (2012: US$nil). The Group considers there to be no material difference between fair value of trade and 
other receivables and their carrying amount in the statement of financial position.
Cash and cash equivalents
In relation to its cash and cash equivalents, the Group has to manage its currency exposures and the credit risk associated with the 
credit quality of the financial institutions in which the Group maintains its cash resources.
Under the treasury policy of the Group, approved by the Board and operated by the finance function, the corporate head office in 
London acts as the treasury centre of the Group. Business units maintain the minimum cash balances required by their operations. 
No cash resources controlled by the corporate treasury can be held with financial institutions with credit ratings lower than A‑ .
At the year end, 77% (2012: 86%) of the cash balance was held by Barclays Bank and the remaining 23% (2012: 14%) was held 
by other financial institutions.
Maximum exposure to credit risk
The Group’s maximum exposure of available‑for‑sale investments, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents 
to credit risk is its carrying amount.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of working capital and the finance charges and principal repayments 
on its debt instruments. It represents the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations.
The Group’s policy is to ensure that it will always have sufficient cash to allow it to meet its liabilities when they become due. 
To achieve this aim, the Group seeks to maintain cash balances (and agreed facilities) at levels considered appropriate to meet 
ongoing obligations.
The Group maintains an integrated business performance and cash flow forecasting model, incorporating financial position 
information, which is updated monthly.
The Group performance against budget and associated cash flow forecast is evaluated on a monthly basis. The Directors receive 
rolling 12‑month cash flow projections on a quarterly basis as well as information regarding cash balances and Group performance 
against budget. At the reporting date, these projections indicated that the Group expected to have sufficient liquidity to meet its 
obligations under all reasonably expected circumstances.
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013
25 Financial instruments continued 75 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
The following table illustrates the contractual maturity analysis of the Group’s financial liabilities, including the liabilities that 
must be settled gross, based where relevant, on interest rates and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. This disclosure 
below sets out financial instruments’ actual maturities, which differ to the ones reflected in the statement of financial position 
for borrowings due to IAS 1 requirement for the loan to be reported within current assets in full (note 19).
In thousands of US$ Trade payables Accruals Borrowings Other payables Total
At 30 June 2013
In one month – 2,004 11,595 – 13,599
Between one and six months 5,404 – – 2,686 8,090
Between six months and one year – – – – –
Between one year and three years – – – – –
5,404 2,004 11,595 2,686 21,689
At 30 June 2012
In one month 2,387 3,692 83 – 6,162
Between one and six months – 2,023 417 – 2,440
Between six months and one year – – 500 – 500
Between one year and three years – – 1,917 – 1,917
2,387 5,715 2,917 – 11,019
Interest rate risk
The Group manages the interest rate risk associated with its cash assets by ensuring that interest rates are as favourable as possible, 
through the use of bank treasury deposits, whilst managing the access the Group requires to the funds for working capital purposes.
Currency risk
Foreign exchange risk is inherent in the Group’s activities and is accepted as such. The majority of the Group’s costs are 
denominated in US$ or Sterling and hence the Group holds the majority of its cash in these currencies.
The Group is exposed to currency risk on payments for goods and services made to the local suppliers in the jurisdictions 
of its operations. It is the Group’s policy not to hedge this currency risk exposure.
At 30 June 2013 and 2012 the Group’s financial assets and liabilities were denominated in the following currencies:
In thousands of US$
UK  
Pounds
US  
Dollar Euro
Zambian 
Kwacha
Indian  
Rupees
South African 
Rand
Swiss  
Franc
Other 
currencies Total
At 30 June 2013
Cash and cash equivalents 1,259 6,523 1,326 144 256 35 1,465 214 11,222
Long‑term deposit 305 294 – – – – 104 – 703
Long‑term receivable from Kariba 
(joint venture) – 2,434 – – – – – – 2,434
Trade and other receivables 1,318 2,542 82 1,816 332 105 83 109 6,387
Borrowings – (11,595) – – – – – – (11,595)
Trade and other payables (3,939) (1,946) (280) (3,637) (159) – (124) (9) (10,094)
Net monetary assets/(liabilities) (1,057) (1,748) 1,128 (1,677) 429 140 1,528 314 (943)
At 30 June 2012
Cash and cash equivalents 166 31,578 – (83) 4,828 248 – – 36,737
Trade and other receivables 228 2,588 – 987 506 – – – 4,309
Borrowings – (2,917) – – – – – – (2,917)
Trade and other payables (618) (3,353) – (4,114) (13) (4) – – (8,102)
Net monetary assets/(liabilities) (224) 27,896 – (3,210) 5,321 244 – – 30,027
25 Financial instruments continued 76 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Other market price risk
The Group generates revenue from the sale of rough and cut and polished emeralds as well as wholesale and retail sales of 
the stones and jewellery in the Fabergé business. The significant number of variables involved in determining the selling prices 
of emeralds, such as uniqueness of each individual stone, the colour of the rough material and the ruling US$ spot rate at the date 
of sale make it difficult to accurately extrapolate the impact of fluctuations in emerald prices would have on the Group’s revenue. 
If emerald prices increased by 10%, the Group’s revenue would increase by US$4.2 million.
Capital
The Group seeks to maintain sufficient capital to enable its growth and safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern. 
Capital is defined as share capital, share premium, merger reserve, option reserve and cumulative translation reserve.
The primary objective of the Group is maximising shareholder value, which, from the capital perspective, is achieved by maintaining 
the capital structure that is most suited to the Group’s size, strategy and underlying business risk. Currently, the Group does not pay 
dividends, focusing instead on delivering capital growth.
The net (debt)/cash to equity ratios at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 are as follows:
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Debt (11,595) (2,917)
Cash and cash equivalents 11,222 36,737
Net (debt)/cash (373) 33,820
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 229,200 159,599
Net (debt)/cash to equity ratio (0.0016:1) 0.21:1
The Group manages its capital adequacy structure by the issues of ordinary shares, raising debt finance where appropriate, 
and managing Group cash and cash equivalents.
26 Impairment charges
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Impairment charge of investment in Richland Resources Limited to market value (note 13) 635 158
Impairment of receivable from trading business in Zambia 49 –
Impairment reversal of evaluated mining properties – (201,115)
Impairment charge/(reversal) 684 (200,957)
Available‑for‑sale investments
At 30 June 2013, the market value of the Group’s investment in Richland Resources Limited was US$482,380 (2012: US$1,567,197). 
The decrease in the market value of available‑for‑sale investments continued to be considered a permanent decrease and therefore 
it was recognised in the income statement in the amount of US$635,000 (2012: US$158,000).
Receivable from trading business in Zambia
US$49,557 impairment relates to the write‑off of a receivable from a prospective gemstone trading company in Zambia. 
This financial support was provided to help establish this trading company. This project has since ceased.
Evaluated mining property – mining asset reversal in 2012
In 2009, the carrying value of Kagem was impaired following the Directors’ review and assessment of the fair value of the assets to 
their recoverable amount. In view of the continued improvement in the market for emeralds and increasing production, the Directors 
undertook to assess and revalue the Kagem mining asset. In the financial year ended 30 June 2012 following the completion of the 
feasibility study and a positive report by SRK, the Company’s lead consultant, the Directors have decided to reverse the permissible 
value of the mine asset previously impaired therefore after reversal the mine is carried at historical cost basis.
The amount of the evaluated mining asset impaired in 2009 was US$245,691,000 and the amount reversed at 30 June 2012 was 
US$201,115,000. The carrying value as at 30 June 2012 was based on the historical cost less accumulated depreciation as though no 
impairment had ever been provided. For clarity, the carrying value of the Kagem mine was not revalued under provisions of IAS16. 
The amount reversed in 2012 has been based on the calculated closing ore reserve as at 30 June 2012. The calculated closing ore was 
ascertained by deducting the ore produced in the years 2010 to 2012 from the closing ore reserve as at 30 June 2009. 
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013
25 Financial instruments continued 77 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
The key assumptions made by the Directors in the value in use calculation model are set out below.
2013 2012 2011
Average emerald price (US$/carat) 2.73 2.44 1.50
Ore resources (Tonnes ’000) and classification 2,350 
(indicated)
2,350 
(indicated)
426 
(inferred)
Life of mine 20 years 20 years 5 years
Discount rate 10% 10% 15%
Value in use (US$ million) 349 373 7
The carrying value of Kagem is lower than its recoverable value. The discount rate used in the 2013 recoverable value estimate was 
10% (2012: 10%). 
27 Acquisitions
Fabergé
Fabergé is one of the world’s most recognised luxury brand names, underscored by a well‑documented and globally recognised 
heritage. Having announced the conditional acquisition of Fabergé by the Company on 21 November 2012, the transaction was 
completed on 28 January 2013. After issuing 213,999,999 new Gemfields shares as consideration (representing approximately 
39% of Gemfields’ fully diluted enlarged share capital), Gemfields now owns 100% of Fabergé. The transaction creates the 
opportunity for Gemfields to establish itself as the world’s leading coloured gemstone company, operating at both critical ends of 
the value chain. The transaction also creates marketing, communication, management and supply potential to deliver operational 
efficiency, creating a platform to further increase Gemfields’ market share within the coloured gemstone sector and providing 
greater influence over product positioning and consumer awareness.
Details of the provisional fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, purchase consideration and goodwill are 
as follows:
In thousands of US$ Book value Adjustment
Provisional  
fair value
Property, plant and equipment 1,708 – 1,708
Property lease premium 456 – 456
Long‑term deposits 665 – 665
Fabergé trademark 36,248 4,489 40,737
Other intangible assets 12 – 12
Inventories 34,566 1,874 36,440
Trade and other receivables 2,562 – 2,562
Cash and cash equivalents 11,524 – 11,524
Total assets 87,741 6,363 94,104
Trade and other payables (3,756) – (3,756)
Deferred tax liability – (1,463) (1,463)
Total liabilities (3,756) (1,463) (5,219)
Total net assets 83,985 4,900 88,885
Goodwill 1,463
Total consideration 90,348
Fair value of consideration paid
In thousands of US$
Total consideration – Ordinary shares of the Company
213,999,999 shares of £0.2683 (US$0.4222) each 90,348
26 Impairment charges continued 78 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
At the time the financial statements were authorised for issue, the Group had not yet completed the accounting for the acquisition 
of Fabergé. In particular, the fair values of the assets and liabilities disclosed above have only been determined provisionally due to 
the nature of trends in the luxury jewellery market place. Management are assessing the historic financial information of Fabergé, 
forecasts and industry wide predictions for the sector in detail.
A valuation of the assets acquired will be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date. There could be material changes 
to the fair value of the above assets and liabilities upon finalisation of the professional valuation.
On acquisition, Fabergé held trade receivables with a book and fair value of US$2,165,481 representing contractual receivables 
of US$2,205,081. Whilst the Group will make every effort to collect all contractual receivables, it considers it unlikely that the 
US$39,600 will ultimately be received.
A provisional goodwill balance of US$1,463,000 was recognised on acquisition as a result of the requirement to recognise deferred 
tax liability on the fair value adjustments.
There was no cash or contingent consideration payable. Acquisition costs of US$2,407,884 arose as a result of the transaction. 
These have been recognised as part of administrative expenses in the income statement.
Since the acquisition date, Fabergé Limited has contributed US$4,186,903 to Group revenue and a loss of US$6,920,608 to 
Group loss. If the acquisition has occurred on 1 July 2012, Group revenue would have been US$54,912,462 and Group loss 
for the period would have been US$29,301,086.
28 Events after the reporting period
Auction
From 15 July to 19 July 2013 the Group held an auction of predominantly higher quality rough emerald and beryl held in Lusaka. 
The results are as follows:
•	 auction revenues of US$31.5 million, the second highest achieved to date;
•	 average per carat price of US$54.00 per carat – a new auction record; and
•	 all of the 583,448 carats placed on offer were sold.
Sale of Beryl
US$3.5 million direct sale has been agreed in respect of 11,286 kilograms of Kagem’s lowest two grades of beryl, which have 
accumulated over the past few years.
Company Share Option Plan
In July 2013 the Company decided to implement a new remuneration performance related incentive plan. It is a discretionary plan 
whereby each participant can be granted options over shares worth up to £30,000 (measured at grant). Options will be granted at 
not less than market value. This plan was approved by the Board but to date no awards have been made in terms of this new plan.
Kagem Mining Limited overburden removal costs
In July 2013, an agreement was signed by Kagem Mining for overburden removal costs with estimated value of US$4.8 million.
29 Contingent liabilities
Montepuez Ruby Mining – mining tax
Montepuez is required by local tax legislation to calculate and pay production tax based on the value of ruby production on a 
monthly basis. At this stage however, there is no reliable pricing index for rubies and values vary greatly based on size, colour and 
clarity, making it very difficult to accurately value production.
Based on experience taken from emerald production in Zambia and associated auctions, actual sales price is the best indicator of 
value. Accordingly, Montepuez has requested a binding opinion from the Mozambican tax authorities allowing the determination 
and payment of the tax to be based on values achieved at each auction. At this stage, the value of production and the relating tax 
charge during the exploration phase is considered immaterial and therefore no liability has been recognised in the accounts in 
the financial statements.
n otes f orming Part of the Consolidated f inancial Statements continued 
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013
27 Acquisitions continued 79 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Company Statement of f inancial Position 
At 30 June 2013
In thousands of US$ Note 2013 2012
Assets
Non‑current assets
Property, plant and equipment 5 98 102
Available‑for‑sale investments 6 482 1,567
Investments in subsidiaries 7 212,972 126,154
Other financial assets 14 2,283 –
Total non‑current assets 215,835 127,823
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 8 60,223 50,028
Inventories 9 5,340 1,857
Cash and cash equivalents 3,806 23,547
Total current assets 69,369 75,432
Total assets 285,204 203,255
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 10 (15,939) (8,065)
Total current liabilities (15,939) (8,065)
Total assets less current liabilities 269,265 195,190
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 13 9,557 6,169
Share premium 97,214 96,901
Merger reserve 207,986 121,005
Option reserve 2,736 1,338
Retained deficit (48,228) (30,223)
Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 269,265 195,190
The Company financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 2 October 2013.
Devidas Shetty
Director
Company registration number 05129023
The notes on pages 82 to 94 form part of these Company financial statements. 80 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
In thousands of US$
Share  
capital
Share  
premium
Merger  
reserve
Option  
reserve
Retained 
deficit
Total  
equity
Balance at 30 June 2011 6,164 96,853 121,005 450 (202,753) 21,719
Profit for the year – – – – 172,522 172,522
Issue of shares 5 48 – – – 53
Share‑based payments – – – 896 – 896
Cancelled options – – – (8) 8 –
Balance at 30 June 2012 6,169 96,901 121,005 1,338 (30,223) 195,190
Loss for the year – – – – (18,005) (18,005)
Issue of shares 3,388 313 86,981 – – 90,682
Share‑based payments – – – 1,398 – 1,398
Balance at 30 June 2013 9,557 97,214 207,986 2,736 (48,228) 269,265
The nature and purpose of each reserve within Shareholders’ equity is described as follows:
Reserve Description and purpose
Share capital Amount subscribed for share capital at nominal value.
Share premium Amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value.
Merger reserve The difference between the fair value of the shares issued as consideration for 
acquisition of subsidiaries in excess of the nominal value of the shares, where 90% 
or more of shares are acquired.
Option reserve Cumulative fair value of options charged to the income statement.
Retained deficit Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
Company Statement of Changes in e quity 
At 30 June 2013 81 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
In thousands of US$ Note 2013 2012
Cash flows from operating activities
(Loss)/profit for the year after tax 4 (18,005) 172,522
Depreciation and amortisation 5 44 37
Reversal of impairment of evaluated mining properties 19 – (112,587)
Impairment charge of available‑for‑sale investments 19 4,465 158
Share‑based payments 18 1,398 895
Finance income 11 (401) (139)
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 12 –
Loss on sale of available‑for‑sale investments 149 –
Increase in trade and other receivables (11,018) (41,039)
Increase in trade and other payables 7,874 387
Increase in inventory (3,483) (928)
Net cash (used for)/generated from operating activities (18,965) 19,306
Taxation paid 12 – –
Cash flows from investing activities
Investment – (7,634)
Interest received 11 384 135
Cash received on sale of available‑for‑sale investments 309 –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5 (40) (37)
Loan granted to Kariba (1,462) –
Net cash used for investing activities (809) (7,536)
Cash flows from financing activities
Issue of ordinary shares 13 33 53
Net cash generated from financing activities 33 53
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (19,741) 11,823
Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 23,547 11,724
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 3,806 23,547
Company Statement of Cash f lows
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 82 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
1 Basis of preparation
These financial statements represent the individual Parent Company (the “Company”).
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 June 2013 have been prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and Interpretations (collectively “IFRS”) issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) as adopted by European Union (the “EU”).
For all periods up to and including the year ended 30 June 2012, the Company prepared its financial statements in accordance 
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice. These financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2013 
are the first financial statements the Company has prepared in accordance with IFRS. 
Refer to note 2 for information on how the Company adopted IFRS. 
The Company’s financial statements are presented in United States Dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 
(US$’000), except when otherwise indicated.
The IFRS financial statements have been drawn up on the basis of accounting standards, interpretations and amendments 
effective at the beginning of the accounting period on 1 July 2012. New standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 
the year ended 30 June 2013 and standards, amendments and interpretations, which are effective for reporting periods beginning 
after the date of these financial statements, which have not been adopted early, are described in detail in the Group’s accounting 
policy on the pages 50–58 of the Group’s financial statements.
2 Accounting policies
The following principal accounting policies have been applied in preparation of these financial statements:
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. As well 
as the purchase price, cost includes directly attributable costs and the estimated present value of any future unavoidable costs 
of dismantling and removing items. The corresponding liability is recognised within provisions.
Depreciation is provided on all other items of property, plant and equipment to write off the carrying value of items over their 
expected useful economic lives. It is applied at the following rate:
Fixtures, fittings and equipment – 20% per annum straight‑line
Investments in subsidiaries and joint venture
Unlisted investments are carried at cost less provision for impairment.
Impairment
Assets are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may be 
different to the recoverable amount. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of value 
in use and fair value less costs to sell), the asset is written down accordingly. For assets, excluding goodwill, a previously recognised 
impairment loss is reversed when the recoverable amount increase as a result of a reversal of the conditions that originally resulted 
in impairment. The reversal is recognised in the income statement and is limited to the carrying amount that could have been 
determined net of depreciation, had no impairment been recognised in prior periods.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the level 
of the CGU the asset is part of (i.e. the lowest level group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there are separately 
identifiable cash flows).
Impairment charges are included in the income statement.
Financial assets and liabilities
The Company classified its financial assets into one of the categories discussed below, depending on the purpose for which 
the asset was acquired. The Company has not classified any of its financial assets as either held to maturity or fair value through 
profit and loss.
Loans and receivables: these are non‑derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active 
market. They are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
The Company’s loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the statement 
of financial position. Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand and short‑term deposits made for varying periods 
of between one day and three months.
n otes f orming Part of the Company f inancial Statements
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 83 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Available‑for‑sale: Non‑derivative financial assets not included in the above categories are classified as available‑for‑sale 
and comprise principally the Company’s strategic investments in entities not qualifying as subsidiaries, associates or jointly 
controlled entities. They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognised directly in a separate component of equity 
(available‑for‑sale reserve). Where there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an available‑for‑sale financial 
asset (which constitutes objective evidence of impairment), the full amount of the impairment, including any amount previously 
charged to equity, is recognised in the income statement. Purchases and sales of available‑for‑sale financial assets are recognised 
on settlement date with any change in fair value between trade date and settlement date being recognised in the income statement. 
On sale, the amount held in the available‑for‑sale reserve associated with that asset is removed from equity and recognised in the 
income statement.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities include the following items:
•	 Trade payables and other short‑term monetary liabilities, which are initially measured at fair value and subsequently recognised 
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
•	 Bank guarantees provided to subsidiaries, which are initially measured at fair value of the consideration paid or using 
valuation technique.
Inventory
Inventory, consisting of rough and finished emeralds, has been valued at lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes direct 
production costs, depreciation of mining equipment, amortisation of mining asset and deferred stripping costs. Net realisable 
value is the estimated market value based on past auctions, less estimated costs to sell.
Consignment inventory
The terms of the Company’s agreement with its customers who request the Company to onward sell their polished gems normally 
notes that no legal title to the polished gems passes to Gemfields. For each particular arrangement management analyses whether 
all significant risks and rewards of ownership of polished gemstones have passed to the Company, in which case it is recognised as 
the Company’s inventory. If no significant risks and rewards have passed to the Company, then such gemstones are considered to 
be consignment goods and are not recorded as part of the Company’s inventory. Revenue and related costs on polished gemstones 
on consignment are recognised when the gemstones are sold to the end party purchaser.
Leased assets
Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are retained by the lessor (an “operating lease”), the total 
rentals payable under the lease are charged to the income statement on a straight‑line basis over the lease term. The aggregate 
benefit of any lease incentive is recognised as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease term on a straight‑line basis.
Deferred taxation
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the statement of financial 
position differs from its tax base.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against 
which the difference can be utilised.
The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting 
date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities/(assets) are settled/(recovered).
Merger reserve
Where the Company issues shares as consideration for acquisition of subsidiaries in excess of the nominal value of the shares, 
where 90% or more of the shares are acquired, the excess over nominal value is accounted as merger reserve.
Foreign currency
The functional and reporting currency of the Company is US$.
Exchange rates used per GBP1.00 during the year were as follows:
US$ 
2013
US$ 
2012
Year‑end rate 1.52 1.56
Average rate 1.56 1.59
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the reporting dates. Any differences are taken 
to the income statement.
2 Accounting policies continued 84 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Share‑based payments
The Company issues equity‑settled share‑based payments in the form of share options to certain employees. Equity‑settled 
share‑based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the date of grant of the 
equity‑settled share‑based payments is expensed on a straight‑line basis over the vesting period, based on the Company’s 
estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is estimated using a Black‑Scholes valuation model.
If an option is cancelled or settled in advance of the vesting date, the cancellation or settlement is accounted for as an acceleration 
of vesting. Therefore, the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the 
vesting period is recognised immediately.
Any profit and loss charge in a period in respect of share‑based payments is credited to the Company’s reserves.
Where share‑based payments are issued by the Parent Company to employees of its subsidiaries, the financial statements of 
the Parent Company reflect this by increasing the cost of investment in the subsidiary with a corresponding increase to equity.
Revenue
Revenue and associated costs from the sale of gemstones are recognised when control together with the risks and rewards of 
ownership are transferred to the customer. For rough emeralds, this transfer of ownership is deemed to occur at the date of receipt 
of cash while for cut and polished emeralds, transfer of ownership is deemed to occur at the date the invoice is raised and the 
customer has taken ownership of the emeralds.
Auction revenue is recognised as a percentage of auction proceeds upon the completion of the auction.
Critical accounting estimates, judgements and assumptions
In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies, which are described above, the Directors have made judgements, 
estimations and assumptions regarding the future. The judgements, estimations, and assumptions that have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are detailed below.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of 
future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. In the future, actual experience may differ from these 
estimates and assumptions.
(a) Inventories (note 9)
The Company reviews the net realisable value of, and demand for, its inventory on a quarterly basis to provide assurance that 
recorded inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Factors that could impact estimated demand and selling 
prices include competitor actions and economic trends. Judgement is required in predicting market trends and the Directors 
and management use their experience, market data and trend analysis when undertaking these reviews.
(b) Share‑based payments (note 18)
The Company has an equity‑settled share‑based remuneration scheme for employees and Directors. Employee services received, 
and the corresponding increase in equity, are measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date of grant, 
excluding the impact of any non‑market vesting conditions. The fair value of share options is estimated by using the Black‑Scholes 
valuation model on the date of grant based on certain assumptions. Those assumptions are described in note 18 and include, 
among others, the dividend growth rate, expected volatility, expected life of the options and number of options expected to vest. 
Many of the inputs are factual. Others are based on market data and strategic Board decision.
(c) Available‑for‑sale investments (note 6)
There was a prolonged decline in the market value of the investment in Richland Resource Limited (previously call TanzaniteOne 
Limited), which management considers to be of a permanent nature. The Company exercises judgement in assessing whether there 
is any objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired, determination of whether there has been “significant” or “prolonged” 
decline in the fair value below original cost and estimation of future cash flows, based on the publicly available market prices.
(d) Value of the investments in subsidiaries (note 7)
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provision for impairment. The Company exercises judgement in assessing 
whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in subsidiaries is impaired.
n otes f orming Part of the Company f inancial Statements continued
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013
2 Accounting policies continued 85 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
First‑time adoption of IFRS
These financial statements, for the year ended 30 June 2013, are the first financial statements the Company has prepared 
in accordance with IFRS. For periods up to and including the year ended 30 June 2012, the Company prepared its financial 
statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“UK GAAP”).
Accordingly, the Company has prepared financial statements which comply with IFRS applicable for periods ending on or before 
30 June 2013, together with the comparative period data as at and for the year ended 30 June 2012, as described in the accounting 
policies. In preparing these financial statements, the Company’s opening statement of financial position was prepared as at 1 July 2011, 
the Company’s date of transition to IFRS.
On adoption of IFRS no adjustments or reclassifications has been made by the Company in UK GAAP statement of financial 
position as at 1 July 2011 and its previously published UK GAAP financial statements as at and for the year ended 30 June 2012.
Exemption applied
IFRS 1 First‑Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards allows first‑time adopters certain exemptions from 
the retrospective application of certain IFRS.
•	 In separate financial statements, a first‑time adopter that subsequently measures an investment in a subsidiary, jointly 
controlled entity or associate at cost, may measure such investment at cost (determined in accordance with IAS 27) or deemed 
cost (fair value or previous Generally Accepted Accounting Principles carrying amount) in its separate opening IFRS statement 
of financial position. The Company measured its investments at deemed cost, which is cost less impairment as measured in 
accordance with UK GAAP.
3 Employees and directors
2013 2012
Administration staff (including Directors) 18 14
Average number of employees (including Directors) 13 12
In thousands of US$
Gross salaries (including Directors) 4,060 2,701
Social security costs 520 163
4,580 2,864
Executive Directors’ remuneration 995 1,366
Non‑executive Directors’ fees 247 119
Share‑based payments to Directors 517 416
1,759 1,901
Emoluments of the highest paid Director amounted to US$540,000 (2012 – US$794,000).
4 Loss for the year
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under section 408 (3) of the Companies Act 2006 and has not presented 
its income statement in these financial statements. The Company’s income statement for the year ended 30 June 2013 includes 
a loss after tax of US$18,004,756 (2012: profit of US$172,521,614).
2 Accounting policies continued 86 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
5 Property plant and equipment
In thousands of US$
Total fixtures, 
fittings and 
equipment
Cost
At 1 July 2011 157
Additions 37
Disposals (8)
At 30 June 2012 186
Additions 40
Disposals –
At 30 June 2013 226
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2011 48
Provided during the year 37
Disposals (1)
At 30 June 2012 84
Provided during the year 44
Disposals –
At 30 June 2013 128
Net book value
At 30 June 2013 98
At 30 June 2012 102
At 1 July 2011 109
6 Available‑for‑sale investments
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Investment in shares of listed entities (Richland Resources Limited) 482 1,567
More details on the investment in Richland Resources Limited are provided in note 13 of the Group financial statements.
7 Investments in subsidiaries
In thousands of US$
Unlisted 
investments
Cost
At 1 July 2011 123,958
Additions in the year 7,634
At 30 June 2012 131,592
Additions in the year 90,648
At 30 June 2013 222,240
Provision for impairment
At 1 July 2011 (118,024)
Reversal of impairment (note 19) 112,586
At 30 June 2012 (5,438)
Impairment charge (note 19) (3,830)
At 30 June 2013 (9,268)
Net book value
At 30 June 2013 212,972
At 30 June 2012 126,154
n otes f orming Part of the Company f inancial Statements continued
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 87 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Subsidiary undertakings
The list of subsidiary undertakings is disclosed in the note 14 of the Group financial statements.
During the year ended 30 June 2013 Krinera Group S.A., Greentop International Inc., and Hagura Mining Limited (BVI) 
were dissolved.
2013
Fabergé Limited
Refer to note 27 of the Group financial statements for discussion on the acquisition of Fabergé.
Megaruma Mining Lda
Details of the conditional agreement to acquire a 75% interest in a ruby deposit located adjacent to the Montepuez site are 
disclosed in note 14 of the Group financial statements.
2012
The unlisted investment additions in 2012 relate to US$5.0 million investment in Kagem and a US$2.6 million in Montepuez. 
The investment in Kagem was pursuant to an investment commitment made by Hagura Mining Limited in accordance with the 
purchase agreement dated 18 May 2001 and as amended by the ‘settlement and supplemental agreement’ dated 15 June 2005. The 
investment in Montepuez was for the acquisition of the 75% stake in the Montepuez ruby deposit in Mozambique.
In 2009, the investment in Kagem was impaired following the Directors’ review and assessment of the fair value of the assets 
to their recoverable amount. In view of the continued improvement in the market for emeralds and increasing production, the 
Directors undertook to reassess and revalue the Kagem mining asset. Following the completion of the feasibility study and 
a positive report by SRK, the Company’s lead consultant, the Directors have decided to reverse the impairment in 2012.
Joint ventures
Details of the joint venture Kariba are disclosed in the note 14 of the Group financial statements.
8 Trade and other receivables
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Amounts due from Group companies 57,980 48,642
Other receivables and prepayments 2,243 1,386
60,223 50,028
All amounts shown under other receivables and prepayments fall due for payment within one year.
9 Inventories
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Finished goods 5,340 1,857
10 Trade and other payables
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Trade payables 2,125 667
Other payables 2,220 3,105
Amounts due to Group companies 11,594 4,293
15,939 8,065
Intercompany balances incur no interest and are repaid when funds are available and are due on demand.
7 Investments in subsidiaries continued 88 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
11 Finance income
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Interest received 384 135
Exchange differences on translation 17 4
401 139
12 Current and deferred tax
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Current tax – –
Deferred tax charge – –
Total tax expense – –
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
(Loss)/profit for the year (18,005) 172,522
Expected tax charge based on the standard rate of UK corporation tax  
at the domestic rate of 24% (2012: 26%) (4,321) 44,856
Adjusted for the effect of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,288 304
Carried forward tax losses 2,269 1,011
Non‑deductible investment write off/(Non‑taxable reversal of investment write off) 764 (46,171)
Total tax expense – –
In 2009 investment in Kagem in the amount of US$112,586,872 was considered to be fully impaired and in 2012 the whole 
impairment was reversed back due to new assessment (note 19). No deferred tax asset was recognised at the time of impairment 
on that deductible temporary difference as it was improbable the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future, 
and no deferred tax effect of reversal on that impairment.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised in relation to tax losses and other temporary differences which would give rise to deferred tax 
assets where it is considered probable that the losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future, and therefore the asset is recoverable.
As at 30 June 2013 no deferred tax asset is recognised (2012: nil) in relation to:
•	 Deductible temporary differences in the amount of US$4,957,590 (2012: US$6,063,583) arising on the write off of 
available‑for‑sale investments; and
•	 Unused tax losses in the amount of US$18,350,021 (2012: US$8,518,459).
The UK Finance Act 2012 includes provision for the main rate of corporation tax to reduce from 26% to 24% on 1 April 2012, 
and to 23% on 1 April 2013. The UK Finance Act 2013 includes a further reduction to bring the main rate to 21% from 1 April 
2014. This will reduce the Company’s future tax charge accordingly. The rate of 24% was substantially enacted on the 26 March 
2012, the rate of 23% substantially enacted on 6 July 2012 and the rate 21% substantially enacted on 17 July 2013.
13 Share Capital
2013 2012
Share capital Number of shares US$’000 Number of shares US$’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 1p each
At 1 July 324,706,551 6,169 324,339,883 6,164
Issued during the year 215,296,657 3,388 366,668 5
At 30 June 540,003,208 9,557 324,706,551 6,169
The Company issued 213,999,999 shares as a consideration for the whole of Fabergé Limited share capital (note 27 in the Group’s 
financial statements).
n otes f orming Part of the Company f inancial Statements continued
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 89 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
14 Financial instruments
The principal financial instruments used by the Company, are detailed below:
Financial assets include trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and available‑for‑sale investments.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables.
Financial assets
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Investments in subsidiaries outside of scope of IFRS 7 212,972 126,154
Available‑for‑sale investments (Richland Resources Limited) 482 1,567
Total investments 213,454 127,721
The available‑for‑sale investments that are within the scope of IFRS 7 are Tier 1, for which quoted prices on active market are 
available (AIM).
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Trade receivables 518 311
Other receivables 637 977
Receivable from subsidiaries 57,980 48,642
Long‑term receivable from Kariba Minerals Limited (joint venture) 2,283 –
Cash and cash equivalents 3,806 23,547
Financial assets measured at amortised cost with the scope of IFRS 7 65,224 73,477
Prepayments – outside of IFRS 7 scope 1,088 98
Total financial assets measured at amortised cost 66,312 73,575
Financial liabilities
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Trade payables 2,125 667
Accruals 2,220 3,105
Amounts due to Group companies 11,594 4,293
Total financial liabilities 15,939 8,065
The Company acted as a guarantor on the loan amount of US$11,595,278 (2012: US$2,916,669) taken by its subsidiary Kagem. 
No liability was recognised in the Company’s accounts in respect of the bank guarantee as its fair value was estimated as 
insignificant.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
At 30 June 2013 and 2012, the carrying value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities approximated their fair values.
Financial risk management
The Company is exposed to risks that arise from its use of financial instruments. It is the overall responsibility of the Directors 
to determine the risk management objectives and policies of the Company. While retaining the ultimate responsibility for them, 
the Directors have delegated the authority for designing and operating processes that ensure the effective implementation of these 
objectives and policies to the finance function of the Company. The Directors regularly review the effectiveness of the processes 
put in place and, when required, approve specific policies and procedures designed to mitigate the financial risks.
There have been no substantive changes in the Company’s exposure to financial instruments risks other than stated in the note. 90 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
The principal financial instruments used by the Company, from which financial risk arises, are as follows:
•	 cash and cash equivalents;
•	 trade and other receivables;
•	 available‑for‑sale investments; and
•	 trade and other payables.
Credit risk
The Company has limited credit risk because it does not ship gemstones sold to customers until payment has been received.
Cash and cash equivalents
In relation to its cash and cash equivalents, the Company has to manage its currency exposures and the credit risk associated 
with the credit quality of the financial institutions in which the Company maintains its cash resources.
Under the treasury policy of the Company, approved by the Board and operated by the finance function, the corporate head 
office in London acts as the treasury centre of the Group. No cash resources controlled by the corporate treasury can be held 
with financial institutions with credit ratings lower than A‑ .
At the year end, 99% (2012: 86%) of the cash balance was held by Barclays Bank and the remaining 1% (2012: 14%) was held 
by other financial institutions.
Maximum exposure to credit risk
The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk by class of financial instrument is shown in the table below:
In thousands of US$
2013  
Carrying  
value
2013  
Maximum 
exposure
2012  
Carrying  
value
2012  
Maximum 
exposure
Long‑term receivable from Kariba (joint venture) 2,283 2,283 – –
Available‑for‑sale investments 482 482 1,567 1,567
Trade and other receivables 59,135 59,135 49,930 49,930
Cash and cash equivalents 3,806 3,806 23,547 23,547
Total 65,706 65,706 75,044 75,044
Trade and other receivable maximum exposure to credit risk is limited to amounts owed by third parties.
The carrying value of financial assets that are past due or impaired is US$285,981 (2012: US$114,193).
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk arises from the Company’s management of working capital. It represents the risk that the Company will encounter 
difficulty in meeting its financial obligations.
The Company’s policy is to ensure that it will always have sufficient cash to allow it to meet its liabilities when they become due. 
To achieve this aim, the Company seeks to maintain cash at levels considered appropriate to meet ongoing obligations.
The Company maintains an integrated business performance and cash flow forecasting model, incorporating financial position 
information, which is updated monthly.
The Company’s performance against budget and associated cash flow forecast is evaluated on a monthly basis. The Directors 
receive rolling 12‑month cash flow projections on a quarterly basis as well as information regarding cash balances and Company’s 
performance against budget. At the reporting date, these projections indicated that the Company expected to have sufficient 
liquidity to meet its obligations under all reasonably expected circumstances.
14 Financial instruments continued
n otes f orming Part of the Company f inancial Statements continued
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 91 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
The following table illustrates the contractual maturity analysis of the Company’s financial liabilities, including the liabilities that 
must be settled gross, based where relevant, on interest rates and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
In thousands of US$
Trade  
payables Accruals
Payable to 
subsidiaries Total
At 30 June 2013
In 1 month – 694 – 694
Between 1 and 6 months 2,125 1,526 – 3,651
Between 6 months and 1 year – – 11,594 11,594
Between 1 year and 3 years – – – –
2,125 2,220 11,594 15,939
At 30 June 2012
In 1 month – 1,082 – 1,082
Between 1 and 6 months 667 2,023 – 2,690
Between 6 months and 1 year – – 4,293 4,293
Between 1 year and 3 years – – – –
667 3,105 4,293 8,065
Interest rate risk
The Company manages the interest rate risk associated with its cash assets by ensuring that interest rates are as favourable as 
possible, through the use of bank treasury deposits, whilst managing the access the Company requires to the funds for working 
capital purposes.
Currency risk
Foreign exchange risk is inherent in the Company’s activities and is accepted as such. The majority of the Company’s costs are 
denominated in US$ or UK sterling and hence the Company holds the majority of its cash in these currencies. 
At 30 June 2013 and 2012 the Company’s financial assets and liabilities were denominated in the following currencies:
In thousands of US$
UK  
Pounds
US  
Dollar
South  
African  
Rand Total
At 30 June 2013
Cash and cash equivalents 329 3,477 – 3,806
Trade and other receivables 637 58,498 – 59,135
Long‑term receivable from Kariba Minerals Limited – 2,283 – 2,283
Trade and other payables (2,679) (13,260) – (15,939)
Net monetary assets/(liabilities) (1,713) 50,998 – 49,285
At 30 June 2012
Cash and cash equivalents 103 23,197 247 23,547
Trade and other receivables 977 48,953 – 49,930
Trade and other payables (3,772) (4,293) – (8,065)
Net monetary assets/(liabilities) (2,692) 67,857 247 65,412
The Company’s functional currency is US$.
Other market price risk
The Company generates revenue from the sale of rough and cut and polished emeralds. The significant number of variables 
involved in determining the selling prices of emeralds, such as uniqueness of each individual stone, the colour of the rough 
material and the ruling US$ spot rate at the date of sale make it difficult to accurately extrapolate the impact which fluctuations 
in emerald prices would have on the Company’s revenue.
14 Financial instruments continued 92 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Capital
The Company seeks to maintain sufficient capital to enable its growth and safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern. 
Capital is defined as share capital, share premium, merger reserve, option reserve and retained deficit.
The primary objective of the Company is maximising shareholder value, which, from the capital perspective, is achieved 
by maintaining the capital structure that is most suited to the Company’s size, strategy and underlying business risk. 
Currently, the Company does not pay dividends, focusing instead on delivering capital growth.
The net cash to equity ratios at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 are as follows:
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Debt – –
Cash and cash equivalents 3,806 23,547
Net cash 3,806 23,547
Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company 269,265 195,190
Net cash to equity ratio 0.01:1 0.12:1
The Company manages its capital adequacy structure by the issues of ordinary shares, raising debt finance where appropriate, 
and managing Company’s cash and cash equivalents.
15 Capital commitments
At the year end, the Company had no capital commitments (2012: Nil).
16 Related party transactions and ultimate controlling party
Balances at the end of the period
In thousands of US$
Receivable by 
the Company 
from related 
parties at 
30 June 2013
Receivable by 
the Company 
from related 
parties at 
30 June 2012
Payable to 
the Company 
by related 
parties at  
30 June 2013
Payable to 
the Company 
by related 
parties at  
30 June 2012
Entities with joint control or significant influence over the Company (a) – – 40 1
Subsidiaries (in respect of operating and capital expenditure) (b) 57,980 48,642 11,597 4,293
Joint venture (in respect of operating and capitral expenditure) (c) 2,283 822 – –
Key management personnel of the Company (d) – – 88 –
Other related parties (e) 18 18 – –
Transactions during the period
2013 
In thousands of US$
Goods/services 
sold by the 
Company to 
related parties
Goods/services 
purchased by 
the Company 
from related 
parties
Expenses 
paid by the 
Company 
on behalf of 
related parties
Expenses paid 
by related 
parties on 
behalf of the 
Company
Loans received 
by related 
parties from 
the company
Loan balances 
repaid by 
related 
parties to the 
Company
Entities with joint control or significant influence over the Company (a) – – – – – –
Subsidiaries (b) 3,682 1,644 1,355 109 31,526 34,991
Joint ventures (c) – – 10 – 1,452 –
Key management personnel of the Company (d) 4 – – – – –
Other related parties (e) – – 100 – – –
14 Financial instruments continued
n otes f orming Part of the Company f inancial Statements continued
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 93 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
2012 
In thousands of US$
Goods/services 
sold by the 
Company to 
related parties
Goods/services 
purchased by 
the Company 
from related 
parties
Expenses 
paid by the 
Company 
on behalf of 
related parties
Expenses paid 
by related 
parties on 
behalf of the 
Company
Loans received 
by related 
parties from 
the company
Loan balances 
repaid by 
related 
parties to the 
Company
Entities with joint control or significant influence over the Company (a) – – – – – –
Subsidiaries (b) 7,702 9,733 3,429 1,043 29,371 52,551
Joint ventures (c) – – 280 – 542 –
Key management personnel of the Company (d) 15 – – – – –
Other related parties (e) 15 – 113 – – –
(a) The Pallinghurst Resources Fund L.P. (“PRF”) owns combined direct and indirect interest of 47.95% in the Company.
(b)  Includes all subsidiaries listed in the note 14 of the Group financial statements. Transactions and balances with Fabergé 
Limited are included from the date when the Company obtained control over Fabergé sub‑group, which was on 28 January 
2013. Gemfields PLC acts as a guarantor for a US$11,595,278 outstanding loan (2012: US$2,916,667) taken by Kagem 
in Zambia, a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company (note 17 of the Group financial statements).
(c)  The Company had a receivable of US$2,283,375 (2012: US$821,850) from Kariba at the year end. This was in respect 
of operating and capital expenditures.
(d)  All Directors of Gemfields PLC are considered to be key management personnel. The list of all the Directors is set on  
pages 28–29.
(e)  Other related parties include all the Directors and staff of all the Group entities apart from the holding company Gemfields 
PLC. This category also includes Pallinghurst Advisors LLP and Brian Gilbertson.
Pallinghurst Advisors LLP is based in the United Kingdom and acts as an investment advisor to Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P. 
which is based in the Cayman Islands. Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P. acts as investment manager to some of the Company’s 
largest shareholders. These shareholders include PRF, which owns a see‑through interest of 47.95%, NGPMR (Cayman) L.P. 
which owns a see‑through interest of 13.43% and Investec Pallinghurst (Cayman) L.P. which owns a see‑through interest of 
12.65%. The percentages above include indirect interests in Gemfields PLC by PRF, NGPMR (Cayman) L.P. and Investec 
Pallinghurst (Cayman) L.P. of 9.34%, 5.20% and 2.74% respectively through their holdings in Fabergé Conduit Ltd.
The Company made payments to Pallinghurst Advisors LLP during the year in relation to expenses it incurred on behalf of the 
Company. These expenses were mainly related to travel and administrative costs.
PRF is a subsidiary of Pallinghurst Resources Limited, which is listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and Bermuda Stock 
Exchange. Brian Gilbertson is the Chairman of Pallinghurst Resources Limited, a Partner of Pallinghurst (Cayman) GP L.P. and 
a Member of Pallinghurst Advisors LLP. Brian Gilbertson is also the father of Sean Gilbertson, who is a director of Gemfields 
PLC and various other group companies.
All of the transactions with related parties disclosed above for the financial years ended 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 were 
carried out at arm’s‑length.
Details of ultimate controlling party are disclosed in the note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
17 Commitments under operating leases
The Company had total future commitments under non‑cancellable operating leases as set out below:
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Not later than one year 281 37
Later than one year but not later than five years 332 –
Later than five years – –
613 37
Operating leases relate to rent of the main UK offices.
16 Related party transactions and ultimate controlling party continued 94 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
18 Share‑based payments
Details of share‑based payment are disclosed in the note 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
19 Impairment charges
An impairment review of the Company’s assets resulted in an impairment charge in relation to the carrying value of the 
available‑for‑sale investments.
In thousands of US$ 2013 2012
Investments
Impairment in Almizan Development Limited (2,398) –
Impairment in Sarina Global Limited (“Sarina”) – write off investment in Sarina (1,432) –
Impairment of investments in subsidiaries (note 7) (3,830) –
Impairment charge of share value in Richland Resources Limited (note 6) (635) (158)
Impairment reversal of investment in Kagem Mining Limited – 112,587
Impairment (charge)/reversal (4,465) 112,429
At 30 June 2013 the market value of the Group’s investment in Richland Resources Limited was US$482,379 (2012: US$1,567,197).
Investment in Kagem
In 2009, the carrying value of Kagem was impaired following the Directors’ review and assessment of the fair value of the assets 
to their recoverable amount. Subsequently, the investment value in respect of Kagem Mining Limited was impaired. In view of 
the continued improvement in the market for emeralds and increasing production, the Directors undertook to assess the carrying 
value of the Kagem mining asset. Following the completion of the feasibility study and a positive report by SRK, the Company’s 
lead consultant, in this instance, the Directors have decided to reverse the investment previously impaired in respect of Kagem.
The full previously impaired investment value of US$112,587,000 has been reversed at 30 June 2012 to its historical value.
Investment in Almizan Development Limited
Investment in Almizan Development Limited was written down to its net asset value.
20 Events after the reporting period
Auction
From 15 July to 19 July 2013 the Group held an auction of predominantly higher quality rough emerald and beryl held in Lusaka. 
The results are as follows:
•	 auction revenues of US$31.5 million, the second highest achieved to date;
•	 average per carat price of US$54.00 per carat – a new auction record; and
•	 all of the 583,448 carats placed on offer were sold.
Company Share Option Plan
In the second part of 2013 the Company implemented a new remuneration performance related plan. It is a discretionary plan 
whereby each participant can be granted options over shares worth up to £30,000 (measured at grant date). Options will be granted 
at not less than market value. This plan was approved by the Board but to date no awards have been made in terms of this new plan.
n otes f orming Part of the Company f inancial Statements continued
fo R the ye AR ended 30 June 2013 95 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
Business Review Company Overview Governance Financial Statements
Company Contacts and Advisers
Registered Office
Gemfields PLC
54 Jermyn Street
London
SW1Y 6LX
+44 (0) 207 518 3402
Company registration number: 05129023
 
Financial PR
Tavistock Communications 
131 Finsbury Pavement 
London 
EC2A 1NT
+44 (0) 207 920 3150
 
Corporate Brokers
Canaccord Genuity Limited (Nominated Adviser and Joint Broker)
Corporate Broking
88 Wood Street
London
EC2V 7QR
+44 (0) 207 523 8000
 
J.P. Morgan Cazenove (Joint Broker)
25 Bank Street
Canary Wharf
London
E14 5JP
+44 (0) 207 742 4000
External Auditors
BDO LLP
55 Baker Street
London 
W1U 7EU
+44 (0) 207 486 5888 96 Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
notes  Gemfields PLC
54 Jermyn Street 
London 
SW1Y 6LX
Gemfields PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
