 Positioned  
for growth
WORLD CLASS PORTFOLIO
Annual Report  
and Accounts 2012 Our vision is to build 
a major E&P company 
over the next three to 
five years. In 2012, we 
made strong progress in 
pursuit of this vision.
Genel Energy plc is an Anglo-T urkish E&P company , the 
largest independent oil producer in the Kurdistan Region of 
Iraq and the first T urkish business to list on the Main Market 
of the London Stock Exchange. Overview
 www.genelenergy.com 01
Directors’ Report: Business Review Financial Statements Directors’ Report: Governance Shareholder Information
Welcome to our 
Annual Report
Contents
Overview
01 Introduction
02 Genel Energy at a glance
03 Our highlights for 2012
04 A long way in a short time
06 Where we operate
08  World class assets, positioned for growth
Directors’ Report: Business Review
20 Chairman’s statement
22  A joint statement from the Chief Executive  
Ofﬁcer & President
26 Our business model delivering value
28 Our strategy for growth
29 Key performance indicators
32 Operating review – Production
35 Operating review – Development and appraisal
37 Operating review – Exploration
42 Financial review
44 Corporate Responsibility
48 Principal risks and uncertainties
Directors’ Report: Governance
52 Board of Directors
56 Management team
58 Corporate Governance 
66 Directors’ Remuneration Report
73 Directors’ interests
75 Other statutory and regulatory information
79 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial Statements
80 Independent Auditors’ Report
81 Financial Statements and Notes
Shareholder Information
107 Glossary
IBC Shareholder information
Discover more about Genel Energy on our website
www.genelenergy.com 02 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Genel Energy at a glance
Our vision to build a major E&P company over the next three to five years 
is supported by:
Our business
We explore, develop and produce oil and gas, 
focusing on areas where we can achieve material 
positions in world class assets
p26 For more information about our business model
Our management
We have built a management team with the 
operational and technical capability to deliver 
our strategy
Governance
We operate our business to the highest standards of  
corporate governance, in full compliance with the UK  
Corporate Governance Code.
Risk
We work to manage appropriately and mitigate the risks  
within our control, ensuring we have a deep understanding  
of the countries and regions of our operation.
p52 F or more information about our Board of Directors and Management team
p58 For more information about our Corporate Governance
Our reach
We have material positions in four world  
class fields in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq  
and have assembled a high impact African 
exploration portfolio
We have material positions across Africa, with a portfolio 
of exploration assets in Morocco, Malta, Somaliland and 
Côte d’Ivoire.
Our strategy
We have a four-pronged strategic approach 
to achieve long-term value for shareholders
p28 For more information about our strategy
 
Our operations
Our operations combine exploration, appraisal 
and production as well as the development of 
infrastructure to bring our resources to market 
Total net unrisked working interest reserves and resources
5.4 bnboe
445 mmboe 2P reserves 
209 mmboe 
possible reserves
810 mmboe 
contingent resources
3,897 mmboe unrisked 
prospective resources
 
Our responsible approach
Corporate Responsibility is integral to  
our operations
We are committed to conducting our operations in an ethical 
manner that embraces safety, responsible environmental 
management, and to the development of positive and enduring 
relationships with the people and communities in the areas 
in which we operate.
p06 For more information about our reach p44 For more information about our responsible approach
Map of operations Fireﬁghting team at T aq T aq
Côte d’Ivoire
Morocco
Malta
Kurdistan  
Region of Iraq
Somaliland Overview
 www.genelenergy.com 03
Our highlights for 2012
Our performance in 2012
Summary Financials
2012  
$ million
2011  
$ million
Revenue 333.4 24.0
Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 75.9 (57 .7)
Cash ﬂow from operating activities 307 .0 (23.4)
Free Cash Flow
1
73.5 (40.2)
Net Cash at 31 December 1,001.3 1,912.9
EPS (cents per share) 27 .18 (72.34)
1. Cash ﬂow from operating activities less capital expenditure.
2P reserves
(net mmbbls)
445
2011 2012 2010
(mmbbls)
412
445
257
Reserves and unrisked resources
(net bnboe)
5.4
2011 2012 2010
(bnboe)
1.6
5.4
1.1
Average production
(net bopd)
44,500
2011 2012 2010
(000 bopd)
42
45
17
The company was incorporated on 1 April 2011 and acquired its ﬁrst trading business, Genel Energy International Limited (“GEIL ”), 
on 21 November 2011. The comparative period reported results and ﬁnancial statements therefore reﬂect the trading of GEIL from 
21 November 2011, but include corporate and other costs as incurred from 1 April 2011. 04 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
+78%
T awke reserves  
and resources increase
+75%
additional interest  
acquired at Miran 
(pre KRG back-in)
November  
2011
Genel International 
Limited merges with 
Vallares PLC, 
forming Genel 
Energy, the ﬁrst 
Turkish business to 
list on the London 
Stock Exchange
January  
2012
Genel Energy 
announces 
operatorship in 
Chia Surkh, stake 
increased to 60% 
Upgrade of 
T awke Field 
reserves and 
resources by 78% 
to 509 mmboe
May  
2012
Genel Energy 
acquires 23% of 
Bina Bawi block
Further upgrade 
of T awke ﬁeld 
reserves and 
resources 
by 44% to 
734 mmboe 
July  
2012
Genel Energy  
buys Barrus 
Petroleum and 
acquires assets  
in Morocco  
(Juby Maritime) 
and Côte d’Ivoire 
(C1-508)
Appointment of new 
Non-Executive 
Director Chakib Sbiti
April  
2012
Chia Surkh 10
A long way in a short time...
Since we formed Genel Energy in late 2011, we have made 
material progress on the ground in the Kurdistan Region 
of Iraq and expanded our geographical footprint into Africa. 
Much has been achieved in a short space of time.  www.genelenergy.com 05
Overview
 +650 mmboe
net contingent resources 
increase 2011 to 2012
September
2012
T awke Deep 
exploration  
well spud 
October
2012
Chia Surkh 10 
exploration  
well spud
August 
2012
Increase Bina Bawi interest 
from 23% to 44% 
Announce acquisition of 
remaining interest in Miran, 
from 25% to 100% 
(pre-KRG back-in) 
Announce farm-ins to Area 
4 (Blocks 4,5,6 & 7), 
offshore Malta and Sidi 
Moussa, offshore Morocco. 
Acquire blocks SL -10B and 
SL -13 in Somaliland
November
2012
F arm-in to Odewayne 
Block in Somaliland and 
assume operatorship 
Sign licence  
agreement for Mir Left,  
offshore Morocco
December
2012
Genel Energy  
receives  
KRI export  
payment
+3.2 bnboe 
Unrisked net prospective  
resources added  
to the portfolio
T awke, Central Processing Facility
...building a major  
international E&P company 06 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Genel Development and Appraisal Assets
Our Kurdistan operations
pment and Appraisal Assets
Our Kurdistan operations
Dohuk
Ber  
Bahr
Tawke
Sarsang
Peshkabir
Sheikh 
Adi
Atrush
Shaikan
Rovi
Bardarash
Akri Bijeel
Sarta
Erbil Ain Sifni
Khurmala 
Dome
Hawler Chemchemal
Bina Bawi
Miran
Taq Taq
Pulkhana
Topkhana
Khor Mor
Where we operate
Genel Energy is the largest 
independent oil producer and 
the largest holder of reserves 
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
T aq T aq
Tawke
 25% working interest (DNO 
International, operator)
 Gross 2P reserves 713 
mmbbls, 178 mmbbls net 
to Genel
Genel Production Assets
 44% working interest (joint 
operator through TTOPCO)
 Gross 2P reserves 607 
mmbbls, 267 mmbbls  
net to Genel
 Gross 3P reserves 855 
mmbbls, 214 mmbbls  
net to Genel
 T argeting 200,000 gross 
production capacity in 2014
 18 producing wells at  
end of 2012
607 
mmbbl
2P gross  
reserves
 Gross 3P reserves 1,002 
mmbbls, 441 mmbbls  
net to Genel
 Targeting 200,000 gross 
production capacity in 2014
 12 producing wells at  
end of 2012
Tawke-Peshkabir
 25% working interest  
(DNO International, operator)
 Part of T awke PSC
 Evaluation of Peshkabir 1 
exploration well result is 
ongoing including acquisition 
of 3D seismic
Chia Surkh
 60% working interest 
(operator)
 Unrisked mean prospective 
resources of over 300 
mmboe gross, 183 mmboe  
net to Genel (prior to 
exploration drilling)
Ber Bahr
 40% working  
interest (operator)
 Side-track to re-test oil 
zone planned for Q2 2013
Dohuk
 40% working interest  
(DNO International, operator) 
 Contains the Summail  
oil and gas discovery
 Declaration of Commerciality 
submitted to the Kurdistan 
Regional Government in 
October 2012
Bina Bawi
 44% working interest  
(OMV , operator)
 Adjacent to T aq T aq ﬁeld 
 Estimated gross 
contingent resources 
of between 500 mmboe 
and 1 bnboe
Miran
 100% working interest 
(pre-KRG back-in)
 Licence area of 1,015 km
2
 
 Mean recoverable contingent 
and risked prospective 
resources of 3.8 tcf gas, 128 
mmboe liquids
Genel Exploration Assets
713 
mmbbl
2P gross  
reserves Overview
 www.genelenergy.com 07
Shakal
Garmian
Chia  
Surkh
Kurdamir
Côte d’lvoire
Somaliland
Morocco
Malta
Our African operations
We have established a high impact African 
exploration portfolio with material positions in 
three new underexplored hydrocarbon basins.
 Genel Production Assets 
 Genel Development and Appraisal Assets
 Genel Exploration Assets
 Blocks with discoveries
Genel Exploration Portfolio
Morocco
 Juby Maritime: 37 .5%  
(Cairn Energy, operator)
 Sidi Moussa: 60% (operator)
 Mir Left: 75% (operator)
 Gross acreage 16,489 km
2
Côte d’Ivoire
 Block C1-508: 24% (Vitol, operator)
 Gross acreage 1,060 km
2
Somaliland
 SL -10B & SL -13: 75%  
(operator)
 Odewayne: 50%  
(operator) 
 Gross acreage 40,300 km
2
Malta
 Area 4: 75%, (Mediterranean  
Oil & Gas, operator)
 Libya Sirte Basin extension 
 Gross acreage 5,700 km
2
3.3 bnbbls
unrisked 
prospective 
resources 08 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
World class assets,  
positioned for growth
Phases for future growth
This chart shows a projection for working interest production through the end of the decade. It shows production rising towards 
500,000 bopd and an average annual growth rate over that period of approximately 25%.
500,000 bopd
0
2013 2020
Exploration
High impact 
exploration portfolio 
in the KRI and Africa
New 
development
World class oil and 
gas assets
Existing 
Kurdistan 
production
Production 
capacity target 
of 200,000 bopd 
on track at both 
T aq T aq and 
T awke ﬁelds  www.genelenergy.com 09 www.genelenergy.com 09
Overview
Genel Energy has come a long 
way in a short time and we 
are focused on continuing to 
strengthen our portfolio.
W e are committed to developing 
and producing our resources 
and bringing them to market 
in a sustainable manner , 
creating long-term value 
for our stakeholders.
World class assets, positioned for growth continued
Existing Kurdistan production
World class assets, positioned for growth ontinued
Existing Kurdistan production istan t
fo one ned or
10 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.genelenergy.com 11
Overview
Our world class 
T aq T aq and 
T awke fi elds 
have combined 
gross proven, 
probable and 
possible reserves of 
1.9 billion boe.
T aq T aq, well
Increase in reserves and production capacity targets on track At T awke, our successful appraisal programme yielded signiﬁ cant results in May 2012, with a further upgrade to 734 mmbbls gross proven and probable reserves, with 184 mmbbls net to Genel Energy. Across T aq T aq and T awke proven and probable reserves have grown consistently between 2009 and 2012 with 27% compound annual growth rate. Combined gross proven, probable and possible reserves are 1.9 billion boe in 2012.
At T aq T aq, our development plans are on track to deliver gross production capacity of 200,000 bopd in 2014. Development drilling and associated processing and infrastructure upgrades will continue in 2013. In addition, at T awke our plan to increase gross production capacity to 200,000 bopd by the end of 2014 is also on track.
Access to export infrastructure in the near term The ﬁ rst phase of the Kurdistan Regional Government’s (KRG) new oil pipeline infrastructure linking the T aq T aq ﬁ eld directly to Iraq’s Kirkuk-Ceyhan export pipeline and the Erbil reﬁ nery is expected to be operational in the ﬁ rst quarter of 2013. Phase II, linking oilﬁ elds in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq directly to Fishkabur on the T urkish border , is expected to be operational in 2014.
Access to export market and prices Access export infrastructure would allow us to efﬁ ciently transport our oil to T urkey and sell this production into international markets at higher export prices. Oil exported from the Kurdistan Region of Iraq is still subject to issues surrounding the KRG and the Federal Government of Iraq, as we discuss in the joint statement from the Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer and President on pages 22-25.
200,000 bopd
gross production capacity planned from both ﬁ elds
Existing KRI production
At both T aq T aq and T awke, we 
are on track to deliver 200,000 
gross bopd production capacity.
World class assets, positioned for growth continued
New development
World class assets, positioned for growth World class assets, positioned for growth ontinued ontinued
New development New development p pme me t t
oned fo oned fo ned ned or or
12 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.genelenergy.com 13
Overview
World class assets acquired on compelling economics In 2012, we acquired a 44% interest in the Bina Bawi ﬁ eld and increased our ownership of Miran to 100% (pre KRG back-in), becoming operator . These acquisitions were made on very competitive terms, doubling our presence in the KRI and adding almost 600 mmboe of net contingent resources to the Company. 
As a result of these acquisitions, Genel Energy now has material positions in four world class ﬁ elds. The Bina Bawi and Miran projects offer the opportunity to develop a second wave of projects in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, similar in scale and quality to our existing world class production assets at T aq T aq and T awke.
Miran It is estimated that Miran contains mean gas in place of 10.5 trillion cubic feet with mean contingent and risked prospective resources of 3.8 tcf of gas and 128 mmbbls of liquids. During 2013 and early 2014, along with continued appraisal work, we will progress multiple elements of Miran’s full ﬁ eld development. We are currently negotiating a Gas Sales Agreement with a number of prospective customers for Miran’s gas resources.
Bina Bawi The Bina Bawi discovery is estimated to contain gross contingent resources of between 500 million and 1 billion boe equivalent, based on appraisal work carried out to date. An Extended Well T est will come on stream in the ﬁ rst half of 2013 and will represent the ﬁ rst stage of the phased development of the ﬁ eld.
Growing Turkish demand T urkey is a natural destination for the Miran ﬁ eld’s gas resources. Since 2000, T urkey’s natural gas consumption has grown at around 10% per year , the highest growth rate in all of Europe and Eurasia, reaching 46 billion cubic metres in 2011 and with continued growth in 2012. T urkey is highly dependent on gas imports, and KRI gas provides a competitive opportunity to both ﬁ ll the growing supply gap and diversify supply. Miran, rig in progress
Miran 1, EWT , ﬁ rst stage separator
In 2012, our 
acquisitions of 
Bina Bawi and 
Miran added 
two world class 
development assets 
to Genel Energy’s 
portfolio.
600
mmboe net contingent resources added 
10.5 tcf
 Miran, gas in place
New development
In 2012, our Bina Bawi and 
Miran acquisitions added circa 
600 mmboe to our net 
contingent resources.
World class assets, positioned for growth continued
Exploration: Kurdistan Region of Iraq
World class assets, positioned for growth World class assets, positioned for growth ontinued ontinued
Exploration: Kurdistan Region of Iraq Exploration: Kurdistan Region of Iraq Kurdi Kurdi
fo fo
i i
one one ned ned or or
14 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.genelenergy.com 15
Overview
Genel Energy 
is targeting over 
750 million boe 
gross resources 
in the KRI in 
2013, with a high  
impact exploration 
programme.
 750 m m bbls
 Taq Taq Deep, Tawke Deep, Chia Surkh 10 and Chia Surkh 11, target gross unrisked prospective resources
Chia Surkh 10 T aq T aq, Central Processing Facility
T argeting material exploration prospects In 2013, we will continue with our aggressive exploration programme in the KRI. The high impact wells of T awke Deep, T aq T aq Deep and Chia Surkh 10 and 11 are targeting over 750 mmbbls of gross unrisked resources.
T awke Deep and Chia Surkh 10 results are expected in the ﬁ rst half of 2013, with T aq T aq Deep and Chia Surkh 11 later in the year . This near-term material programme has the potential to add signiﬁ cant reserves to Genel Energy’s portfolio.
Exploration – KRI
Our high impact exploration 
wells of T aq T aq Deep, T awke 
Deep and Chia Surkh are all 
material prospects.
16 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.genelenergy.com 17
Overview
World class assets, positioned for growth continued
Exploration: Africa
Genel Energy, Somaliland ofﬁ ce
Genel Energy CEO, T ony Hayward, and President, Mehmet Sepil, press conference in Somaliland
Material positions in highly prospective frontier acreage During 2012, Genel Energy has built a portfolio of high impact exploration assets in Africa – offshore Morocco, Côte d’Ivoire and Malta, and onshore Somaliland. These exploration blocks cover some 62,000 square kilometres, with this highly prospective acreage having the prospect of adding signiﬁ cant value.
These assets are designed to extend the life of our exploration portfolio by balancing the Kurdistan appraisal and development programme. In addition to providing some geographical diversiﬁ cation, the African exploration portfolio has added over 3.3 billion boe of net unrisked prospective resources to the Company’s reserves and resources.
T argeting ﬁ ve high impact wells per annum We are working hard to assess our African acreage with a three year , $400 million capital programme, targeting ﬁ ve wells per year . The programme is designed to deliver a high impact drilling programme in Morocco, Malta, Somaliland and Côte d’Ivoire, starting in the last quarter of 2013. 
High impact 
African exploration 
portfolio established 
in 2012, adding 
3.3 billion boe of net 
unrisked prospective 
resources.
3.3 bn bbls 
net unrisked prospective resources
$400m planned investment over three years
Exploration – Africa
Work programmes are 
underway on all our blocks 
and we are putting in place 
plans for an extensive 
exploration well campaign.
p10 For more information p14 For more information p12 For more information p16 For more information World class assets, positioned for growth continued
Existing Kurdistan production
World class assets, positioned for growth continued
10 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
T aq T aq, well
Increase in reserves and production capacity targets on track
At T awke, our successful appraisal programme yielded signiﬁcant results in May 2012, with a further 
upgrade to 734 mmbbls gross proven and probable reserves, with 184 mmbbls net to Genel Energy. 
Across T aq T aq and T awke proven and probable reserves have grown consistently between 2009 and 
2012 with 27% compound annual growth rate. Combined gross proven, probable and possible 
reserves are 1.9 billion boe in 2012.
At T aq T aq, our development plans are on track to deliver gross production capacity of 200,000 bopd 
in 2014. Development drilling and associated processing and infrastructure upgrades will continue in 
2013. In addition, at T awke our plan to increase gross production capacity to 200,000 bopd by the 
end of 2014 is also on track.
Access to export infrastructure in the near term
The ﬁrst phase of the Kurdistan Regional Government’s (KRG) new oil pipeline infrastructure linking 
the T aq T aq ﬁeld directly to Iraq’s Kirkuk-Ceyhan export pipeline and the Erbil reﬁnery is expected to 
be operational in the ﬁrst quarter of 2013. Phase II, linking oilﬁelds in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq 
directly to Fishkabur on the T urkish border , is expected to be operational in 2014.
Access to export market and prices
Access export infrastructure would allow us to efﬁciently transport our oil to T urkey and sell this 
production into international markets at higher export prices. Oil exported from the Kurdistan Region 
of Iraq is still subject to issues surrounding the KRG and the Federal Government of Iraq, as we 
discuss in the joint statement from the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and President on pages 22-25.
200
,
000 bopd
gross production capacity planned from both ﬁelds  www.genelenergy.com 11
Overview
Our world class  
T aq T aq and 
T awke fields 
have combined 
g
ross proven, 
probable and 
possible reserves of 
1.9 billion boe. World class assets, positioned for growth continued
New development
World class assets, positioned for growth continued
12 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
In 2012, our 
acquisitions of  
Bina Bawi and 
Miran added 
two world class 
development assets 
to Genel Energy’s 
portfolio.  www.genelenergy.com 13
Overview
World class assets acquired on compelling economics 
In 2012, we acquired a 44% interest in the Bina Bawi ﬁeld and increased our ownership 
of Miran to 100% (pre KRG back-in), becoming operator . These acquisitions were made on 
very competitive terms, doubling our presence in the KRI and adding almost 600 mmboe 
of net contingent resources to the Company. 
As a result of these acquisitions, Genel Energy now has material positions in four world 
class ﬁelds. The Bina Bawi and Miran projects offer the opportunity to develop a second 
wave of projects in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, similar in scale and quality to our 
existing world class production assets at T aq T aq and T awke.
Miran
It is estimated that Miran contains mean gas in place of  
10.5 trillion cubic feet with mean contingent and risked 
prospective resources of 3.8 tcf of gas and 128 mmbbls of 
liquids. During 2013 and early 2014, along with continued 
appraisal work, we will progress multiple elements of Miran’s 
full ﬁeld development. We are currently negotiating a Gas 
Sales Agreement with a number of prospective customers  
for Miran’s gas resources.
Bina Bawi
The Bina Bawi discovery is estimated to contain gross contingent resources of between 
500 million and 1 billion boe equivalent, based on appraisal work carried out to date. An 
Extended Well T est will come on stream in the ﬁrst half of 2013 and will represent the 
ﬁrst stage of the phased development of the ﬁeld.
Growing Turkish demand
T urkey is a natural destination for the Miran ﬁeld’s gas 
resources. Since 2000, T urkey’s natural gas consumption  
has grown at around 10% per year , the highest growth rate  
in all of Europe and Eurasia, reaching 46 billion cubic metres  
in 2011 and with continued growth in 2012. T urkey is  
highly dependent on gas imports, and KRI gas provides  
a competitive opportunity to both ﬁll the growing supply  
gap and diversify supply.
Miran, rig in progress
Miran 1, EWT , ﬁrst stage separator
600 
mmboe
net contingent  
resources added 
10.5 tcf
 Miran, gas in place World class assets, positioned for growth continued
Exploration: Kurdistan Region of Iraq
World class assets, positioned for growth continued
14 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
 750 m m bbls
 Taq Taq Deep, Tawke Deep, Chia Surkh 10 and Chia Surkh 11, target gross unrisked prospective resources
Chia Surkh 10 T aq T aq, Central Processing Facility
T argeting material exploration prospects
In 2013, we will continue with our aggressive exploration programme in the KRI. The high impact  
wells of T awke Deep, T aq T aq Deep and Chia Surkh 10 and 11 are targeting over 750 mmbbls of gross 
unrisked resources.
T awke Deep and Chia Surkh 10 results are expected in the ﬁrst half of 2013, with T aq T aq Deep and 
Chia Surkh 11 later in the year . This near-term material programme has the potential to add signiﬁcant 
reserves to Genel Energy’s portfolio.  www.genelenergy.com 15
Overview
Genel Energy  
is targeting over  
750 million boe 
gross resources 
in the KRI in 
2013, with a high  
impact exploration 
programme. 16 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
World class assets, positioned for growth continued
Exploration: Africa
High im
p
act  
African exploration 
portfolio established 
in 2012, adding  
3.3 billion boe of net 
unrisked prospective 
resources.  www.genelenergy.com 17
Overview
Genel Energy, Somaliland ofﬁce
Genel Energy CEO, T ony Hayward,  
and President, Mehmet Sepil, press 
conference in Somaliland
Material positions in highly prospective frontier acreage
During 2012, Genel Energy has built a portfolio of high impact exploration assets in 
Africa – offshore Morocco, Côte d’Ivoire and Malta, and onshore Somaliland. These 
exploration blocks cover some 62,000 square kilometres, with this highly prospective 
acreage having the prospect of adding signiﬁcant value.
These assets are designed to extend the life of our exploration portfolio by balancing 
the Kurdistan appraisal and development programme. In addition to providing some 
geographical diversiﬁcation, the African exploration portfolio has added over 3.3 billion 
boe of net unrisked prospective resources to the Company’s reserves and resources.
T argeting ﬁve high impact wells per annum
We are working hard to assess our African acreage with a three year , $400 million 
capital programme, targeting ﬁve wells per year . The programme is designed to deliver 
a high impact drilling programme in Morocco, Malta, Somaliland and Côte d’Ivoire, 
starting in the last quarter of 2013. 
3.3 bn bbls 
net unrisked prospective resources
$400m
planned investment  
over three years 18 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
A model  
for growth  www.genelenergy.com 19
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Crude oil and water strippers, T aq T aq  
Central Processing Facility 20 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to welcome you to Genel 
Energy’s second Annual Report.  
Over the past twelve months we have 
made considerable progress in delivering 
our strategic objectives and as a result, we 
are well positioned for an exciting future 
as a major independent E&P company .
Rodney Chase 
Chairman  www.genelenergy.com 21
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Building Genel Energy
In 2012, we built on our competitive advantage in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq, consolidating our position as the leading E&P 
company in what is one of the most exciting new frontiers in oil 
and gas. The importance of the KRI as a major hydrocarbon 
province has been underlined by the recent entry of some of  
the world’s largest oil and gas companies. Over the year , we have 
enhanced our position in the KRI through careful acquisitions  
and expansion, particularly in natural gas, where we are putting  
in place the operational infrastructure to connect our world class 
resources to the large and rapidly growing Turkish energy market. 
We have also begun to implement our strategy to build an 
extensive African exploration portfolio. Our entry into Morocco, 
Somaliland, Côte d’Ivoire and Malta provides us with an exciting 
set of opportunities in Africa. 
Y our Board has reviewed these opportunities carefully, mindful of 
our obligation to protect and enhance shareholder value and with 
full regard to the risks and opportunities involved. 
Importantly, in parallel with Genel Energy’s reserves and 
resources growth we have also grown our professional team  
in both oil and gas operations and in our corporate group. It is 
particularly rewarding to see the calibre of people Genel Energy 
has been able to attract. This adds signiﬁcant capability to our 
business and provides us with the professional skills and 
management experience to execute our projects and operations 
efﬁciently and to the best industry standards. Ultimately, it  
is our people who will secure and realise the value in our  
material assets.
Governance and Risk Management
In April 2012, Chakib Sbiti joined your Board, taking the total 
number of Directors to twelve, of which seven are deemed 
Independent. Chakib previously held the positions of President 
Asia and Middle East and Executive Vice President of Oilﬁeld 
Services for Schlumberger , more recently acting as adviser to 
Schlumberger’s Chairman and CEO. He brings to your Board 
extensive experience of oilﬁeld operations and of the regions 
where we operate.
As we discuss in the Governance section of this report, we have 
strong, independent Audit and Remuneration Committees to 
ensure that we meet the standards we have set for ourselves. 
These form an integral part of our overarching strategy of strict 
adherence to the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code and compliance with all aspects of corporate best practice. 
Our exploration and production interests come with signiﬁcant 
challenges. Our chosen areas of operations need careful 
monitoring and a deep understanding of regional issues.
Assessing the risks across the business is one of your Board’s 
core oversight responsibilities, so we recently established a 
Political Risk Committee, with Mark Parris acting as Chairman. 
This Committee is focused on ensuring that your Board is well 
equipped with knowledge of the geopolitical trends and issues 
that directly or indirectly impact on Genel Energy’s current and 
future activities. The Governance section of this report provides 
further information on its purpose and objectives. 
Regional Relationships
Maintaining good relationships with the governments where we 
operate is key to our long-term success, and we pay particular 
attention to this aspect of our business.
We are working closely both with the Kurdistan Regional 
Government and Turkish Government on the long-term supply  
of gas from the Kurdistan Region of Iraq into the Turkish  
gas market, a very signiﬁcant project requiring substantial 
infrastructure development. 
The Future
We have achieved much in our ﬁrst full year as a publicly listed 
company. Over the next year and beyond we will be working 
hard to establish the necessary facilities and infrastructure  
to bring to market more of the world class resources we now  
have in our portfolio, and we will continue drilling our extensive 
exploration portfolio. Genel Energy’s Board will ensure that all of 
these activities take place within a company whose culture sets 
high standards – in both its operations and Corporate Governance. 
Rodney Chase, Chairman 22 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
A joint statement from the Chief 
Executive Officer & President
Genel Energy has had a busy  
and productive 2012, making strong 
progress in our first full year as a public 
company . W e are now an established, 
mainstream independent E&P company , 
a significant achievement for a business 
that listed as an acquisition company  
less than eighteen months ago.
T ony Hayward 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Mehmet Sepil
President  www.genelenergy.com 23
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Last year , we outlined the four pillars of our strategy:
 Maintain the highest levels of corporate governance;
 Continue to fund the development and exploration of  
our assets in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq from operating  
cash ﬂows;
 Create value with the drill bit; and
 Build a major regional E&P company over the next three  
to ﬁve years through development of our assets in the KRI, 
acquisitions in the Middle East and Africa, and participation  
in future licensing rounds.
We have executed our strategy successfully this year and, as  
a result, we are now an established oil and gas business, with 
an enviable set of exploration and production assets. 
In the years ahead we will continue to build and grow our 
business, guided by three overarching principles of operation:
 As we expand our business footprint, all our operations will 
be run to the highest standards of safety, reliability and 
environmental management;
 We will continue to build our organisational capability by 
recruiting and retaining the best available personnel in  
the industry; and
 We will continue to focus on performance and delivering  
on our strategy.
Risks and Rewards
The global search for signiﬁcant energy resources takes oil 
companies to challenging geographies and political environments. 
Managing the risks inherent in these locations is key, and can  
be done through the appropriate choice of technology, business 
model and method of operation.
Last year , we stated that in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq  
our fundamental means of managing the risks of operating  
in this politically ﬂuid environment and the risk of non-payment 
for exported oil, was to run our operations on a cash ﬂow neutral 
basis. We have done this in 2012, and will continue to do so over 
the short to medium term, with our development and exploration 
activities in the KRI sustained by cash ﬂows generated in  
the region.
Momentum on the ground and in the region
While we have met the criteria we set for ourselves for operating 
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, importantly, the validity of our 
initial strategic decision to enter the region has also been borne 
out by the momentum surrounding both its oil and gas industry 
and the broader geopolitical trends.
On the ground, there is steadily rising production capacity – from 
150,000 bopd in 2011 to an estimate of more than 400,000 bopd 
by the end of 2013. In addition, substantial infrastructure has 
been completed with more planned, including a 1 million bopd 
oil pipeline to Fishkabur on the Turkish border . In parallel, 
signiﬁcant numbers of supermajor and major independent oil 
companies entered the region over the past 12 months – including 
Exxon, Chevron and T otal. With this level of interest building, 
further corporate activity is likely.
At a broader level, and importantly for Genel Energy with our 
strong Turkish identity, the relationship between the KRI and 
Turkey continues to deepen, with many billions of dollars invested 
by Turkish businesses into the KRI over the last two years alone. 
These commercial relationships are now being further reinforced 
with political linkages, culminating in the announcement  
of a regional energy and security cooperation arrangement  
between Turkey and the KRI in 2012. 
The relationship between the Kurdistan Regional Government 
(KRG) and the Federal Government of Iraq (FGI) remains 
challenging. There have been some signs of progress in the latter 
half of the year , with an agreement reached on 13 September , 
in which the FGI agreed to the payment of $850 million for 
outstanding payments due to contractors for historic oil exported 
from the KRI, and the KRG agreed to continue exports from the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq. The KRG received an initial payment of 
$530 million on 8 October 2012; however , a second payment, 
expected to be around $300 million, has not yet been received.  
In response to the failure of the FGI to make the second payment 
or to include an appropriate level of payments for exports from 
the KRI in the 2013 central Iraq budget, in December the KRG 
halted exports from the KRI using FGI controlled infrastructure. 
Since the year end, the KRI has commenced exports of small 
volumes of crude oil to Turkey by truck.
Although the relationship between the KRG and the FGI is beyond 
our control, our continued management of our business in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq on a cash ﬂow neutral basis reduces  
our risk proﬁle in accordance with our stated strategy. 
Strong Progress in 2012
Operational progress and reserves growth
We made material operational progress on the ground in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq, with the drilling of six appraisal wells,  
two exploration wells and the continuing development of our 
major oil ﬁelds at T aq T aq and T awke. 
Our successful 2012 appraisal programme led to gross 2P 
reserves at T awke being upgraded in May to 734 million bbls, 
184 million bbls net to Genel. Combined with T aq T aq, these two 
“world class” ﬁelds contribute net 2P reserves of 445 million boe 
to Genel Energy. We expect our strong reserves growth to 
continue with the execution of our planned appraisal and 
development programme in 2013 and beyond.
At T aq T aq, we are on track to reach 200,000 gross bopd 
production capacity in 2014. The ﬁrst phase of the KRG’s new oil 
pipeline infrastructure linking the T aq T aq ﬁeld directly to Iraq’s 
Kirkuk-Ceyhan export pipeline and the Erbil reﬁnery, is expected 
to be operational in the ﬁrst quarter of 2013. Phase II, linking 
oilﬁelds in the KRI directly to Fishkabur on the Turkish border , is 
expected to be complete by early 2014. This will add signiﬁcant 
additional export capacity from T aq T aq and our other ﬁelds, 
including the adjacent Bina Bawi ﬁeld. In addition, at T awke our 
plan to increase gross production capacity to 200,000 bopd by 
the end of 2014 is also on track.
Acquisition of world class assets 
By increasing our holdings in both Miran and Bina Bawi on 
attractive terms, Genel Energy acquired material interests in  
two further world class assets in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.  
This doubled our presence, with Genel Energy now having 
material positions in four world class ﬁelds, while also adding 
almost 600 million boe of net contingent resources.  24 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
A joint statement from the  
Chief Executive Officer & President continued
The Miran and Bina Bawi acquisitions provide Genel Energy 
with the opportunity to develop a second wave of projects in  
the KRI, similar in scale and quality to our existing world class 
production assets, providing further opportunities to increase 
shareholder value.
Genel Energy’s 100 per cent holding of the commercial oil and gas 
discovery at Miran (with a 25 per cent back-in right available to 
the KRG) gives us control of a ﬁeld with current contingent and 
risked prospective resources of 3.8 trillion cubic feet of gas and 
some 128 million barrels of liquids. We are committed to moving 
the project forward in 2013 and are focused on three things: early 
oil development, gas ﬁeld development and full appraisal of the 
resource potential of the block. 
Turkey is a natural destination for Miran’s gas resources, one of 
the world’s leading importers of natural gas. Gas from the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq provides the Turkish Government with an 
opportunity to meet an ever increasing supply gap. KRI gas would 
assist Turkey in achieving its stated goal of diversifying sources of 
supply, as the majority of its gas requirements are currently 
imported by pipeline from Russia, Iran and Azerbaijan, 
supplemented by contracted spot LNG supplies. In conjunction 
with the KRG and the Turkish Government, we are continuing 
negotiations with customers for long-term Miran gas sale 
agreements and plans are being developed to build on existing 
capacity to install gas export infrastructure from the KRI into the 
existing Turkish gas transmission system.
At Bina Bawi, where Genel Energy holds a 44 per cent interest, 
signiﬁcant hydrocarbons have been conﬁrmed in two of the three 
exploration wells. T wo appraisal wells are currently being drilled 
and an extended well test is expected to begin in the ﬁrst half of 
2013. A full ﬁeld development plan is to be submitted in the latter 
half of 2013.
Assembling a high impact African portfolio
In line with our strategy, this year also saw Genel Energy begin 
to assemble a high impact African exploration portfolio, with 
material positions in Morocco, Malta, Somaliland and Côte d’Ivoire, 
covering multiple petroleum systems with estimated exposure to 
net unrisked prospective resources of over 3.3 billion boe. These 
positions rebalance our overall portfolio towards exploration as a 
counterweight to our large appraisal and development projects in 
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, while also providing geopolitical 
diversity. These acquisitions were made after careful screening, 
ﬁltered through a process where we considered over 100 
opportunities in the past year . 
Building professional capacity 
We have continued to build both our management team and 
our operational and technical capacity in tandem with our 
expanded geographic and resources footprint. In 2012, we added 
over 30 technical staff, drawn from some of the world’s largest 
and most successful energy companies. By putting in place a high 
calibre group of operational and technical professionals and a 
strong corporate team, we have the means to deliver the potential 
of our resource base. 
Operating sustainability
We continue to work hard to ensure that our presence makes  
a meaningful and positive contribution to the areas in which we 
operate and is sustainable over the long term, core to which is our 
commitment to operate safely and reliably. There have been no 
fatalities and few Lost Time Injuries (“L TIs”) in 2012 and we are 
committed to this remaining the case in 2013 and beyond.
Our operations in the KRI are signiﬁcant and, accordingly, our 
presence should make a correspondingly signiﬁcant and positive 
contribution to its people, both those in the immediate geographic 
area of our operations and the broader society. We do this 
through a range of programmes including health, education and 
employment opportunities for those in the immediate geographic 
area of our ﬁelds and operations, as well as more broadly in the 
KRI, including through activities such as labour exchanges 
and educational support, building the Kurdistan Region of Iraq’s 
own capability. The Corporate Responsibility section of this report 
provides more detail on our approach and activities around this 
core aspect of our business.
Outlook 
The steps we took in 2012, both in consolidating our position 
as the leading – and most experienced – E&P company in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq and in securing an exciting portfolio  
of additional exploration assets in Africa, provide a clear shape 
for our Company over the medium term. 
Our strong production proﬁle and our extensive exploration 
programme places us at the forefront of independent E&P 
companies, with the capacity and the capital base to fulﬁl our 
ambitions. We will complete four further high impact exploration 
wells in 2013 – T awke Deep, T aq T aq Deep, Chia Surkh 10 and 
Chia Surkh 11. 
In Africa, work programmes are underway across all our blocks, 
and we are in advanced negotiations to secure a rig for a 10 
well offshore drilling programme. The programme is expected 
to commence in the last quarter of 2013 in Morocco.
 $1. 0bn
 Cash  www.genelenergy.com 25
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Our resource base today
Genel Energy’s estimated net resource base is 5.4 billion boe. Proven and probable net reserves in  
our two producing fields (T aq T aq and T awke) are 445 mmbbls with further possible net reserves  
of 209 mmbbls, contingent net resources are 810 mmboe and unrisked prospective net resources  
are 3.9 billion boe.
2P Reserves
445 mmboe
 
Possible Reserves 
209 mmboe
 
Contingent Resources
810 mmboe
 
Unrisked Prospective Resources 
3,897 mmboe 
Unrisked Mean Resources
729 mmboe 
Contingent Resources 
175 mmboe 
Possible Reserves
266 mmboe
2P Reserves
412 mmboe
December 2012
December 2011
T otal w orking interest reserves and unrisked resources increased over 240% from 1.6 billion to 5.4 billion boe
+ 3,168
mmboe
+ 636 
mmboe
 – 5 6
mmboe
 +33 
mmboe
Building on our strong progress
Genel Energy has made strong progress in 2012. We have 
established ourselves as one of the leading independent E&P 
companies and can point to a signiﬁcant number of major 
achievements over the year:
 Genel Energy is the leading oil and gas producer in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq, with four material oil and gas  
ﬁelds which have signiﬁcant upside;
 We have established a high impact African exploration  
portfolio, with material positions in three underexplored 
hydrocarbon basins;
 A high quality team of experienced oil and gas professionals 
is in place to execute our projects; and
 Genel Energy remains in a powerful ﬁnancial position  
with circa $1 billion in cash available for further  
business development.
By successfully executing our strategy, we increased our total 
working interest reserves and unrisked resources by nearly 250 
per cent, from 1.6 billion to 5.4 billion boe. This exceptional growth 
equates to more than tripling our unrisked prospective resources 
to 3.9 billion barrels, increasing our proven and probable reserves 
by 8 per cent to 445 million boe and adding nearly 650 million 
boe to our contingent resources, which now stand at 810 million 
boe. All this was achieved in a little over twelve months. Our 
achievements in 2012 clearly demonstrate that we can compete 
with the world’s largest energy companies in the Kurdistan Region 
of Iraq and secure world class proven resources that will create 
further value for our shareholders. 
Our vision for Genel Energy’s future is equally exciting, based on a 
combination of a signiﬁcantly growing resource base and the 
ability to bring these resources out of the ground and to market. 
We have in place a strong programme enabling production to rise 
towards 500,000 bopd by the end of the decade, representing an 
average annual growth rate of 25 per cent. 
With the resources we have acquired and that we continue to 
grow, the team we have established and the programmes we have 
in place, we are conﬁdent that we can offer our shareholders and 
stakeholders the prospect of exciting and rewarding times ahead, 
as we continue our journey to being a major E&P company 
operating to world class standards in world class provinces.
T ony Hayward, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
Mehmet Sepil, President 
Note: all numbers shown are Genel Energy working interest reserves and resources.
Source: McDaniel & Associates June 2011 (T aq T aq reserves, T aq T aq Deep, T awke Deep, Chia Surkh mean prospective resources), DeGolyer & MacNaughton 
January 2012 (T awke contingent resources) and May 2012 (T awke reserves), RPS November 2012 (Miran contingent and prospective resources), Genel Energy 
(Dohuk & Bina Bawi contingent resources, Peshkabir and African prospective resources). 26 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our business model delivering value














 Turkish 
heritage
Expanding 
our horizons
World class 
material assets
Financial 
strength
C R b y
R b G Genel Energy’s business model is simple, clear and effective. We harness our 
T urkish heritage and strong relationships in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, and 
increasingly in Africa, to strengthen our portfolio of world class assets while 
maintaining a strong balance sheet – all with the ultimate aim of unlocking value 
for our stakeholders. A robust approach to governance and a commitment to  
operating responsibly are essential to our approach.  www.genelenergy.com 27
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Turkish heritage and 
strong local relationships
Genel Energy’s operational 
base is in Turkey, where we 
have been operating for more 
than a decade. Our Turkish 
heritage plays an important 
part in assisting us in 
expanding our footprint  
across our chosen regions  
of operation.
Genel Energy has made a 
direct economic contribution 
to the economic development 
and wellbeing of the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq, beneﬁting 
Turkey, the KRI and  
our business.
Our deep involvement in 
developing the energy 
resources of the KRI has meant 
that we have evolved to 
become an ambassador for 
Turkish business in the region, 
assisting us in adding to our 
resources base and bringing 
those resources to market. 
Financial strength 
The cash resources at Genel 
Energy’s disposal make us one 
of the strongest independent 
E&Ps in the market today. 
At the outset of 2012, we  
had a balance sheet of some 
$1.9 billion. During 2012, we 
successfully deployed $1 billion 
to expand our presence in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq and 
establish a strong foothold 
across highly prospective 
acreage in Africa. 
At the conclusion of 2012,  
our balance sheet still stood  
at circa $1 billion. By having  
the capacity to execute our 
substantial exploration, 
development and appraisal 
plans we are able to meet  
our vision of becoming a major 
E&P company within the next  
three to ﬁve years.
World class material assets
We are focused on establishing 
material positions in high 
quality resource assets and  
it is our preference to operate 
assets where we can. 
This objective is encapsulated 
in our activity in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq, where we are 
the largest producer and the 
largest holder of reserves. In 
2012 we built on our leadership 
position, doubling our presence 
from two to four material 
positions in four world class 
ﬁelds: our original positions in 
T aq T aq and T awke, and adding 
material positions in the Miran 
and Bina Bawi ﬁelds.
Operating responsibly 
All the steps we take in 
achieving our vision of being  
a major E&P company are 
framed within the context that 
Genel Energy is a sustainable 
business, operating responsibly 
to world class standards and  
in accordance with all aspects  
of UK Corporate Governance  
and corporate best practice. 
Our success as an explorer 
and producer of oil and  
gas assets is inextricably 
linked to our ability to  
create a meaningful and 
sustainable business within 
the communities and 
environments in which  
we operate. Accordingly,  
we are committed to 
operating in a manner that 
embraces safety, ethical 
integrity and responsible 
environmental management.
10
years operating  
in KRI
$1bn 
cash  
reserves
4
material positions  
in the KRI 
100%
commitment to  
safe operations
Production Engineer at T aq T aq T aq T aq Central Processing Facility Miran, rig in progress Genel T eam visiting Bina Bawi 28 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Our strategy for growth
Genel Energy has a four-pronged strategy to achieve growth and long-term value 
for our shareholders. The table below outlines these priorities, our progress  
against them and how they will change looking forward.
Progress made against 2012 strategic priorities
Adherence to the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
and compliance with all aspects of corporate best practice have been 
at the heart of our operations in 2012. In April, Chakib Sibiti joined the 
Board bringing extensive experience of oilﬁeld operations and of the 
regions where we operate. 
We created the Political Risk Committee to introduce a formal 
approach at Board level to monitor and assess the geopolitical 
environment in our regions of operation.
Strategic priorities for 2013
The Board will implement the recommendations arising from the 
independent review of its effectiveness including in the areas of risk 
monitoring and reporting, strategy, board composition and 
development.
We will continue to monitor closely the major risks in the regions 
within which we operate.
Maintain the highest level of corporate governance
We believe it is essential to demonstrate adherence to the highest standards of corporate governance. This approach, and our 
commitment to operating responsibly, will assist in maintaining the trust of our shareholders and key stakeholders, as well as providing 
a strong overarching structure for key decision making within the business.
Progress made against 2012 strategic priorities
In 2012, we have materially grown our operations while remaining  
cash ﬂow positive.
We are progressing our developments at the low cost of  
between $2 and $3 per barrel.
We have continued to grow our reserves base with our strong  
appraisal programme.
Strategic priorities for 2013
We will continue to progress the development of both T aq T aq and 
T awke to increase production capacity.
At Miran, we will progress multiple elements of full ﬁeld development 
and we are targeting a Declaration of Commerciality for Bina Bawi, 
ahead of its full ﬁeld development.
We will continue to explore, appraise and develop all of our key assets.
Maximise the potential from our existing assets in the Kurdistan Region of  
Iraq on a cash flow neutral basis
The development and exploration of our assets in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq will be funded from proceeds received from local sales 
and export sales. In advance of a long-term solution surrounding the issue of Kurdistan oil export payments, our development and 
exploration activities in the KRI will be funded by cash ﬂows generated in the region.
Progress made against 2012 strategic priorities
Field development drilling continued at T aq T aq in the year bringing  
total producing wells to 12 at year end.
T awke Deep spudded in August 2012, targeting gross unrisked  
mean resources that are estimated at some 200 million boe.
Successful appraisal drilling at T awke led to a material upgrade to 
2P reserves to 734 million bbls, 184 million bbls net.
The Bina Bawi 3 well was completed in the ﬁrst half of 2012.
Strategic priorities for 2013
In 2013, we will be executing activity programmes across our ﬁelds  
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and our exploration acreage in Africa.
In the KRI, we are drilling four high impact exploration wells with  
the ability to add material reserves and resources to the portfolio.
In Africa we are targeting gross unrisked resources of over  
3.3 billion boe, with the aim of commencing a drilling programme  
towards the end of 2013.
Create value with the drill bit
We are committed to realising the value in our portfolio through a signiﬁcant drilling programme to explore, appraise and develop 
our assets.
Progress made against 2012 strategic priorities
Genel Energy doubled its presence in the KRI and now has material 
interests in four world class ﬁelds.
We built a portfolio of exploration licences across Africa and now have 
interests in 10 blocks across a diverse range of hydrocarbon plays.
We added signiﬁcant depth to our professional and project capacity 
by recruiting over 30 additional technical and professional employees.
Strategic priorities for 2013
We are in a powerful ﬁnancial position and we will continue to 
carefully screen opportunities in our chosen regions to deploy 
our cash reserves.
Working collaboratively with regional governments, we will  
continue to develop infrastructure to support the export of our  
oil and gas assets.
In 2013, we will continue to build our professional capacity in parallel 
with our asset growth, so that we have the capability to maximise  
the potential of our assets.
Build a major regional E&P company over the next three to five years
Our aim is to build a major E&P company over the next three to ﬁve years through the development of our existing assets in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq and Africa and by accessing additional opportunities for expansion via licence rounds, farm-ins and 
acquisitions. We will underpin our expansion by adding new expertise and operating capabilities.  www.genelenergy.com 29
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Genel Energy measures its performance in line with our strategic objectives. 
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) are the primary measures used to track 
progress against set targets in the areas of safe, responsible and sustainable 
operations; and operating and financial performance.
Key performance indicators
Capital expenditure 
($m)
2011 2012 2010
46
86
229
$229m
Capital expenditure
Net 2P reserves 
(mmbls)
2011 2012 2010
257
412
445
445 mmbls
Net 2P reserves
Net production  
(000 bopd)
2011 2012 2010
17
42
45
44,500 bopd
Average net production
Total net reserves and unrisked 
resources (bnboe)
2011 2012 2010
1.1
1.6
5.4
5.4 bn boe
Net reserves and unrisked resources
In 2012 the low level of L TIs indicates the Company’s continued  
focus on running our operations in accordance with our strategy.
Spills – loss of primary containment (LoPC)
Asset integrity is a major priority for our Company and we plan  
and execute the operations of our business and our engagement of 
subcontractors so as to minimise risk and mitigate potential impact.
A key measure of our success in achieving asset integrity is 
minimising the number of incidents where there has been a loss  
of primary containment (LoPC). LoPC records any unplanned or 
uncontrolled release of material (excluding small or non-hazardous 
releases such as water) from a piece of equipment used for 
containment – for example a pipe, vessel or tank.
LoPCs stayed at a low level in 2012 and the Company remains focused 
on keeping them to a minimum.
Fatalities and L TI
The Board and management are committed to running safe  
and reliable operations and maintaining zero fatalities is of the  
highest importance. A low L TI indicates how successful our safety 
programmes are in preventing injury. L TI measures the number  
of hours lost due to injury per million work hours across all of our  
sites where we are operator .
Net 2P reserves and resources
Our strategy is to enhance the value of our commercial oil and gas 
assets through drilling and to explore for and discover additional oil 
and gas resource. Genel also undertakes acquisitions to access 
additional resources.
Our exploration and appraisal programmes seek to convert unrisked 
prospective resources into commercially viable reserves. The success 
of our exploration and appraisal programmes are measured by growth 
in 2P reserves. In 2012, 2P reserves increased by 8 per cent principally 
as a result of gross 2P reserves of T awke being upgraded during the 
year to 734 million bbls, 184 million bbls net to Genel Energy, following 
successful appraisal drilling.
T otal net reserves and unrisked resources have increased by almost 
250 per cent following the establishment of an African exploration 
portfolio with net unrisked resources of 3.3 billion boe, together with 
material acquisitions at Miran and Bina Bawi in the Kurdistan Region of 
Iraq, which added a further 600 million boe of net contingent 
resources.
Net production
Production growth is an indicator of the realisation of the potential of 
our producing assets in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. It represents a 
combination of the success of both the Group’s capital development 
spend and its operational performance, albeit it is affected by the 
availability of export markets.
Net production is calculated on a working interest basis and is 
measured in average barrels of oil produced daily (bopd).
In 2012 production was maintained at levels that enable our Kurdistan 
operations to be run on a cash ﬂow neutral basis, with average  
net working interest production of 44,500 bopd. When access to 
international markets improves, the Company will be well positioned 
to increase production signiﬁcantly with current working interest 
production capacity of circa 80,000 bopd.
Capital expenditure
Derisking and increasing the value of the assets of the Company by 
capital development and exploration spend is a key component of  
our strategy, with total capital expenditure being a key performance 
indicator . Success of this capital expenditure is measured by 
production capacity growth and reserves growth. Capital expenditure 
is measured in US dollar millions.
Capital expenditure in 2012 represents the continued development of 
our producing assets at T aq T aq and T awke, together with exploration 
expenditure in the KRI and Africa.
Operating and financial
Safety and environment
LTI 
1.0
Hours lost due to injury per 
million work hours
(2011: 1.5, 2010: 0)
Spills – loss of primary 
 containment (LoPC)
1
Incidents where there has been 
a loss of primary containment
(2011: 4, 2010: 1) 30 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
A portfolio 
of world 
class assets  www.genelenergy.com 31
Directors’ Report: Business Review
A pressure relief valve at T aq T aq 32 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating review:  
Production
“ During 2012 we continued to make 
good progress in the growth of both 
reserves and production capacity .”
Genel Energy’s average net working 
interest production for the full year 
2012 was in line with guidance at 
44,500 bopd (2011: 42,000 bopd).
During the course of the year 
production from Genel Energy’s  
two producing assets, T aq T aq and 
T awke, has been sold into both 
domestic and export markets and 
generated cash flows that more than 
covered the capital and operating 
expenditure of our KRI business.
Production
In the ﬁrst half of the year , production was sold mainly into the 
domestic market. Export sales from the Kurdistan Region of Iraq 
resumed in the ﬁrst week of August. However , in response to the 
uncertainty regarding the receipt of a second payment for past 
exports owed from the Federal Government of Iraq, the KRG 
halted exports from the KRI in December , and Genel Energy 
switched sales of production back into the domestic market 
realising prices at T aq T aq through December of around $70/bbl.
On 7 January 2013, Genel Energy received permission from the 
Kurdistan Regional Government to export crude oil from T aq T aq 
into Turkey by truck. This authority is consistent with the Iraqi 
Constitution of 2006, the Kurdistan Oil and Gas Law of 2007 and 
the PSC governing operations at T aq T aq. In 2013, it is likely that 
the availability of full export markets to the Company will once 
again be constrained. As a result average daily production  
is expected to be in the range of 45,000 – 55,000 bopd, 
generating sales revenue of $300 – $400 million, principally  
from domestic sales.
Reserves
At 31 December 2012, Genel Energy’s proven and probable  
(2P) reserves, on a working interest basis, were 445 mmboe  
(2011: 412 mmboe) which is an 8 per cent increase on the previous 
year . Genel Energy achieved a year-on-year reserves replacement 
ratio of 356 per cent in 2012. 
During the year , gross 2P reserves at T awke were upgraded 
further to 734 mmbbls, 184 mmbbls net to Genel Energy.  
Set against this was production from T aq T aq and T awke  
of 16 mmboe net to Genel Energy. 
The Group’s contingent resources increased signiﬁcantly in 2012, 
principally as a result of the acquisitions of a 44 per cent interest 
in Bina Bawi and an additional 56 per cent interest in Miran (post 
KRG back-in), which added almost 600 mmboe of net contingent 
resources to the Company.
Murat Özgül  
President of Genel Energy 
T urkey & KRI
445mmbbls
Net 2P reserves
Proven and probable 
(2P) reserves 
(mmboe)
2C contingent  
resources 
 (mmboe)
2P reserves and  
2C contingent 
resource 
 (mmboe)
Start of 2012 412 175 587
Production (16) – (16)
Net additions and revisions 57 635 692
Adjustments (8) – (8)
End of 2012 445 810 1,255
1. Proven and probable 2P reserves are based on independent reserve reports for both the T aq T aq and T awke ﬁelds.
2. Contingent resources are based on both Genel Energy’s estimates and independent reserve reports.  www.genelenergy.com 33
Directors’ Report: Business Review
T aq T aq, well
Gross production from the T aq T aq ﬁeld has averaged 75,500 
bopd in 2012 compared to 66,000 bopd in 2011. 
During the year the Company has continued to progress the 
appraisal and development programme. Gross production 
capacity is currently 120,000 bopd and remains on track to deliver 
production capacity of 200,000 bopd in 2014.
As part of the ongoing development, facility and infrastructure 
upgrades on T aq T aq have been progressed during 2012. These 
included the EPC contract for the second phase of construction of 
the central processing facility which was awarded to Ventech USA. 
It is planned to be operational in the ﬁrst quarter of 2014, adding 
an additional 90,000 bopd processing capacity. In addition, the 
expansion of the truck loading facility will be complete in the third 
quarter of 2013, taking truck loading capacity from 120,000 bopd 
to 150,000 bopd.
Field development drilling has continued in the year , with three 
wells completed in 2012 bringing the total number of producing 
wells to 12 at the year end. T aq T aq 17 initially ﬂowed at 26,000 
bopd ﬂowing at 10,000 bopd and is now a producing well. T aq T aq 
19 completed, appraising a previously unpenetrated area of the 
ﬁeld further north. It ﬂowed at 15,000 bopd from the Upper 
Cretaceous Shiranish formation. T aq T aq 18 reached target depth 
in January 2013 and preparation for testing is underway. The 
Company intends to drill three additional development wells 
during 2013 including a highly deviated well to test the  
Shiranish reservoir .
T aq T aq production was sold into both the domestic and export 
markets during the year , a situation that is likely to continue 
during 2013. Sales into the domestic market remain strong  
with recent prices achieved of $70-$80 per barrel. 
Pipeline update
In response to continued industry exploration success, the KRG 
announced its pipeline infrastructure plans for the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq during 2012. In order to facilitate the export of its 
crude oil, it intends to construct a new 1 million bopd capacity 
pipeline to the Turkish border . 
The ﬁrst phase is nearing completion. The construction of a  
20 inch pipeline from the T aq T aq oilﬁeld to Khurmala is expected 
to be operational in the ﬁrst quarter of 2013, giving T aq T aq 
access to the Erbil reﬁnery and the existing Kirkuk to Ceyhan 
export infrastructure. The pipeline has an initial capacity of 
150,000 bopd and has the potential to be increased to some 
200,000 bopd with the addition of pumps. The second phase, 
a 1 million bopd capacity pipeline from Khurmala to the Fishkabur 
pump station on the border with Turkey, is expected to begin 
operating in 2014. 
Key highlights
120,000
bopd gross 
production 
capacity
 44% working interest (WI) (joint operator)
 75,500 bopd gross production in 2012
 Current gross production capacity 120,000 bopd
 90,000 bopd capacity CPF phase 2 construction  
awarded to Ventech USA
 3 development wells completed in 2012
 12 producing wells at end of 2012
 On track to deliver 200,000 bopd gross production 
capacity in 2014
T aq T aq reserves (mmbbls) 2P 3P
WI (44%) 267 441
Gross 607 1,002
2009
19
2010
33
2011
66
2012
75
xx
xx
(000 bopd)
Taq Taq average gross production 
(000 bopd)
Operating review: Production continued
T aq T aq 34 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating review: Production continued
Tawke
“ Ongoing appraisal of the field has 
yielded significant reserves growth 
over the last year.”
Gross production from the T awke ﬁeld has averaged 45,000 bopd 
in 2012 compared to 52,000 bopd in 2011, when the export 
markets were available for a longer period.
Gross 2P reserves at T awke were upgraded further during the 
year to 734 mmbbls, 184 mmbbls net to Genel Energy. At the end 
of 2011, the Company upgraded gross 2P reserves by 78 per cent 
to 509 mmbbls following a new reserves audit carried out by 
DeGolyer & McNaughton. A further upgrade of 44 per cent to 
734 mmbbls was announced by the operator of the ﬁeld, DNO 
International (“DNO”), and veriﬁed by DeGolyer & MacNaughton 
in May 2012, following the successful completion and testing of 
the T awke 16 appraisal well which was drilled at a location in the 
north of the ﬁeld. The well is connected to the existing pipeline 
and processing facilities and is now producing. 
Genel Energy and DNO have continued to progress the 
development and appraisal programme at T awke. Gross 
production capacity has been increased to 100,000 bopd with the 
completion of facility upgrades and development drilling in 2012. 
DNO and Genel Energy have committed to increase production 
capacity to 200,000 bopd by the end of 2014.
At the start of the year , T awke had thirteen producing wells and 
production capacity of 75,000 bopd. During 2012, four 
development wells in addition to the T awke 16 appraisal well have 
been drilled. T awke 14, which was subsequently side-tracked 
(T awke 14A), T awke 15 and T awke 18 were completed in the 
Cretaceous reservoir and put on production. T awke 19, the last 
T awke development well under the 100,000 bopd production 
enhancement programme, was completed at the end of the year 
and has been put on test production. A further producing well, 
T awke 20, spudded in December 2012. T awke 20 is designed as 
the ﬁrst horizontal producer at the T awke ﬁeld and is the ﬁrst well 
of a six development well drilling programme for 2013.
T awke production is likely to continue to be sold into both the 
domestic and export markets during 2013. 
T awke, gas-oil separation plant (GOSP)
Key highlights
100,000
bopd  
production 
capacity 
 25% working interest (WI)
 Gross production capacity of 100,000 bopd delivered  
at end of 2012
 45,000 bopd gross production in 2012
 5 appraisal and development wells drilled in 2012
 18 producing wells at end of 2012
 Successful appraisal drilling, upgrade gross 2P reserves 
to 734 mmbls in May
 Plans to increase gross production capacity to 200,000 
bopd by end 2014
T awke reserves (mmbbls) 2P 3P
WI (25%) 178 214
Gross 713 855
2009
17
2010
12
2011
52
2012
45
xx
xx
(000 bopd)
Tawke average gross production 
(000 bopd) Operating review: 
Development and appraisal
 www.genelenergy.com 35
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Increasing our holdings in Bina Bawi 
and Miran in 2012 has added two 
further world class assets to our 
portfolio on competitive terms, as well 
as adding circa 600 million boe of net 
contingent resources to our portfolio.
Charles Proctor
Head of Business Development
 Working interest in the Miran Block increased  
from 25% to 100% (pre-KRG back-in)
 44% interest acquired in the Bira Bawi  
exploration licence
 Appraisal programmes underway on both fields
Key highlights
“ Bina Bawi and Miran provide us 
with the opportunity to develop a 
second wave of material projects in 
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.”
Miran
Genel Energy completed its acquisition of an additional 75 per 
cent interest in the Miran block and now owns 100 per cent and is 
operator of the block. The KRG continues to hold a right to back in  
for up to 25 per cent following the declaration of a commercial 
discovery, at which point the Company will hold a 75 per cent 
working interest. 
The appraisal programme for the Miran West oil and gas discovery 
continued throughout 2012. The Miran West 3 well tested the 
main Jurassic reservoir and resulted in a constrained ﬂow of  
up to 22 MMscf/d of wet gas and a yield of 20 bbl/MMscf of  
55 degree API condensate. The Miran West 4 deviated appraisal  
well was drilled to a target depth of 1,905 metres and tested  
1,350 bopd of 16-18 degree API oil in the Upper Cretaceous oil 
reservoir similar to Miran West 1 and Miran West 3. 
An Extended Well T est on the oil bearing Lower Cretaceous 
reservoirs commenced in January 2013 and is currently producing 
between 2,000 and 3,000 bopd. Subject to continued satisfactory 
performance of the test, we plan to move to a phased early 
production scheme later in 2013, with production ramping  
up to circa 30,000 bopd over the next two years.
In addition, during 2013 the Company plans to drill additional 
appraisal wells and to undertake an extended well test on the  
gas reservoirs.
It is intended to undertake a phased approach to the Miran ﬁeld 
development. Multiple elements of the full ﬁeld development 
project are progressing in parallel with the ongoing appraisal 
programme, including FEED which we expect to complete in  
the second quarter of 2013, and active discussions to establish 
long-term gas sales agreements with Turkish entities.
Miran, rig in progress 36 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating review: Development and appraisal continued
Bina Bawi 
The Company completed its acquisition of a 44 per cent stake in 
the Bina Bawi exploration licence through two transactions in 
2012. The Bina Bawi licence lies adjacent to the T aq T aq ﬁeld and 
two of the three wells drilled on the block to date have 
encountered signiﬁcant hydrocarbons. 
The Bina Bawi ﬁeld appraisal continued during 2012. Bina Bawi 3, 
which was completed by the operator OMV in the ﬁrst half of 
2012, encountered a gross hydrocarbon column of more than 
600 metres in the Jurassic zone and two Jurassic reservoir 
intervals tested separately, achieved an aggregate ﬂow rate of 
more than 4,000 barrels a day of light, 44 to 47 degree API oil 
and 10-15 mmscf/d of gas. 
Further appraisal of the Bina Bawi ﬁeld is ongoing. Bina Bawi 4 in 
the north of the ﬁeld, which spudded in June 2012 and Bina Bawi 
5, which spudded in October 2012 are drilling on schedule. Results 
are expected in the ﬁrst half of 2013. An extended well test from 
the Bina Bawi 3 well is expected to come onstream in the ﬁrst half 
of 2013. Declaration of Commerciality is planned for Q1 of 2013, 
with the Field Development plan expected to be submitted in the 
second half of 2013. 
Dohuk
The Summail 1 well, completed at the end of 2011, discovered gas 
in the Cretaceous Shiranish, Mushorah and Qamchuga formations 
and heavy oil in the Jurassic Sargelu, Chia Gara and Adaiyah 
formations. A 3D seismic survey has been completed and results 
are being evaluated by Genel Energy and the operator DNO. 
The Declaration of Commerciality and Appraisal Report has been 
submitted to the KRG. Options to develop the ﬁeld for local gas 
ﬁred power stations are being evaluated.
Bina Bawi, EPS under construction
Bina Bawi, rig in progress
810 mmboe
Net contingent resources  www.genelenergy.com 37
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Operating review: 
Exploration
Genel team, arriving at the Somaliland ofﬁces
Developments in Kurdistan
Genel Energy’s current exploration programme in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq comprises four high impact wells which will 
complete in 2013, targeting over 750 mmboe of gross unrisked 
resource potential. T awke Deep and Chia Surkh 10 are currently 
drilling with results expected early in the second quarter . T aq T aq 
Deep will spud in the ﬁrst quarter of 2013 and Chia Surkh 11 in the 
second quarter .
Developments in Africa
During 2012, Genel Energy has built a portfolio of high impact 
exploration assets in Africa, in line with our stated strategy. 
These assets are designed to extend the life of the Company’s 
exploration portfolio so as to balance the Kurdistan appraisal and 
development programme with opportunities to add signiﬁcant 
value with the drill bit. In addition to providing some geographical 
diversiﬁcation, the African exploration portfolio has added 
over 3.3 billion boe of net unrisked prospective resources to the 
Company’s resources. These interests were acquired through a 
combination of small-scale corporate acquisitions, farm-ins and 
licence activity.
John Hurst
Head of Exploration
“ The establishment of a high impact 
African exploration portfolio has 
been a major development during 
2012, with exciting potential for 
growth in the future.”
Key highlights 
 4 high impact wells in the KRI in 2013 targeting over  
750 mmboe gross unrisked resources
 Africa exploration portfolio established: material 
positions in Somaliland, Morocco, Malta and 
CÔte D’Ivoire
 Drilling rig secured for Africa drilling programme 
commencing in Q4 2013
Genel Energy’s exploration programme 
has the prospect of adding significant 
resources over the short to medium 
term. Our extensive drilling programme 
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq has 
been complemented with the addition 
of a high impact exploration portfolio 
in Africa. Our aim is to provide a 
drilling programme of 5 high impact 
wells per annum.
3.9 bnboe
Net unrisked prospective resources 38 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating review: Exploration continued
Kurdistan Region of Iraq
T awke Deep
The T awke Deep well (T awke 17) spudded in late August with a 
target depth of approximately 4,500 metres. It is designed to  
test the deeper prospective resource potential of the Jurassic  
and Triassic reservoirs that have yet to be penetrated in the 
T awke licence. Gross pre-drill unrisked resource is estimated  
at circa 200 mmboe. Results are expected in the second 
quarter of 2013. 
Chia Surkh
Genel Energy completed the acquisition of an additional 40 per 
cent of the Chia Surkh exploration block in May. As a result,  
the Company owns 60 per cent of the block and has assumed 
operatorship. The ﬁrst exploration well on the Chia Surkh licence 
(Chia Surkh 10) spudded on 7 October 2012. The well will be drilled 
to a target depth of 2,500 metres and is designed to test the 
Lower Miocene to Palaeocene section. A well drilled in the early 
1950s on the same structure tested 41 API oil at rates of circa 
4,500 bopd. A conservative estimate of the whole block pre-drill 
gross unrisked resource is circa 300 mmboe. The results of the 
ﬁrst well are expected in the second quarter of 2013, in addition, 
a second well (Chia Surkh 11) is planned to spud in the second 
quarter of 2013. 
T aq T aq Deep 
The T aq T aq Deep well (T aq T aq 22) is expected to spud in  
the ﬁrst quarter of 2013 and will test the Jurassic and Triassic 
reservoirs in the T aq T aq structure with a target depth of circa 
5,400 metres. A well drilled in the mid-1970s on T aq T aq tested 
gas from the Jurassic/Triassic interval. The pre-drill gross 
unrisked resource estimate is circa 250 mmboe. 
Miran 
The Miran 4 exploration well (previously Miran East 1) was drilled 
on the eastern limb of the existing discovery. The well is targeting 
exploration potential within the Cretaceous, Jurassic and Triassic 
reservoir intervals which are known to be hydrocarbon bearing in 
the western limb of the structure. The well reached target depth 
in November and is currently being tested. 
Following the completion of the additional interest in the Miran 
Block, new evaluation of the broader resource potential of the 
block has identiﬁed additional exploration opportunities in 
the deeper horizons with signiﬁcant resource upside potential. 
Further work to evaluate these opportunities and to deﬁne an 
appropriate exploration programme will continue during 2013.
Ber Bahr 1
The Ber Bahr 1 well, in the Ber Bahr licence area, encountered 
a 300 metre oil column in the Jurassic with matrix porosity  
of 17 per cent. T wo drill stem tests over the interval failed  
to ﬂow, and yielded inconclusive results with evidence of 
perforations plugged with heavy oil. It is intended to side-track 
the original well in the second quarter of 2013 in order re-test the 
300 metre oil zone.
Peshkabir 1
The Peshkabir 1 well completed during 2012. A detailed evaluation 
of the results of the well is ongoing, including the acquisition 
of approximately 200 square kilometres of 3D seismic which 
is anticipated to be complete in the ﬁrst quarter of 2013. The 
Peshkabir 1 well has been temporarily suspended for re-entry 
in the future. The operator DNO submitted a discovery notice 
to the KRG in respect of Peshkabir pursuant to the terms of 
the production sharing contract covering the T awke licence.
Genel Energy team at Chia Surkh  www.genelenergy.com 39
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Operating review: Exploration continued
Africa
The African portfolio currently consists of two blocks in 
Somaliland, three blocks in Morocco, four blocks in Malta, and 
one block in Côte d’Ivoire. The Company is targeting multiple 
petroleum systems where we believe that there are opportunities 
to make material new discoveries: the rift basins of central and 
east Africa, an analogue to the Libyan Sirte basin south of Malta, 
and the Jurassic carbonate plus Cretaceous submarine fan plays 
of northwest Africa. Each of these areas also has potential 
for further deepening of the Company’s resource position.
Work programmes are underway across the African blocks:
Morocco
Genel Energy has built an 
exploration portfolio in 
Morocco of circa 16,500km
2
 
in three offshore licences 
– Juby Maritime, Sidi Moussa 
and Mir Left. 
On Juby Maritime, the 
operator Cairn Energy PLC 
has completed the acquisition 
of 680km
2
 of 3D seismic  
targeting exploration prospects close to the existing discoveries 
of light and heavy oil in the Jurassic carbonate reservoirs. 
Preparations are underway to target drilling the ﬁrst well on the 
Cap Juby discovery in the fourth quarter of 2013. 
The seismic vessel used at Juby Maritime has now moved to 
Mir Left and will acquire 1,200km
2
 of 3D seismic in Q1 2013. On  
Sidi Moussa, the reprocessing of existing 3D seismic is ongoing.
Somaliland
In Somaliland, Genel Energy 
has built a frontier exploration 
portfolio circa 40,300km
2
, an 
area as large as the whole of 
the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. 
Gravity and aeromag is being 
acquired over all the licences 
and the programme is almost 
50 per cent complete. The 
seismic contract for 4,000km 
line of 2D seismic has been awarded and the programme 
is anticipated to start in the second quarter . 
CÔte d’Ivoire
The acquisition of 1,060km
2
  
of 3D seismic has been 
completed over the entire area 
of Block 508. Processing of  
the data is ongoing with  
the intention of drilling an 
exploration well in 2014.
Malta
The prospects in Area 4 have 
been delineated on 3D seismic 
and drilling of the ﬁrst well 
(Hagar Qim) will target a  
tertiary reef prospect. Drilling  
is scheduled for the end of 2013.
African drilling programme
The Company is preparing for a minimum two year drilling 
campaign commencing late 2013 and is in advanced negotiations 
to secure a rig for a 10 well offshore drilling programme. This 
programme is designed to deliver a high impact drilling campaign 
in Morocco, Malta and Côte d’Ivoire, starting in the last quarter 
of 2013. In addition, preparations are underway for putting in 
place a four well drilling programme for onshore Somaliland, 
commencing mid-2014.
Overall it is intended to deliver an exploration drilling campaign 
of 5-6 high impact wells per annum, targeting over 3.3 billion boe 
of net unrisked prospective resources. The capital programme 
for this is $400 million over three years, with a minimum work 
commitment of $200-250 million.
Genel Energy CEO, T ony Hayward, with H.E. Hussein Abdi Dualeh,  
Somaliland’s Minister of Mining, Energy and Water Resources
Somaliland
Y emen
SL -10B & SL -13
Odewayne
Ethiopia
Somaliland
Côte d’lvoire Ghana
Block C1-508
Mir Left
Sidi Moussa
Juby Maritime
Mauritiana
Tunisia
Melita – Medina Graben
Malta 40 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Operating review: Exploration continued
Exploration programme
Over the next year Genel Energy is continuing to execute a significant, 
high impact exploration and appraisal programme to ensure a fast track 
assessment and exploration of our portfolio.
Field/Prospect Activity Well Q1 2013 Q2 2013 Q3 2013 Q4 2013
Kurdistan Region of Iraq
Taq Taq Exploration Taq Taq Deep (TT -22)
Tawke Exploration T awke Deep (TW-17)
Miran Appraisal Miran 3 re-drill
Exploration Miran 4  
(Miran East 1)
Bina Bawi Appraisal Bina Bawi 4
Appraisal Bina Bawi 5
Chia Surkh Exploration Chia Surkh 10
Exploration Chia Surkh 11
Ber Bahr Exploration Ber Bahr 1 side-track
Africa
Juby Maritime Exploration Cap Juby
Area 4 – Malta Exploration Hagar Qim
 
Mir Left Exploration Seismic
 
Somaliland Exploration Seismic
Well spud Well completion Offshore seismic Onshore seismic  www.genelenergy.com 41
Directors’ Report: Business Review 42 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial review
Summary Financials 2012 2011 
Revenue
2 
($m) 333.4 24.0
Operating proﬁt / (loss)
2 
($m) 60.3 (62.5)
Proﬁt / (loss) before tax
2 
($m) 75.9 (57 .7)
EPS
2
 (cents) 27 .18 (72.34)
Cash ﬂow from operating 
activities
2 
($m) 307 .0 (23.4)
Capex
2 
($m) (233.5) (16.8)
Free cash ﬂow
2,3 
($m) 73.5 (40.2)
Net cash ($m) 1,001.3 1,912.9
Net assets ($m) 3,920.1 3,841.8
1. Results are from continuing operations.
2.  The Company was incorporated on 1 April 2011 and acquired its ﬁrst trading 
business, Genel Energy International Limited (“GEIL ”), on 21 November 2011. 
The comparative period reported results and ﬁnancial statements therefore 
reﬂect the trading of GEIL from 21 November 2011 but include corporate and 
other costs as incurred from 1 April 2011.
3. Free cash ﬂow is cash ﬂow from operating activities less capital expenditure.
Overview
Our ﬁnancial strategy is to run our operations in the Kurdistan 
Region of Iraq on a cash neutral basis and deploy our cash 
resources to fund the acquisition and development of high quality 
oil and gas assets. In 2012 we have successfully executed this 
strategy, with our Kurdistan operations achieving better than cash 
ﬂow neutral and circa $1 billion deployed to extend our presence 
in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq and acquire material exploration 
assets in Africa.
Results for the period
This year reﬂects the ﬁrst full year of trading for the Group which 
was incorporated on 1 April 2011 and acquired its ﬁrst trading 
business on 21 November 2011. The Group is pleased to report 
revenue of $333.4 million, an operating proﬁt of $60.3 million 
and basic earnings per share of 27 .18c.
Revenue
Revenue of $333.4 million (2011: $24.0 million) is comprised of 
$233.7 million (2011: $24.0 million) for petroleum sales to domestic 
customers in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, with $99.7 million 
received in respect of money owed to the Company for past 
shipments of exported oil. Export revenue of $99.7 million 
represents the receipt of $131.8 million in late December 2012, 
offset by a $32.1 million capacity building payment that we expect 
to pay in the ﬁrst quarter of 2013. The Company continues to 
recognise export revenue on a cash received basis and 
consequently no revenue has been accrued in relation to the 
export sales that have been made in this ﬁnancial year . 
Operating costs
Cost of sales of $208.4 million (2011: $21.4 million) includes 
depletion and depreciation charges of $168.4 million (2011: $18.3 
million) and production costs of $40.0 million (2011: $3.1 million). 
Cost of sales includes costs for all export and domestic sales 
volumes shipped. 
Exploration expense represents a $7 .5 million charge for the 
write-off of the carrying value of the KC 1 commitment well at 
Kewa Chirmila and a $22.2 million provision taken against the 
cumulative exploration cost under the Ber Bahr licence.
Other operating costs amounted to $35.0 million (2011: $65.1 
million) for the period and included $13.3 million of costs relating 
to both our acquisition activity and building a new business, with 
the remaining $21.7 million classiﬁed as general administration 
costs. 2011 costs included $59.3 million for various advisers 
services associated with the acquisition of Genel Energy 
International and $5.8 million of administration costs. 
Finance income
Finance income of $15.6 million (2011: $4.8 million) represents 
interest income received and receivable on cash balances, 
together with amounts received and receivable on an interim 
funding arrangement with Heritage Oil plc relating to the 
acquisition of a 49 per cent interest in the Miran licence. 
T axation
All corporation tax due has been paid on behalf of the Company 
by the KRG from the KRG’s own share of revenues and there is no 
tax payment required or expected to be made by the Company. 
Dividend
In line with the Group strategy to deploy cash to acquire and 
develop high quality assets, no dividend (2011: nil) will be paid 
for the year ended 31 December 2012. 
Julian Metherell 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Results
1
 summary  www.genelenergy.com 43
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure in the year amounted to $233.5 million (2011: 
$16.8 million). Exploration spend in KRI amounted to $143.1 million 
(2011: $10.7 million) with a further $73.8 million (2011: $4.2 million) 
incurred on the development of existing producing assets in KRI. 
Capital expenditure on our recently acquired licences in Morocco, 
Somaliland and Côte d’Ivoire was $12.0 million (2011: nil).
Based on current plans, capital expenditure for 2013 is forecast to 
be circa $400-$500 million. In line with our strategy, Genel 
Energy will continue to fund development and exploration 
expenditure in the KRI with cash from current operations. Capital 
expenditure in 2013 for the Africa portfolio is expected to be in 
the region of circa $150 million, which will be funded from the 
Group’s existing cash resources.
Cash ﬂow
Net cash ﬂow from operations amounted to $307 .0 million 
(2011: $23.4 million outﬂow) which more than covered our capex 
spend of $233.5 million (2011: $16.8 million) resulting in a free 
cash ﬂow of $73.5 million (2011: $40.2 million outﬂow). Acquisition 
spend was $984.0 million (2011: $79.8 million) leaving a net 
cash outﬂow of $911.6 million (2011: $1,912.9 million inﬂow). 
The net cash balance at the end of the year was $1,001.3 million 
(2011: $1,912.9 million). 
Net cash
At 31 December 2012, the Group had a cash balance of $1,001.3 
million (2011: $1,912.9 million).
Acquisitions
The Company spent a total of $986.1 million on acquisitions in 
the year , with $950.4 million paid to acquire further assets in KRI. 
In May, we increased our interest in the Chia Surkh block from 20 
per cent to 60 per cent for a total consideration of $68.0 million. 
In August, a total of $419.4 million was spent on acquiring a 
44 per cent stake in the Bina Bawi block. The Company increased 
its interest in the Miran licence from 25 per cent to 100 per cent 
(before KRG 25 per cent back-in right) for a total of $463.0 
million. This acquisition was completed in two stages, with an 
initial 26 per cent interest acquired for $156.6 million and the 
remaining 49 per cent interest acquired in exchange for 
repayment of a loan of $294.0 million, together with interim 
funding of $12.4 million.
We have established material positions in Morocco, Côte d’lvoire, 
Somaliland and Malta for a total consideration of $40.7 million, 
including $5.0 million consideration deferred to future periods.
Net assets 
Net assets at 31 December 2012 amounted to $3,920.1 million 
(2011: $3,841.8 million) and consist primarily of oil and gas assets 
of $1,932.8 million (2011: $1,848.4 million), exploration and 
evaluation assets of $1,172.7 million (2011: $227 .7 million), and cash 
of $1,001.3 million (2011: $1,912.9 million).
Liquidity / counterparty risk management 
The Group monitors its cash position, cash forecasts and liquidity 
on a regular basis. Cash is held in government gilts or treasury 
bills or on time deposits with a number of major ﬁnancial 
institutions. Suitability of banks is assessed using a combination 
of sovereign risk, credit default swap pricing and credit rating. 
Going Concern
The Directors have assessed that the cash balance held provides 
the Group with adequate headroom over forecast operational and 
potential acquisition expenditure for the 12 months following the 
signing of the Annual Report for the period ended 31 December 
2012 for the Group to be considered a going concern.
Accounting policies
UK listed companies are required to comply with the European 
regulation to report consolidated statements that conform to 
International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted 
by the European Union. Principal accounting policies adopted by 
the Group and applicable for the period ended 31 December 2012 
can be found in note 1 of the ﬁnancial statements on pages 85 to 
90 of this Annual Report. No new accounting policies were 
implemented in the current year . 
Julian Metherell, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
 $307m
Cash ﬂow from operating activities
Crude oil storage tanker , T aq T aq 44 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Responsibility
Genel Energy is committed to conducting its operations in an ethical manner that 
embraces safety , responsible environmental management, and the development 
of positive and enduring relationships with the people and communities in those 
areas in which it operates.
Our reputation is built on the combination of our business achievements and 
the way we conduct ourselves in the treatment of our employees and partners, 
our engagement with our host communities and governments, and our 
approach and record on health, safety and the environment. An excellent 
reputation in all these areas will assist us in accessing new opportunities and 
concurrently building a sustainable business.
In conjunction with building our business, we will issue our ﬁrst sustainability 
report in the middle of 2013, which will outline our strategy and approach in 
more detail.
Genel Energy Board members visiting T aq T aq Worker at T aq T aq
Corporate responsibility management
Governance 
We have put in place a Code of Conduct and a supporting set of 
policies and procedures outlining our way of working. Compliance 
with these is a prerequisite for Genel Energy to build a long-term, 
sustainable business. They outline our approach to conducting 
our business in a manner that will promote a positive impact on 
our stakeholders – including our employees, the communities 
where we operate, our business partners and governments across 
the regions where we have operations. The full details of our Code 
of Conduct and supporting policies are available on our website at 
www.genelenergy.com
Risk management 
The Board, its Committees – including the Audit Committee – and 
our senior leadership team, are responsible for Genel Energy 
conducting itself in a manner that promotes positive relationships 
with our stakeholders. They work to ensure we operate to global 
best practice standards in our dealings in all matters relating to 
our people and their employment, in engaging with our partners 
and suppliers, working with our host communities and 
governments and in our approach to the environment.
Operating responsibly
Ethical business conduct 
Genel Energy is committed to conducting its business in an open, 
honest and ethical manner . This is essential for our reputation  
and building trust and respect with our key stakeholders.
We have zero tolerance for corruption. We have in place a 
Whistleblowing Policy and all employees are encouraged to report 
and express their concerns regarding any suspected or known 
violation of our expected conduct. Importantly, no employee  
who raises a concern must be made to fear any form of retaliation 
or disadvantage for doing so.
Stakeholder engagement 
We recognise the importance of maintaining an ongoing and 
constructive dialogue with Genel Energy’s stakeholders. We 
identify, understand and prioritise our stakeholders because they 
have a direct impact on the delivery of our strategy. This includes 
working effectively with our people, our host communities and 
governments, suppliers and NGOs.
T ony Hayward 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  www.genelenergy.com 45
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Fireﬁghting team at T aq T aq Production Engineers at T aq T aq Nursery in Koya Mountains in Erbil
Key impact areas
Health, safety  
and security
We are committed to 
conducting all of our 
operations in a manner that 
protects the Company’s 
employees and contractors 
from injuries, fatalities and 
illnesses, as well as having 
regard to the health and 
safety of the general public 
and the environment. 
Genel Energy’s HSSE 
Management System 
deﬁnes the Company’s 
approach to managing 
health, safety and security 
across all of its facilities and 
activities. The system 
provides practical guidance 
and procedures for all staff 
conducting operations or 
managing sites to achieve 
our health, safety and 
security objectives as an 
integrated part of the 
Company’s overall goals.
 
Key areas of focus
 Training
 Process safety
 Onsite safety
 Measuring our 
performance
Environment
Our operations are 
managed in accordance 
with our policy of reducing 
our impact to as low as 
reasonably practicable. This 
includes a focus on effective 
design, efﬁcient operation, 
and responsible energy use.
Genel Energy is committed 
to ensuring formal systems 
and procedures are in place 
throughout the Company 
and its subsidiaries to 
identify potential impacts 
that may be associated with 
each exploration, drilling, 
development, production 
and processing project.
Community 
engagement  
and investment
Protecting and sustaining 
the communities in which 
we operate is fundamental 
to Genel Energy’s success 
and our commitment to 
being a sustainable business.
We partner with, and invest 
in, communities in our 
immediate areas of impact 
– close to our operations – 
to achieve mutual long-term 
beneﬁts. In addition, we 
contribute to the broader 
community by building 
capability and through tax 
payments, royalties and 
other local payments  
and donations.
 
 
People
Genel Energy’s culture  
is entrepreneurial and 
innovative, and we actively 
seek employees who  
reﬂect this spirit,  
rewarding performance  
in our dynamic and  
growing business.
Our employees are integral 
to our operations, and  
their development will help 
build a successful and 
sustainable business. 
Key areas of focus
 Training and skills
 Conduct
 Remuneration
Key areas of focus
 Health in the community
 Education
 Employment
Key areas of focus
 Minimising emissions  
and waste
 Assessment and audit 46 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate responsibility continued
Health, safety and security
Genel Energy is firmly of the view that all 
accidents are preventable and is committed to  
the goal of zero injuries across all its operations.
Health, Safety and Security highlights
 In 2012, we had zero fatalities and one LTI case. 
 In 2012, 80% of current employees underwent health 
and safety training.
 Newly recruited employees underwent health and  
safety induction training at all our operated sites and  
also went through our induction training where we are  
not the operator.
T o achieve this goal, we aim to conduct our operations in 
compliance with local regulations and to international best 
practice standards, such as the International Environmental 
Guidelines relating to Crude Oil Exploration and Production,  
and the standards of the World Bank, US Environmental 
Protection Agency, and the World Health Organisation. 
Training
We provide health and safety training to our employees. Key  
to the performance of our business and our standing in the 
community is enhancing personal awareness of the potential 
hazards associated with an employee or contractor’s work, and 
the control measures and procedures necessary to minimise  
the risk of personal harm or loss and damage, whether to our 
assets or to the surrounding environment. 
Process safety
We structure our operations with safety in mind at all times.  
We plan all operations in the early design stage using engineering 
controls, ﬁre and gas safety precautions and also by proper 
maintenance and emergency shutdown programmes. The 
planning includes total system response capabilities to minimise 
the consequences of accidents or natural disasters and to 
consider communications, rescue, ﬁrst aid, medical, emergency 
response, emergency equipment, and training requirements.
Onsite
Our ability to meet the standards we have set for ourselves in 
health and safety is strongest on the sites where we are operator . 
On these operations we set the tone and are able to embed  
our expected standards through active management of our 
exploration, drilling, production and management systems.  
At sites where we are not the operator , we seek to engage  
our partners in an active dialogue on health and safety  
standards and best practice.
Measuring our performance
We have adopted the “T otal Loss Approach” to accident 
prevention. All actual losses are investigated and measures  
to prevent accidents are put in place and routinely  
evaluated. Additionally, all potential causes of accidents  
are identiﬁed, reported and measured to mitigate the  
risk of accidents occurring. 
People
It is our people who will ultimately realise the 
value inherent in Genel Energy’s reserves and 
resources. It is therefore important that we 
conduct our business in a manner that encourages 
our people to achieve excellence across our 
operations, and that we create an environment 
that can attract additional high calibre individuals 
to our company . 
People highlights
 At 31 December 2012, Genel Energy plc employed 145 
people, an increase of 58 over the past year. Of these 145 
employees, 80 are based in T urkey , ten in the Kurdistan 
Region, 20 in our Africa operations and 35 in London.
Training and skills
Because our employees are integral to our operations their 
development will help build a successful and sustainable business. 
Our success in this area will be achieved through training staff, 
mobility and ongoing support for our employees and contractors.
Conduct
We are committed to conducting our business in an open,  
honest and ethical manner , which is essential for our reputation 
and building trust and respect with our key stakeholders. We  
work hard to embed this culture across all our operations  
and employees.
Pay and beneﬁts
We pay competitive remuneration to secure talented employees. 
We encourage an ongoing dialogue between managers and 
employees, and our performance management process aims  
to clarify what is expected from employees as well as how it  
is to be achieved.
58more people 
Miran, rig in progress  www.genelenergy.com 47
Directors’ Report: Business Review
Community engagement and investment
We seek to partner with, and invest in, both the 
communities close to our operations and to the 
broader regions that host our operations in order 
to achieve mutual long-term benefits. Strong 
community relations allow us to continue and 
expand our operations on a local, regional and 
global level. 
Community engagement and investment highlights
 In 2012, as part of our medical outreach programmes, 
medical personnel supported or employed by Genel 
Energy visited 431 individuals immediately surrounding 
our operations in the KRI.
 Genel Energy worked with the University of 
Sulaimaniyah and Koya to seek and identify students 
for scholarship grants and, in 2012, provided nine 
scholarships. In addition, Petroleum Engineering 
Students of Koya, Sulaimaniyah and Erbil Universities 
periodically visited our fields in the KRI. 
Education
The long-term development of a community is strongly linked 
to educational opportunity. We are working on programmes and 
infrastructure to support the goal of providing education that 
promotes sustainable livelihoods. This includes joint programmes 
with universities and ﬁnancial and educational material support 
for local schools, including supporting the building of 
infrastructure.
Employment
We strive to employ staff locally in order to support the local 
economy of our host communities and develop sustainable skills. 
We provide direct employment opportunities at our operations 
or indirect employment opportunities through the provision of 
materials in our supply chain.
Health in the community
We have operations in regions that, due to their remoteness 
and lower socio-economic development, lack regular access to 
medical services. Genel Energy has supported health outreach 
programmes, has provided trucked in water during periods of 
drought and is working towards a more sustainable solution to 
water shortage in conjunction with local water authorities. 
This includes the installation of piped water and well drilling. 
We will be examining opportunities to expand our health 
support in conjunction with our growing operational footprint.
Environment
Our strategic and operational decisions are 
informed and guided by best international 
environmental practices for the energy and  
mining industries, in addition to local 
requirements and expectations. We aim to 
maintain high standards of environmental 
protection and will be active participants in the 
global debate on environmental stewardship.
Minimising emissions and waste
We aim to prevent and reduce discharges, emissions and waste 
capable of adversely affecting the environment, including in 
transport-related emissions and the discharge of contaminants 
to surface and ground water . 
Our environmental policies identify the potential impacts of 
exploration, drilling, development, production and processing at 
each site, and identify methods to contain and control any such 
matters to the maximum possible extent. In addition, we seek 
to reduce the generation of waste through each phase of the 
life cycle of transportation vehicles, vessels and infrastructure. 
Assessment and audit
Genel Energy regularly conducts its own environmental impact 
assessments and environmental monitoring studies, including risk 
assessment, risk mitigation and contingency planning and audits. 
We place a high value on regular reporting and knowledge. We 
also intend to involve third-party auditors when necessary to 
ensure that our own assessments and related control measures 
remain relevant and effective.
9scholarships 
Visiting doctor in T aq T aq 48 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Principal risks and uncertainties
The Board, its Committees and the senior management team  
are actively engaged in monitoring and limiting, where possible, 
the risks to which the Group is exposed. The Audit Committee 
makes recommendations to the Board on the Group’s risk 
management arrangements. 
Set out below are what we believe at this time to be the principal 
risks and uncertainties that could affect the Group. In respect  
of each of these risks, we have identiﬁed their relevance to the 
strategy of the Group and their potential impact. 
In summary, the risks fall into four broad categories:
 Commercial risks in relation to the business environment  
in which the Group operates;
 Political risks in relation to the political, social and economic 
stability of the KRI and Iraq;
 Legal and regulatory risks in relation to the frameworks 
governing the Group’s operations; and
 Health, security, safety and environment risks which may 
prevent the Group from maintaining positive relationships  
with its stakeholders (including the local communities in  
which it operates).
It should be noted, for completeness, that there may be additional 
risks unknown to the Group and other risks, currently believed to 
be immaterial, which could turn out to be material. In addition, it 
should be noted that not all of the risks and uncertainties set out 
below are within our control.
Commercial risks
The Group’s estimates of its Contingent Resources and 
Prospective Resources can change with time, and there 
can be no guarantee that the Group will be able to develop 
these resources commercially.
The Group operates in a competitive industry and its ability to 
generate returns depends on its ability to exploit, develop and 
commercialise present assets, as well as to select and acquire 
suitable assets for exploitation, development and 
commercialisation in the future.
The Group’s inability to develop its contingent and prospective 
resources may have a material and adverse effect on its business, 
ﬁnancial conditions, results of operations and prospects.
The Group relies on its ability to complete major projects 
on time and within budget.
The Group is reliant on its completion of major projects to 
maintain its projected growth levels. In particular , there is a need 
to ensure projects (including the delivery by contractors and 
suppliers) are managed on time and within budget, using efﬁcient 
technologies to achieve the required speciﬁcations.
If projects are not executed on time and to budget, the planned 
growth and proﬁtability of the Group will not be achieved.
The Group continues to monitor the progress of all major projects 
as appropriate. Review outcomes and key concerns are reported 
to the executive team, and appropriate actions are agreed.
Third-party contractor performance is continually monitored, 
however , if a third party fails to meet the Group’s performance 
requirements, there can be no guarantee that the Group will  
be able to replace such third party without further disruption  
to the project.
The Group cannot guarantee how long it will take to identify 
and acquire further appropriate acquisition targets.
The Group holds a signiﬁcant cash balance of circa $1 billion and  
is seeking to use a portion of this cash to acquire high quality  
assets to add to its portfolio at the right price.
A failure to identify further businesses or assets on which to 
spend these resources could have an impact on the valuation  
of the Group and returns made to its shareholders.
If appropriate targets for investment are not available within  
a reasonable timeframe, the potential for creation of shareholder 
value through inorganic or , through subsequent development of 
acquired assets, will be reduced.
Political risks
The Iraq Oil Ministry has historically disputed the  
validity of PSCs entered into by the KRG.
The Group has title to assets in the Kurdistan Region of  
Iraq pursuant to seven PSCs entered into with the KRG.
Based on legal advice obtained by the Company, the Directors 
believe that the Company has good title to its oil and gas assets.
However , if the validity of the PSCs were successfully challenged, 
the Group could be required by the KRG to accept contractor 
entitlements that are materially less favourable than the  
current PSCs.
The Group’s principal producing asset is dependent  
on the availability of infrastructure and services,  
including pipelines, utilities and third-party services  
in the Kurdistan Region.
Currently, when the Group’s oil production from the T aq T aq  
ﬁeld is exported it is transported by trucks, which is potentially 
less safe, secure and environmentally sound than transport  
by pipeline.
Construction of a pipeline network connecting the T aq T aq ﬁeld to 
the Kirkuk-Ceyhan Pipeline has begun. The pipeline from T aq T aq 
to Khurmala is close to being operational and building of a 
pipeline from Kurdistan to Fishkabur is expected to start in 2013.  
It is not yet known whether , or on what terms, the Group could 
obtain access to any other connecting pipeline.
The maximum capacity that can be transported by truck  
is 120,000 bopd. If production at the T aq T aq ﬁeld exceeds 120,000 
bopd, the Group may not be able to maximise the potential beneﬁts 
of this increase without the new pipeline network. 
The Group continues to monitor the availability of transport 
options to enhance the effectiveness of its operations.
If a major accident causes environmental damage, or the KRG 
revokes or amends licences, the Group may be restricted from 
transporting oil by truck to the Kirkuk-Ceyhan Pipeline. The  
Group has put in place health, safety and other procedures  
to minimise the impact of unexpected disruptions to the supply  
of essential services.
Disruptions in the supply of essential utility services, such as 
water and electricity, could halt or delay the Group’s production.
Unexpected disruptions to the supply of essential utility services 
may cause loss of life, damage to the Group’s equipment and 
delay to the recommencement of operations.
Oil ﬁeld operators in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq are not 
currently receiving their full entitlement to the proceeds 
of export sales under the PSCs granted by the KRG 
because the Iraqi Government is withholding some  
of these entitlements.
TTOPCO (the operator of T aq T aq) and DNO International (the 
operator at T awke) are among the affected operators. The Group’s 
strategy to increase progressively the share that export sales 
contribute to its revenue mix will depend on there being greater 
clarity and consistency to export payments.  www.genelenergy.com 49
Directors’ Report: Business Review
with the KRG may be subject to review or revision of terms. 
Increased legislative requirements could mean that the Group 
incurs additional expenditure obligations and have a material  
and adverse effect on the Group’s business, ﬁnancial conditions, 
results of operations and prospects.
The Group may be unable to obtain or renew required 
drilling rights, concessions, licences, permits and other 
authorisations (together , “Licences”) or such licences 
may be suspended, terminated or revoked prior to  
their expiration.
The Group conducts its exploration, development and  
production operations pursuant to drilling rights under  
a wide variety of Licences.
There can be no assurance that the KRG will not signiﬁcantly  
alter the conditions of, or that any third party will not challenge, 
the Licences held by the Group.
If the Group fails to fulﬁl the speciﬁc terms of any of its Licences, 
or if it operates its business in a manner that violates applicable 
law, government regulators may impose ﬁnes.
Any delay in obtaining or renewing the Licences of the Group,  
or any suspension or unfavourable alteration challenge thereto,  
may result in a delay in investment or development of oil and gas 
resources and may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s 
results of operations, cash ﬂows and ﬁnancial condition.
The Group continues to maintain a regular dialogue with its  
key stakeholders in the region, such as the KRG, the Turkish 
government and other regional public bodies, and expects  
to obtain and maintain all approvals necessary to operate  
its business.
HSSE risks
The Group’s operations are subject to general and speciﬁc 
regulations and restrictions governing workplace health 
and safety requirements, environmental requirements, 
social impacts, and other laws and regulations.
The Group’s primary operational safety risks are those inherent  
in the oil and gas industry, including the release of hydrogen 
sulphide gas during ﬂaring at the T aq T aq ﬁeld, ﬁres, blowouts, 
explosions, equipment or system failures and transportation 
accidents, which may result in death, injury of staff or  
local residents.
Certain of the Group’s operations may also create  
environmental risks in the form of spills, and the release of  
gas or soil contamination from site operations, recycling and 
waste disposal. 
A health, safety, security or environmental incident could lead  
to the Group having to make material changes to its facilities or 
processes and pay compensation to any injured parties. There can 
be no assurance that the Group will not incur substantial ﬁnancial 
obligations, which may lead to an adverse effect on the Group’s 
business, ﬁnancial condition and prospects.
The Group has implemented health, safety and environmental 
policies and complies with international environmental guidelines 
for crude oil exploration and production, for example those  
issued by the World Health Organisation. The Group monitors 
compliance with its health, safety and environment policies 
regularly through a reporting system, inspections, third-party 
audits and management site inspections as overseen by the 
Group HSSE Committee.
Export payments to operators may be delayed or discontinued, 
resulting in delays to the Group’s development plans over  
the longer term (subject to prevailing market conditions)  
or leaving the Group unable to fund its capital expenditure 
commitments to its existing assets on a cash ﬂow neutral basis. 
The Group continues to have a regular dialogue with the  
KRG and the Iraqi Government as part of its engagement with 
stakeholders. Genel Energy’s sales into the local market in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq have provided a consistent and reliable 
revenue stream that will allow the Group to operate and develop 
its existing assets on a cash ﬂow neutral basis.
The KRI and Iraq have a publicised history of political and 
social instability, which if it deteriorated would represent 
an increase to security risk that may affect the Group. 
The Group assesses political, social, legal and economic risks as 
part of its evaluation of potential projects. The Group actively 
monitors developments in Iraq and the KRI, as well as the 
economic and political relationship between Turkey and the KRG. 
Should diplomatic relations between the KRG, Iraq or Turkey 
deteriorate, this may have a negative impact on the security risk 
that applies to the Group’s operations and also the public 
perception of the Group in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
The Group has taken measures to protect its employees, 
equipment and other assets from various security risks. Steps 
include the provision of security personnel and surveillance 
equipment, and the imposition of security checks and procedures 
at the sites that it operates. However , there can be no guarantee 
that such measures will prove effective against all safety risks.
Failure to manage relationships with local communities, 
government and non-government organisations could 
adversely affect the Group.
As a consequence of public concerns about the perceived  
ill effects of economic globalisation, businesses generally, and  
large multinational corporations in particular , face increasing 
public scrutiny of their activities. The Group’s operations  
may be located in or near communities that may regard its 
operations as detrimental to their environmental, economic  
or social circumstances.
Negative community reaction could have a negative impact on 
the Group’s ability to operate efﬁciently or the ability to ﬁnance 
an operation. Such reactions could also lead to disputes with 
national or local governments or with local communities and  
give rise to disruption to projects or operations, or cause material 
reputational damage, which could in turn affect the Group’s 
revenues, results of operations and cash ﬂows. 
The Company has published a Code of Conduct and has adopted 
an Anti Bribery Policy under which it partners with and invests  
in communities (local, regional and global) to achieve mutual  
long-term beneﬁts. The Company contributes to socio-economic 
development, through taxes, royalties and other lawful local 
payments and donations, and is an active participant in the 
ongoing global debate on environmental and social stewardship. 
The Code of Conduct and further details of the Group  
Community policy are available to view at www.genelenergy.com.  
The Anti Bribery Policy is described on page 64 of this 
Annual Report. 
Legal and regulatory risks
There remains an ongoing dispute between the KRG and 
the Iraq Central Government in relation to both export 
payments and the awarding of new PSCs. New laws may be 
enacted in the future, governing the regulation of Iraqi oil 
and gas resources.
The dispute between the KRG and Iraqi Central Government may 
require new laws and regulations to be introduced to resolve the 
situation. The enactment of any new law may alter the regulation 
of oil and gas resources in Iraq and the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, 
reduce the value of the Group’s existing PSCs and increase the 
regulatory requirements on the Group. Additionally, depending on 
the content of any future enacted law, the Group’s existing PSCs  A strong 
balance sheet 
and a robust 
governance 
structure
50 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012  www.genelenergy.com 51
Directors’ Report: Governance
Genel Energy Board members visiting T aq T aq Board of Directors
52 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Rodney Chase, CBE
Independent Chairman
T ony Hayward
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Julian Metherell
Executive Director and  
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Jim Leng
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Sir Graham Hearne, CBE
Independent Non-Executive Director
George Rose
Independent Non-Executive Director
The Board of Directors combines considerable experience in oil and gas and 
corporate life with a proven track record of engagement with key stakeholders  
in T urkey and Kurdistan.  www.genelenergy.com 53
The Honourable Nathaniel Rothschild
Non-Executive Director
Mehmet Ö ütçü
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mark R Parris
Independent Non-Executive Director
Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams
Non-Executive Director
Murat Y azici
Non-Executive Director
Chakib Sbiti
Independent Non-Executive Director
Board composition
Independent 
Non-Executive Directors
Non-Independent 
Non-Executive Directors
Executive Directors
58% 25%
17%
 www.genelenergy.com 53
Directors’ Report: Governance 54 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Board of Directors continued
Rodney Chase, CBE
Independent Chairman
Rodney Chase was appointed as Chairman of the Board on 2 June 
2011. He is aged 69.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee and member of the Political Risk Committee. 
Skills and experience: In February 2012, Rodney was appointed 
the Non-Executive Chairman of Computer Sciences Corporation 
in Washington DC, where he has served on the board of directors 
since 2001. He is also an Independent Non-Executive Director of 
T esoro Corporation. 
Rodney has served on the boards of Petrofac Limited as Non-
Executive Chairman, T esco as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, 
TNK-BP as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, B.O.C as Non-
Executive Director and as Senior Independent Director of Diageo 
and recently retired as a Director of Nalco Holding Co. 
Rodney retired from full-time employment with BP plc in 2003 
after over 38 years’ service covering all of the major businesses 
of the BP Group. He spent four years as Head of Finance/Group 
Treasurer and ﬁve years as Chairman/CEO of BP America based 
in Ohio before joining the parent board in 1992. He served on the 
BP plc board for 11 years, ﬁrst as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of 
Marketing & Reﬁning, then Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Exploration 
& Production, and from 1999 as Deputy Group Chief Executive. 
Rodney was appointed a Commander of the Most Excellent Order 
of the British Empire in 1999.
T ony Hayward
Executive Director and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
T ony Hayward was appointed to the Board as Non-Executive 
Director on 2 June 2011 and as an Executive Director and Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer on 21 November 2011. He is aged 55.
Skills and experience: T ony is the Senior Independent Director at 
Glencore International plc, a Partner and Member of the Advisory 
Board of AEA Capital and a Member of the Advisory Board of 
Numis Corporation plc. He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of 
Edinburgh and holds honorary doctorates from the University of 
Edinburgh, Aston University and the University of Birmingham.  
He has also served on the board of TNK-BP , Corus and T ata Steel. 
T ony was Group Chief Executive of BP plc from 2007 to 2010 
having joined BP plc in 1982 as a rig geologist in the North Sea. 
Following a series of technical and commercial roles in Europe, 
Asia and South America, he returned to London in 1997 as a 
member of the Upstream Executive Committee. He became 
Group Treasurer in 2000, Chief Executive for BP plc’s upstream 
activities and a member of the main board of BP plc in 2003.
T ony studied Geology at Aston University in Birmingham and 
holds a PhD from Edinburgh University.
Julian Metherell
Executive Director and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Julian Metherell was appointed to the Board as an Executive 
Director and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer on 21 November 2011. He is 
aged 49.
Skills and experience: Julian is currently a Non-Executive 
Director of GASLOG LNG Shipping.
Julian has 22 years’ banking experience, primarily in the energy 
sector and was until recently a Partner at Goldman Sachs and 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of their UK investment banking business. 
Prior to that, he was a Director in the European energy group at 
Kleinwort Benson.
Julian holds a BSc (Hons) from Manchester University and an 
MBA from Cambridge University. 
Jim Leng
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Jim Leng was appointed to the Board and as the Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director on 2 June 2011. He is aged 67 .
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and member of the Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Jim is a Director of HSBC Bank plc and a 
Director of and Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee of Alstom SA. He is also Chairman of AEA, a private 
equity partnership.
From 2003 to 2008, he was Chairman of Corus Group plc and 
Deputy Chairman of T ata Steel. Other past Non-Executive 
Directorships include Pilkington plc, Hanson plc and IMI plc.
In an executive capacity, Jim was Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of 
Laporte plc and before that Low & Bonar plc. His early business 
years were spent at John Waddington plc where he was Managing 
Director of a number of their subsidiaries.
Sir Graham Hearne, CBE
Independent Non-Executive Director
Graham Hearne was appointed to the Board as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director on 2 June 2011. He is aged 75.
Committee memberships: Chairman of the HSSE Committee and 
member of the Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: Sir Graham currently serves as Chairman 
of Braemar Shipping Services Group plc. He is a Non-Executive 
Director at Rowan Companies Inc. and Bumi plc. He served as 
Chairman of Enterprise Oil plc between 1991 and 2002 and as 
Chief Executive from 1984 to 1991. He has also served as a 
director of a number of public and private companies including 
Courtaulds plc (where he was Finance Director), Gallaher Group 
PLC, Wellcome plc, Reckitt & Colman plc as well as Novar plc and 
Catlin Group Limited (where he was Chairman). 
He qualiﬁed as a solicitor in England and Wales in 1959 and 
practised law in England and the US from 1959 to 1967 , following 
which he joined as an executive of the Industrial Reorganisation 
Corporation and then as an Executive Director of NM Rothschild & 
Sons Limited. 
Sir Graham was appointed a Commander of the Most Excellent 
Order of the British Empire in 1990 and a Knight Bachelor in 1998.
George Rose
Independent Non-Executive Director
George Rose was appointed to the Board as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director on 2 June 2011. He is aged 60. 
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Audit Committee and 
member of the Nomination Committee.
Skills and experience: George is a Non-Executive Chairman of the 
Audit Committee of National Grid plc and Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Audit Committee of Laing O’Rourke PLC. He is a 
Non-Executive Director of Experian plc and a board member of 
The Industrial Development Advisory Board, providing advice to 
the UK’s Secretary of State for Business on applications for 
ﬁnancial assistance.
George retired from the board of BAE Systems plc in March  
2011, where he had served as Group Finance Director for 13 years. 
Past non-executive directorships include Orange plc and Saab AB. 
He was previously a member of the UK’s Financial Reporting 
Review Panel. 
George’s earlier career consisted of several ﬁnancial management 
positions in the automotive sector , at Ford Motor Company, 
Leyland Vehicles Ltd and the Rover Group.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants.  www.genelenergy.com 55
Directors’ Report: Governance
The Honourable Nathaniel Rothschild
Non-Executive Director
Nathaniel Rothschild was appointed to the Board as a  
Non-Executive Director on 19 May 2011. He is aged 41. 
Skills and experience: Nathaniel Rothschild was until January 
2013 a Non-Executive Director of Barrick Gold Corporation, the 
world’s largest gold company, and was previously Co-Chairman  
of Bumi plc.
Nathaniel is a member of the Belfer Center’s International  
Council at the John F . Kennedy School of Government at  
Harvard University.
He holds an MA in History from Oxford University. 
Mehmet Ö ütçü
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mehmet Ö ütçü was appointed to the Board as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director on 21 November 2011. He is aged 50.
Committee memberships: Member of the Nomination Committee 
and the HSSE Committee.
Skills and experience: Mehmet Ö ütçü is currently Chairman  
of the Global Resources Corporation, a regional energy ﬁnance, 
investment and strategy group. He also serves as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director on the board of Y asar Holding Group,  
a leading Turkish conglomerate. He serves as strategic advisor  
to a number of multinational corporations and international 
organisations. Mehmet was appointed in March 2013 as the 
Energy Charter Secretary-General’s special envoy for the 
MENA region.
Previously, Mehmet served as Director for international 
government and corporate affairs at BG Group, the head of the 
OECD’s Global Forum on international investment and regional 
outreach programmes (2000-2005), the Principal Administrator 
for Asia-Paciﬁc and Latin America at the International Energy 
Agency (1994-2000), Turkish diplomat in Ankara, Beijing, Brussels 
and Paris (1986-1994), deputy inspector at Is Bankasi, NATO 
Research Fellow, EU’s Jean Monnet Fellow and adviser to the  
late President Turgut Ozal.
Mark R Parris
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mark Parris was appointed to the Board as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director on 21 November 2011. He is aged 62. 
Committee memberships: Chairman of the Political Risk 
Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee. 
Skills and experience: Mark Parris is a retired career diplomat 
with service in the Near East and former Soviet Union. He was US 
Ambassador to Turkey from 1997 to 2000 and served as Special 
Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Near East/
South Asian affairs at the National Security Council. Since leaving 
government, he has been active in US– Turkey NGO work and has 
written and spoken widely on Turkey and the surrounding region, 
including on issues relating to energy. He is Senior Non-Resident 
Fellow at the Brookings Institution, where he was founding 
director of the Institution’s “Turkey 2007” project. He has also 
served as Counselor to the Turkish Research Programme of 
the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and as Chairman 
of the Advisory Board of the American Turkish Council, 
a trade organisation.
Mark is a magna cum laude graduate (BSFS) of Georgetown 
University and a member of Phi Beta Kappa.
Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams 
Non-Executive Director
Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams was appointed to the Board  
as Non-Executive Director on 21 November 2011. She is aged 35.
Skills and experience: Mrs Karamehmet Williams has been a 
board member of Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri A.S. a leading GSM 
operator in Turkey, since 2010. Turkcell’s shares have been traded 
on the Istanbul (IMKB) and New Y ork Stock Exchanges (NYSE) 
since 11 July 2000. 
Mrs Karamehmet Williams has worked at Digiturk, a satellite 
broadcasting network, in several capacities since 2004. She has 
been Chief Content Ofﬁcer and executive board member since 
2007 , where she has been primarily responsible for overseeing  
all content acquisitions, production, creative services (including 
on-air promotion and print TV guides) and overall content 
strategy. Previously, she worked in Advertising Sales at  
BSkyB in London.
Nazli attended Sarah Lawrence College in New Y ork, USA, from 
1996 to 1999 and holds a BA in Communications from Richmond 
University, UK.
Murat Y azici 
Non-Executive Director
Murat Y azici was appointed to the Board as Non-Executive 
Director on 21 November 2011. He is aged 63.
Skills and experience: Murat Y azici sits on the boards of various 
national and multinational companies operating in Turkey and 
was the founding Chairman of Petroleum Platform Association, 
founder of Energy and Climate Change Foundation and member 
of various other professional associations.
Murat is the founding and managing partner of Y azici Law Ofﬁces, 
one of Turkey’s leading international law ﬁrms, representing 
clients in their transactions in Turkey and abroad since 1989.  
He has practised in the oil and gas and energy industries for  
over forty years and has represented multinational clients in 
international transactions. Previously, Murat worked in legal and 
managerial positions in the oil and gas industry in Turkey and 
taught corporate law at Middle East T echnical University as  
a adjunct professor .
Chakib Sbiti
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chakib Sbiti was appointed to the Board as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director on 19 April 2012. He is aged 58.
Committee memberships: Member of the HSSE Committee  
and the Political Risk Committee. 
Skills and experience: Chakib Sbiti has over 30 years’ experience 
at Schlumberger , an international oilﬁeld services company, 
where he was Executive Vice President of Oilﬁeld Services from 
2003 to 2010 and President Asia from 1999, a role which was 
expanded to include the Middle East for the period 2001 to  
2003. He is also special adviser to the Chairman and Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer of Schlumberger (since 2010) and held various 
senior operational roles prior to 1999. 
Chakib studied Electrical Engineering in France and holds a MSc 
from the École Nationale Supérieure d’Ingénieurs in Caen, France. 56 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Management team
T ony Hayward
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
T ony Hayward co-founded Vallares  
PLC and became Chief Executive of  
Genel Energy plc in November 2011 
following the merger of Vallares PLC and 
Genel Energy International Limited. He  
was Group Chief Executive of BP from 
2007 to 2010 having joined BP in 1982  
as a rig geologist. Prior to becoming  
Group Chief Executive, T ony held a series 
of technical and commercial roles in BP 
around the world. He became Group 
Treasurer in 2000, Chief Executive for  
BP’s upstream activities and member  
of the Main Board of BP in 2003. T ony  
is currently a Non-Executive Director of 
Glencore plc. He is a Fellow of the Royal 
Society of Edinburgh and holds honorary 
doctorates from the University of 
Edinburgh, Aston University and the 
University of Birmingham.
Murat Özgül
President of Turkey and KRI 
Murat Özgül has 19 years’ experience in the 
defence, satellite and oil and gas sectors. 
He joined Genel Energy in 2008 as Chief 
Commercial Ofﬁcer and was responsible 
for leading its merger with Vallares PLC in 
2011. Prior to joining Genel Energy, Murat 
was the CEO of INTA Spaceturk an imaging 
satellite operating company, and held 
engineering and managerial positions at 
Roketsan and INTA Defense. He holds a 
BSc and MSc in Aeronautical Engineering 
from the Middle East T echnical University 
in Ankara.
Mehmet Sepil 
President
Mehmet Sepil founded Genel Energy and 
was CEO from 2002 until its merger with 
Vallares PLC in 2011. Mehmet has over  
29 years’ of construction engineering, 
ﬁnancial and administrative management 
experience in construction and high-tech 
companies, including with NATO, the US, 
and Turkish government projects as well  
as private sector projects. Mehmet 
graduated from the Civil Engineering 
Department of the Middle East T echnical 
University in Ankara and holds a Master  
of Science Degree in Coastal and Harbour 
Engineering from the same university.
Charles Proctor
Head of Business Development
Charles Proctor has 25 years’ experience in 
the international oil and gas industry and 
joined Genel Energy in March 2012 where 
he is responsible for corporate strategy 
and business development. Prior to joining 
Genel Energy, Charles worked at BP in a 
variety of roles including most recently as 
President BP Middle East. Prior to this, he 
was Head of the BP Group Executive Ofﬁce 
and previously had been Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer of BP’s businesses in Azerbaijan 
and Angola. He holds an MA from 
Cambridge University.
Julian Metherell
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Julian Metherell was a founder of  
Vallares PLC and following the acquisition  
of Genel Energy he is the Company’s CFO. 
Prior to founding Vallares he was a Partner  
at Goldman Sachs and CEO of their UK 
investment banking business. Julian has  
22 years’ banking experience, primarily in 
the energy sector . Prior to joining Goldman 
Sachs, he was a Director in the European 
energy group at Kleinwort Benson. Julian 
is currently a Non-Executive Director of 
GASLOG LNG Shipping. He holds a BSc 
(Hons) from Manchester University and  
an MBA from Cambridge University.
Don Lloyd
Head of HSE
Don Lloyd has over 35 years’, industrial 
experience including process operations, 
project management, process design, 
insurance, business risk management and 
HSSE roles in major companies such as 
Shell, T otal, Amersham, CIGNA Insurance 
and BG Group. Don is a chartered chemical 
engineer with an MSc and PhD (Risk 
Management) from Manchester University 
and an MSt (Sustainability Leadership) 
from Cambridge University. He is a 
Non-Executive Director at RoSPA (Royal 
Society for the Prevention of Accidents), an 
Independent Board Safety Advisor at NATS 
(UK Air Trafﬁc Control Services), a Visiting 
Professor in Risk Management & Corporate 
Responsibility at Brunel University and 
Chair of the External Advisory Board at 
Brunel Business School.  www.genelenergy.com 57
Directors’ Report: Governance
Stephen Mitchell
General Counsel
Stephen Mitchell has practised as a  
lawyer for over 27 years. Prior to joining 
the company he was Vice President – 
Group Legal with BHP Billiton plc and prior 
to that he was Group General Counsel and 
Head of Risk Management at Reuters 
Group plc, in which he advised on a broad 
range of matters including mergers and 
acquisitions, joint ventures, corporate 
governance and compliance. Stephen  
was a partner in Freehills in Australia for 
six years prior to joining Reuters and holds  
a BEc and LLB from Monash University  
in Australia.
Pars Kutay
Head of Government and Public Affairs
Pars Kutay joined Genel Energy in 
December 2010 and provides advisory 
services on oil and gas related issues,  
as well as regional and Iraqi geopolitics. 
Immediately prior to this, Pars was a 
partner at AB Consultancy and Investment 
Services from 1995. Between 1984 and 
1995 he served in T urkey’s Undersecretariat 
of Treasury and Foreign Trade. He is a 
graduate of Law from Ankara University 
and holds degrees in International Finance 
and Environmental Law. 
Macit Merey
Deputy Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Macit Merey has over 18 years’ experience 
in ﬁnance including seven years in oil and 
gas. Macit joined Genel Energy in 2005 and 
was the Finance and Accounting Manager 
of the T aq T aq operating company TTOPCO 
from 2006 until 2009. He was CFO of 
Genel Energy International Limited from 
2009 until its merger with Vallares PLC  
in 2011. Macit holds a BSc degree in Food 
Engineering and an MBA from the Middle 
East T echnical University in Ankara.
Martha Desmond
Head of HR
Martha Desmond joined Genel Energy  
in May 2012. Martha has over 20 years’ 
experience in International Human 
Resources both at a strategic and 
operational level. Prior to joining Genel 
Energy she held senior HR positions at 
BG Group and Thames Water . Martha is 
a fellow of the Institute of Personnel 
Development and holds a MSc in 
Organisational Consulting. 
Dawn Summers
Head of Operations and Developments
Dawn Summers has 20 years’ experience 
within the international oil and gas industry 
in both Upstream and Downstream 
(Reﬁning) businesses. Dawn will join  
Genel Energy in April 2013 where she will 
be responsible for Operations, Wells and 
Projects. Dawn has worked at BP holding  
a number of Senior Operations, Project  
and Executive roles including most recently 
as Vice President Organisational Capability. 
Dawn holds a BEng (Hons) in Chemical 
Engineering from Edinburgh University.
John Hurst
Head of Exploration
John Hurst founded Barrus Petroleum 
which was acquired by Genel in 2012.  
He has held a series of senior technical 
positions in both BP and T otal during his 
career from 1982 to 1996. John was also 
the General Manager for RAK Petroleum 
and Exploration Director of its precursor , 
Indago from 2004-2009. John holds  
a D.Phil and D.Sc in Geology from  
Oxford University. 58 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Governance
Rodney Chase
Chairman
Genel Energy is 
committed to operating 
to the highest standards 
of corporate governance. 
This year has been the first full year of operation for 
Genel Energy plc following the re-listing in November 
2011. During this year we have continued to embed our 
governance procedures across the business including 
enhancing our risk management processes and rolling 
out Anti Bribery procedures.
We have also added to our Board with the appointment of 
a new Independent Non-Executive Director, Chakib Sbiti. 
Chakib’s appointment has strengthened our operational 
and geographical representation on the Board and he 
brings many years of industry expertise to the Board 
table. His biography is set out on page 55 of this Annual 
Report and provides more detail on his background. We 
will continue to monitor Board composition, balance and 
diversity as the Company continues to evolve.
We remain committed to operating to the highest standards 
of corporate governance and comply voluntarily with both 
the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK Listing 
Rules for premium listed companies albeit the Company 
currently holds a standard listing. We have also voluntarily 
adopted the Model Code and have introduced internal 
processes for ensuring that we comply with this fully . 
As a newly formed Board we were cognizant of our 
need to operate effectively , and accordingly appointed 
an independent external consultant to assess how the 
Board and its Committees had performed in their first 
year and to highlight any areas where improvements 
could be made. Our Board style is one of openness and 
collaboration and the review confirmed that this was 
operating well. Where improvements have been suggested 
we are taking steps to implement them. 
The following Governance Report provides more insight as 
to how we are governing your Company and engaging with 
you, our shareholders.  
Rodney Chase 
Chairman  www.genelenergy.com 59
Directors’ Report: Governance
Corporate Governance
Our objective remains to create long-term value for shareholders 
through the exploration, development and production of oil and 
gas resources. We have unique assets that are important to the 
growth of many of the world’s economies. In doing this, we have 
committed to a high level of governance and to developing a 
culture that values exemplary ethical standards, personal and 
corporate integrity and respect for others. The Board governs the 
Group consistently with our business strategy and commitment to 
a transparent and high quality governance system.
Our view is that governance is not just a matter for the Board  
and that a strong governance culture must be fostered 
throughout the organisation. Our expectations of our employees 
and of those with whom we contract business are set out in our 
Code of Conduct, which is summarised below and available on  
our website at www.genelenergy.com.
This report aims to provide shareholders with a comprehensive 
summary of the Group’s governance arrangements and an 
explanation of how the Company has applied the main principles 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 2012.
Genel Energy plc is a Jersey-incorporated company with 
a standard listing on the London Stock Exchange. We are 
committed to complying with the regulatory requirements in 
both Jersey and the UK, together with prevailing standards of 
best practice. We are in full compliance with the provisions of the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and intend to comply with the 
provisions of the revised Code during 2013. A copy of the Code 
can be found at www.frc.org.uk/corporate/ukcgcode.cfm. In 
addition, and notwithstanding our standard listing, we comply 
voluntarily with the UK Listing Rules as if we were a premium 
listed company. Genel Energy sees such compliance as an 
important part of its corporate governance framework and a 
statement of commitment towards obtaining a premium listing.
As corporate governance principles continue to evolve and in 
accordance with our commitment to operate at the highest levels 
of corporate governance, we will continue to adopt best practice 
guidelines as appropriate to our business. For example, in 2012  
we completed an independent external review of the operation  
of the Board, its Committees and each of the Directors. We felt 
that this was important to ensure that the new governance 
structures put in place at the time of the initial re-listing were 
operating effectively.
Model Code
We have voluntarily adopted the Model Code for share dealing  
as contained in the Listing Rules. The Board is responsible for 
taking all proper and reasonable steps to ensure compliance  
with the Model Code.
Code of Conduct
Our Code of Conduct deﬁnes what we stand for as a company 
and sets out the principles that guide all of our business activities. 
We strive for operational excellence and aim to conduct our 
business in a responsible, ethical and safe manner with the 
highest standards of ﬁnancial reporting, corporate governance, 
and compliance with applicable laws. The Code of Conduct sets 
the principles by which we conduct our business and how we 
expect our Board, employees, suppliers and others to behave.
We also have an independent conﬁdential speak up hotline 
which is operated by an external third party. All employees are 
encouraged to raise any concerns they may have and to report 
any suspected or known violations of the Code without fear  
of retaliation. If necessary matters raised via this route are 
escalated to the Audit Committee.
Business Conduct
We conduct our business in an open, honest and ethical manner . 
We do not tolerate any form of bribery or corruption. We try to 
ensure that all ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information created 
within the Group is complete and accurate, and we strive to 
provide accurate and timely information to external stakeholders, 
including governments in the locations in which we operate. 
We take steps to protect against inappropriate use of conﬁdential 
and privileged information, and we aim to protect and use our 
business assets appropriately.
Our policy is not to make political donations and we have not 
done so in the period under review (2011: nil).
Nomination 
Committee
Audit
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Political Risk
Committee
HSSE 
Committee
Board of 
Directors
 The Board
 Our Committee structure 60 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Governance continued
Conﬂicts of Interest
We seek to avoid conﬂicts of interest. We believe it is important 
that the decision making process is not impaired by an individual 
being conﬂicted by either an actual or a potential conﬂict. 
However , we recognise from time to time that conﬂicts may 
occasionally arise and accordingly we have a formal system in 
place enabling Directors to declare any actual or potential 
conﬂicts that may arise and for those conﬂicts to be reviewed, 
and if appropriate, authorised by the Board. A register of conﬂicts 
is maintained by the General Counsel and Company Secretary and 
reviewed by the Audit Committee on an annual basis. The process 
for managing and monitoring conﬂicts operates effectively. 
People
Achieving high standards of personal wellbeing, including 
provision of a safe and respectful working environment, is central 
to the success of our business. We are committed to creating a 
safe and healthy environment for all employees and contractors. 
We will not compromise our health and safety values for proﬁt 
or production. We do not tolerate harassment or other improper 
behaviour and we promote diversity, fairness and respect in the 
workplace. We respect the personal privacy of our employees 
and others. We are committed to developing our employees 
and providing recognition based on success and achievement.
Business Partners
We will maintain high standards of business conduct in our 
dealings with all business partners, to promote mutually 
beneﬁcial relationships and our reputation. We will not seek to 
win or maintain business by acting illegally or contrary to our 
contractual agreements. Our relationships with customers and 
suppliers are conducted on a fair and honest basis. We expect  
our business partners to maintain the same standards of  
business conduct as we adhere to. 
Communities and Environment
Protecting and sustaining the communities and environment 
in which we operate are fundamental to maintaining our 
operating licences and to creating a long-term sustainable 
business. We strive to maintain high standards of environmental 
protection and we do not compromise our environmental values 
for proﬁt or production. We seek to maintain proactive and 
constructive engagement with the local communities affected 
by our operations and assets, and invest to help them develop 
in a sustainable manner . We will contribute to socio-economic 
development and provide transparency in respect of our 
contributions and their impact.
The role of the Board
The Board’s role is to provide leadership in ensuring the long-term 
success of the Company. It is responsible for deciding the 
Company’s strategy, approving the business plan and keeping 
under review the ﬁnancial and operational resources of the 
Company. It monitors the performance of the business against 
those strategic objectives with the overall objective of creating 
and delivering value to shareholders.
The performance of the Board and the contributions of 
Directors to the Board’s decision making processes are essential 
to fulﬁlling this role. The Directors may exercise all the powers 
of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant law, the 
Company’s articles and any Special Resolution of the Company 
in the furtherance of their role. The Board has reserved certain 
matters for its own consideration and decision making. Authority 
has been delegated to Board Committees and these are set out 
clearly in each Committee’s terms of reference. 
Matters reserved for the Board include the Company’s objectives 
and business strategy and its overall supervision. Signiﬁcant 
acquisitions, divestments and other strategic decisions will all 
be considered and determined by the Board in accordance with 
the Company’s delegated authorities matrix. The Board provides 
leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls.
Board and Committee attendance
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration HSSE Political Risk
Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended
Rodney Chase 9(9) 2(2) 2(2)
T ony Hayward 8(9)
Julian Metherell 8(9)
Jim Leng 7(9) 5(5) 5(5)
George Rose 7(9) 5(5) 2(2)
Sir Graham Hearne 8(9) 5(5) 3(3)
Mark Parris 9(9) 4(5) 5(5) 2(2)
Chakib Sbiti* 4(5) 2(2) 1(2)
Mehmet Ö ütçü 7(9) 1(2) 3(3)
Nathaniel Rothschild 6(9)
Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams 7(9)
Murat Y azici 8(9)
* Appointed as a Director with effect from 19 April 2012.  www.genelenergy.com 61
Directors’ Report: Governance
The Board is free to review the matters reserved for its  
decision, subject to the limitations imposed by the Company’s 
constitutional documents and applicable law.
The Board and its Committees have access to the advice and 
services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary and  
may seek advice from independent experts at the expense of  
the Company as appropriate. Individual Directors may also seek 
independent legal advice at the expense of the Company, in 
accordance with the Board’s agreed procedure.
In addition, the Board has extensive access to members of senior 
management, who regularly attend Board meetings by invitation, 
and present to the Board on the performance of the business and 
engage in discussions with Directors.
Board composition 
There are 12 Directors on the Board, of whom two are Executive 
and ten (including the Chairman) Non-Executive. Seven are 
Independent (including the Chairman who was independent 
on appointment) and ﬁve are considered not Independent.
Further details of the Directors are set out at pages 54 to 55 of 
this Annual Report.
Meetings of the Board
The Board meets around six times each year and schedules other 
meetings as necessary to fulﬁl its role. During the year we held 
nine meetings in various locations. The Board also visited key 
strategic sites, including Turkey where a signiﬁcant amount of  
our operations are based. This provided the opportunity for the 
Board to meet with local management and better understand  
our operations. The Board also receives regular updates from 
management on the performance of the business against the 
agreed strategy and on its operations. It has a rolling agenda  
that sets out the key topics for consideration at each meeting.
Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer , Senior 
Independent Director and President
There is a clear division of roles between the Chairman, Chief 
Executive Ofﬁcer , Senior Independent Director and the President 
of the Company. 
Rodney Chase is the Chairman. The Chairman reports to the 
Board and is responsible for the leadership and overall 
effectiveness of the Board and for setting the Board’s agenda. 
Speciﬁc responsibilities of the Chairman include ensuring the 
effective running of the Board, ensuring that the Board agenda is 
forward-looking with an emphasis on strategic issues, ensuring 
the performance of the Board and its Committees is effective and 
in line with best practice. A culture of openness and debate should 
be encouraged by ensuring constructive relations between 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and ensuring effective 
communication between the Group and its shareholders. 
T ony Hayward is the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer . The Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer is responsible for all executive management matters of 
the Group. He reports to the Chairman and to the Board directly. 
All members of executive management including the President 
report directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer . Speciﬁc 
responsibilities of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer include the 
day-to-day management of the Group within delegated authority 
limits, identifying and executing strategic opportunities, managing 
the Group’s risk proﬁle and ensuring appropriate internal controls, 
maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman and the Board on 
important and strategic issues, ensuring the proper development 
of Executive Directors and Senior Executives, and succession 
planning for executive positions.
Jim Leng is the Senior Independent Director . The Senior 
Independent Director is available to shareholders who have 
concerns that cannot be addressed through the normal channels 
of the Chairman or the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer . He chairs the 
Nomination Committee when it is considering succession to  
the role of Chairman, and acts as a sounding board for the 
Chairman and an intermediary for other Directors if necessary. 
Mehmet Sepil currently has the title of President, which he 
will retain while he holds an executive position within the 
Group and for as long as Elysion and its Associates are 
between them entitled to exercise or to control the exercise of, 
in aggregate, 10% or more of the Voting Rights in the Company. 
As President, Mr Sepil provides the Company with a combination 
of local expertise, industry knowledge and strategic relationships. 
He plays a leading role in government and public affairs and in 
communications and relationships with key stakeholders, such  
as the KRG, the Iraqi Government, the Turkish government  
and other regional public authorities. The President is not a 
Director . He has a full-time executive role, and reports to the  
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer . 
Independence of the Board
The Independent Non-Executive Directors (Jim Leng, Sir Graham 
Hearne, George Rose, Mark Parris, Chakib Sbiti and Mehmet 
Ö ütçü) make up exactly half the Board and are responsible for 
ensuring that the management and decisions of the Board are 
properly checked and balanced. Rodney Chase (as Chairman) was 
considered independent at the time of his appointment. In order 
to ensure the strongest possible governance the Independent 
Directors (plus the Chairman) have a voting majority over the 
Directors who are not independent.
The Directors who are not independent include the founders  
of the Company (Nathaniel Rothschild, Non-Executive Director; 
T ony Hayward, Executive Director and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; 
and Julian Metherell, Executive Director and Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer) plus Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams and Murat Y azici 
who have been nominated for appointment to the Board by Focus 
Investments and Elysion, respectively. 
The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance between 
Executive and Non-Executive, Independent and Non-Independent 
Directors, with a view to promoting shareholder interests and 
governing the business effectively. The Independent Non-
Executive Directors also meet separately from the rest of the 
Board from time to time.
Board Composition
During the year Board composition has remained under review 
and on 19 April 2012 Chakib Sbiti joined as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director . There have been no other changes  
to the Board composition during the year . 
Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of Directors
The Board considers that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, 
knowledge, experience, perspective and gender is required in 
order to govern the business effectively. The Board and its 
Committees work actively to ensure that the Executive and 
Non-Executive Directors continue to have the right balance of 
skills, experience, independence and Group knowledge necessary 
to discharge their responsibilities in accordance with the  
highest standards of governance. 62 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Governance continued
Skills and experience of the Board 
Oil and Gas 7 Directors
Managing and leading 11 Directors
Governance 7 Directors
Legal 2 Directors
Financial / Capital Markets 7 Directors
Health, Safety, Security and Environment 6 Directors
Remuneration 7 Directors
Foreign Affairs 6 Directors
T otal Directors 12 Directors
The Non-Executive Directors bring with them international  
and operational experience gained both in the sectors in which 
we operate and in other areas of business and public life. The 
Executive Directors bring additional perspectives to the Board’s 
work through a deep understanding of the Group’s business. 
T ogether they oversee strategy for the Group and monitor the 
pursuit of the corporate strategy. All Directors are required to 
devote sufﬁcient time and demonstrate commitment to their role.
During the year Rodney Chase was appointed Non-Executive 
Chairman of Computer Sciences Corporation having previously 
served as a Non-Executive Director . Following this appointment 
he continues to demonstrate a high level of commitment to the 
Company and to devote sufﬁcient time to his role as Chairman 
of the Company. 
Operation of the Board
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board operates 
effectively. The Board has an open style of communication and 
debates issues openly and constructively within an environment 
that encourages healthy debate and challenge both inside and 
outside the boardroom.
The Directors receive board papers and other relevant 
information in a timely manner ahead of meetings. Board papers 
are delivered through an electronic portal that enables Directors 
to access board papers wherever they are in the world. The timely 
and relevant provision of information to Directors is vital in 
ensuring they are able to fulﬁl their role of effective oversight and 
challenge and for enabling the Board to make effective decisions.
Directors Induction and Ongoing Development
In order to govern the Group effectively, Non-Executive Directors 
must have a clear understanding of the Group’s overall strategy, 
together with a sound knowledge of the Group and the industry 
within which it operates. 
The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, is 
responsible for ensuring that all new Non-Executive Directors 
receive a full, formal and tailored induction upon appointment 
to the Board. Upon his appointment Chakib Sbiti received a 
comprehensive induction that included a detailed overview of 
the Company and its governance practices. He met with key 
personnel across the Group in order to develop his understanding 
of the business, its strategy and business priorities in each area. 
He also visited several of the Group operations outside the UK.
This year an independent external Board effectiveness review 
took place which included a review of each Director . Following the 
review personalised development programmes will be established 
for each Director . In addition to this during the year , workshops 
have been held on such matters as health and safety and 
corporate governance including the UK Bribery Act.
Board Effectiveness 
In accordance with the commitment made in last year’s Annual 
Report, we have in 2012 commissioned an independent review 
of the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and each of 
the Directors, including the Chairman. The review was undertaken 
by Sheena Crane of Board Review who has substantial experience 
of conducting Board reviews for other large companies. 
In presenting her ﬁndings Sheena observed that the Board was 
operating effectively and there was a high level of engagement 
and input from all Directors with a strong Board dynamic. 
The observations made and a summary of the agreed actions  
are set out below.
Board Composition and Balance
Existing Board composition was found to be working well and 
reﬂected a diverse range of depth and breadth of experience from 
existing Board members. It was agreed that as the opportunity 
arose to refresh the Board that the Nomination Committee would 
use the opportunity to increase the E&P experience and possibly 
female representation on the Board.
Risk Monitoring and Reporting
Whilst good progress had been made during the year in this  
area, it was recognised that further enhancements could be  
made to the risk reporting process up to the Audit Committee  
and the Board.
Strategy
It was recognised that the business has a clear strategic agenda 
for business development and growth. It was felt that the Board 
would beneﬁt from a half-day strategy day to review current and 
future strategic direction of the business with a particular focus 
on CSR strategy. 
Board Development
The Director’s agreed that they would beneﬁt from additional 
education sessions throughout the year on both industry and 
business speciﬁc matters. These would be scheduled into the 
Board annual calendar throughout the year as appropriate. 
These actions will be implemented during the course of 2013 
and progress against them monitored by the Board.
Re-election of Directors
Following the review of each of the Directors, the Board remains 
satisﬁed that all Directors remain competent and committed to 
their roles and will therefore be recommending that all Directors 
be put forward for re-election at the Company’s forthcoming AGM. 
Risk monitoring and reporting
The Group keeps under constant scrutiny the major risks to  
which its operations in all regions are exposed by leveraging its 
local expertise, industry knowledge and strategic relationships.  
In particular , the Group continues to have a regular dialogue with 
its key stakeholders in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, such as the 
KRG, the Iraqi Government, the Turkish government and other 
regional public bodies. We are forging similar relationships within 
the Africa region to ensure the risks across the Group as a whole 
are fully understood and mitigated.  www.genelenergy.com 63
Directors’ Report: Governance
The Group’s risk management process, established by the 
Executive Committee and endorsed by the Board, is used to 
identify the key risks to the business, the controls by which  
these are managed and how these controls are monitored. The 
Executive Committee reviews and updates the risk management 
process and the risks identiﬁed on a quarterly basis and the 
Board reviews these bi-annually.
Further details of the principal risks and uncertainties to which 
the Company’s operations are exposed, and the action taken to 
manage those risks and uncertainties, are set out at pages 48 
and 49 of this Annual Report.
Internal controls
The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control systems. These 
systems are designed to identify, evaluate and manage the 
signiﬁcant risks to which the Group is exposed. The Board has 
established processes to meet the expectations of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Turnbull guidance and those of  
a premium listed company. These processes include having clear 
lines of responsibility, documented levels of delegated authority 
and appropriate operating procedures. We recognise that the 
system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk 
of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide 
reasonable, and not absolute assurance against misstatement 
or loss. 
During the year the Group has refreshed and rolled out its Code 
of Conduct, Whistleblowing Policy and Anti Bribery Policy and 
related procedures. 
The Audit Committee supports the Board in the performance  
of its responsibilities by reviewing those procedures that relate  
to risk management processes and ﬁnancial controls. The Audit 
Committee considers the reports of the external auditor and 
reports to the Board on such matters as it feels should be  
brought to the Board’s attention.
A detailed budget is produced annually in accordance with our 
ﬁnancial processes and reviewed and approved by the Board in 
November . Operational reports are provided to the Executive 
Committee on a monthly basis and performance against the 
budget kept under regular review in accordance with the Group’s 
ﬁnancial procedures manual. The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer reports 
to the Board on performance and key issues as they arise.
The assessment of controls and risk management processes 
provide a reasonable basis for the Board to make proper 
judgements on an ongoing basis as to the ﬁnancial position and 
prospects of the Group.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the 
system of internal control for the year ended 31 December 2012 
and up to the date of the signing of the ﬁnancial statements and 
is satisﬁed that it remains appropriate to the business.
Communication with stakeholders – our policy
Part of the Group’s Code of Conduct sets a framework for how 
it partners with and invests in communities (local, regional and 
global) to achieve mutual long-term beneﬁts. The Company 
contributes to socio-economic development through taxes, 
royalties and other local payments and donations. Further details 
on our community programmes can be found on pages 44 to 47 .
2013 AGM
The AGM will be held on Monday 22 April 2013 at the Soﬁtel St 
James’s, 6 Waterloo Place, London SW1Y 4AN UK at 11.00am 
22 April 2013. The Notice of AGM accompanies this Annual 
Report and sets out the business to be considered at the meeting. 
The AGM will provide an opportunity for shareholders to meet 
with the Directors and senior management. Both this Annual 
Report and the Notice of AGM are available on our website at 
www.genelenergy.com.
Communication with Institutional Investors
We believe in regular communications with all our shareholders 
and schedule regular presentations, calls and investor trips with 
our investors. We also maintain a dialogue with them on an ad hoc 
basis as and when questions arise.
The Board receives regular investor relations reports covering 
key investor meetings and activities, as well as shareholder and 
investor feedback. 
We also engage with our shareholders at our AGM and our 
website at www.genelenergy.com
Board Committees
The Board has established ﬁve Committees: the Audit 
Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Health, Safety, 
Security and Environment Committee, the Political Risk 
Committee and the Nomination Committee all of which have 
adopted terms of reference which are available on our website 
at www.genelenergy.com. Each Committee consists only of 
Independent Non-Executive Directors, and has terms of 
reference under which authority is delegated by the Board.
Audit Committee
Chairman
George Rose
 
Members
Jim Leng  
Mark Parris
 
Meetings in 2012
5
All the members of the Committee are Independent  
Non-Executive Directors and George Rose has recent and  
relevant ﬁnancial experience. 
The objectives of the Audit Committee are:
 to increase shareholder conﬁdence by ensuring the  
integrity and objectivity of published ﬁnancial information;
 to assist the Board in meeting its ﬁnancial reporting, 
risk management and internal control responsibilities;
 to assist the Board in ensuring the effectiveness of the  
internal accounting and ﬁnancial controls of the Company;
 to strengthen the independent position of the Company’s 
external auditors by providing channels of communication 
between them and the Non-Executive Directors;
 to review the performance of the Company’s internal and 
external auditing functions; and
 to assist the Board in monitoring and addressing potential 
conﬂicts of interest between members of the Group and  
the Directors, President and/or certain senior managers  
of the Company.
The Audit Committee has detailed terms of reference which  
set out its areas of responsibility. These include, among  
other things, the monitoring and review of the integrity of the 
Company’s ﬁnancial statements and oversight of the ﬁnancial 
reporting process, the review of the Company’s internal ﬁnancial 
control and risk management systems, the external auditor , the 
internal audit function, matters arising from the external audit 
and oversight of the conﬂicts of interest process. The Company 
also operates an independent speak up hotline for all staff and 
the Committee reviews annually the number of matters reported 
and the outcome of any investigations. 64 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Corporate Governance continued
During the year the Audit Committee has 
 Reviewed and received reports from the external auditors on 
the annual ﬁnancial statements and other published ﬁnancial 
information; In doing so, the Audit Committee has reviewed  
and discussed the preliminary results and annual ﬁnancial 
statements with management and the external auditors, 
focusing particularly on:
 – the quality and acceptability of the accounting policies  
and practices and ﬁnancial reporting disclosures and  
changes thereto;
 – areas involving signiﬁcant judgement, estimation  
or uncertainty;
 – the basis for the going concern assumption; 
 – compliance with ﬁnancial reporting standards and  
relevant ﬁnancial and governance requirements.
 Monitored the work of internal audit and received  
the output from audits performed in the period;
 Reviewed the development of the Group’s approach to  
risk and linkages to the Board’s risk appetite;
 Monitored the effectiveness and independence of the  
external auditor;
 Reviewed key accounting policies (including treasury policies) 
and practices to ensure they remain appropriate; 
 Reviewed the conﬂicts of interests of Directors and Senior 
Executives; and
 Reviewed the operation and compliance of the speak up 
arrangements for the Group.
In February 2012, the Genel Energy Anti Bribery Policy was 
launched and endorsed by the CEO. The Anti Bribery Policy 
applies to all Directors, ofﬁcers, employees and agents of  
Genel Energy, to its subsidiaries, joint ventures and afﬁliates. 
During the year a detailed programme of face-to-face training  
on both the policy and the underlying procedures was completed 
across the Group’s operations and all of our sites. 
Internal Audit
The Board and the Committee consider that an in-house internal 
audit function is not appropriate at this stage in the Group’s 
development and accordingly have appointed KPMG LLP to 
perform this role. The Committee receives regular reports from 
KPMG on the Group’s internal audit plan and monitors progress 
against it. The Committee received reports on a number of 
reviews undertaken on the Company’s systems and processes.
External Audit
The effectiveness and the independence of the external auditor 
are key to ensuring the integrity of the Group’s published ﬁnancial 
information. Prior to the commencement of the audit, the 
Committee reviews and approves the audit plan. PwC present  
to the Committee their proposed plan of work which is designed 
to ensure that there are no material misstatements in the  
ﬁnancial statements. 
The Committee monitors and approves the provision of non-audit 
services by the Company’s external auditors. The provision of 
non-audit services is generally limited to services that are closely 
connected to the external audit or to projects that require  
a detailed understanding of the Group (for example, taxation 
advice). Details of fees payable for audit and non-audit services 
are set out on page 94 of this Annual Report.
The level of non-audit fees for 2012 was $0.3m, further details 
of which can be found on page 94 of the notes to the ﬁnancial 
statements. These fees reﬂect the services and advice provided 
by PwC in respect of tax services during the year . 
When considering the reappointment of the Company’s  
external auditors, the Committee reviewed the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity and the overall effectiveness of 
the audit process. The Committee was satisﬁed that the external 
auditor remains both effective and independent and on that 
basis we will be recommending their reappointment at the 
forthcoming AGM.
The Audit Committee has reviewed its terms of reference  
to ensure they reﬂect its responsibilities in the context of the  
review of internal ﬁnancial control systems and ﬁnancial risk 
management systems.
Remuneration Committee
Chairman
Jim Leng 
Members
Sir Graham Hearne
Mark Parris 
Meetings in 2012 
5
All the members of the Committee are Independent Non-
Executive Directors.
The objectives of the Remuneration Committee are:
 to determine and review the Company’s remuneration policy  
for the Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer , Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer , other Executive Directors, the General Counsel and 
Company Secretary, and any other members of executive 
management as the Board may determine;
 to ensure that the executive management team is provided with 
appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance 
and are, in a fair and responsible manner , rewarded for their 
individual contributions to the success of the Company;
 to ensure consistent remuneration practice across the Group; 
and
 to ensure the quality of the Company’s reporting and disclosure 
in relation to remuneration matters.
The Remuneration Committee has detailed terms of reference 
which clearly set out its areas of responsibility. Further details of 
how the Committee operates and its activities during the period 
are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 72 of this 
Annual Report.
HSSE Committee
Chairman
Sir Graham Hearne 
Members
Chakib Sbiti 
Mehmet Ö ütçü 
Meetings in 2012 
3
All the members of the Committee are Independent Non-
Executive Directors.   www.genelenergy.com 65
Directors’ Report: Governance
The objectives of the HSSE Committee are:
 to ensure that the Company maintains a responsible and 
credible approach to HSSE matters (including asset integrity 
and major hazard risk management), in line with international 
best practice and emerging legal requirements;
 to assist the Company in maintaining its relationships with 
the communities in which it operates, including through  
social investment and development activities;
 to assist the Board and other Committees in assessing 
HSSE risks, in determining, implementing and reviewing 
the Company’s HSSE strategy and processes; and
 to ensure the quality of the Company’s reporting and  
disclosure (both internally and to shareholders) in relation  
to HSSE matters.
Committee members and other Directors attended a half-day 
workshop in Ankara in September on HSSE matters to improve 
their understanding of the risks in this area and the Group’s 
system of processes and controls. The session was led by 
the Group’s HSSE manager and other members of senior 
management were in attendance (including the CEO) to 
respond to challenges and questions from the Directors. 
We recognise that good management and governance include 
a strong moral and social commitment to all health, safety and 
environmental matters. The Company’s health, safety and 
environment management system deﬁnes the Company’s 
approach to managing its standards across all of its facilities and 
activities. The system provides practical guidance and procedures 
for all staff conducting operations or managing sites to achieve 
health, safety and environment objectives as an integrated part 
of the Company’s overall goals.
The Company is committed to ensuring environmental and  
social sustainability, in line with the Oil and Gas Law of the 
Kurdistan Region (22/2007) and international and recognised 
best practice. The Company has developed an internal HSSE 
Policy that reﬂects international best practice, including but  
not limited to, the IFC Performance Standard and the ICMM 
Sustainable Development Framework.
Political Risk Committee
Chairman
Mark Parris 
Members
Rodney Chase 
Chakib Sbiti 
Meetings in 2012 
2
All the members of the Committee are Independent Non-
Executive Directors. 
The objectives of the Political Risk Committee are:
 to assist the Board in overseeing and monitoring the political 
risks associated with the activities of the Company by:
 – providing the Board with an independent assessment of the 
political risk environment as it affects the Company and the 
Board’s decision making;
 – monitoring and keeping under review political developments 
in the regions in which the Group operates;
 – making recommendations as to how political risks could be 
mitigated; and
 – reviewing the quality of the Company’s reporting and 
disclosure on matters pertaining to political risk.
The Committee meets formally at least twice a year . In between 
formal meetings it provides regular updates to the Board on 
matters of relevance.
Nomination Committee
Chairman
Rodney Chase 
Members
Mehmet Ö ütçü 
George Rose
Meetings in 2012 
2
All the members of the Committee are Independent Non-
Executive Directors. When the Committee is considering the 
appointment of the Chairman of the Board the Committee  
is chaired by the Senior Independent Director , Jim Leng.
The objectives of the Remuneration Committee are:
 to contribute to the continuance of a high calibre Board, by:
 – reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, 
having due regard to the Company’s strategic, operational 
and commercial requirements and overall diversity of  
Board members;
 – identifying and nominating suitably qualiﬁed candidates 
for appointment to the Board;
 – annually reviewing the time required from Non-Executive 
Directors and making recommendations as to their  
reappointment at the AGM; 
 – keeping under review succession plans for Directors and  
other senior executives; and
 – reviewing Committee membership.
The Nomination Committee assists the Board in ensuring that 
the Board consists of high calibre individuals whose background, 
skills, experience and personal characteristics will augment the 
present Board and meet its future needs and diversity aspirations.
When considering candidates for appointment to the Board,  
the Committee undertakes a comprehensive search process using 
an independent external search agency to consider candidates 
from a wide range of backgrounds, and to consider candidates  
on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for  
the beneﬁts of diversity on the Board. Chakib Sbiti was appointed 
to the Board in April 2012 following a detailed search and a 
rigorous interview process. 66 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Jim Leng
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Dear Shareholder,
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased 
to present the Remuneration Report of Genel Energy plc 
for 2012.
2012 has seen us complete our first year as Genel Energy 
plc. During the year we have worked diligently to establish 
an executive remuneration policy that reflects the ambitions 
and objectives of the Company to its shareholders, whilst 
rewarding the executive team at an appropriate level for 
delivering on our strategic objectives.
Our remuneration framework is designed to ensure that  
a significant portion of total remuneration (over two-thirds 
for maximum performance) is delivered in the form of 
performance-related reward which is subject to stretching 
performance targets and retention post vesting.
At the 2012 AGM, shareholders approved the  
Performance Share Plan and awards were made to the 
Executive Directors under this plan in May 2012. The 
awards are subject to stretching targets based on T otal 
Shareholder Return (TSR) which we believe appropriately 
links total remuneration to the delivery of long-term value 
to our shareholders and are the only long-term incentive 
awards made to the Executive Directors.
During 2012 we have undertaken an independent external 
review of the Committee’s effectiveness. We have also 
reviewed and enhanced our rolling agenda to align it  
to the annual business cycle. 
At the AGM we will be seeking your approval of this  
report. I will be available together with Committee 
members and other Board colleagues to answer your 
questions on the Group’s executive remuneration policy 
and the Remuneration Committee’s activities.
On behalf of the Committee I welcome any feedback  
you may have and look forward to receiving your support.
Jim Leng
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  www.genelenergy.com 67
Directors’ Report: Governance
The Remuneration Committee is pleased to present its report  
for the year ended 31 December 2012 which will be subject to  
an advisory vote at the AGM on 22 April 2013. 
This report has been prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies  
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the 
“Regulations”). The report further meets the relevant 
requirements of the Listing Rules, and the principles and 
provisions contained in the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Unaudited Information
Remuneration Committee membership 
and T erms of Reference
The Remuneration Committee was established by the Board with 
effect from 21 November 2011 and all of the current members, 
who are shown in the table below, were appointed at that time. 
Name Role
Jim Leng Chairman
Sir Graham Hearne Member 
Mark Parris Member
All of the members of the Committee are Independent Non-
Executive Directors.
The Committee has adopted clearly deﬁned terms of reference 
which are available on our website (www.genelenergy.com). 
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration 
framework and policy for the Chairman of the Board, the 
Executive Directors and other members of the executive 
management of the Company. The Committee also reviews, 
approves and administers all aspects of the Company’s share 
incentive plans. 
The Chairman of the Board together with the Executive Directors 
determine the fees and overall remuneration for the Non-
Executive Directors. 
Advisors to the Committee
The Committee has appointed Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte”) to provide 
independent advice on remuneration matters under consideration 
by the Committee including the performance monitoring of the 
Group’s Share Plans. Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration 
Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under the 
Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting 
in the UK. Deloitte have not provided other services to Genel 
Energy during the year . 
The Committee also consults with the HR Director , the General 
Counsel and the Deputy Company Secretary. No member of  
the Committee, nor any party from whom advice was sought, 
participated in discussions regarding his or her own remuneration. 
Activities of the Remuneration Committee 
The Committee’s key activities during the period included  
the following:
 Review of the Committee’s cycle of meetings and the 
establishment of an annual rolling agenda;
 Review of Executive base salary levels in line with the general 
populace of the organisation; 
 Review of performance objectives of executives in order to 
determine the level of bonus earned in respect of the 2012 
ﬁnancial year .
 Review of Chairman’s fees.
 Approval of the annual bonus plan framework for 2013;
 Development of and recommendation to the Board to  
adopt the Company’s share incentive plans (including  
the establishment of an employee beneﬁt trust);
 Consideration and determination of the performance  
criteria for the Performance Share Plan including the  
selection of a suitable comparator group;
 Approval of all share plan awards including to those  
below Board level;
 Preparation and approval of the Directors’  
Remuneration Report;
 Consideration of corporate governance and market  
practice developments; and
 Completion of an independent external review of the 
Committee’s effectiveness.
Remuneration policy and principles
The remuneration policy is designed to reﬂect the strategic 
objectives of the Company and reward the executive team for  
the delivery of shareholder value over an extended period of  
time. In addition, the remuneration policy has been designed to  
be clear and readily understood by executives and shareholders 
ensuring transparency in all its aspects. 
Within these guiding principles the executive  
remuneration framework: 
 Supports the business strategy, its delivery, and is consistent 
with the Company’s objectives to drive value creation; 
 Follows the highest standards of UK corporate governance; 
 Provides total remuneration levels that are positioned 
competitively when compared to wider market practice in  
UK companies of a similar size; 
 Sets base salaries at a level appropriate for the Company given 
its nature, operations and the industry in which it operates; and
 Provides an all-inclusive simple cash allowance (not subject  
to inclusion in the bonus calculation) in lieu of all beneﬁts 
including pension. 
 Provides an appropriate balance between ﬁxed and 
variable remuneration with a signiﬁcant weighting towards 
performance-related elements to reward the delivery of strong 
performance and value creation. The performance measures 
used under the incentive plans are regularly reviewed to ensure 
that they remain appropriate and do not encourage excessive 
risk taking. 
 Ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and  
those immediately below Executive Director level are aligned 
with those of long-term shareholders through the requirement 
to hold vested shares under the PSP for three years  
following vesting. 
The Committee is mindful of its responsibility to consider pay  
and conditions elsewhere in the Group when setting remuneration 
levels for Executive Directors. As such, the Committee has 
reviewed the remuneration framework in place for employees 
below the Board, across all of its operations, and is satisﬁed that 
this framework is appropriate, competitive and in line with the 
Company’s strategic goals. The Committee will continue to 
consider pay and conditions for employees throughout the  
Group going forward and bears this in mind during the decision 
making process for Executive Director remuneration. 68 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Summary of remuneration components for Executive Directors
Component Policy for Executive Directors Further details Purpose and alignment with strategy
Base salary (2012) CEO: £650,000
 CFO: £450,000
 Typically reviewed (but not 
necessarily increased) annually.
 Benchmarked against UK 
companies of similar size and 
relevant UK oil & gas companies. 
 T o provide ﬁxed remuneration 
which is fair , taking into account 
the complexity of the role and  
the skills and experience of  
the individual.
Beneﬁts cash supplement Allowance of 25%  
of salary.
 Cash supplement paid in lieu of all 
beneﬁts (including pension, 
private health insurance, life 
assurance and company car/car 
allowance). This supplement is not 
taken into account when 
determining annual bonus or 
long-term incentive quantum.
 T o provide a simple and  
broadly competitive beneﬁt  
cash allowance.
Annual bonus Maximum opportunity: 
150% of base salary. 
 T arget opportunity: 100% 
of base salary.
 The bonus period runs from 1 
January to 31 December . 
 All bonuses are paid in cash. 
 T o reward the achievement of 
annual operational objectives.
Performance Share Plan Annual awards of 
performance shares with a 
face value of 150% of base 
salary for the CEO and 
140% of base salary for 
the CFO. 
 Performance will be based on 
relative TSR measured against  
a group of industry peers over  
a period of three years.
 Below median performance  
will vest.
 Vested shares will be subject  
to a further three-year  
retention period.
 T o reward the delivery of long-
term shareholder value.
 Additional holding period provides 
further alignment with 
shareholders over the longer term. 
Balance between ﬁxed and variable pay
The chart below illustrates the balance between ﬁxed and variable 
components of the remuneration package for Executive Directors 
at both “target” and “maximum” performance:
Target performance
Maximum performance
Fixed remuneration
Variable remuneration
54%
71%
46%
29%
 
*  Fixed remuneration includes salary and beneﬁts allowance. Variable 
remuneration includes annual bonus and the PSP . 
 T arget performance is based on an annual bonus at target 
levels of 100% of salary and an assumption that 30% of the 
maximum PSP award will vest.
 Maximum performance is based on a maximum annual bonus  
of 150% of base salary and an assumption that the PSP will  
vest in full.
Base salary
As a general policy, the salaries of the Executive Directors are set 
at a level that is appropriate against market practice at other UK 
listed companies of a similar size as well as other relevant UK oil 
and gas companies. In setting salaries, the Committee also takes 
into account the individual’s skills, level of experience and 
criticality to the business as well as the complexity of the role. 
Following the annual salary review undertaken in December  
2012, the Remuneration Committee has decided that in line with 
other staff, a salary increase of 2% would be awarded and with 
effect from 1 January 2013 the Executive Directors’ salaries are  
as follows:
Name Position 2013 base salary
T ony Hayward CEO £665,000
Julian Metherell CFO £460,000
Beneﬁts – cash supplement
In line with the Committee’s aim to provide a simple, transparent 
package, Executive Directors receive an additional payment of 
25% of salary in lieu of all beneﬁts, including pension, private 
health insurance, life assurance and company car provision. 
Directors do not receive pension contributions from the Company.
The level of the cash supplement is as follows:
Name Position
2013 cash 
supplement
T ony Hayward CEO £166,250
Julian Metherell CFO £115,000
This supplement is not taken into account when determining 
annual bonus or long-term incentive quantum. 
Short-term incentives – annual bonus
The annual bonus is designed to reward Executive Directors for 
the delivery of strong performance against stated performance 
objectives during the year . 
The target bonus for both Executive Directors for 2013 is 100% of 
base salary, with a maximum opportunity of 150% of base salary.  www.genelenergy.com 69
Directors’ Report: Governance
The annual bonus will be determined by the Remuneration 
Committee, taking into account targets set at the beginning  
of the year .
Based on the Company’s strong performance against operational 
and ﬁnancial targets and a high level of individual performance 
from both Executive Directors in achieving key strategic 
milestones (including safety and environment and people-related 
measures), the Committee determined that bonuses for 2012 
should be awarded at 90% of maximum. For 2013, the 
performance of each Executive Director will be measured against 
ﬁve key areas as shown in the following chart: 
Bonus performance measures
(%)
  
Operational and ﬁnancial
Strategic objectives 
speciﬁc to the individual
Safety and environment
Build operational capability 
through people
Corporate Social Responsibility
35%
30%
15%
15%
5%
The Remuneration Committee will keep the performance 
conditions for future years and their relative weighting  
under review. 
Long-term incentives
The Company operates three share plans designed to provide 
medium and long-term incentives that link reward for its key 
people to the delivery of long-term value creation for its 
shareholders. 
T wo of these plans, the Share Option Plan and the Restricted 
Share Plan, will only be used to reward and incentivise key 
executives below Board level and will not be made available to 
Executive Directors. The Performance Share Plan is the long-term 
incentive plan under which Executive Directors receive awards. 
More detail on each of these plans is provided below. 
Performance Share Plan (“PSP”) 
Under the PSP conditional awards are granted and shares are 
only earned if the relevant performance conditions are satisﬁed. 
The rules of the PSP provide for a maximum award level in any 
ﬁnancial year of 200% of base salary, although in exceptional 
circumstances awards of up to 300% of salary may be made.
Awards made during the year to the Executive Directors, and  
to be made in 2013, are granted in the form of nil-cost options. 
These awards are based on a face value of 150% of base salary 
for the CEO and 140% of base salary for the CFO at the time  
of the award.
Shares are only earned if the performance conditions are met  
and the individual remains in employment for the duration of  
the three-year performance period. Any vested shares will then 
be subject to a further three-year retention period by the 
Executive Director . 
The Committee has decided that, for the 2012 and 2013 PSP 
awards, it will measure the performance of the Company against 
that of its sectoral peers using a relative TSR measure to ensure 
that the PSP will only pay out if the Company outperforms the 
median of those peers. The Committee considers that relative 
TSR is the most appropriate measure to create maximum 
alignment with shareholders and encourage long-term  
value creation. 
The Committee has selected a comparator group that consists  
of companies that are comparable to Genel Energy in terms of 
business mix, size and scope, geographical spread and share  
price volatility. 
The peer group for the 2013 award comprises the following 
constituents of the FTSE 350 Oil and Gas Producers Index:
Afren Essar Energy Royal Dutch Shell
BG Group Heritage Oil Salamander Energy
BP Ophir Energy SOCO International
Cairn Energy Premier Oil Tullow Oil
EnQuest 
For the 2012 award, the peer group also includes Exillon Energy. 
However , Exillon Energy has been removed for the 2013 peer 
group as it is no longer a constituent of the FTSE 350 Oil and  
Gas Producers Index.
Awards will vest according to the following schedule:
TSR ranking of the Company
Proportion of  
award vesting
Below median 0%
Median 30%
Between median and upper quartile Straight-line basis
Upper quartile 100%
Awards may be reduced or cancelled prior to vesting when  
the Committee deems such action is appropriate, including:
 A material misstatement of audited results
 A material failure of risk management
 A material breach of applicable health and safety regulations
 Serious reputational damage to the Group as a result of the 
participant’s misconduct or otherwise.
Performance graph
The following graph shows the Company’s TSR since trading  
of Genel Energy plc’s shares began on the London Stock 
Exchange on 21 November 2011 against the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas 
Producers Index. The Committee believes that the FTSE 350 Oil  
& Gas Producers Index remains the most appropriate Index as  
Genel Energy is expected to become a constituent of the  
Index upon obtaining a premium listing.
21/11/11 21/02/12 21/05/12 21/08/12 31/12/12
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
Genel Energy
FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers
Total Shareholder Return 70 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Other discretionary share plans 
Share Option Plan (“SOP”) 
The SOP is used to grant discretionary awards of market value options to below Board employees. No options have been granted under 
the SOP to Executive Directors to date and it is not intended that any will be granted in 2013.
Awards made under the SOP vest after three years subject to continued employment. 
Any awards vesting under the SOP to executive committee members are subject to a further two-year retention period following vesting. 
Restricted Share Plan (“RSP”) 
The RSP is an additional share plan under which one-off awards of shares can be made to employees below Board level. Executive 
Directors are not eligible to participate in this plan. 
Awards granted will usually vest progressively over a three-year period, subject to continued employment. 
The RSP is used primarily to make awards to individuals joining the Group, who have surrendered beneﬁts or other incentives with  
their previous employer . It may also be used from time to time for retention purposes.
Service contracts
Executive Directors have 12 month rolling service agreements. Any termination payment in lieu of notice is capped at a sum equal  
to (i) 12 months’ base salary, (ii) the Executive Director’s annual beneﬁt allowance, and (iii), pro-rated annual bonus up to the date of 
termination, subject to performance conditions being met. Upon termination by the Company, the Executive Director has a duty to 
mitigate, and use reasonable endeavours to secure alternative employment as soon as reasonably practicable. Any entitlement which 
an Executive has or may have under any share related incentive scheme shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with the 
rules of such scheme. The service contract of an Executive Director may also be terminated immediately and with no liability to make 
payment in certain circumstances, such as the Executive Director bringing the Group into disrepute or committing a fundamental 
breach of their employment obligations. 
Further details of Executive Directors’ contracts are shown below: 
Name
Date of  
service contract
Number of months’ 
notice by either  
Company or Director
T ony Hayward 15 November 2011 12
Julian Metherell 15 November 2011 12
Executive Directors may accept only one position as a Non-Executive Director of another publicly listed company that is not 
a competitor of the Company, subject to consultation with the Chairman of the Company and the approval of the Board. 
In line with this policy, T ony Hayward serves as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Glencore International plc for which 
he receives and retains fees of £158,800 per annum, and Julian Metherell is a Non-Executive Director of GASLOG LNG Shipping for 
which he receives and retains fees of $140,000 per annum.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors all have letters of appointment under which their appointments may be terminated by either party on three 
months’ notice. Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on leaving the Board.
Director
Date of letter of 
appointment
Notice period by 
Company or Director
Rodney Chase 26 May 2011 3 months
Jim Leng 26 May 2011 3 months
Sir Graham Hearne 26 May 2011 3 months
Mehmet Ö ütçü 12 November 2011 3 months
Mark Parris 2 November 2011 3 months
George Rose 26 May 2011 3 months
Nathaniel Rothschild 19 May 2011 3 months
Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams
1
2 November 2011 3 months
Murat Y azici
1
2 November 2011 3 months
Chakib Sbiti 11 May 2012 3 months
1.  Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams and Murat Y azici are required to resign without notice, with immediate effect and without compensation for loss of ofﬁce  
if the shareholder that nominated them ceases to be entitled to exercise or to control the exercise of 10% or more of the Company’s voting rights.   www.genelenergy.com 71
Directors’ Report: Governance
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors. The 
remuneration of the Chairman of the Board is set by the Remuneration Committee. 
Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed in December 2012 and following the review it was decided that the current fees  
should remain unchanged.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the Chairman’s fee with input from Deloitte. With the experience of over a full year in the  
role and the time and commitment which the Chairman had given in his position the Committee agreed that the Chairman’s fee  
would increase to £260,000 (2012: £225,000) with effect from 1 January 2013.
The table below sets out the fees payable to Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2013.
Role Fee
Non-Executive Chairman £260,000
Senior Independent Director No additional fee
Non-Executive Director basic fee £80,000
Additional fee for membership of two Board Committees £20,000
Additional fee for Committee chairmanship Audit Committee £20,000
Remuneration Committee £15,000
HSSE Committee £15,000
Political Risk Committee £20,000
Nomination Committee No additional fee
Audited Information
Directors’ emoluments for the period ended 31 December 2012
Salary /fees  
£’000
Bonus  
£’000
Beneﬁts  
£’000
T otal 2012  
£’000
T otal 2011  
£’000
Executive Directors
T ony Hayward 650 878 163 1,691 139
Julian Metherell 450 608 113 1,171 64
Non-Executive Directors 
Rodney Chase 225 – – 225 96
Jim Leng 115 – – 115 60
Sir Graham Hearne 115 – – 115 60
Mehmet Öütçü 100––10011
Mark Parris
1
 142––14211
George Rose 120 – – 120 60
Nathaniel Rothschild 80 – – 80 59
Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams 80 – – 80 9
Murat Y azici 80 – – 80 9
Chakib Sbiti
2
56–– 56 –
Total 2,213 1,486 276 3,975 578
1.  Mark Parris’s remuneration includes an additional annual payment of £30,000 per annum to reﬂect the additional time spent (and associated travel) on 
discharging speciﬁc duties under the Political Risk Committee’s terms of reference. 
2.  Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 19 April 2012.  72 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
Directors’ interests in shares
Share awards
Director
At 1 
January 
2012
Awarded 
during the 
year
Date of 
award
Vested/ 
Released 
during the 
year
Exercised 
during the 
year
Lapsed 
during the 
year
At 31 
December 
2012
Market 
price at 
date of 
award 
(pence)
Market 
price at 
date of 
release
Performance 
period end Expiry date
T ony Hayward 
PSP – 123,796 29.05.12 – – – 123,796 639.50 – 31.12.14 29.05.22
Julian Metherell 
PSP – 79,991 29.05.12 – – – 79,991 639.50 – 31.12.14 29.05.22
The highest and lowest closing prices during the period ended 31 December 2012 for the Company’s shares were 920 pence and  
595 pence respectively. The closing price of a Genel Energy plc share on 31 December 2012 was 780 pence.
Non-Executive Directors’ Share Matching Awards 
The Chairman and the Independent Non-Executive Directors (“Participating Non-Executive Directors”) were appointed to the Board on 
2 June 2011 prior to the Vallares PLC IPO and subscribed for placing shares at the placing price of £10 per share as part of the IPO. They 
all elected to use a combination of their own funds and all of their director fees in respect of the ﬁrst two years of appointment to pay 
the subscription price for these shares and accordingly are not eligible to receive a basic fee until 2 June 2013. They are eligible to 
receive additional Committee chairmanship fees where applicable. The Chairman of the Board will receive the difference between the 
current fee of £260,000 per annum and the original fee of £150,000 per annum. Should their directorships terminate within 21 months 
of their appointment (on or before 2 March), they will be required to repay any fees advanced which exceed the aggregate fees they 
were entitled to for the period of their appointment. 
On subscription for these shares, each Participating Non-Executive Director became eligible to subscribe for three Matching Shares  
for every ordinary share acquired, subject to vesting conditions, up to a maximum of 60,000 shares (90,000 shares in the case of the 
Chairman). The subscription price for each Matching Share following vesting is the nominal value of each share (£0.10 per share). The 
Matching Shares vested in 2012 in two tranches.
In November 2011, each Participating Non-Executive Director became entitled to exercise his right to subscribe for one-third of his 
Matching Shares. Subsequently, each participating Non-Executive Director exercised his right to subscribe for these shares on 2 April 
2012. On 2 June 2012, each Participating Non-Executive Director became entitled to exercise the remaining two-thirds of the Matching 
Shares and subsequently subscribed for those shares. The interests of the Participating Non-Executive Directors in Share Matching 
Awards are set out below.
Director
Number 
of Placing 
Shares 
acquired
Sub-
scription 
price per 
Placing 
Share
To t al 
Matching 
Shares 
granted
Market 
value of 
Matching 
Shares at 
grant 
date
Matching 
Shares 
(T ranche 
1)
Date from 
which 
exercisable 
(T ranche 1)
Matching 
Shares 
(T ranche 
2)
Date from 
which 
exercisable  
(T ranche 2)
Matching 
Shares as 
at 1 
January 
2012
Matching 
Shares 
exercised 
during the 
year
Exercise 
date of 
Matching 
Shares 
(T ranche 2)
Number of 
outstanding 
Matching 
Shares as at 
31 December 
2012
Rodney Chase 150,000 £10 90,000 £10 60,000 02.06.12 30,000 21.11.11 90,000 90,000
02.04.12 & 
22.06.12 –
Sir Graham 
Hearne 30,000 £10 60,000 £10 40,000 02.06.12 20,000 21.11.11 60,000 60,000
02.04.12 & 
22.06.12 –
Jim Leng 40,000 £10 60,000 £10 40,000 02.06.12 20,000 21.11.11 60,000 60,000
02.04.12 & 
22.06.12 –
George Rose 30,000 £10 60,000 £10 40,000 02.06.12 20,000 21.11.11 60,000 60,000
02.04.12 & 
22.06.12 –
Details of Directors’ interests in shares, including the Founder Securities acquired by T ony Hayward, Julian Metherell and Nathaniel 
Rothschild by reason of their status as Founders of the Company, are provided on pages 73 and 7 4.
Approved by the Board
Jim Leng, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 February 2013  www.genelenergy.com 73
Directors’ Report: Governance
Directors’ interests
Directors’ interests
The beneﬁcial interests of the Directors in the Company’s shares as at 31 December 2012 are shown in the table below. These exclude 
any interests in Founder Securities which are described in more detail on page 7 4.
Director
Ordinary  
shares as at 
31 December 2012
Ordinary  
shares as at 
31 December 2011
T ony Hayward 1,737 ,052 240,000
Julian Metherell 1,737 ,052 240,000
Rodney Chase 400,000 150,000
Jim Leng 100,000 40,000
Sir Graham Hearne 90,000 30,000
Mehmet Ö ütçü – –
Mark Parris 10,368 –
George Rose 90,000 30,000
Nathaniel Rothschild 22,119,970 7 ,400,000
Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams – –
Murat Y azici 4,985,783 4,985,783
Chakib Sbiti – –
On 20 January 2012 T ony Hayward, Julian Metherell and Nathaniel Rothschild acquired additional interests in 1,497 ,052, 1,497 ,052  
and 14,719,970 Ordinary Shares respectively as a result of the exchange of Founder Shares for Ordinary Shares in Genel Energy plc.
Rodney Chase, Jim Leng, Sir Graham Hearne and George Rose subscribed for their ﬁrst tranche of matching share awards on 2 April 
2012 and their second tranche of matching shares on 22 June 2012 delivering to each of them a further 60,000 Ordinary Shares  
(or 90,000 Ordinary Shares in the instance of Mr Chase).
There have been no changes to Directors’ share interests between 31 December 2012 and 27 February 2013.
Founder Shares and Founder Securities
Full details of the Founder Shares and Founder Securities are set out in the Prospectus dated 18 November 2011.
Founder Shares
Prior to the Standard Listing of Genel Energy plc, the Founders (including T ony Hayward, Julian Metherell and Nathaniel Rothschild) 
were issued B Shares in the Company’s subsidiary, Vallares Holding Company Limited, known as Founder Shares. These Founder  
Shares were put in place to reward the Founders for their initial capital commitment to the Company and for the completion of a 
suitable acquisition through exchange of such Founder Shares, within six months of completion of an acquisition, for 6.67% of the  
fully diluted Ordinary Shares of the Company. Alternatively, the Company had the option of purchasing the Founder Shares for an 
equivalent amount of cash. The investment by the Founders was risk capital and the Founders stood to suffer a loss of up to £20 million 
if a successful acquisition had not been executed. These Founder Shares have been treated as equity-settled share-based payments 
and are deemed to have vested immediately on the grant date as other conditions were attached to them. Following Completion of the 
Acquisition in November 2011, all of the Founder Shares were exchanged for Ordinary Shares in Genel Energy plc on 20 January 2012.  74 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Founder Securities
In addition to the Founder Shares, prior to Placing Admission, the Founders were also issued C shares in Vallares Holding Company 
Limited, known as Founder Securities. 
These Founder Securities were put in place to reward the Founders for growing the Company following an acquisition (so as to 
maximise value for holders of Ordinary Shares) by entitling the Founders to a share of the upside in the Company’s value once certain 
performance conditions have been satisﬁed. The performance conditions are summarised below.
If within four years of Completion of the acquisition (by November 2015) the closing price per Ordinary Share reaches for the period  
of any 20 trading days out of 30 successive days the higher of:
 a compound rate of return from completion of the acquisition of 8.50% on the share from the admission value of £10 and from date 
of the acquisition; or
 an increase of 25% of the issue price from the admission value of £10, adjusted for any matters which have an impact on the capital 
structure of the Company, 
the Founders have the right to exchange their Founder Securities for Ordinary Shares in the Company to a value of 15% of the increase 
in value from the placing admission value of £10. The Company has the option to settle by issuing shares or the equivalent in cash. 
The Founder Securities were deemed to have vested immediately as no performance conditions exist in relation to their vesting. 
However , there are performance conditions which need to be met prior to exchanging the Founder Securities for Ordinary Shares.
The Interests of the Founders in the Founder Securities as at 31 December 2012 are set out in the table below: 
Interests in Founder Securities
1
  
at 31 December 2012
No. of Founder 
Securities
Percentage of 
Issued Founder 
Securities
T ony Hayward 560,000 5.6%
Julian Metherell 560,000 5.6%
Nathaniel Rothschild 5,313,825 53.14%
Others 3,566,175 35.66%
1.  Elysion, Focus Investments and PRM held 3,000,000 Founder Securities as of 31 December 2012, representing the remaining 30% of the issued Founder 
Securities. If the market price of the Ordinary Shares exceeds £20 per share for 20 trading days out of any 30 successive trading days, the aggregate interests  
of the Sellers in the Founder Securities will be increased from 30% to 40% and the interests of the other persons interested in Founder Securities will be  
reduced accordingly.
There have been no changes to Directors’ interests in Founder Securities between 31 December 2012 and 27 February 2013.
Directors’ interests continued  www.genelenergy.com 75
Directors’ Report: Governance
Other statutory and  
regulatory information 
Principal Activities
The Company is the holding company for the Group. The Group 
is principally engaged in the business of oil and gas exploration.
Results and dividends
Ordinary activities after taxation of the Group for the period 
1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 amounted to a proﬁt 
of $75.9m. No interim dividend was paid and the Directors 
are not recommending a ﬁnal dividend for the period ended 
31 December 2012.
Subsequent events
Please see Note 28 to the ﬁnancial statements on page 106 of  
this Annual Report for details of subsequent events.
Share Capital
As at 27 February 2013, the Company had allotted and fully paid 
up share capital of 280,248,198 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 
with an aggregate nominal value of £28,024,819.80. These consist 
of 213,736,679 Voting Ordinary Shares representing 76.2% of 
the total share capital and 66,511,519 Suspended Voting Ordinary 
Shares representing 23.8% of the total share capital.
Founder Securities
As at 27 February 2013, the issued share capital of the Subsidiary 
consists of 263,656,841 A Ordinary Shares which are held by 
the Company and 10,000,000 C Ordinary Shares (the “Founder 
Securities”), the legal title to which is held by Vallares Capital GP 
Limited in its capacity as general partner of Vallares Capital LP , 
subject to the provisions of the amended and restated limited 
partnership agreement governing the relationship between the 
partners in Vallares Capital LP .
Please also refer to the section marked ‘Founder Securities’  
on page 7 4 for further details of these arrangements.
Resolutions in relation to share capital
At the AGM of the Company held on 22 May 2012, the 
shareholders granted the Company authority to make 
market purchases of up to 21,347 ,954 Voting Ordinary Shares 
(representing approximately 10% of the aggregate issued Voting 
Ordinary Share capital of the Company at 19 April 2012) and hold 
as treasury shares any Voting Ordinary Shares so purchased.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the 
forthcoming AGM and full details are included in the notice 
of AGM. In addition, the authorities granted on 16 June 2011 for: 
(a) the allotment of relevant securities; and (b) the disapplication 
of pre-emption rights for the purposes of the allotment of equity 
securities, for the purposes of or in connection with: (i) satisfying 
the Share Matching Award; or (ii) satisfying the rights of Founders 
to exchange Founder Shares and Founder Securities for Ordinary 
Shares, remain in place.
Rights Attaching to the Voting Ordinary Shares
Holders of Voting Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend,  
speak and vote at general meetings of the Company and  
may receive a dividend and on a winding-up may share  
in the assets of the Company.
Rights Attaching to the Suspended Voting  
Ordinary Shares
Except as set out below, the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares 
rank pari passu with the Voting Ordinary Shares (and any other 
suspended voting ordinary shares issued on substantially 
equivalent terms to the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares) in all 
respects and no action may be taken by the Company in relation 
to, or offer made by the Company to the holders of, the Voting 
Ordinary Shares (or any other suspended voting ordinary shares 
issued on substantially equivalent terms to the Suspended Voting 
Ordinary Shares) unless the same action is taken in respect of, 
or the same offer is made to the holders of, the Suspended  
Voting Ordinary Shares.
(a) Voting at General Meetings
A holder of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall be entitled to 
receive notice of, and to attend and speak at, any general meeting 
of the Company, but shall not be entitled to vote in respect of any 
Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares held, except on any resolution:
(i)  proposed by any person other than a Seller or any of its 
Afﬁliates or any person acting in concert with a Seller or  
any of its Afﬁliates, to wind up the Company or to present a 
petition to wind up the Company, other than for the purposes 
of a reconstruction or amalgamation whilst solvent;
(ii)  proposed by any person other than a Seller or any of its 
Afﬁliates or any person acting in concert with a Seller or 
any of its Afﬁliates, to appoint an administrator or to present 
a petition for the appointment of an administrator in relation 
to the Company, or to approve any arrangement with the 
Company’s creditors;
(iii)  proposed by the Board for the purposes of, or in connection 
with, any scheme of arrangement of the Company under 
the Jersey Companies Law (or its equivalent in any other 
jurisdiction) under which a body corporate (“Newco”) will 
acquire the Company and the holdings of the members of 
Newco following the scheme becoming effective will be 
substantially the same as the holdings of the members of  
the Company immediately before the scheme becoming 
effective; or
(iv)  proposed by any person other than a Seller or any of its 
Afﬁliates or any person acting in concert with a Seller or any 
of its Afﬁliates, in accordance with the Articles of Association, 
to vary, modify or abrogate any of the class rights attaching 
to the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares, 
in which case each holder of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares 
on a show of hands shall have one vote, and on a poll shall be 
entitled to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each 
Suspended Voting Ordinary Share held. For the purposes of any 
resolution of a type referred to in paragraphs (i) to (iii) above, 
the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall be treated for all 
purposes as being of the same class as the Voting Ordinary 
Shares (and any other suspended voting ordinary shares issued 
on substantially equivalent terms to the Suspended Voting 
Ordinary Shares) and no separate meeting or resolution of the 
holders of the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall be 
required to be convened or passed.
The rights attaching to the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares 
shall not be, and shall not be deemed to be, varied or abrogated in 
any way by the creation, allotment or issue of any Voting Ordinary 
Shares and the rights attaching to the Voting Ordinary Shares 
shall not be, and shall not be deemed to be, varied or abrogated  
in any way by the creation, allotment or issue of any Suspended 
Voting Ordinary Shares.
(b) Conversion
Upon a transfer of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares by any 
person to a person who is not a Seller or an Afﬁliate of any Seller , 
such Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares shall convert into Voting 
Ordinary Shares (on a one-for-one basis) automatically upon, 
and contemporaneously with, registration by the Company 
(or its Registrars) of the transfer in the register of members  
of the Company. 76 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Upon:
(i)  a transfer of Voting Ordinary Shares to a person who is  
not a Seller or an Afﬁliate of any Seller; or 
(ii)  any issue of further shares by the Company or conversion  
of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares as referred to below,  
as a result of which the Sellers’ Voting Shareholding is 
reduced below the Maximum Voting Percentage, 
such number of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares as, 
immediately following conversion, will result in the Sellers’ Voting 
Shareholding being equal to the Maximum Voting Percentage, 
shall convert into Voting Ordinary Shares (on a one-for-one basis) 
automatically upon, and contemporaneously with, registration by 
the Company (or its Registrars) of the transfer in the register of 
members of the Company or the issue of such further Shares or 
conversion of such Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares. In any 
such case, a proportionate number of each holder’s holding of 
Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares at the time of such transfer  
or issue or immediately following such conversion (other than  
any holder holding such Shares as an escrow agent pursuant to 
the terms of an agreement to which the Company and the Sellers, 
among others, are party, unless such person is the only holder  
of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares) shall be so converted  
(in each case rounded up or down to the nearest whole number 
as determined by any Director in his absolute discretion).
(c) Conversion at the instance of a Seller (or any Afﬁliate)
At any time, a Seller (or any of its Afﬁliates) shall be entitled (but 
shall not be bound) to require the Company to convert Suspended 
Voting Ordinary Shares held by such Seller (or such Afﬁliate) into 
Voting Ordinary Shares, on a one-for-one basis, so long as such 
conversion does not result in the Sellers’ Voting Shareholding 
being more than the Maximum Voting Percentage.
(d) Conversion following a pre-emptive offer
If the Company makes an offer of Suspended Voting Ordinary 
Shares in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of 
Association, it shall be entitled to convert into Voting Ordinary 
Shares, on a one for-one basis, any Suspended Voting Ordinary 
Shares issued to persons other than the Sellers or any of their 
respective Afﬁliates in connection with such offer .
(e) General
The Company shall use best endeavours to procure that the 
Voting Ordinary Shares arising on conversion of the Suspended 
Voting Ordinary Shares are admitted to the Ofﬁcial List and  
to trading on the London Stock Exchange’s market for  
listed securities.
No admission to listing or admission to trading shall be sought 
for the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares whilst they remain 
Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares.
Restrictions on transfer of shares
There are no speciﬁc restrictions on the transfer of shares in the 
Company other than (i) as set out in the Articles of Association 
(ii) pursuant to the Company’s share dealing code (iii) as imposed 
from time to time by law and regulation and (iv) as set out in the 
Merger Agreement. Save as set out in the Merger Agreement and 
the Relationship Agreement, the Company is not aware of any 
agreements between holders of the Company’s shares that may 
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting 
rights. No person has any special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares are fully paid. 
Employee share schemes
Details of the Company’s employee share schemes are set  
out on pages 69 and 70 of this Annual Report.
Articles of Association of the Company
Under the Jersey Companies Law, the capacity of a Jersey 
company is not limited by anything contained in its memorandum 
or Articles of Association. Accordingly, the memorandum  
of association of a Jersey company does not contain an  
objects clause. 
Certain provisions have been incorporated into the Articles  
of Association to enshrine rights that are not conferred by  
the Jersey Companies Law, but which the Company believes 
shareholders would expect to see in a company listed on  
the London Stock Exchange.
Provisions in the Articles of Association also require shareholders 
to make disclosures pursuant to Chapter 5 of the Disclosure  
and Transparency Rules, and require the Directors to comply  
with Chapter 3 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and 
themselves to require any persons discharging managerial 
responsibilities (within the meaning ascribed in the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules) in relation to the Company who are not 
Directors to do so, and to use reasonable endeavours to procure 
that their own and such persons’ connected persons do so. 
The Articles of Association may be amended by a special 
resolution of the shareholders.
Appointment and replacement of Directors
The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors  
are set out in the Articles of Association. Certain additional 
provisions relating to the appointment of Directors are included  
in a relationship agreement between the Company and Genel 
Holdings and Focus Investments. 
Directors
The biographical details of the Directors of the Company at the 
date of this Annual Report are set out on pages 54 to 55 of this 
Annual Report. Details of Directors’ service agreements and 
letters of appointment are set out on page 70. Details of the 
Directors’ interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company  
and in the Group’s long-term incentive and other share option 
schemes are set out on pages 69 to 70 of this Annual Report in  
the Remuneration Report.
In line with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
all Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to 
be held on 22 April 2013.
Service contracts and letters of appointment for all Directors are 
available for inspection at the registered ofﬁce of the Company 
and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Subject to applicable law and the Articles of Association and to 
any directions given by special resolution, the business of the 
Company will be managed by the Board, which may exercise all 
the powers of the Company.
Directors’ indemnities
As at the date of this Annual Report, indemnities granted by  
the Company to the Directors are in force to the extent permitted 
under Jersey law. The Company also maintains directors’  
and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance cover , the level of which is 
reviewed annually. 
Related party transactions
Details of transactions with Directors and ofﬁcers are set out in 
Note 26 to the ﬁnancial statements on page 106 of this Annual 
Report. There were no other related party transactions to which 
the Company was a party during the period.
Other statutory and regulatory information continued  www.genelenergy.com 77
Directors’ Report: Governance
Agreements with substantial shareholders
Merger Agreement
On 7 September 2011, the Company, Elysion Energy Holding  
B. V . (formerly Genel Energy Holdings B. V .), Focus Investments  
and PRM entered into the Merger Agreement pursuant to which 
the Company agreed to purchase, and the Sellers agreed to  
sell, the entire issued ordinary share capital of Genel Energy 
International Limited in consideration for the issue of 130,632,522 
Ordinary Shares (the “Consideration Shares”). The Merger 
Agreement was amended by a deed of amendment entered  
into on 29 October 2011.
Due to the size of the interest the Sellers have in the  
Company following completion, the Sellers agreed that part of the 
consideration they received under the Merger Agreement would 
be in the form of Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares in order to 
ensure that the Sellers’ aggregate holding of Voting Ordinary 
Shares does not exceed the Maximum Voting Percentage. The 
Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares will automatically convert into 
Voting Ordinary Shares in the event of further equity issues by 
the Company, provided that, following conversion, the Sellers’ 
holding of Voting Ordinary Shares does not exceed the Maximum 
Voting Percentage.
In connection with the acquisition, Elysion and PRM each agreed 
subject to certain exceptions, that they shall not dispose of any  
of the Ordinary Shares issued to them for a period of 24 months 
(November 2013) following completion. 
Notwithstanding any other restriction or obligation under the 
Merger Agreement, PRM is permitted to distribute all Ordinary 
Shares owned by it to its shareholders in proportion to the shares 
in PRM held by such shareholders. Such distribution shall be 
subject to the relevant PRM shareholders agreeing to be bound 
by the terms of the Merger Agreement.
Relationship Agreement
On 7 September 2011, the Company, Elysion and Focus 
Investments entered into a relationship agreement which  
will regulate the ongoing relationship between Elysion, Focus 
Investments and the Company (the “Relationship Agreement”).
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to  
ensure that the Company is capable at all times of carrying on  
its business independently of Elysion and Focus Investments  
(and their respective Associates) and that all transactions  
and relationships between the Company, Elysion and Focus 
Investments are at arm’s length and on a normal commercial 
basis. For the purposes of the Relationship Agreement, the  
term “ Associate” includes, in the case of Elysion, PRM and 
Mehmet Sepil and, in the case of Focus Investments, Mehmet  
Emin Karamehmet.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate upon the earlier of 
(i) the Company ceasing to have any of its Ordinary Shares listed 
on the Ofﬁcial List and admitted to trading on the London Stock 
Exchange’s main market for listed securities, and (ii) Elysion and 
Focus Investments together with their respective Associates 
ceasing between them to be entitled to exercise, or control the 
exercise of, in aggregate 10% or more of the Voting Rights.
Pursuant to the terms of the Relationship Agreement, it has been 
agreed that, among other things:
(a)  for so long as Elysion and Focus Investments and their 
respective Associates are, between them, entitled to exercise 
or control the exercise of, in aggregate, 10% or more of the 
Voting Rights, each of Elysion and Focus Investments will, and 
will procure so far as it is reasonably able to do so, that each 
of its Associates will:
 (i)  conduct all transactions and relationships with any 
member of the Group, and ensure that all arrangements 
and agreements between either of them or any of their 
Associates and the Company or any other member of 
the Group are entered into, on arm’s length terms and 
on a normal commercial basis;
 (ii)  not take any action which precludes or inhibits any 
member of the Group from carrying on its business 
independently of each of Elysion and Focus Investments 
and their respective Associates;
 (iii)  not exercise any of its Voting Rights to procure any 
amendment to the Articles of Association which would 
be inconsistent with or breach any provision of the 
Relationship Agreement;
 (iv)  if and for so long as paragraph 11.1.7R(3) of the Listing 
Rules applies to the Company, abstain from voting on any 
resolution required by paragraph 11.1.7R(3) of the Listing 
Rules to approve a “related party transaction” (as deﬁned 
in paragraph 11.1.5R of the Listing Rules) involving Elysion 
or Focus Investments or any of their Associates as the 
related party;
 (v)  comply with all provisions of the Listing Rules, the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the requirements of 
the London Stock Exchange and the FSMA that apply to  
it in connection with the Company;
 (vi)  not cause or authorise to be done anything which would 
prejudice either the Company’s status as a listed company 
or its suitability for listing, or listing on the Premium 
Listing segment of the Ofﬁcial List; and
 (vii)  exercise all of its Voting Rights in a manner consistent 
with the intention that at all times at least half of the 
Directors (excluding the Chairman) are Independent 
Non-Executives and that certain committees of the Board 
shall comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code;
(b)  provided that Focus Investments and its Associates are 
entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more 
of the Voting Rights, Focus Investments shall be entitled to 
nominate for appointment to the Board one Director by  
giving notice to the Company;
(c)  provided that Elysion and its Associates are entitled to 
exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the Voting 
Rights, Elysion shall be entitled to nominate for appointment 
to the Board one Director by giving notice to the Company;
(d)  for as long as Elysion and Focus Investments and their 
respective Associates are between them entitled to exercise 
or control the exercise of 10% or more of the Voting Rights, 
but provided neither Elysion nor Focus Investments (in each 
case, together with its Associates) is entitled to exercise or 
control the exercise of 10% or more of the Voting Rights, 
Elysion and Focus Investments will, acting jointly, be entitled 
to nominate for appointment to the Board one Director  
by giving notice to the Company;
(e)  provided that Elysion and its Associates are between them 
entitled to exercise or to control the exercise of, in aggregate, 
10% or more of the Voting Rights, Mehmet Sepil will have  
the title of President; 78 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Other statutory and regulatory information continued
(f) for so long as:
 (i)  Elysion, Focus Investments and their respective 
Associates are between them entitled to exercise or to 
control the exercise of, in aggregate, 20% or more of the 
Voting Rights; and
 (ii)  the Voting Ordinary Shares are admitted to the Standard 
Listing segment of the Ofﬁcial List, if the Group is 
proposing (with Board approval) to enter into any 
transaction for the acquisition or disposal of assets where 
the aggregate consideration to be paid or received by the 
Group in respect of such transaction would exceed US$1.5 
billion (or its equivalent in any other currency at the 
prevailing exchange rates), unless Elysion and Focus 
Investments otherwise give their prior written consent, 
the Board will convene a general meeting of shareholders 
in order to obtain prior approval for the proposed 
transaction from the Company’s shareholders and ensure 
that any agreement effecting the proposed transaction 
is conditional on that approval being obtained; and
(g)  for so long as Elysion or Focus Investments together with 
their respective Associates are between them entitled 
to exercise or to control the exercise of, in aggregate, 10% 
or more of the Voting Rights, subject to compliance by the 
Company with its legal and regulatory obligations, the 
Company shall procure that Elysion and Focus Investments 
are provided with ﬁnancial and other information as is 
necessary or reasonably required by them for the purposes  
of their accounting or ﬁnancial control requirements or to 
comply with their legal or tax obligations as a shareholder  
of the Company.
The rights described at (b)–(g) above will terminate and cease 
to be of any effect:
 (i)  in the case of Elysion, in the event that (or any Afﬁliate 
(as deﬁned in the Merger Agreement) of Elysion that 
holds any Ordinary Shares) ceases to be controlled  
by Mehmet Sepil; or
 (ii)  in the case of Focus Investments, in the event that  
Focus Investments (or any Afﬁliate (as deﬁned in the 
Merger Agreement) of Focus Investments that holds  
any Ordinary Shares) ceases to be controlled by 
 Mehmet Emin Karamehmet.
In addition, the rights of Elysion under the Relationship 
Agreement (subject to certain exceptions) shall terminate and 
cease to be of any effect in the event that Mehmet Sepil ceases 
to beneﬁcially own (directly or indirectly through other entities 
controlled by Mehmet Sepil) Ordinary Shares carrying, 
in aggregate, 10% or more of the Voting Rights.
The initial Directors nominated by Elysion and Focus Investments 
pursuant to the Relationship Agreement are Murat Y azici 
(Non-Executive Director) and Gulsun Nazli Karamehmet Williams 
(Non-Executive Director), respectively. 
Corporate responsibility
The Group is fully committed to high standards of environmental, 
health and safety management. The report on the Group’s 
corporate responsibility programme, together with an outline  
of the Group’s involvement in the community, is set out on pages 
44 to 47 of this Annual Report.
Employment policies
We are an equal opportunities employer and base all decisions 
on individual ability regardless of race, religion, gender , sexual 
orientation, age or disability. Applications for employment by 
disabled persons will always be considered, having regard to their 
particular aptitudes and abilities. Should any employee become 
disabled, every practical effort is made to provide continued 
employment. Depending on their skills and abilities, they will enjoy 
the same career prospects and scope for realising their potential 
as other employees. Appropriate training will be arranged, 
including retraining for alternative work for those who become 
disabled, to promote their career development within the Group. 
Substantial shareholdings 
As at 27 February 2013, the Company had been notiﬁed of the 
following signiﬁcant holdings (being 5% or more of the voting 
rights in the Company) in the Company’s Ordinary Share capital, 
which are set out below.
Name 
Number of 
Ordinary 
Shares
Number of 
Voting 
Ordinary 
Shares
Number of 
Suspended 
Voting 
Ordinary 
Shares
Elysion Energy 
Holding B. V . 39,189,757 28,097 ,823 11,091,934
Focus Investments 
Limited 73,389,351 36,023,180 37 ,366,171
Petroleum 
Resources 
Management N. V . 18,053,414 – 18,053,414
Vallares Capital GP 
Limited 17,119,970 17,119,970 –
Creditors’ payment policy
It is Company and Group policy to settle all debts with creditors 
on a timely basis and in accordance with the terms of credit 
agreed with each supplier . 
The Company had no trade creditors outstanding at 
31 December 2012.
Charitable and political donations
No charitable donations were made by any Group company 
during the year (2011: nil).
No political donations were made, and nor was any political 
expenditure incurred, by any Group company in the year  
ending 31 December 2012 (2011: nil).
Auditors and disclosure of relevant audit information
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant information 
of which the Company’s auditor is unaware. Each Director has 
taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to 
make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information 
and to establish that PwC are aware of that information.
Following a review of the independence and effectiveness of  
the Auditor , a resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers 
LLP as the Company’s auditor will be proposed at the AGM. 
AGM
Y our attention is drawn to the Notice of AGM enclosed with  
this report, which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at  
the forthcoming AGM. The meeting will be held at the Soﬁtel 
St James’s, 6 Waterloo Place, London SW1Y 4AN UK on  
22 April 2013.
By Order of the Board
T ony Hayward, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  www.genelenergy.com 79
Directors’ Report: Governance
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, 
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Group Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. 
The Directors prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial  
year . The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare 
the Group Financial Statements under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. 
The Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are 
satisﬁed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs 
of the Group and of the proﬁt or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Financial Statements, International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that Directors:
 properly select and apply accounting policies;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a  
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information;
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
speciﬁc requirements in IFRS is insufﬁcient to enable users  
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s ﬁnancial position and 
ﬁnancial performance; and 
 make an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as  
a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that are sufﬁcient to show and explain the Group’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any  
time the ﬁnancial position of the Group.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and ﬁnancial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in Jersey or the United Kingdom 
governing the preparation and dissemination of ﬁnancial 
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ responsibility statement
We conﬁrm that to the best of our knowledge:
 the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt or loss of the Group  
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken  
as a whole; and
 the management report, which is incorporated into the 
Directors’ Report, includes a fair review of the development  
and performance of the business and the position of the  
Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation  
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal 
risks and uncertainties that they face.
By Order of the Board
T ony Hayward, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  80 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Independent Auditors’ Report to 
the Members of Genel Energy plc 
 We have audited the consolidated financial statements 
(“financial statements”) of Genel Energy plc for the year 
ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes  
in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the 
related notes. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted  
by the European Union. 
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors 
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement set out on page 79, the Directors are responsible 
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility 
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to 
comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and 
only for the Company’s members as a body in accordance 
with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 and for 
no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or 
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other 
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it 
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent 
in writing. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts  
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give 
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free 
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or 
error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 
policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 
the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial 
statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-
financial information in the Genel Energy plc Annual Report 
and Accounts 2012 to identify material inconsistencies with 
the audited financial statements. If we become aware of  
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies  
we consider the implications for our report. 
 
Opinion on financial statements 
In our opinion the financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2012 and of the Group’s profit and cash 
flows for the year then ended;  
• have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted  
by the European Union; and 
• have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. 
Opinion on other matters 
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report 
for the financial period for which financial statements are 
prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report  
by exception 
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the 
information and explanations we require for our audit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nicholas Blackwood
27 February 2013 
For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors 
London, United Kingdom  Financial Statements
 www.genelenergy.com 81
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income 
For the period ended 31 December 
   
Notes 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Revenue  2 333.4  24.0
      
Cost of sales  3 (208.4)  (21.4)
     
Gross profit   125.0  2.6
     
Exploration expense  4 (29.7)  —
Other operating costs  5 (35.0)  (65.1)
     
Operating profit / (loss)   60.3  (62.5)
     
Finance income  8 15.6  4.8
     
Profit / (loss) before income tax   75.9  (57.7)
     
Income tax expense  9 —  —
     
Profit / (loss) for the period    75.9  (57.7)
     
Other comprehensive items   —  —
     
Total comprehensive profit / (loss) for the period    75.9  (57.7)
     
Attributable to:     
Equity holders of the Company   75.9  (57.7)
   75.9  (57.7)
     
Earnings per Ordinary Share attributable to the ordinary equity holders  
of the Company     
Basic earnings per share — cents per share  10 27.18  (72.34)
Diluted earnings per share — cents per share  10 27.12  (72.34)
Results are from continuing operations. 
  82 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated balance sheet 
At 31 December 
  
Notes
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Assets    
Non-current assets    
Intangible assets  11 1,172.7  227.7
Property, plant and equipment  12 1,932.8  1,848.4
    
  3,105.5  2,076.1
Current assets    
Inventories  13 0.1  0.1
Trade and other receivables  14 49.1  14.1
Cash and cash equivalents  15 1,001.3  1,912.9
  1,050.5  1,927.1
Total assets  4,156.0  4,003.2
    
Liabilities    
Non-current liabilities    
Trade and other payables  16 (5.0)  —
Deferred income  17 (61.6)  (68.8)
Provisions   18 (13.2)  (9.4)
  (79.8)  (78.2)
Current liabilities    
Trade and other payables  16 (149.0)  (77.8)
Deferred income  17 (7.1)  (5.4)
  (156.1)  (83.2)
Total liabilities  (235.9)  (161.4)
    
    
Net assets  3,920.1  3,841.8
    
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent    
Share capital  21 43.8  40.9
Share premium account  4,074.2  3,824.2
Retained earnings  (205.7)  (54.6)
Total shareholders’ equity  3,912.3  3,810.5
    
Non-controlling interest   7.8  31.3
    
Total equity   3,920.1  3,841.8
These consolidated financial statements on pages 81 to 106 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on  
27 February 2012 and were signed on its behalf by: 
 
 
 
 
Tony Hayward, Chief Executive Officer  Julian Metherell, Chief Financial Officer
   www.genelenergy.com 83
Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of  
changes in equity 
For the period ended 31 December 
  
Share
capital
2012
$m
Share
premium
2012
$m
Retained
earnings
2012
$m
Total 
attributable 
 to equity 
holders 
2012 
$m 
 
Non-
controlling 
interest
2012
$m
Total
equity
2012
$m  Notes 
Balance at 1 January 2012  40.9 3,824.2 (54.6) 3,810.5  31.3 3,841.8
    
Comprehensive profit for the period  — — 75.9 75.9  — 75.9
Transactions with shareholders:    
Issue of Founder Shares  21 2.9 250.0 (229.4) 23.5  (23.5) —
Share-based payment transactions   — — 3.6 3.6  — 3.6
Purchase of own shares for ESOP
1 
 — — (1.2) (1.2)  — (1.2)
    
Balance at 31 December 2012  43.8 4,074.2 (205.7) 3,912.3  7.8 3,920.1
1. During the year the Company purchased shares in the market to be used to satisfy the Company’s commitments under various Employee Share Plans. 
 
  
Share
capital
2011
$m
Share
premium
2011
$m
Retained
earnings
2011
$m
Total 
attributable 
 to equity 
holders 
2011 
$m 
 
Non-
controlling 
interest
2011
$m
Total
equity
2011
$m  Notes 
Balance at 1 April 2011  — — — —  — —
    
Comprehensive loss for the period  — — (57.7) (57.7)  — (57.7)
Transactions with shareholders:    
Shares issued on Initial Public Offer  20.5 2,022.7 — 2,043.2  — 2,043.2
Shares issued on acquisition
1
  20.4 1,843.1 — 1,863.5  — 1,863.5
Costs associated with admission to  
the London Stock Exchange
2
  — (41.6) — (41.6)  — (41.6)
Issue of Founder Shares  — — — —  23.5 23.5
Issue of Founder Securities   — — — —  7.8 7.8
Share-based payment transactions   — — 3.1 3.1  — 3.1
    
Balance at 31 December 2011  40.9 3,824.2 (54.6) 3,810.5  31.3 3,841.8
1. Shares issued on the acquisition of Genel Energy International Limited. 
2. Legal, banking, accounting costs associated with the initial share issue. 
  84 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Consolidated cash flow statement 
For the period ended 31 December 
 
Notes
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Cash flows from operating activities    
Cash generated from operations  23 293.9  (27.9)
Interest received  13.1  4.5
    
Net cash from operating activities  307.0  (23.4)
    
Cash flows from investing activities    
Purchase of property, plant and equipment  (76.6)  (6.1)
Purchase of intangible assets  (156.9)  (10.7)
Acquisition of subsidiary net of cash acquired  24 (984.0)  75.9
    
Net cash from investing activities  (1,217.5)  59.1
    
Cash flows from financing activities    
Net proceeds from the issue of share capital  0.1  2,032.9
Purchase of ESOP shares   (1.2)  —
Repayment of acquired subsidiary loans  —  (155.7)
    
Net cash from financing activities  (1.1)  1,877.2
    
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents  (911.6)  1,912.9
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January / incorporation  1,912.9  —
    
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December  15 1,001.3  1,912.9
The Company’s acquisition of GEIL in 2011 was funded by means of an issue of new Ordinary Shares valued at $1,863.5 million 
(130,632,522 shares at 912 pence per share) of Genel Energy plc. 
   www.genelenergy.com 85
Financial Statements
Notes to the consolidated  
financial statements 
 
 
 
 
Summary of significant 
accounting policies 
Basis of preparation 
The consolidated financial statements of Genel Energy Plc 
(“the Group”) have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted  
by the European Union (“IFRS“) and are prepared under the 
historical cost convention. The Company was incorporated  
in April 2011 and consequently the comparative period is 9 
months. The significant accounting policies are set out below 
and have been consistently applied throughout the period. 
Items included in the financial information of each of the 
Group‘s entities are measured using the currency of the 
primary economic environment in which the entity operates 
(“the functional currency“). The consolidated financial 
statements are presented in US dollars to the nearest  
million ($m) rounded to one decimal place, except where 
otherwise indicated.  
For explanation of the key judgements and estimates made  
by management in applying the Group’s accounting policies, 
refer to significant accounting estimates and judgement on 
pages 89 and 90. 
Going concern 
At the time of approving the consolidated financial 
statements, the Directors have a reasonable expectation  
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable future and 
therefore its consolidated financial statements have  
been prepared on a going concern basis. 
Foreign currency 
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the 
functional currency of the relevant entity using the  
exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions  
or at the balance sheet date where items are re-measured. 
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the 
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at 
period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the 
income statement within finance income or finance costs, 
except when deferred in other comprehensive income  
as qualifying cash flow hedges or qualifying net  
investment hedges. 
Consolidation  
The consolidated financial statements consolidate  
the Company and its subsidiaries and proportionately  
consolidate its interest in joint ventures.  
Subsidiaries 
Subsidiaries are the entities that the Group has the power  
to govern the financial and operating policies, generally 
accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the 
voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting 
rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are 
considered when assessing whether the Group controls 
another entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from  
the date on which control is transferred to the Group.  
They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. 
Transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions 
between Group companies are eliminated. 
Joint ventures 
The majority of the Group’s exploration, development  
and production activities are conducted through joint 
ventures with partners under Joint Operating Agreements 
(“JOAs”) which are contractual arrangements that  
establish shared control. 
Jointly-controlled entities are those entities where the 
sharing of control is established by contractual agreement 
and decisions about the relevant activities require the 
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The Group 
reports its interests in jointly-controlled entities using the 
proportionate consolidation method of accounting. The 
Group’s proportionate share of the assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses of jointly-controlled entities is included within 
the equivalent items in the consolidated financial information 
on a line-by-line basis. 
Jointly-controlled operations are joint arrangements  
whereby the parties that have joint control of the 
arrangement have rights to the gross assets and liabilities of 
the arrangement and where no separate legal entity exists. 
Control is established through contractual agreement and 
decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous 
consent of the parties sharing control. The Group’s 
proportionate share of the assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses of jointly controlled operations are included within 
the equivalent items in the consolidated financial information 
on a line-by-line basis. 
Non-controlling interest  
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated 
subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity 
therein. Non-controlling interests consist of the amount  
of those interests at the date of the original business 
combination (see below) and the non-controlling share  
of changes in equity since the date of the combination.  
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interest in excess  
of the non-controlling interest’s share in the subsidiary’s 
equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except 
to the extent that the non-controlling interest has a binding 
obligation and is able to make an additional investment to 
cover the losses. 
Acquisitions 
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting  
to account for business combinations. Identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in  
a business combination are measured at their fair values at 
the acquisition date. The Group recognises any non-
controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value at time of 
recognition or at the non-controlling interest‘s proportionate 
share of net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed  
as incurred. 
Farm-in/farm-out  
Farm-out transactions relate to the relinquishment of an 
interest in oil and gas assets in return for services rendered 
by a third party or where a third party agrees to pay a portion 
of the Group’s share of the development costs (“cost-carry“). 
Farm-in transactions relate to the acquisition by the Group of 
an interest in oil and gas assets in return for services 
rendered or cost-carry provided by the Group. 
Note 
1  86 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
 
 
Summary of significant 
accounting policies continued 
Farm-in/farm-out transactions undertaken in the 
development or production phase of an oil and gas asset are 
accounted for as an acquisition or disposal of oil and gas 
assets. The consideration given is measured as the fair value 
of the services rendered or cost-carry provided and any gain 
or loss arising on the farm-in/farm-out is recognised in the 
statement of comprehensive income. A profit is recognised 
for any consideration received in the form of cash to the 
extent that the cash receipt exceeds the carrying value of 
the associated asset. 
Farm-in/farm-out transactions undertaken in the exploration 
phase of an oil and gas asset are accounted for on a no 
gain/no loss basis due to inherent uncertainties in the 
exploration phase and associated difficulties in determining 
fair values reliably prior to the determination of commercially 
recoverable proved reserves. 
Exploration and evaluation assets are recognised in respect 
of cost-carries where the Company is entitled to recover  
the carried costs for its own account through the PSC 
reimbursement mechanism. The recognition of income  
arising from the recognition of exploration and evaluation 
assets in this way is deferred until the asset reaches the 
production phase. 
Where cost-carries are related to the forgiveness of other 
obligations, such as a royalty granted by the third party as 
part of the farm-in arrangement, the associated income is 
recognised in a manner consistent with the related obligation. 
Segmental reporting  
IFRS 8 requires the Group to disclose information about  
its business segments and the geographic areas in which  
it operates. It requires identification of business segments  
on the basis of internal reports that are regularly reviewed  
by the entity’s Chief Operating Decision Maker in order  
to allocate resources to the segment and assess its 
performance. The Group has two reportable business 
segments: Kurdistan and Africa. These are described  
in note 2.  
Intangible assets  
Exploration assets 
Exploration assets are explained under “Oil and gas assets“ 
in property, plant and equipment below. 
Other intangible assets 
Other intangible assets (predominately software) that are 
acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated 
amortisation and less accumulated impairment losses. 
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a 
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible 
assets from the date they are available for use, unless such 
lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful 
life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at 
each balance sheet date.  
Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment comprises the Group’s tangible 
oil and gas assets together with leasehold improvements  
and other assets and is carried at cost, less any accumulated 
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost 
includes purchase price and construction costs together  
with borrowing costs where applicable for qualifying assets. 
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets  
are available for their intended use. 
Oil and gas assets 
Costs incurred prior to obtaining legal rights to explore  
are expensed immediately to the income statement. 
Exploration, appraisal and development expenditure is 
accounted for under the “successful efforts“ method. Under 
the successful efforts method only costs that relate directly 
to the discovery and development of specific oil and gas 
reserves are capitalised as exploration and evaluation assets 
within intangible assets. Costs of activity that do not identify 
oil and gas reserves are expensed. 
All lease and licence acquisition costs, geological and 
geophysical costs and other direct costs of exploration, 
evaluation and development are capitalised as intangible 
assets or property, plant and equipment according to their 
nature. Intangible assets comprise costs relating to the 
exploration and evaluation of properties which the Directors 
consider to be unevaluated until reserves are appraised as 
commercially viable, at which time, following an impairment 
review, they are transferred to property, plant and equipment 
and reclassified as development assets. Where properties are 
appraised to have no commercial value, the associated costs 
are expensed as an impairment loss in the period in which  
the determination is made. 
Development expenditure on producing assets is  
accounted for in accordance with IAS 16, “Property, plant 
and equipment“.  
Assets are depreciated once they are available for use  
and are depleted on a field-by-field basis using the unit of 
production method. The depreciation is calculated according 
to the Company’s share of production compared to its 
entitlement to commercial proved and probable reserves 
under the terms of the relevant PSC. The calculation of the 
“unit of production“ depreciation takes account of estimated 
future development costs and is based on current period-end 
unescalated price levels. Changes to depreciation rates as  
a result of changes in reserve quantities and estimates of 
future development expenditure are reflected prospectively. 
The contractors’ entitlement to annual production is 
determined based on the provisions of the PSC. 
In order to determine the depletion, depreciation and 
amortisation charge for the period, the Group estimates its 
net share of production based on interpretation of the PSC 
terms. The interpretation of the PSC terms is subjective and 
management’s interpretation may differ from that ultimately 
determined by the KRG. 
Note 
1   www.genelenergy.com 87
Financial Statements
 
 
Other assets  
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost, less 
estimated residual value, over the estimated useful lives  
of the assets using the straight-line method: 
Motor vehicles 5 years 
Computer equipment 3 years 
Other equipment  3-5 years 
The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment 
and their residual values are reviewed on an annual basis  
and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted  
for prospectively. The gain or loss arising on the disposal  
or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference 
between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of  
the asset and is recognised in the income statement for  
the relevant period. 
Subsequent costs 
The cost of replacing part of an item of property and 
equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item  
if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied 
within the part will flow to the Group, and its cost can be 
measured reliably. The net book value of the replaced  
part is expensed. The costs of the day-to-day servicing  
and maintenance of property, plant and equipment are  
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. 
Leases 
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards 
of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as 
operating leases. Payments made under operating leases  
(net of any incentives received from the lessor) are charged 
to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the 
period of the lease. 
Inventories 
Crude oil inventory is measured at the lower of cost and net 
realisable value. 
Crude oil underlifts and overlifts arise on differences in 
quantities between the Group’s entitlement to production  
and the actual production either sold or held as inventory  
by the Group. Underlifts are recognised where actual 
production either sold or held as inventory is lower than the 
Company’s entitlement. Overlift is recognised where the 
Company has sold or held inventory greater than its 
entitlement at a period end. 
Underlifts and overlifts relative to actual entitlement to  
crude oil production in a period are measured at market  
value and recorded as a receivable and payable, respectively. 
The movement within an accounting period is adjusted in  
the income statement, such that the profit is recognised  
on a contractual entitlement basis. 
Financial assets and liabilities 
Classification 
The Company assesses the classification of its financial  
assets on initial recognition as either at fair value through 
profit and loss, loans and receivables; or available for sale. 
Recognition and measurement 
Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are 
recognised at fair value on the trade-date — the date on  
which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.  
Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at  
amortised cost using the effective interest method.  
Trade and other receivables 
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for  
crude oil sales, sales of gas or services performed in the 
ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in one 
year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business 
if longer), they are classified as current assets. If not, they  
are presented as non-current assets. 
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method, less provision for impairment. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash 
equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with 
banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original 
maturities of three months or less and includes the Group’s 
share of cash held in joint operating ventures. 
Interest-bearing borrowings 
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of 
transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently 
carried at amortised cost; any difference between the 
proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption  
value is recognised in the income statement over the period 
of the borrowings using the effective interest method. 
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are 
recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that 
it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn 
down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down 
occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable 
that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee  
is capitalised as a pre-payment for liquidity services and 
amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates. 
Borrowings are presented as long or short-term based on the 
maturity of the respective borrowings in accordance with the 
loan or other agreement. Borrowings with maturities of less 
than twelve months are classified as short-term. Amounts are 
classified as long-term where maturity is greater than twelve 
months. Where no objective evidence of maturity exists, 
related amounts are classified as short-term. 
Trade and other payables 
Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair  
value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured  
at amortised cost using the effective interest method.  88 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
 
 
Summary of significant 
accounting policies continued 
Provisions 
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present 
obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that 
the Group will be required to settle that obligation.  
Provisions are measured at management’s best estimate of 
the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the 
balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value 
where the effect is material. 
Decommissioning 
Provision is made for the cost of decommissioning assets  
at the time when the obligation to decommission arises.  
Such provision represents the estimated discounted liability 
for costs which are expected to be incurred in removing 
production facilities and site restoration at the end of the 
producing life of each field. A corresponding item of property, 
plant and equipment is also created at an amount equal to 
the provision. This is subsequently depreciated as part of the 
capital costs of the production facilities. Any change in the 
present value of the estimated expenditure attributable to 
changes in the estimates of the cash flow or the current 
estimate of the discount rate used are reflected as an 
adjustment to the provision and the property, plant and 
equipment. The unwinding of the discount is recognised  
as interest payable in the income statement. 
Offsetting  
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net  
amount reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally 
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there 
is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset  
and settle the liability simultaneously. 
Impairment  
Property, plant and equipment 
The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets  
are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether 
there is any indication of impairment.  
 
If any such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable 
amount is estimated. 
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit  
is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs  
to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax 
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of  
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. 
Key assumptions in the discounted cash flows used to assess 
the fair value of property, plant and equipment are oil price, 
reserves and resources, operating expenditure and 
government deductions from revenue. 
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped 
together into the smallest group of assets that generates 
cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent 
of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the 
“cash generating unit“). 
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount  
of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its  
recoverable amount. 
Financial assets 
A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to 
determine whether there is any objective evidence that it  
is impaired. A financial asset is considered to be impaired if 
objective evidence indicates that one or more events have 
had a negative effect on the estimate of future cash flows  
of that asset. 
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured 
at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between  
its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated 
future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest 
rate. All impairment losses are recognised as an expense  
in the income statement. 
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related 
objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss 
was recognised.  
Share capital 
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. 
Balance sheet classification 
Current assets and short-term liabilities include items  
due less than a year from the balance sheet date, and  
items related to the operating cycle, if longer. The current 
portion of long-term debt is included under current liabilities. 
Investments in shares held for trading are classified as 
current assets, while strategic investments are classified  
as non-current assets. Other assets are classified as  
non-current assets. 
Revenue 
Sales of crude oil are recognised when the significant risks 
and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer and  
the associated revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue 
from other services is recognised when the service has been 
performed. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the 
consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, value 
added tax (“VAT“) and other sales tax or duty.  
Where income tax arising from the Group’s activities  
under production sharing contracts is settled by a third  
party at no cost and on behalf of the Group and where the 
Group would otherwise be liable for such income tax, the 
associated sales are shown gross including the notional tax 
and a corresponding income tax charge is presented in the 
income statement. 
Export sales — Kurdistan 
The significant risks and rewards of ownership are deemed  
to have passed on delivery, however, because the payment 
mechanism for crude export sales is developing, the Group 
does not consider that export revenue can be reliably 
measured at the time of delivery and, consequently, 
recognises revenue at the point of cash receipt. 
Local sales — Kurdistan 
The significant risks and rewards of ownership are deemed  
to have passed on delivery of crude oil to the customer at  
the point of loading and revenue is recognised accordingly  
to the extent that the receipt of cash is assessed as 
sufficiently probable and the amount of revenue can  
be reliably measured. 
Note 
1   www.genelenergy.com 89
Financial Statements
 
 
Employee benefits 
Short-term benefits 
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an 
undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is 
provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to 
be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans  
if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to 
pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the 
employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. 
Share-based payments 
The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based 
compensation plans. The economic cost of awarding shares 
and share options to employees is recognised as an expense 
in the income statement equivalent to the fair value of the 
benefit awarded. The fair value is determined by reference to 
option pricing models, principally Monte Carlo and adjusted 
Black-Scholes models. The charge is recognised in the income 
statement over the vesting period of the award. At each 
balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the 
number of options that are expected to become exercisable. 
Any revision to the original estimates is reflected in the 
income statement with a corresponding adjustment to equity 
immediately to the extent it relates to past service and the 
remainder over the rest of the vesting period. The proceeds 
received net of any directly attributable transaction costs  
are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share 
premium when the options are exercised. 
Finance income and finance costs 
Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested 
and foreign currency gains. Interest income is recognised  
as it accrues, using the effective interest method. 
Finance expense comprises interest expense on borrowings, 
and foreign currency losses. Borrowing costs directly 
attributable to the acquisition of a qualifying asset as  
part of the cost of that asset are capitalised over the 
respective assets. 
Borrowing costs, including the accretion of any discount on 
initial recognition of borrowings, incurred for the construction 
of any qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of 
time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for  
its intended use or sale. Other borrowing costs are expensed 
in the KRI. 
Taxation 
Under the terms of the PSCs, under which oil sales are made, 
any tax due is paid directly from the Government’s take of 
revenues. This would normally be presented for as a gross  
up of revenue with a corresponding taxation expense in the 
income statement. No gross up of revenue and presentation 
of taxation expense has been accounted for in the period 
because, as a consequence of the uncertainty over the 
payment mechanism for oil sales in Kurdistan, it has not been 
possible to measure the quantum of taxation that has been 
paid on behalf of the Company by the KRG. 
Related parties 
Parties are related if one party has the ability, directly or 
indirectly, to control the other party or exercise significant 
influence over the party in making financial or operational 
decisions. Parties are also related if they are subject to 
common control. Transactions between related parties are 
transfers of resources, services or obligations, regardless  
of whether a price is charged and are disclosed separately 
within the notes to the consolidated financial information. 
Accounting estimates and judgements 
Certain critical accounting judgements in applying the 
Group’s accounting policies are described below. 
Estimation of oil and gas reserves 
Oil and gas reserves impact the Group’s financial  
statements principally in the following ways: they are  
key elements in the Group’s investment decision-making 
process and allocation of fair values to acquired assets;  
they are an important element in determining depletion, 
depreciation and amortisation; and they impact the timing  
of decommissioning activity and in testing for impairment  
of tangible and intangible oil and gas assets.  
Changes in 2P oil and gas reserves will have a corresponding 
effect on the depletion, depreciation and amortisation  
charge in the statement of comprehensive income and  
on the discounted value of any decommissioning provision. 
Changes in oil and gas reserve estimates will affect the 
assessed valuation of capitalised oil and gas assets, which 
may result in impairment. 
Proved oil and gas reserves are the estimated quantities of 
crude oil and natural gas which geological and engineering 
data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable 
in future years from known reservoirs under existing 
economic and operating conditions, that is, prices and  
costs as of the date an estimate is made. 
Probable reserves are those additional reserves which 
analysis of geosciences and engineering data indicate are  
less likely to be recovered than proved reserves, but more 
certain to be recovered than possible reserves. Estimates  
of oil and gas reserves are inherently imprecise, require the 
application of judgement and are subject to future revision.  
Accordingly, financial and accounting measures (such as 
depreciation and amortisation charges and provision for 
decommissioning) that are based on proved and probable 
reserves are also subject to change.  
Proved reserves are estimated by reference to available 
reservoir and well information. All proved reserves estimates 
are subject to revision, either upward or downward, based  
on new information such as from development drilling and 
production activities, or from changes in economic factors, 
including product prices, contract terms or development 
plans. In general, changes in the technical maturity of 
hydrocarbon reserves resulting from new information 
becoming available from development and production 
activities have tended to be the most significant cause  
of annual revisions.   90 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
 
 
Summary of significant 
accounting policies continued 
In general, estimates of reserves for undeveloped or partially 
developed fields are subject to greater uncertainty over  
their future life than estimates of reserves for fields that are 
substantially developed and being depleted. As a field goes 
into production, the amount of proved reserves will be subject 
to future revision once additional information becomes 
available through, for example, the drilling of additional wells 
or the observation of long-term reservoir performance under 
producing conditions. As those fields are further developed, 
new information may lead to revisions.  
Changes to the Group’s estimates of proved and probable 
reserves also affect the amount of depreciation and 
amortisation recorded in the Group’s financial statements  
for property, plant and equipment related to oil and gas 
production activities. A reduction in proved and probable 
reserves will increase depreciation and amortisation charges 
(assuming constant production) and reduce income.  
Future development costs used in depletion  
of oil and gas properties 
Certain classes of property, plant and equipment related  
to oil and gas exploration and production activities are 
depreciated using a unit-of-production method over 2P 
reserves. Since 2P reserves assume future development  
cost to access the proved and probable reserves, an estimate  
of future development costs is required for the calculation  
of depreciation. 
The Group’s estimation of future development costs is  
based on comparable data of similar companies in the region, 
future prices for metals and the Group’s plans to increase  
the efficiency of the drilling process. However, actual drilling 
costs may be different from those estimated by the Group 
due to changes in market conditions, business and operating 
environment. Changes in estimates of reserve quantities 
and/or estimates of future development expenditure are 
reflected prospectively in the depreciation, depletion and  
amortisation calculation. 
Revenue recognition 
The payment mechanism for export sales is developing and,  
in practice, does not follow the contractual provisions of the 
PSCs. The Iraqi Government is responsible for the marketing 
of all export oil from Iraq and determines the basis on  
which associated revenues will be allocated to the KRG for 
distribution to contractors. As such, there is uncertainty 
related to both the amount of export revenue due and the 
timing of receipt of that revenue. In addition, the tax 
provisions of the PSCs are subject to interpretation and the 
associated tax filing mechanism is not established, giving  
rise to further uncertainty. 
Export sales are only recognised in the statement of 
comprehensive income on the receipt of cash proceeds  
and no gross up is made in respect of the revenue and  
taxes related to the Kurdistan PSCs. 
Revenue for domestic sales is recognised on delivery. 
Decommissioning costs 
Provision for decommissioning represents the present  
value of decommissioning costs relating to the Kurdistan  
oil and gas interests, which are expected to be incurred at  
the end of field life, currently estimated to be in the period 
2031 — 2039. These provisions have been created based on 
the Group’s internal estimates. Assumptions, based on the 
current economic environment, have been made which 
management believe are a reasonable basis upon which to 
estimate the future liability. Those estimates are reviewed 
regularly to take into account any material changes to the 
assumptions. However, actual decommissioning costs will 
ultimately depend upon future market prices for the 
necessary decommissioning works required, which will  
reflect market conditions at the relevant time. Furthermore, 
the timing of decommissioning is likely to depend on when  
the fields cease to produce at economically viable rates.  
This in turn will depend upon future oil and gas prices,  
which are inherently uncertain.  
Business combinations 
The recognition of business combinations requires the  
excess of the purchase price of acquisitions over the net  
book value of assets acquired to be allocated to the assets 
and liabilities of the acquired entity. The Group makes 
judgements and estimates in relation to the fair value 
allocation of the purchase price. 
The fair value exercise is performed at the date of acquisition. 
Owing to the nature of fair value assessments in the oil and 
gas industry, the purchase price allocation exercise and 
acquisition-date fair value determinations require subjective 
judgements based on a wide range of complex variables at  
a point in time. Management uses all available information  
to make the fair value determinations.  
In determining fair value for the acquisition, the Company  
has utilised valuation methodologies including discounted 
cash flow analysis. The assumptions made in performing 
these valuations include assumptions as to discount rates, 
foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, the timing of 
development, capital costs, and future operating costs.  
Any significant change in key assumptions may cause the 
acquisition accounting to be revised. 
New standards 
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and 
interpretations will be effective for annual periods beginning 
after 1 January 2013. None of these standards have been 
early adopted. The new standards are not expected to have  
a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements 
of the Group. 
 
  
  
Note 
1   www.genelenergy.com 91
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
Segmental information
The Group has two reportable business segments, which are its oil and gas exploration and production business in the KRI and 
its oil and gas exploration business in Africa. Capital expenditure decisions for the Kurdistan business segment are considered 
in the context of the cash flows expected to be made from the production and sale of crude oil. Capital expenditure for the 
African segment is considered in the context of the available cash of the Group.  
Finance income is not considered part of a business segment and forms part of the reconciliation to reported numbers. 
For the period ended 31 December 2012: 
Kurdistan
$m
Africa
$m 
Other 
$m  
Total 
reported
$m
Revenue 333.4 — —  333.4
Cost of sales (208.4) — —  (208.4)
Gross profit 125.0 — —  125.0
    
Exploration expense (29.7) — —  (29.7)
Other operating costs (1.6) — (33.4)  (35.0)
Operating profit 93.7 — (33.4)  60.3
    
Finance income    15.6
    
Profit before tax    75.9
    
    
Capital expenditure 216.9 12.0 4.6  233.5
Total assets 3,292.0 53.1 810.9  4,156.0
Total liabilities (217.1) (11.0)  (7.8)  (235.9)
     
     
 
  
Note 
2  92 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
 
Segmental information  
continued 
For the period ended 31 December 2011: 
Kurdistan
$m
Africa
$m
Other 
$m  
Total 
reported
$m
Revenue  24.0——  24.0
Cost of sales  (21.4) — —  (21.4)
Gross profit  2.6 — —  2.6
    
Other operating costs  — — (65.1)  (65.1)
Operating profit  2.6 — (65.1)  (62.5)
    
Finance income    4.8
    
Profit before tax   (57.7)
    
Capital expenditure  14.9 — 1.9  16.8
Total assets  2,154.3 — 1,848.9  4,003.2
Total liabilities  (127.2) — (34.2)  (161.4)
 
 
 
Cost of sales 
 
 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation of oil and gas assets (note 12)  168.4  18.3
Production costs  40.0  3.1
    
  208.4  21.4
 
 
 
Exploration expense
Exploration expense represents a $7.5 million charge for the write-off of the carrying value of the Kewa Chirmila commitment 
well and a $22.2 million provision taken against the cumulative exploration cost under the Ber Bahr licence. At Ber Bahr, 
sidetrack work is currently being performed with full test results expected in the second quarter of 2013. 
  
Note 
4 
Note 
3 
Note 
2   www.genelenergy.com 93
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
Other operating costs
 
  
2012  
$m  
2011 
$m
    
Listing costs, M & A activity and start-up costs  13.3  59.3
General and other costs   21.7  5.8
    
  35.0  65.1
    
Included in above are:    
Directors’ fees   6.4  1.0
Share-based payment charge (note 22)  3.6  3.1
Audit fees   0.4  0.3
Operating lease rentals (note 20)  4.7  0.2
IPO costs  —  3.0
Depreciation and amortisation of other assets  1.1  0.3
 
 
 
Staff numbers and costs
 
 
Number as at  
31 December 
2012  
Number as at 
31 December 
2011
Turkey  69  55
UK  23  8
Other  11  6
    
  103  69
The numbers for 2012 represent the average for the year. The numbers for 2011 represent numbers employed by the Group at 
31 December 2011 rather than the average for the period which would be distorted due to the acquisition of GEIL taking place 
near the end of the year. They include all employees of Group companies but exclude the employees of all joint operations 
including some 400 employees in TTOPCO. 
The aggregate payroll costs of these were: 
  
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Wages and salaries  26.3  0.4
Share-based payments (note 22)  3.6  3.1
Social security costs  2.0  —
    
  31.9  3.5
Note 
6 
Note 
5  94 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
 
Auditors’ remuneration
 
 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements   0.4  0.3
Tax services  0.3  0.9
Standard listing fees   —  2.4
Acquisition-related fees  —  2.4
Standard listing fees and acquisition-related fees reported in 2011 primarily represents services provided in respect of the 
acquisition of Genel Energy International Limited and work as reporting accountants in relation to the listing of the Company. 
This work would normally be performed by external auditors for companies involved in such projects. A proportion of these 
costs, being those relating to the issue of shares, was charged to the share premium account. 
 
 
 
Finance income 
 
 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Interest on bank deposits 7.8  4.8
Interest on other loans 8.5  —
Interest unwind on provisions  (0.7)  —
   
 15.6  4.8
 
 
 
Taxation 
All corporation tax due has been paid on behalf of the Company by the KRG from the KRG’s own share of revenues and there is 
no tax payment required or expected to be made by the Company. The tax paid by the KRG in accordance with the terms of the 
PSCs would usually be presented as a gross up of revenue and a corresponding taxation expense in the income statement with 
no cash outflow. In the Company’s results for the periods ended 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011, no presentation of 
taxation expense with an equivalent gross up for revenue has been accounted for because it has not been possible to measure 
reliably the amount of taxation paid on behalf of the Company because of uncertainties over how the amount of taxation 
should be calculated. This is an accounting presentational issue and there is no taxation to be paid. For the same reason,  
it has not been possible to assess whether it is necessary to gross up the acquired assets for deferred tax. 
 
  
Note 
9 
Note 
8 
Note 
7   www.genelenergy.com 95
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings per share
Basic 
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted 
average number of shares in issue during the period. 
  2012  2011
Profit / (loss) for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company ($ million)  75.9  (57.7)
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares (number)  279,117,179  79,830,987
Basic earnings per share (cents per share)  27.18  (72.34)
Diluted 
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue is adjusted to include all potential 
dilutive Ordinary Shares. The Group has four types of potential dilutive Ordinary Shares: 
• Shares granted to Directors and employees under the Performance Share Plan, to the extent that performance conditions 
have been met at the period end; 
• Share options granted to employees under the Share Option Plan, where the exercise price is less than the average market 
price of the Company’s Ordinary Shares during the period; 
• Shares granted to employees under the Restricted Share Plan; 
• Shares and securities issued to the Founders of the Company, to the extent that performance conditions have been met  
at the period end. 
Further details of these potentially dilutive shares are shown in note 22. 
2012  2011
Profit / (loss) for the period attributable to equity holders of the Company ($ million)   
 
75.9  (57.7)
    
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares (number)  279,117,179  79,830,987
Adjustment for performance shares, restricted shares, share options and founder shares 
and securities
1 
(number)  610,253  —
Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share (number)  279,727,732  79,830,987
Diluted earnings per share (cents per share)  27.12  (72.34)
1. Potential issue of shares under restricted share plan, share option plan and Founder Shares and Securities are not dilutive in 2011 as the Group  
reported a loss. 
  
Note 
10  96 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
 
 
Intangible assets 
 
Exploration 
and evaluation
assets
$m
Miran
asset 
acquisition
$m
Other  
assets 
$m  
Total
$m
Cost   
Balance at 1 January 2012 227.6 — 0.1  227.7
Acquisitions (note 24) 532.1 463.0 —  995.1
Additions 145.5 9.6 1.8  156.9
Transfer to property, plant and equipment (note 12) (176.9) — —  (176.9)
Write-off of exploration costs (note 4) (7.5) — —  (7.5)
   
Balance at 31 December 2012 720.8 472.6 1.9  1,195.3
   
Depreciation and impairment    
Balance at 1 January 2012 ———  —
Depreciation charge for the period  —— 0.4  0.4
Provision for write-off of exploration cost (note 4) 22.2 — —  22.2
   
Balance at 31 December 2012 22.2 — 0.4  22.6
   
Net book value   
At 1 January 2012 227.6 — 0.1  227.7
At 31 December 2012 698.6 472.6 1.5  1,172.7
 
Exploration 
and evaluation
assets
$m
Other  
assets 
$m  
Total
$m
Cost   
Balance at 1 April 2011 — —  —
Acquisitions 216.9 —  216.9
Additions 10.7 0.1  10.8
   
Balance at 31 December 2011 227.6 0.1  227.7
   
Net book value   
At 1 April 2011 ——  —
At 31 December 2011 227.6 0.1  227.7
Exploration and evaluation assets are comprised of the Company’s PSC interests in exploration assets in the Kurdistan Region of  
Iraq and Africa. Exploration and evaluation assets are not amortised as they are not available for use but are assessed for impairment 
indicators under IFRS 6.  
As a result of drilling and appraisal work performed in the year, further confidence was obtained on previously unproven reserves.  
As a result, $176.9 million of assets classified as exploration assets under intangible assets have been transferred to property, plant 
and equipment as development assets.  
During the year, the Group acquired an additional 75% interest in the Miran PSC. This is explained further in note 24. This interest has 
not been presented as an exploration and evaluation asset because, although all parties had approved the transaction and the sale 
and purchase agreement had been signed at the balance sheet date, the deed of assignment was not formally signed by the KRG until 
January 2013.  
The net book value of $1.5 million (2011: $0.1 million) of other assets is principally comprised of capitalised software. 
Note 
11   www.genelenergy.com 97
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
Property, plant and equipment
 
Oil and gas 
assets
$m 
Other  
assets 
$m  
Total
$m
Cost    
Balance at 1 January 2012 1,859.3 7.7  1,867.0
Additions 73.7 2.9  76.6
Transfer from intangible assets (note 11) 176.9 —  176.9
Reclassification 5.5 (5.5)  —
    
Balance at 31 December 2012 2,115.4 5.1  2,120.5
    
Depreciation and impairment     
Balance at 1 January 2012 18.3 0.3  18.6
Depreciation charge for the period  168.4 0.7  169.1
    
Balance at 31 December 2012 186.7 1.0  187.7
    
Net book value    
At 1 January 2012 1,841.0 7.4  1,848.4
At 31 December 2012 1,928.7 4.1  1,932.8
 
Oil and gas 
assets
$m 
Other  
assets 
$m  
Total
$m
Cost    
Balance at 1 April 2011 — —  —
Acquisitions 1,855.1 5.5  1,860.6
Additions 4.2 2.2  6.4
    
Balance at 31 December 2011 1,859.3 7.7  1,867.0
    
Depreciation and impairment     
Balance at 1 April 2011 — —  —
Depreciation charge for the period  18.3 0.3  18.6
    
Balance at 31 December 2011 18.3 0.3  18.6
    
Net book value    
At 1 April 2011 — —  —
At 31 December 2011 1,841.0 7.4  1,848.4
Oil and gas assets comprise principally the Company’s share of oil assets at the Taq Taq and Tawke producing fields in the 
Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Other assets include leasehold improvements, office furniture and motor vehicles.  
  
Note 
12  98 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
  
 
 
Inventories
 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Crude oil inventory  0.1  0.1
    
  0.1  0.1
 
 
 
Trade and other receivables
 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Trade receivables   28.2  11.6
Other receivables   4.7  0.6
Prepayments  16.2  1.9
    
  49.1  14.1 
 
 
 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Cash and cash equivalents   1,001.3  1,912.9
    
  1,001.3  1,912.9
 
  
Note 
15 
Note 
14 
Note 
13   www.genelenergy.com 99
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
Trade and other payables
 
  
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Trade payables   61.3  12.8
Deferred consideration  5.0  —
Other payables  1.0  2.5
Accruals  86.7  62.5
    
  154.0  77.8
    
Non-current  5.0  
Current   149.0  77.8
    
  154.0  77.8
 
 
 
Deferred income 
  
  
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Non-current  61.6  68.8
Current  7.1  5.4
    
  68.7  74.2
Deferred income is royalty income received in advance from the Group’s partner for the Taq Taq PSC. The deferred income  
is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in a manner consistent with how the royalty income becomes due. 
Once the deferred income has been fully recognised, the joint operating partner will recommence cash payment for the  
royalty as it becomes due. 
  
Note 
17 
Note 
16 
— 100 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
 
Provisions 
 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Balance at 1 January   9.4  —
Acquisitions   —  9.3
Interest unwind   0.7  —
Additions   3.1  0.1
    
  13.2  9.4
    
Non-current  13.2  9.4
Current   —  —
    
  13.2  9.4
Non-current provisions cover expected decommissioning and abandonment costs resulting from the net ownership interests in 
petroleum and natural gas assets, including well sites and gathering systems. The fair value of a liability for a decommissioning 
and abandonment provision is recognised in the period in which it is incurred.  
The cash flows relating to the decommissioning and abandonment provisions are expected to occur between 2031 and 2039. 
The provision is the discounted present value of the cost, using existing technology at current prices. 
 
 
 
Financial risk management
Fair values of financial instruments 
Trade and other receivables 
There were no trade and other receivables past due at the end of the period. All the Group’s financial assets are short-term  
in nature or are repayable on demand and, as such, the fair value of financial assets approximates to their carrying amount. 
Trade and other payables 
All the Group’s financial liabilities are predominantly short-term in nature or are repayable on demand and, as such, there is  
no difference between contractual cash flows related to the financial liabilities and their carrying amount. 
Cash and cash equivalents 
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is estimated as its carrying amount where the cash is repayable on demand.  
Where it is not repayable on demand, then the fair value is estimated at the present value of future cash flows, discounted  
at the market rate of interest at the balance sheet date. 
Interest-bearing borrowings 
Fair value is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate  
of interest at the balance sheet date.  
Note 
19 
Note 
18   www.genelenergy.com 101
Financial Statements
 
 
Financial risk factors 
Credit risk 
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis, except for credit risk relating to trade and other receivable balances. Credit risk arises 
from cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and other assets.  
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum credit exposure to credit risk 
at 31 December was: 
 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Trade and other receivables   32.9  12.2
Cash and cash equivalents  1,001.3  1,912.9
    
  1,034.2  1,925.1
There are no trade and other receivables overdue at the period end and no provision for doubtful debt has been made.  
No interest is charged on receivables. The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.  
Cash is deposited in government gilts, treasury bills or term deposits with banks that are assessed as appropriate based on, 
among other things, sovereign risk, CDS pricing and credit rating. 
Liquidity risk 
The Group is committed to ensuring it has sufficient liquidity to meet its payables as they fall due. At 31 December 2012 the 
Group had cash and cash equivalents of $1,001.3 million (2011: $1,912.9 million). The position of cash and cash equivalent 
balances can be seen in note 15. 
Currency risk 
As substantially all of the Group’s transactions are measured and denominated in US dollars, the exposure to currency risk  
is not material and therefore no sensitivity analysis has been presented. 
Interest rate risk  
The Group had no borrowings as at 31 December 2012 and therefore is not exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. 
Capital management 
The Group manages its capital to ensure that it remains sufficiently funded to support its business strategy and maximise 
shareholder value. The Group’s funding needs are met through a combination of cash raised by IPO this period, cash generated 
from operations and equity. The Group monitors its cash position on an ongoing basis. Capital includes share capital, other 
reserves and accumulated losses. 
 
 
 
Operating leases 
The Company leases drilling rigs and temporary production facilities under operating leases. Drill rigs are leased on a day-rate 
basis for the purpose of drilling and exploration or development wells. The aggregate payments under drilling contracts  
are determined by the number of days required to drill each well. During the period ended 31 December 2012 $4.7 million  
(2011: $0.2 million) was expensed to the income statement in respect of operating leases.  
Note 
20  102 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
 
Share capital 
 
Suspended Voting 
Ordinary Shares
2012
Voting 
Ordinary 
Shares 
2012  
Total Ordinary 
Shares
2012
In issue at 1 January 2012  74,647,156 186,617,888  261,266,044
Issue of 18,713,154 voting Ordinary Shares to Founders on exercise of 
option on 20 January 2012  (8,019,923) 26,733,077  18,713,154
Issue of 90,000 voting Ordinary Shares to Directors under share 
matching award scheme on 2 April 2012  (38,572) 128,572  90,000
Issue of 180,000 voting Ordinary Shares to Directors under share 
matching award scheme on 22 June 2012  (77,142) 257,142  180,000
    
In issue at 31 December 2012 — fully paid  66,511,519 213,736,679  280,248,198
 
Suspended Voting 
Ordinary Shares
2011
Voting 
Ordinary 
Shares 
2011  
Total Ordinary 
Shares
2011
Issue of shares on incorporation of parent   — 2  2
Initial public offer   — 133,090,000  133,090,000
Shares cancelled   — (2,457,480)  (2,457,480)
Issue of shares on acquisition of Genel Energy International Limited   74,647,156 55,985,366  130,632,522
    
In issue at 31 December 2011 — fully paid  74,647,156 186,617,888  261,265,044
 
On 20 January 2012, the Company issued 18,713,154 shares when the Founders of the Company exercised their right to 
exchange their Founder Shares for Ordinary Shares in the Company. At the same time, the Company converted 8,018,923 
Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares to Voting Ordinary Shares in accordance with the terms of the Suspended Voting Ordinary 
Shares. The transaction resulted in the removal of the non-controlling interest associated with the Founder Shares and the 
difference in value has been taken direct to reserves. 
On 2 April 2012, the Company issued 90,000 shares to Non-Executive Directors under the share matching award scheme  
and a further 180,000 on 22 June 2012. On the same dates, the company converted 38,572 and 77,142 Suspended Voting 
Ordinary Shares to Voting Ordinary Shares in accordance with the terms of the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares. 
There have been no changes to the authorised share capital since it was determined to be 10,000,000,000 Ordinary Shares  
of £0.10 per share. 
 
 
 
Share-based payments
The Company has three share-based payment plans. These plans have been accounted for in accordance with “IFRS 2 —  
Share based payments“. 
Performance Share Plan (PSP), Restricted Share Plan (RSP) and Share Option Plan (SOP) 
The Company operates a Performance Share Plan, Restricted Share Plan and a Share Option Plan, under which grants  
were made in 2012. The main features of these share plans are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages  
69 and 70. 
  
Note 
22 
Note 
21   www.genelenergy.com 103
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
Share-based payments 
continued 
The numbers of outstanding shares under the PSP, RSP and SOP as at 31 December 2012 are set out below:  
  PSP RSP  SOP 
  
Options (at nil 
cost)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price
Options 
(at nil cost)
Weighted 
average 
exercise price  Options
Weighted 
average 
exercise 
price
Outstanding at beginning of the period  — — 181,679 —  396,495 788p
Granted during the period  301,554 — 170,478 —  312,886 702p
Forfeited during the period  — — 761 —  — —
Exercised during the period  — — 54,029 —  — —
Outstanding at the end of the period  301,554 — 297,367 —  709,381 750p
Exercisable at the end of the period  — — — —  — —
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model. The model takes into account assumptions regarding 
expected volatility, expected dividends and expected time to exercise. 
In the absence of sufficient historical volatility for the Company, expected volatility was estimated by analysing the  
historical volatility of FTSE-listed oil and gas producers over the three years prior to the date of grant. The expected dividend 
assumption was set at 0%, to reflect a prudent approach. The risk-free interest rate incorporated into the model is based  
on the term structure of UK Government zero coupon bonds.  
The inputs into the Black-Scholes pricing model for RSP, PSP and SOP and SOP awards granted in 2012 and the per share  
fair values using the model were as follows: 
  RSP  SOP RSP PSP RSP  SOP SOP
  12 Jan 2012  21 Mar 2012 21 Mar 2012 29 May 2012 14 Jun 2012  14 Jun 2012 1 Oct 2012
Share price  746p  731p 731p 639.5p 622p  622p 762p
Exercise price  —  751.55p — — —  621.15p 753.95p
Expected volatility  —  46% — 47% —  47% 47%
Expected life  1-3 years  5 years 1-3 years 2.75 years 1-3 years  5 years 5 years
Expected dividends  —  — — — —  — —
Risk-free return  —  — — — —  — —
Fair value on 
measurement date  746p  294p 731p 320p 622p  258p 316p
During the year, $3.6 million (2011: $3.1 million) has been recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
as a share-based payment charge.  
Founder Shares  
Prior to Placing Admission, the Founders (being Nathaniel Rothschild, Tony Hayward, Julian Metherell and Tom Daniel)  
were issued B ordinary shares in the Vallares Holding Company Limited (since renamed Genel Energy Holding Company 
Limited, the “Subsidiary“) (“B shares“ or “Founder Shares“). These Founder Shares reward the Founders for their initial  
capital commitment to the Company and for completion of an acquisition through exchange of such Founder Shares, upon 
completion of an acquisition, for up to 6.67% of the fully-diluted Ordinary Shares of the Company. These Founder Shares  
were treated as equity settled share-based payments and were deemed to have vested immediately on grant date as no 
performance conditions are attached to them.  They were converted into Ordinary Shares on 20 January 2012 (note 21). 
The Company has determined that the fair value of these share-based payments is equal to the consideration received  
(£15 million) by the Company. Accordingly no share-based payment expense has been recognised in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income. 
  
Note 
22  104 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
 
 
Share-based payments 
continued 
Founder Securities 
In addition to the Founder Shares, prior to Admission the Founders were also issued C Ordinary Shares in the Subsidiary  
(“C Shares“ or “Founder Securities“). These Founder Securities encourage the Founders to grow the Company following an 
acquisition and to maximise value for holders of Ordinary Shares by entitling the Founders to a share of the upside in the 
Company’s value once certain performance conditions have been satisfied. The performance conditions are summarised below: 
If within four years, the closing share price reaches the higher of: 
• A compound rate of return of 8.5% on the share from the Admission value of £10 and from date of acquisition; or  
• An increase of 25% of the issue price from the Admission value of £10, adjusted for any matters which have an impact  
on the capital structure of the Company.  
The Founders have the right to exchange their Founder Securities for Ordinary Shares in the Company to a value of 15% of  
the increase in value from the Placing Admission value of £10. The Company has the option to settle by issuing shares or the 
equivalent in cash. The Founder Securities are deemed to have vested immediately as no performance conditions exist in 
relation to their vesting, however there are performance conditions which need to be met prior to exchanging the Founder 
Securities for Ordinary Shares. 
The Company has determined that the fair value of these share-based payments is equal to the consideration received  
(£5 million). Accordingly no share-based payment expense has been recognised in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. 
 
 
 
Cash generated from operating activities
 
 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Loss for the period 75.9  (57.7)
Adjustments for:   
Finance income (15.6)  (4.8)
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation 169.5  18.6
Write-off of exploration costs  7.5  —
Provision for write-off of exploration costs 22.2  —
Share based payments 3.6  3.1
Changes in working capital:   
Trade and other receivables (31.7)  (12.1)
Trade and other payables and provisions 62.5  25.0 
   
 293.9  (27.9)
 
  
Note 
23 
Note 
22   www.genelenergy.com 105
Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
Acquisitions 
On 1 May 2012, the Group increased its interest in the Chia Surkh block in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq from 20% to 60% for  
a total consideration of $68.0 million.  
On 14 May 2012, the Group entered Africa through the acquisition Barrus Petroleum Limited, an exploration company with assets in 
Morocco and Côte d’lvoire for a total consideration of $27.7 million. In the second half of the year, activities in Africa were enhanced 
through the acquisition of a further 5 licences in Somaliland, Morocco and Côte d’lvoire for a total consideration of $13.0 million,  
$5.0 million of which was deferred to future periods and contingent of future exploration activity. 
On 3 August 2012, the Group acquired a 23% stake in the Bina Bawi block in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq through the 
acquisition of all the share capital of A&T Petroleum Company Ltd for $174.5 million and a further 21% of the block from 
Hawler Energy Ltd on 20 August 2012 for a total consideration of $244.9 million, bringing the Group’s interest in Bina Bawi  
to 44%.  
The Group acquired an additional 26% interest in the Miran PSC from Heritage Plc (“Heritage”) for $156.6 million, thereby 
increasing its interest to 51%. At the same time, the Group loaned $294.0 million to Heritage. The terms of the loan were  
such that on the satisfaction of certain conditions, Heritage was able to exchange repayment of the loan for its remaining  
49% interest in the Miran PSC. This loan, together with further interim funding of $12.4 million, was subsequently converted 
into an intangible asset. There was no material change in the value of the convertible element of the loan in the period. 
 
  
Chia Surkh
$m
African
licences
$m
Bina Bawi
$m
Miran 
$m  
Other 
$m 
Total
$m
Exploration assets  68.0 38.5 419.4 463.0  6.2 995.1
Trade and other debtors  —0.1 — —   0.1
Trade and other payables  — — —  (6.2) (6.2)
Cash acquired  — 2.1 — —   2.1
     
Total consideration  68.0 40.7 419.4 463.0  — 991.1
Less:     
Deferred to future periods   — 5.0 — —  — 5.0
Cash acquired  — 2.1 — —  — 2.1
     
Cash flow  68.0 33.6 419.4 463.0  — 984.0
 
 
 
Capital commitments
Under the terms of its PSCs, the Group has certain commitments that are defined by activity rather than spend. The Group’s 
capital programme for the next few years is explained on pages 32 to 40 and is in excess of the activity required by the PSCs.  
  
Note 
25 
Note 
24  106 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 
 
 
 
 
Related parties 
Transactions with key management personnel 
The compensation of key management personnel including the Directors of the Company is as follows: 
2012 
$m  
2011
$m
Key management emoluments and short-term benefits  11.1  1.4
Share-related awards  1.4  3.1
    
  12.5  4.5
The Directors have identified the shareholders, key management personnel and the Board members, together with the families 
and companies controlled by or affiliated with each of them; and associates, investments and joint ventures as related parties 
of the Group under IAS24. 
In 2011 the Group issued Founder Shares and Founder Securities to incentivise the Founders to achieve the Company’s 
objectives. The Founder Shares reward such members, for their initial capital commitment and for acquiring GEIL, through 
exchange of the Founder Shares for Ordinary Shares on favourable terms following the acquisition of GEIL. The Founder 
Securities encourage the members to grow the Company following the Acquisition and to maximise value for holders of 
Ordinary Shares by entitling the members to a share of the upside in the Company’s value once the Performance Condition  
is satisfied. 
 
 
 
 
Principal entities and joint ventures
For the period ended 31 December 2012 the principal subsidiaries and associates of the Group were the following: 
  Country of Incorporation  
2012  
Ownership %  
Genel Energy Holding Company Ltd  Jersey  100 
Genel Energy International Ltd  Anguilla  100 
TTOPCO  British Virgin Islands  55 
Genel Energy Somaliland Limited   UK  100 
A&T Petroleum Limited   Cayman Islands  100 
Genel Energy (Miran) Limited  UK  100 
Genel Energy Netherlands Holding 1 
Cooperatief B.A.  Netherlands  100 
Genel Energy Netherlands Holding 2 B.V.  Netherlands  100 
Genel Energy Yonetim Hizmetleri  
Anonim Sirketi  Turkey  100 
Genel Energy UK Services Limited  UK   100 
The TTOPCO joint venture is the service company through which the Group jointly operates the Taq Taq PSC with its partner. 
 
 
 
Subsequent events 
The KRG formally approved the transfer of the Miran PSC from Heritage to the Group on 22 January 2013 (note 24). 
Note 
28 
Note 
27 
Note 
26   www.genelenergy.com 107
Shareholder Information
Glossary
“ Addax” Addax Petroleum Corp, the Company’s operating partner at T aq T aq
“ AGM” Annual General Meeting
“Companies Act 2006” Companies Act 2006, as amended
“ Jersey Companies Law” Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 (as amended)
“CREST” the paperless settlement system operated by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited
“ERISA ” US Employee Retirement Income Security Act 197 4
“Focus Investments” Focus Investments Limited
“Founder” Nathaniel Rothschild, T ony Hayward, Julian Metherell and T om Daniel
“Founder Securities” the non-voting class C shares in the capital of the Subsidiary as were   
  awarded to the Founders
“Founder Shares” the non-voting class B shares in the capital of the Subsidiary as were   
  awarded to the Founders
“FSA ” the UK Financial Services Authority or any successor body or bodies
“FSMA ” the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 of the UK, as amended
“FTSE” FTSE International Limited
“GEIL ” Genel Energy International Ltd
“Genel Holding” Genel Energy Holding B. V .
“Group” the Genel Energy Group of companies 
“ICMM Sustainable Development Framework” the sustainable development framework set out by the International Council   
  on Mining and Metals
“IFC Performance Standards” the performance standards set out by the International Finance Corporation
“IPO”  initial public offering
“IPO Prospectus”  the prospectus dated 17 June 2011 in relation to the IPO of Vallares PLC  
  (now Genel Energy plc)
“KRG” the Kurdistan Regional Government
“KRI” means the Kurdistan Region of Iraq
“Listing Principles” the listing principles set out in the Listing Rules
“Listing Rules” the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority 
“Ordinary Shares”  the Voting Ordinary Shares and/or the Suspended Voting Ordinary Shares  
as the context requires
“Premium Listing” a premium listing under the Listing Rules
“PwC” PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
“PSC” Production Sharing Contract
“PSP” Performance Share Plan
“PRM” Petroleum Resources Management N. V .
“RSP” Restricted Share Plan
“SOP” share option plan
“Standard Listing” a standard listing under Chapter 14 of the Listing Rules
“SVOS” the suspended voting ordinary shares of £0.10 each 
“TSR” total shareholder return
“FRC” UK Financial Reporting Council
“UKLA ” UK Listing Authority
“VOS” voting ordinary shares of £0.10 each 108 Genel Energy plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Glossary of technical terms
Certain resources and reserves terms
“1P” proved reserves
“2P” proved plus probable reserves
“3P” proved plus probable plus possible reserves
Units of Measurement
“bbl” barrel
“bbl/d” or “bopd” barrels of oil per day
“bbl/MMcf” barrels per million of cubic feet
“km” kilometres
“mboe” or “Mboe” thousand barrels of oil equivalent
“mmbbls” millions of barrels
“mmboe” million barrels of oil equivalent
“MMcfpd” millions of cubic feet per day
“mpbd” millions of barrels per day
“tcf” trillion cubic feet Shareholder 
information
ShareGift
If you hold a small number of shares and ﬁnd it uneconomical to donate 
them, you may wish to donate your shares to charity free of charge 
through ShareGift. ShareGift collects donations of unwanted shares,  
sells them and then donates the proceeds to UK charities. Further details 
are available at www.sharegift.org or by calling +44 (0) 20 7930 3737 .
AGM
This year’s AGM will be held at the Soﬁtel Hotel St James’s, 6 Waterloo 
Place, London SW1Y 4AN UK on 22 April 2013 at 11.00am. 
Details of the business to be considered at the AGM are set out in the 
accompanying Notice of Meeting.
Dividend and dividend history 
We have not paid any dividends to shareholders to date and no ﬁnal 
dividend is proposed in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012. 
Financial calendar
2013 Q1 Interim Management Statement – 22 April 2013 
2013 Interim results – 31 July 2013 
2013 Q3 Interim Management Statement – 31 October 2013
Registrars
Our registrars are Capita Registrars (Jersey) Limited. With effect from  
10 May 2013 we are changing our registrars to Equiniti Registrars. Further 
details of how this will effect you are set out in the enclosure to this 
Annual Report, ‘Change of Registrar’.
All enquiries relating to the administration of shareholdings up until  
10 May 2013 should be directed to Capita Registrars (Jersey) Limited,  
12 Castle Street, St. Helier , Jersey, JE2 3RT , Channel Islands. Enquiries 
arising after that date should be directed to Equiniti Registrars, 
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Share price information
The current price of the Company’s shares is available on the Company’s 
website at www.genelenergy.com.
Contacts and Auditors
Registrar
Capita Registrars (Jersey) Limited 
12 Castle Street 
St. Helier 
Jersey 
JE2 3RT
Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
1 Embankment Place 
London 
WC2N 6RH
Registered Ofﬁce
12 Castle Street 
St Helier 
Jersey 
JE2 3RT
London Ofﬁce
Fourth Floor 
One Grafton Street 
London 
W1S 4FE
Cornhill Ofﬁce
29-30 Cornhill  
London  
EC3V 3NF 
Ankara Ofﬁce
Via T ower 
Bestepeler Mahallesi 
Nergiz Sokak No. 7 /52 
Sögütözü  
Ankara 
T urkey
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc 
www.blacksunplc.com
Printed by PurePrint on FSC
® 
certiﬁed paper .
PurePrint is an EMAS certiﬁed CarbonNeutral
®
 
Company and its Environmental Management 
System is certiﬁed to ISO14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 
95% of press chemicals are recycled for further 
use and, on average 99% of any waste associated 
with this production will be recycled.
Printed on Core Silk and Munken Polar . 
Both are FSC mixed sources papers produced 
at manufacturing mills with SO14001 and EMAS 
environmental management standards. Registered Ofﬁce
12 Castle Street 
St Helier 
Jersey 
JE2 3RT
London Ofﬁce
F ourth Floor 
One Grafton Street 
London 
W1S 4FE
Cornhill Ofﬁce
29-30 Cornhill 
London 
EC3V 3NF
Ankara Ofﬁce
Via T ower 
Bestepeler Mahallesi 
Nergiz Sokak No. 7 /52 
Sög ¨ütözü  
Ankara 
T urkey
www.genelenergy.com
