 GKN plc Annual Report 2002
Engineering superior performance CONTENTS
02 Business description
04 Highlights
06 Chairman’s statement
09 Chief Executive’s review
12 A day in the world of GKN
22 Operating review: 
Automotive
24 Operating review:
Aerospace
26 Social responsibility review
34 Board of Directors
36 Financial review
40 Financial statements
76 Directors’ report
78 Corporate governance
81 Report on Directors’ 
remuneration
90 Principal subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and
associated companies
92 Auditors’ report
93 Shareholder information
95 Contact details
96 Subject index
Outside cover: The outside front and rear
cover image shows shear plates used in
viscous traction control devices produced
by Viscodrive, a Japan-based subsidiary
in which Tochigi Fuji Sangyo has a 49%
shareholding. GKN also has a wholly-
owned business in Italy which produces
viscous devices. These plates are precisely
engineered components which, by
adjusting the rate of shear within a silicon-
based fluid, can alter its viscosity. In a
traction control device this process is
used to control the transmission of energy
to a vehicle’s driving wheels allowing it to
respond to variable driving conditions.
Inside cover: The inside front and rear
cover image shows the Ahmednagar plant
of GKN Sinter Metals (India). Featured on
the inside front cover is Mr Bharat Singh
(right), a sizing operator, and on the inside
rear cover is Mr Sanjay Saindar, a sintering
operator. GKN Sinter Metals (India) was
established in 2002 when GKN took 100%
ownership of Mahindra Sintered Products,
a long-standing and successful joint
venture. GKN is India’s largest producer 
of powder metal components. ENGINEERING SUPERIOR PERFORMANCE
GKN is a global engineering company focused on automotive 
and aerospace.
Our mission is to deliver outstanding products and service to our
customers and to consistently exceed the performance of other
companies in our sector in growth and profitability. 
When we do so we enrich our shareholders, reward our employees
and contribute to the communities of which we are a part. 
Within GKN we value the spirit of enterprise as a way of empowering
our people, we focus on innovation as a way of evolving new products
and processes and we build on our global market and technology
leadership as a source of competitive advantage. 
We care for the environment, we respect human dignity and rights,
and we uphold the highest standards of ethical behaviour.
Through our mission we challenge ourselves to perform beyond 
the expectations of others.
GKN provides technology-based, highly engineered products
requiring complex manufacturing to virtually all of the world’s major
producers of automotive vehicles, aircraft and aero engines. 
GKN operates in more than 30 countries and employs 35,700
people in its subsidiaries. Its joint ventures, the largest of which 
is AgustaWestland, employ 12,900 people. 
In 2002 GKN achieved sales of £4.5 billion and profit* of
£267 million.
*Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
01 GKN plc 2002 02 GKN plc 2002
Automotive
GKN is one of the very few, truly global suppliers of automotive
components and systems. More than 30 GKN engineering and
manufacturing facilities in Japan, Asia Pacific, India, South Africa,
Europe and the Americas support all of the world’s leading
manufacturers of cars, light trucks and off-highway vehicles. 
GKN Driveline is the world’s No. 1 supplier of constant velocity
jointed sideshafts (CVJs). This business has achieved substantial
growth in recent years and will continue to take advantage of growth
in emerging markets and higher CVJ content on four-wheel drive 
and all-wheel drive vehicles. In 2002 these accounted for 25% of
the 16.4 million light vehicles produced in North America. There 
is also the potential for further growth from outsourcing of driveline
manufacture by vehicle manufacturers. 
A further area of growth is driveline-related torque systems products.
GKN Driveline moved decisively in 2002 to build on its knowledge and
product base by further developing its presence within the market for
advanced torque management devices and systems which enhance
vehicles’ traction, stability and safety. 
GKN is the No. 1 supplier of powder metal parts and is the No. 1
producer of metal powder in the US. GKN’s capability in the technology
and production of powder metal parts and their raw material is unique
among major companies. 
GKN is a major European and North American supplier of components
and systems for agricultural and off-highway equipment. It is also 
a leading supplier of automotive structural presswork and cylinder
liners for automotive, industrial and marine applications. Emitec, 
a 50:50 joint venture with Siemens of Germany, is the world leader 
in metallic substrates for catalytic converters.
02 GKN plc 2002 GKN AT A GLANCE
Left: The Touareg is a new four-wheel drive
vehicle from VW. GKN Driveline supplies
a total of seven drivetrain components
for the Touareg – four constant velocity
jointed sideshafts, two propshafts and an
optional electronic torque manager (ETM).
GKN Driveline has used the aerospace
software expertise in GKN’s Aerosystems
International joint venture to develop
software standards and code for its
ETM systems. Aerospace
GKN has a significant presence in the world of aerospace.
Approximately 80% of its overall aerospace revenues are derived
from the defence sector and this focus on defence is a significant
strength, particularly during the current downturn in civil aerospace. 
Today, GKN operates as an international first tier supplier through
GKN Aerospace Services and as a helicopter prime contractor
through AgustaWestland. 
GKN Aerospace Services, which has engineering and manufacturing
operations in Australia, Germany, the UK, US and Mexico, is a supplier
of advanced composite and high performance alloy structures to
prime contractors such as Airbus, Boeing and Lockheed Martin, and
to jet engine manufacturers such as Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney.
GKN supplies structures for important US military aircraft programmes
such as the F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F/A-22 Raptor, C-17 Globemaster
111 and F-35 JSF. Within the civil sector GKN is a supplier on all Airbus
programmes including the A318/319/320 and 321 single aisle family,
the A340 500/600 long range aircraft and the A380 ‘Superjumbo’.
AgustaWestland, a 50:50 joint venture with Finmeccanica of Italy,
has one of the broadest and most balanced military and civil product
portfolios in the industry. It is a 32% partner in the European NH90
helicopter programme and has teamed with Lockheed Martin to address
a number of major US military programmes for medium-lift helicopters. 
On the basis of reported revenues AgustaWestland is the world’s
No. 1 helicopter manufacturer.
03 GKN plc 2002
Right: The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, produced
by a partnership led by Lockheed Martin,
was conceived to provide the US Air Force,
Navy and Marine Corps and the UK’s Royal
Navy and Royal Air Force with an affordable
and stealthy tactical aircraft for the 21st
century. The programme is expected to
produce 3,000 aircraft for the US and 
UK and many more for other worldwide
customers. In 2002 GKN Aerospace Services
was awarded a significant package of
development and manufacturing work
on the aircraft’s F135 engine. Aircraft
deliveries are scheduled to begin in 2008. 04 GKN plc 2002 HIGHLIGHTS
2002: hard won achievement in uncertain times
>Increase of 9% in profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items in demanding economic environment.
>Torque Systems Group addresses advanced driveline systems market.
Acquisition of 33.3% of Japanese torque management leader.
>Improved performance in Powder Metallurgy. New Hoeganaes plant in full
production. Steady improvements in the US. Europe performing strongly. 
>Robust performance by OffHighwaySystems and AutoComponents.
>Two US aerospace acquisitions bring new technologies. GKN’s composite
technology wins first business on F-35 and A380.
>Restructuring of Aerospace Services in response to civil downturn. Effect
of downturn mitigated by strong focus on military programmes.
>AgustaWestland teams with Lockheed Martin to take EH101 into the US.
Consolidation of UK operations. Strong £4.7 billion order book.
>Full year dividend per share of 11.3p is 3% higher than 2001.
>Solid balance sheet and strong cash flow. Average maturity of Group
borrowings extended to 11 years. 05 GKN plc 2002
Operating profit by business
before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items
Aerospace £118m – 37%
Automotive £197m – 63%
Increase/
Financial performance with pro forma comparatives 2002 2001 (decrease)
Sales £4,452m £4,337m 3%
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items £267m £245m 9%
Profit before tax £180m £107m 68%
Operating cash flow £174m £210m (17%)
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation 
and exceptional items 25.2p 24.0p* 5%
Earnings per share 13.7p 5.3p* 158%
Dividend per share 11.3p 11.0p** 3%
The UK statutory earnings figures in the above table and elsewhere in the operating and financial reviews are presented in accordance with
recent guidance from the Accounting Standards Board and the UK Listing Authority. In order to provide a fairer reflection of the underlying trend
in earnings for the Group, the measure of ‘profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items’ is also used and results for the year ended 
31 December 2002 are compared with those of the continuing Automotive and Aerospace businesses in 2001 (see page 36).
Operating cash flow is defined as cash flow from operations after capital expenditure and proceeds from the disposal of fixed assets.
* 2001 earnings per share have been restated to reflect the adoption of FRS 19 – Deferred Tax.
** 2001 dividend per share is pro forma based on the final dividend for the year being two-thirds of the total.
119
138
116
99
118
98
99
00
01
273
308
187
197 02
Operating profit £m
before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items
246
Aerospace
Automotive
Operating profit by region of origin
before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items
Rest of the World £27m – 9%
Americas £64m – 20%
Europe £224m – 71%
1,493
1,439
1,451
907
1,502
98
99
00
01
2,394
2,683
2,844
2,950 02
Sales £m
2,230
Aerospace
Automotive GKN – A global engineering company
In August 2001 the demerger of our Industrial Services businesses
and their subsequent merger with Brambles Industries Limited was
completed. For the first time for at least three decades GKN’s business
now entirely comprises engineering activities and, given its international
spread, the description of GKN as a global engineering company is
exactly correct. 2002 has been the first full year when this has been
the appropriate description and the results, as described below, are
certainly an encouraging start for the Company as it embarks on the
next phase in its development.
Results
Pre-tax profits for the year were £267 million (2001 – £245 million) and
earnings per share were also higher at 25.2p (2001 – 24.0p). Cash
inflow from operating activities was £367 million (2001 – £452 million)
but with expenditure on capital projects and acquisitions below 
that of the previous year, net debt at £834 million was £51 million
lower than at the end of 2001. Interest cover improved to 6.6 times
(2001 – 5.0 times).
The Chief Executive in his review refers to the diverse range of challenges
that faced the management team in 2002. To have delivered results at
the top end of market expectations and well ahead of what both we and
the market expected at the start of last year is a creditable achievement.
Dividend
In my statement in last year’s annual report I said that the Board
expected to pursue a progressive dividend policy subject always to
prevailing economic conditions. That policy remains unchanged and,
although the global economic outlook is uncertain, the Board has
recommended that the dividend for 2002 should be increased from
11.0p last year (on a pro forma basis) to 11.3p thus maintaining its
value in real terms.
The Board
Marcus Beresford, who became a Director in 1992, retired at the end
of 2002. He was appointed Chief Executive in August 2001 following
the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses and has performed
a valuable role in the repositioning of GKN. The Board is most grateful
to him for his significant contribution to the Company both in his
earlier and more recent roles.
Marcus has been succeeded as Chief Executive by Kevin Smith, who
became a Director in 1999. Kevin was formerly Managing Director of
GKN Aerospace and has been succeeded in that position by Neal Keating
who joined the Board last August from Rockwell Collins in the US.
Sir John Parker retired from the Board as a non-executive Director 
in May 2002 having been appointed in 1993. As an independent
non-executive Director, John has made a major contribution to the
Board for which he fully deserves the thanks of his colleagues. In his
06 GKN plc 2002 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
ENHANCEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VALUE
REMAINS THE TOP PRIORITY FOR THE BOARD. place Sir Ian Gibson was appointed to the Board as a non-executive
Director in June 2002. Ian is a former Senior Vice President of Nissan
Motor Company Japan and brings to the Board considerable
international automotive experience.
Life President
The death of Lord Brookes in July 2002 at the age of 93 is recorded
with sadness. He joined the Board of GKN in 1953 and was Chairman
from 1965 until his retirement in 1974 when he became Life President.
Social responsibility
The Social Responsibility Review on pages 26 to 33 of the annual report
sets out our approach to sustainable development covering the range
of issues that are embraced by this heading. Pages 31 and 32 cover
the management of health and safety and set out some performance
figures which continue to show improvement. Subsequent pages
address environmental issues. The performance graphs here show 
a mixed pattern of success although the narrative offers some
explanations for what may appear to be a lack of progress in some
areas. Continuous improvement of environmental management is
an important issue for the Board and one particularly encouraging
statistic is the accreditation in 2002 of 50 sites to ISO 14001, 30 more
than in 2001.
Post-retirement benefits
In common with a number of long established UK companies, GKN’s
UK pension scheme has a large number of members, 54,000 out of
60,000, who are no longer in service. As described in the Financial
Review on page 39, based on FRS 17 (the accounting standard currently
scheduled to come into force in January 2005) the UK pension scheme
had a gross deficit at the end of 2002 of £551 million. After taking
into account overseas post-retirement schemes, deferred taxation
and net liabilities already provided for on the balance sheet, the
overall reduction in shareholders’ equity at the end of 2002 would have
been £527 million compared with £169 million at the end of 2001.
This adverse movement reflects the significant fall in world stock
markets in the last year together with the reduction in the discount
rate used to calculate the liabilities of the various schemes. As is
well known, the FRS 17 valuation reflects the position as at one date
and does not take account of the long-term nature of post-retirement
benefit schemes. As a result there can be considerable volatility from
year to year in the deficit and surplus figures.
Post-retirement benefit scheme deficits are obviously a matter of
concern to shareholders and can be a cause of considerable anxiety
to pension scheme members. It is therefore worth stating that the
Board fully recognises its responsibilities to those members and in
2003 plans to increase its contribution to the UK pension scheme 
to not less than £50 million. This is some 50% higher than the
contribution for 2002 and more than double the figure for 2001.
Corporate governance
The Board has practised high standards of corporate governance for
many years and fully recognises its importance. Pages 78 to 89 of the
annual report, which include a report on Directors’ remuneration,
describe GKN’s approach to thissubject. The Combined Code on
Corporate Governance is to be significantly amended following the
reports by Derek Higgs on the role and effectiveness of non-executive
directors and Sir Robert Smith on audit committees. Both these reports
require detailed consideration by the Board which is now taking place. 
However, the Board believes that certain of the recommendations
of the Higgs Report should be reconsidered. Representations have
therefore been made to the Financial Reporting Council who have
responsibility for issuing the revised Combined Code in its final
form. The essence of those representations is to emphasise the point
that, while an increase in prescription will almost certainly involve
increased cost, it will not necessarily guarantee higher standards of
corporate governance. It is too easyto be compliant in terms of the
letter of the law but to be non-compliant in terms of its spirit. High
standards of corporate governance can only be guaranteed if, in
particular, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors see that
as an important objective, which is the case in GKN.
The future
GKN is one of only three companies that is a survivor of the original
FT 30 Share Index, first put together in the early 1930s. That survival
has been possible because of the Company’s ability to reinvent
itself to meet the challenges of new markets, new products, and 
new competition. To some extent 2002 was the start of a further
phase in GKN’s development, the foundations for which at this
time look very firm.
More immediately, the prospect of war in Iraq and heightened political
uncertainty in other parts of the world are making economic forecasts
even more difficult than usual. This leads to the risk that business
planning time horizons become increasingly short term. For GKN the
need to control costs and manage cash is as important today as it has
ever been, although this is complementary rather than an alternative
to the focus on longer-term strategy and the enhancement of
shareholder value. That remains the top priority for the Board.
07 GKN plc 2002
Sir David Lees 28 February 2003 08 GKN plc 2002 2002 financial highlights
Sales for the year of £4.5 billion were 3% higher than the comparable
figure for 2001. The negative impact of currency translation was
£62 million and the net favourable impact of acquisitions and
divestments was £50 million.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was 3% higher at £315 million after charging GKN’s £11 million
share of redundancy and reorganisation costs in AgustaWestland.
The net impact of currency translation, acquisitions and divestments
was insignificant.
Operating profit after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was £230 million (2001 – £161 million).
Operating cash flow after capital expenditure and fixed asset
disposals was again strong at £174 million (2001 – £210 million).
Net debt reduced to £834 million at the end of 2002 from £885 million
a year earlier. Interest was covered 6.6 times (2001 – 5.0 times).
Divisional operating results are discussed in the Operating Review 
on pages 22 to 25. Overall Group performance is summarised in the
Financial Review on pages 36 to 39. 
Achievement
An uncertain outlook and variations in market conditions made 2002
a difficult year. Nonetheless, as our performance demonstrates, this
was a year of hard won achievement in uncertain times.
That achievement was built on the combination of strengths which
gives GKN a distinctive, competitive advantage. We are world leaders
with strong market positions in our key products and technologies.
We operate on a truly global basis across the Americas, Europe, Asia
Pacific and Japan and our customer base includes all of the world’s
leading automotive and aerospace companies. 
GKN businesses received more than 20 awards from those customers
in 2002 for achievement in areas such as quality and productivity.
This recognises the individual efforts and teamwork of the men 
and women who work for GKN. Meeting customer expectations is
their minimum level of performance – their goal is to exceed those
expectations. This is how we deliver sustainable performance and
how we create value for our shareholders.
During 2002 the GKN team responded effectively to a diverse range
of challenges. 
Automotive
In Western Europe – our largest automotive market – overall car and
light vehicle output fell by 2.1% and there were wide variations in
customer demand. Some of our driveline plants in Germany were
operating at the upper extent of their capacity to meet strong export
09 GKN plc 2002 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Left to right: Kevin Smith, Chief Executive
GKN plc; Ian Griffiths, Managing Director
GKN Driveline; Neal Keating, Managing
Director Aerospace Services; Richard Clowes,
Managing Director Powder Metallurgy,
OffHighway and AutoComponents.
GKN IN 2002. A YEAR OF HARD WON
ACHIEVEMENT IN UNCERTAIN TIMES. sales by customers but our Italian operations were impacted by
the problems experienced by Fiat. Thisled to imbalances across our
European driveline plants with a consequent effect on operations.
North American car and light vehicle output rose by 6%. Again, 
the increase in the overall market masked a mixed performance by
manufacturers which led to variations in customer demand across
our North American automotive businesses.
A strategic priority was to continue our recovery actions within
Powder Metallurgy. During 2002 the business has shown significant
improvement. Hoeganaes, our metal powder production company,
continued to bring the new Gallatin plant in Tennessee, USA, up to
full production and it is operating well. GKN Sinter Metals, our powder
metal component manufacturer, is achieving strong performance in
Europe and recovery is underway in the US.
Looking ahead, our Powder Metallurgy research and development
is aimed at increasing the size and density of components which
could significantly enlarge the market for powder metal components.
Our confidence in the potential of Powder Metallurgy remains high.
The early promise of an upturn in the market for agricultural equipment
was short-lived and, following a customer’s decision to relocate
tractor production out of the UK, we initiated the closure of our 
small UK-based cab systems business. In AutoComponents we were
pleased to support Land Rover by taking over chassis production for
a key model after a supplier went into receivership.
Aerospace
In Aerospace we completed the restructuring initiated in 2001 to bring
our business into line with the depressed conditions prevailing in
the civil aerospace market. The impact of this restructuring fell most
heavily on our European plants which have a larger exposure to civil
aerospace than our US operations. The environment for the civil
structures business remains difficult and it may be some years before
the next cyclical upturn in demand for civil airliners. Meanwhile we
have won business on all of the Airbus range and are part of the
technology team working with Boeing on their next generation civil
aircraft. We are therefore well positioned to take advantage of the
recovery when it comes.
By contrast, demand for military aircraft is growing as the US and
Western Europe bring new fixed and rotary wing aircraft into service.
The combined market for fighters and helicopters is forecast to increase
by 50% to $30 billion during the period 2003 to 2007. This represents
a significant opportunity for our aerospace businesses.
AgustaWestland delivered another good performance in 2002 
thanks to a £4.7 billion order book. In early 2002 AgustaWestland
consolidated its UK operations on its Yeovil site in Somerset. The
10 GKN plc 2002 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Left: Constant velocity jointed passenger 
car sideshaft produced by GKN Driveline. 
Right: Jet engine thrust reverser component
produced by GKN Aerospace Services. consolidation, which incurred redundancy and reorganisation costs
of £22 million, was in response to the completion of UK contracts
for the EH101 helicopter. GKN’s share of the costs was £11 million
which was charged to operating profit in the first half of 2002. 
Approximately 80% of our overall aerospace revenues derive from
the defence sector. In 2002 this mitigated the effects of the civil
downturn and will be a powerful advantage for the future.
Strategic development
Alongside our intense focus on the operational management of the
business we also advanced the strategic development of the Group. 
GKN Driveline is leveraging its leadership in constant velocity jointed
and torque systems components to build a strong presence in the
market for electronic torque management systems which enhance
vehicle traction, stability and safety. The acquisition of a stake 
in Tochigi Fuji Sangyo, a leading Japanese torque management
specialist, along with the option to take control was a step forward in
this process. GKN has a growing presence in Japan and places great
importance on its close relationships with Japanese manufacturers.
We see the combined markets of Asia Pacific as an area of strategic
growth. A particular feature of the region is the strong growth in
vehicle output in China where GKN has been present for 15 years.
GKN Aerospace Services has developed rapidly as an international
first tier supplier of composite and high performance alloy structures.
Boeing’s outsourcing of its St Louis structures plant to GKN had a
transformational impact which has helped the Group forge a productive
relationship with the world’s largest aerospace company and has given
us a presence on all of the new US military aircraft programmes. 
We will continue to remain alert to other outsourcing opportunities
which add value. Technology lies at the heart of Aerospace Services’
strategy and we have achieved considerable advances in new
composite materials which deliver performance within the military
market or cost and weight advantages for the civil sector. Today
GKN is the world’s largest independent supplier of composites.
The greatest single aerospace opportunity which emerged in 2002
was access to the US military helicopter market which is the world’s
largest. AgustaWestland and Lockheed Martin have agreed to jointly
produce and market a US version of the EH101 for four programmes
with a combined requirement of 200 aircraft over the next 10 years.
In Japan the EH101 is sole contender for the first stage of a Japanese
Self Defence Force helicopter acquisition programme.
People
I assumed the role of Chief Executive on 1 January 2003, succeeding
Marcus Beresford who had led GKN since the demerger of our
Industrial Services businesses. Under his leadership GKN moved
forward decisively and successfully as a global group focused on
automotive and aerospace. Our achievements in 2002 are due 
in no small part to Marcus’ strength as a leader and his support
as a colleague.
At GKN we are determined to build the Group by capitalising on our
technology and market positions. One of our other great strengths
is the spirit and enterprise of our people. It has long been my belief
that people look for more than a livelihood when they come to work.
Much has already been done to make working for GKN a rewarding
and interesting experience. We will continue to find new ways of
developing and stimulating the men and women who work in our
research and development centres, in our manufacturing plants, in
our sales teams and in all of the other functions which support and
help drive forward this great company.
Outlook
The outlook for the major automotive markets remains uncertain.
Some weakening is anticipated compared with 2002, particularly in
the first half, but currently there are no indications of a substantial
reduction in demand, notwithstanding anxieties about conflict in 
the Middle East.
The outlook for aerospace has more clarity, but with significant
contrasts in the prospects for civil and military. Civil markets look
certain to remain depressed until 2004 and beyond, while demand
for military aircraft, which accounts for some 80% of our aerospace
sales, is likely to grow.
With increasingly competitive markets, pricing pressure from customers
and additional pension costs, it is certain that 2003 will be another
challenging year. However, continuing benefit should be seen from
the ongoing recovery in Powder Metallurgy and the specific actions
we have already taken to reduce costs across the Group.
Our businesses are clearly focused with leading market positions
and considerable underlying strength. This, together with the
strategic initiatives we are pursuing, gives GKN a solid foundation 
for future growth.
11 GKN plc 2002
Kevin Smith 28 February 2003 A DAY IN THE WORLD OF GKN
GKN is global. 
It has operations in more than 30 countries.
Every hour of every working day GKN people are active somewhere in
the world bringing highly engineered new productsto life, managing
complex, precision manufacturing processes and using their skills to
support their customers’ ambitions.
On 4 December 2002, photographers in seven different time zones
stretching from Australia to the US West Coast went into GKN plants
to capture a glimpse of a day in the world of GKN.
The images on the next nine pages are the result.
12 GKN plc 2002 A DAY IN THE WORLD OF GKN
24:00HRS
GKN, Worldwide 10:36HRS
Victoria, Australia
Eurofighter Electrical Design Area, GKN Aerospace Services, 
Port Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
Local time – 10:36 hrs, 4 December (GMT – 23:36 hrs, 3 December)
Engineers Amber Buse (centre left) and Kisa Christensen discussing
CATIA design process used to design the electrical layout for the
cockpit for all variants of the Eurofighter Typhoon combat aircraft.
Background David Trigili. Foreground Sergio Constanzo. GKN’s
aerospace design centre in Australia is at the heart of a ‘follow the
sun’ engineering philosophy which uses time zone differences to
boost productivity by allowing different teams around the world to
work virtually continuously on common programmes throughout
each 24-hour period. 11:42HRS
Tochigi, Japan Power Transfer Unit (PTU) manufacturing line, Tochigi Fuji Sangyo,
Tochigi, Japan
Local time – 11:42 hrs, 4 December (GMT – 02:42 hrs, 4 December)
Mr Yoshikazu Kurihara, President and Chief Executive of Tochigi Fuji
Sangyo (TFS) discussing in-line quality control on the PTU line with
Mr Mitsuo Ohyama, Foreman of the PTU line. GKN acquired a 33.3%
stake in TFS in 2002. 10:23HRS
Ahmednagar, India
GKN Sinter Metals Ltd, Ahmednagar, India
Local time – 10:23 hrs, 4 December (GMT – 05:53 hrs, 4 December)
Atomising molten copper. In addition to the production of powder
metal components, GKN’s operation in India also produces copper
powder used in the sintering process. The photograph shows molten
copper from an induction furnace being poured into a tundish from
where it will flow as a thin stream from a refractory nozzle to be
atomised by high pressure water into copper powder. The operators,
left to right, are: S S Kokate – Operator; S G Dangde – Trainee Technical
Assistant, Supervisor; S B Borkar – Plant Officer; D N Konge – Operator. 14:09HRS
Kirschau, Germany
GKN OffHighway Systems, Kirschau transmissions plant, Germany
Local time – 14:09 hrs, 4 December (GMT – 13:09 hrs, 4 December)
The technology used in the construction and agricultural industry
is becoming more sophisticated with the underlying trend to larger
equipment with increased productivity. The photograph shows a
three-dimensional, co-ordinate measuring machine measuring 
the dimensions and surface condition of a gearbox housing for 
a 430hp combine harvester. 11:55HRS
Yeovil, UK AgustaWestland, Yeovil, Somerset, UK
Local time – 11:55 hrs, 4 December (GMT – 11:55 hrs, 4 December)
A Super Lynx Mark 100 – one of six ordered for the Royal Malaysian
Navy – being flown by Westland test pilot Mike Adam-Swales. 
The aircraft, which is the latest variant of the Lynx with new engines
and an advanced ‘glass’ cockpit, is undergoing production trials to
ensure that it meets all of the performance criteria demanded by the
customer. In the foreground is the rear fuselage of a WAH-64 Apache
– one of 67 being produced by AgustaWestland for the British Army. 15:38HRS
North Carolina, USA
GKN Automotive Inc Alamance driveline manufacturing facility,
Mebane, North Carolina, USA
Local time – 15:38 hrs, 4 December (GMT – 20:38 hrs, 4 December)
Shaft Cropping Associates, Larry ‘LJ’ Jones, Senior Manufacturing
Technician (left), with Vance Jacobs, Shaft Cropping Manufacturing
Technician, assessing daily performance at the end of the shift to
prepare their communication for the oncoming manufacturing team.
The two technicians are in conversation beside the bar stock storage
area. A team of six people have responsibility for the entire shaft
cropping operation including material deliveries, changing over
machines, maintenance, material handling and production. The
concept of ‘self-managed teams’ plays an important role in GKN
Automotive Inc’s drive to empower employees. 21 GKN plc 2002
11:59HRS
El Cajon, California
GKN Aerospace Chem-tronics Inc San Diego facility, El Cajon,
California, USA
Local time – 11:59 hrs, 4 December (GMT – 19:59 hrs, 4 December)
Operator Luigi Grossi at work in the Plant 5 Blue Room installing an
Outer Guide Vane, which is responsible for the bypass airflow, on a
module for the Rolls-Royce Trent 800 engine used on the Boeing 777.
The module assembly uses a combination of titanium, aluminium
and composites. Luigi, a composite mechanical assembler, has 35
years’ service with Chem-tronics making him the company’s longest
serving employee. Automotive financial highlights
Automotive sales of £2,950 million were £106 million (4%) above
2001. The net favourable effect of acquisitions and divestments
was £40 million while the adverse impact of currency translation
(related mainly to the US dollar, Brazilian real and Japanese yen) 
was £51 million. Excluding these factors sales rose by £117 million. 
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was £197 million compared with £187 million in 2001, an increase
of £10 million (5%). The net impact of currency, acquisitions and
divestments was negligible.
Operating profit after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was £139 million (2001 – £129 million).
Market background
The year began with great uncertainty for the world’s major automotive
markets. Expectations of weaker demand in North America were
confounded by continued consumer demand for new cars and light
trucks. This trend prevailed for most of the year supported by incentive
programmes, particularly by the ‘Big Three’ US domestic manufacturers.
Total 2002 North American output of light vehicles was 16.4 million
– a 6% increase on 2001.
In contrast, weaker demand in Western Europe was largely in line
with expectations and at 16.5 million vehicles, production was
1.8% down on 2001. However, there were wide variations across
the major European markets. Output in the UK and France showed 
an increase over 2001, Spanish production was relatively flat but
output was down in Germany and in Italy. 
Competitive pressures within the automotive industry continued 
to intensify. Vehicle manufacturers extended their product offerings
and the use of pricing and financial incentives became a routine
marketing tool. This obviously translates into continuing competitive
pressure within the supply chain.
Western Europe is GKN’s largest automotive market and the variation
in demand across major national markets within the region caused
operational imbalances, particularly within the European operations
of GKN Driveline, formerly the Automotive Driveline Division. While
some German driveline plants were operating at or near maximum
capacity to support customers’ programmes, the Group’s Italian
operations were affected by the downturn in the Italian market and
well publicised problems at Fiat. Actions have already been initiated
to adjust capacity to meet anticipated 2003 demand levels.
Driveline Sales £1,826 million (2001 – £1,781 million)
For GKN Driveline 2002 was a year of significant strategic activity
which saw a continued enlargement of the Group’s presence within
22 GKN plc 2002 OPERATING REVIEW
Below: Driver’s view of the Nissan March.
GKN technology has a significant impact
on the ‘driving experience’ of vehicles
using the Group’s components and
systems. Technology from GKN and its
partner TFS is at the heart of the
revolutionary, four-wheel drive (FWD)
variant of the March launched in 2002.
When the driver of this sub-compact wants
to move from front-wheel drive to four-
wheel drive, electrical power is delivered
to the rear wheels. The system is called 
‘e-FWD’ and uses CVJ sideshafts from GKN
and a FWD control unit from TFS which
manages the electrical drive system.
Refinement, stability and safety are all
influenced by a vehicle’s driveline system.
Sales 2002 £m By origin By market
Europe 1,547 1,446
Americas 1,035 1,073
Rest of the World 368 431
Total 2,950 2,950
AUTOMOTIVE: STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENTS
IN GKN DRIVELINE AND RECOVERY
UNDERWAY IN POWDER METALLURGY. Japan and a related drive to develop a leading position within the
growing market for advanced torque management devices. GKN 
is already the world leader in constant velocity jointed driveline
components and torque management is a closely related systems
application. A specialist Torque Systems Group was established
within GKN Driveline to expand its presence in this area.
In March the Group acquired a 33.3% stake in Tochigi Fuji Sangyo
(TFS), a leading Japanese supplier of advanced automotive driveline
devices. This was acquired from Nissan and other major shareholders
for £29 million. GKN also obtained the option to acquire further
shares to bring its potential holding in TFS to 50.4%. TFS and GKN
Driveline have been partners for 16 years in a viscous coupling joint
venture in Japan and enjoy an excellent working relationship. TFS
employs more than 2,000 people in Japan and elsewhere in Asia
Pacific and in the US. The Japanese automotive industry leads the
world in torque management technology and TFS is one of the
leaders in the field.
Since 1999 GKN Driveline has built a major presence in Japan through
a manufacturing joint venture with Toyoda Machine Works, a member
of the Toyota Keiretsu, and through the acquisition of Nissan’s driveline
manufacturing operation at Tochigi. This penetration of the world’s third
largest automotive market is built on successful and long established
relationships with the major Japanese vehicle manufacturers who
account for almost 30% of world light vehicle output.
During the year GKN Driveline increased its 51% shareholding in 
GKN Driveshafts (India) Ltd to 96.4% for a total consideration of
£5 million. This follows a number of transactions in recent years which
has seen GKN Driveline acquire control of joint venture businesses in
the world’s emerging markets. These markets, albeit from a relatively
small base, are experiencing growth rates higher than those in the
mature markets of North America, Western Europe and Japan. GKN
Driveline has been successful in building a strong presence in emerging
markets. In Asia Pacific, excluding Japan and Korea, GKN’s share 
of the market for constant velocity jointed sideshafts is 60% and 
in Latin America it is 79%. This compares with an overall 42% share
of the global market.
Powder Metallurgy Sales £632 million (2001 – £612 million)
For GKN’s Powder Metallurgy businesses – GKN Sinter Metals
and Hoeganaes – 2001 was a year of considerable difficulty after 
a period of positive performance. During 2002 however there has
been a significant recovery in profitability.
Management action has involved the closure of a number of plants
in the US and a cost reduction programme at Lichfield in the UK.
Hoeganaes has overcome the start-up problems associated with 
its new plant in Gallatin, Tennessee in the US and is now operating
well. GKN Sinter Metals’ European plants performed strongly and
there was encouraging progress in the recovery within US operations.
Steady progress is now anticipated as management works hard to
bring all of its plants closer to the level of its best performers.
In April GKN Sinter Metals took 100% ownership of the former 
joint venture company, Mahindra Sintered Products Ltd (India) 
for a consideration of £9 million. The new subsidiary, GKN Sinter
Metals Ltd, is now India’s largest producer of powder metal
components. The transaction is a key step in GKN Sinter Metals’ 
Asian strategy and aligns closely with GKN’s Group-wide
determination to serve its customers on a global basis. 
OffHighway and AutoComponents Sales £492 million 
(2001 – £451 million)
GKN has a number of smaller automotive businesses largely focused
on the market for agricultural and construction equipment and on
automotive structural components. There were signs in early 2002 
of a recovery in the US off-highway market following increased
government subsidies to farmers but this was short-lived. However,
GKN OffHighway Systems was able to take advantage of a slightly
stronger European market and once more confirmed its ability to
generate cash and deliver profits in challenging conditions. 
As a result of a customer’s decision to relocate tractor assembly
operations out of the UK, GKN announced the closure of its cab
systems business based at Telford in the UK. The closure is
scheduled for mid-2003 and will result in approximately 150
redundancies. The closure costs are included in the 2002 results.
During 2002 the supply of the chassis for an important Land Rover
model was threatened when a supplier went into receivership. GKN’s
AutoComponents business, which is a long established supplier to
Land Rover, was able to assume control of the insolvent supplier’s
manufacturing operation in Wolverhampton in the UK and
successfully secured the chassis supply contract. Land Rover has
also awarded the contract to produce the chassis frame for a mid-
sized platform to a partnership between GKN and Dana of the US
which will use a new metal forming technology.
Emitec
Emitec, the 50:50 joint venture with Siemens VDO, held US sales
at the same level as 2001 but sales in Europe declined slightly
due to the weaker market and higher sales of diesel engined cars
which are subject to less stringent emission legislation. The new 
Test and Development Centre in Thuringia in Germany continues
the development of new cell structures and higher cell densities
to meet increasing customer requirements.
23 GKN plc 2002
Some automotive awards received in 2002
VW Group award for exceptional performance
(GKN German Driveline Operations)
Fiat Auto Qualitas Award. GM Certificado 
de Merito. State of Rio Grande Quality and
Productivity Award (GKN do Brasil Ltda)
Ford Silver World Excellence Award 
for Quality and Delivery Performance
(Shanghai GKN Drive Shaft Co Ltd)
Renault Charte Qualité du Delai for delivery
performance (GKN Sheepbridge Stokes Ltd)
Toyota Certificate of Recognition for 
Cost Management Achievement (GKN
AutoStructures Ltd)
Honda Best Quality Award for Quality and
Delivery. Toyota Best Quality Performance
Award (GKN Driveshafts (Thailand) Co Ltd) Aerospace financial highlights
Aerospace sales of £1,502 million were level with 2001 but with
different year-on-year performance in subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Subsidiary sales of £559 million were £71 million (11%) lower as
a consequence of the fall in demand for civil aircraft. Joint venture
and associate sales (mainly AgustaWestland) were £943 million, 
an increase of £80 million (9%) as production peaked on EH101 
and Apache.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items, after charging GKN’s £11 million share of redundancy
and reorganisation costs in AgustaWestland, was £118 million
compared with £119 million in 2001.
The net impact from currency, acquisitions and divestments on sales
and profit was not material.
On a reported basis, profits of subsidiaries of £23 million were 
£9 million (28%) lower than 2001 with joint ventures and associates
£8 million (9%) higher at £95 million. However, in addition to
redundancy and reorganisation costs, currency and acquisitions,
these comparisons are also affected by the treatment of one-off fees
paid in 2001. Adjusting for all these items, the subsidiaries’ profits
of £23 million represented a £1 million (4%) reduction while joint
ventures and associates were level at £95 million.
Operating profit after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was £91 million (2001 – £32 million).
Market background
Expectations of a near-term recovery in the civil aerospace market
have now been discounted by industry forecasters. The decline in
deliveries has been precipitate. In 2001 Boeing and Airbus delivered
a total of 850 aircraft. The figure for 2002 was 684 aircraft and their
forecast for 2003 is for 580 new aircraft deliveries. This represents
a 32% decline over two years and some forecasters expect further
falls in 2004. Current low levels of new civil aircraft build are therefore
likely to continue for some time.
By contrast the military aerospace market has entered a period 
of growth. In North America and Western Europe new military
programmes are either well established or being brought into
production. Approximately 80% of the combined revenues of GKN’s
wholly-owned aircraft structures business, GKN Aerospace Services,
and its helicopter joint venture, AgustaWestland, are defence-related.
This mitigates the effects of the downturn in civil aerospace.
Aerospace Services Sales £559 million (2001 – £630 million)
Following the events of September 11th 2001, GKN responded
rapidly to the downturn in civil aerospace which was exacerbated 
for the Group by BAE Systems’ cancellation of its RJX regional jet
24 GKN plc 2002 OPERATING REVIEW
Above: The A380 Airbus, designed 
to fly 550 passengers non-stop over
distances up to 8,000 nautical miles
has become known as the ‘Superjumbo’. 
At the end of 2002 Airbus had taken
orders from eight customers for 95 of
these aircraft. The A380 will use a higher
content of composites – up to 25% of
the airframe – than any previous airliner.
GKN’s engineering and composite
technology is playing a major role in 
the design and manufacture of critical
sections of the aircraft’s wings, airframe
and propulsion systems.
Sales 2002 £m By origin By market
Europe 1,126 977
Americas 376 440
Rest of the World –85
Total 1,502 1,502
AEROSPACE: CONTINUING STRONG GROWTH
FOR MILITARY AIRCRAFT BUT CIVIL SECTOR
DOWN MORE THAN 30% FROM 2001 PEAK. programme and the financial collapse of Fairchild Dornier in early
2002. GKN was a significant supplier to both. A rationalisation of
GKN Aerospace Services’ civil operations in the UK announced in late
2001 resulted in more than 800 redundancies within the workforce,
mainly at Cowes on the Isle of Wight. The rationalisation was mostly
completed in the first half of 2002. The business is now operating 
at a size appropriate to current demand but the management task
continues to be challenging.
GKN Aerospace Services has grown rapidly through acquisition 
and outsourcing. In 2002 it completed two small but significant
US transactions which brought new technology to the business. 
In January, GKN acquired the assets of Boeing’s Thermal Joining
Center (TJC) located in Kent, Washington State. The facility produces
a critical titanium assembly for the F/A-22 using electron beam
welding. The TJC, acquired for $2.5 million, has the largest electron
beam welding chamber in the US.
In May, GKN acquired ASTECH Inc for $32 million. ASTECH is a US
technology leader in super alloy, honeycomb structures and a market
leader for key airframe and engine products which operate in high
stress, high temperature environments. It is based in Santa Ana,
California in the US.
GKN is a leader in the development of new composite technologies
such as Resin Film Infusion (RFI) and Resin Transfer Moulding (RTM).
These technologies enable higher levels of precision, quality and
productivity. RTM is also capable of substituting a wider range of
metallic components and structures. During 2002 a new GKN
composite engineering centre was opened at Meriden, Connecticut
in the US and the largest RTM facility in the US was established
within GKN’s St Louis, Missouri facility.
This enhanced expertise in composites combined with GKN’s
established capability in high performance alloys has had a number
of positive outcomes in 2002. 
On the F35 Joint Strike Fighter GKN has been selected to develop 
and manufacture critical composite structures on the aircraft’s
F135 engine using its new RTM technology. It will also supply
titanium components for the F135. GKN has also established a
partnership with BAE Systems for the design and production of
airframe structures for the F35 using the RTM process. BAE is a
leading member of the F35 team with responsibility for production 
of the rear section of the airframe.
The Airbus A380 will be the launch platform for RFI composite
manufacturing technology which GKN has developed with Airbus.
GKN has been awarded a number of contracts on the A380 with a
value of $2 million per aircraft, including the design and manufacture
of the wing trailing edge panels. 
During 2002 GKN joined Boeing’stechnology development team
working on new material technologies for the next generation civil
airliner to be produced by Boeing. Work was initially focused on the
radical Sonic Cruiser concept but Boeing has since announced that
its focus is now on a more conventional aircraft but one which will
still require a high content of advanced materials. This is GKN’s first
major involvement as a tier one supplier to Boeing’s commercial
aircraft operations.
AgustaWestland Sales £865 million (2001 – £784 million)
AgustaWestland, a 50:50 joint venture between GKN and
Finmeccanica, continued to perform well and, on the basis
of reported revenues, maintained its position as the world’s
largest helicopter company. After a series of export wins in 
2001 and 2002, the order book currently stands at £4.7 billion.
In early 2002, anticipating the completion of UK military orders for
66 EH101 helicopters, UK operations were consolidated onto the
Yeovil site in Somerset and the smaller nearby facility at Weston-
super-Mare was closed. The UK workforce of AgustaWestland was
reduced by some 800. The consolidation was announced in January
2002 and completed by mid-year.
EH101 export programmes for Portugal and Denmark were 
confirmed and Oman ordered 16 Super Lynx 300. The UK Ministry
of Defence (MoD) also placed a £30 million engineering study
with AgustaWestland to examine the feasibility of an upgrade of
the British Army’s existing Lynx fleet to meet a requirement for a 
new battlefield light utility helicopter (BLUH). In its announcement
the MoD estimated that BLUH could be worth £1 billion to
AgustaWestland. 
At the Farnborough Airshow in July 2002 AgustaWestland and
Lockheed Martin announced that they had signed a 10-year
definitive agreement to jointly market, produce and support a
medium-lift helicopter in the US. The US101, an American version of
the EH101, will initially be offered to three key markets where there
are emerging opportunities– US Air Force combat search and rescue,
US Coast Guard civilian search and rescue and US Marine Corps
executive transport. It is estimated that these three programmes
represent a combined requirement for 200 aircraft over 10 years.
25 GKN plc 2002
Some aerospace awards received in 2002
Defence Helicopter Magazine Systems
Integrator of the Year (AgustaWestland)
American Airlines Platinum Supplier 
Status for fourth consecutive year 
(GKN Aerospace Chem-tronics)
Boeing Quality Hero Award for 100% 
on time delivery with no rejects
(GKN Aerospace Services, Europe)
Computerworld Honors Program
Commemorative Medallion for accelerated
ERP implementation programme 
(GKN Aerospace Services, St Louis)
Overall winner KPMG and Human Resources
Magazine Human Resources Excellence
Award and Best HR Contribution to 
Merger and Acquisition Integration 
(GKN Aerospace Services, St Louis) 26 GKN plc 2002 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW
The world of GKN – working hard to meet expectations
Our vision
Meeting expectations through the rigorous management of economic,
environmental and social sustainability
Like all principled and responsible companies concerned with the
long-term sustainability of their business, GKN seeks to operate in 
a way that balances a number of objectives. At one level the Group
exists to deliver outstanding products and services to customers
and superior returns to shareholders. While doing so GKN also works
hard to meet the legitimate expectations of its employees and its
wider communities, for there is a common cause in the aspirations
of all of these groups which derive benefit from the overall economic,
social and environmental performance of GKN. 
Every working day some 36,000 people come to work in GKN plants
and offices located in more than 30 countries in the Americas, Europe
and Asia Pacific. 
All of those people have expectations of GKN. They expect to work in
a safe environment which will not damage their health. They expect
their rights, dignity and equality of opportunity to be respected by
a company which upholds high ethicalstandards. GKN values the
contribution of all its employees and works hard to meet their
expectations which also include freedom of association and
collective bargaining where requested, fair systems of grievance 
and discipline, and the eradication of discrimination.
Those 36,000 people live in communities of which their employing
company is a member. Those communities also have expectations.
They expect GKN to minimise the impact of its operations on the
environment. They expect GKN to make a contribution to community
life and well-being. In less developed countries, GKN aims to ensure
that community activities are sensitive to the local social environment
and will have effective long-term impact. 
Dick Etches, Human Resources Director
(right) and Grey Denham, Company
Secretary. 27 GKN plc 2002
for embedding the principles of sustainable development throughout
all the Group’s businesses. Dick Etches, Human Resources Director,
hasoverall responsibility for Health, Safety and Environmental
programmes and Grey Denham, Company Secretary, with the internal
audit department and the Audit Committee, oversees compliance
with Group policies. 
The management of social responsibility issues is an integral part
of the overall corporate governance procedures and therefore this
review should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance
section on pages 78 to 80. In particular, the management of social,
environmental and ethical risks is encompassed within the internal
control procedures described in that section. 
The internal control procedures are supplemented by the Group’s
integrated loss prevention policy which covers all accidental
risk areas and sets out the Group’s systematic approach to loss
prevention including the principles by which we safeguard our
people’s health, the environment, an uninterrupted supply to our
customers, and our assets and earnings. The policy is implemented
by operational management supported by local safety and risk
experts, divisional and Group loss prevention committees and 
a central loss prevention department.
Significant incidents are reported to executive Directors within
24 hours and to the next meeting of the Executive Committee. GKN
applies the same degree of rigour in the management of all aspects
of risk. The most significant risks in relation to social responsibility
issues are loss of reputation resulting from the manner of operation
of our businesses and safety issues arising from quality or design of
our products. Both of these could, potentially, impact shareholder
value significantly as well as our employees and the communities
in which we operate. In environmental terms, our manufacturing
processes are not inherently high risk, however great care is taken 
to avoid any adverse impact arising.
Economic
GKN’s financial performance during 2002 is reported elsewhere in
this annual report. In achieving those results we were aware of our
responsibilities to our many stakeholders.
Working with our stakeholders
We define stakeholder as any person or organisation who is affected
by, or whose actions impact upon, our business. These include 
local communities, shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees,
business partners, local authorities, government agencies and 
non-governmental organisations (NGOs). We engage with these
stakeholders in a variety of ways.
As part of our aim to contribute positively to the communities in
which we operate, wherever possible we employ local labour in 
our businesses. We invest in local community projects both by
wayof financial donations and through the volunteer work of our
employees, particularly in less developed countries. Examples
of local initiatives are given on page 30. 
During 2002 we initiated meetings with a number of our major
shareholders to discuss the Group’s performance with regard to
corporate social responsibility. This programme is being extended 
to include a number of NGOs.
In addition to the impact of our own activities, the impact of our
supply partners and the products we manufacture both during 
their life and in their end of life phase are becoming increasingly
GKN supports the terms of the UniversalDeclaration of Human Rights
and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and works
towards ensuring that there is no breach of these within its business.
Our ultimate aim must be to ensure that similar standards operate
within our supply chains.
Delivering sustainable value over the long term goes hand in hand
with a rigorous concern for the environment. In particular GKN 
will continue to work towards reducing its hydrocarbon usage and
emissions, water usage and waste production. We will work more
closely with customers and suppliersto improve the recyclability
of products and the efficiency of processes.
Scope of the review
This review describes how GKN manages the key elements of
sustainable development throughout its businesses which are
described fully elsewhere within this annual report. Guidelines
produced by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) have been used as
a framework to present the information within the review. (GRI was
convened in 1997 by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible
Economics in partnership with the United Nations Environment
Programme to produce guidelines applicable globally for voluntary
use by organisations reporting on the economic, environmental and
social dimensions of their activities.) In reviewing our performance
over the calendar year 2002, we describe our governance systems,
which embrace social responsibility issues, provide information 
on how we engage with stakeholders, describe the Group policies
which guide the conduct of our businesses worldwide, and review
our performance over a five-year period against a number of key
indicators relating to health, safety and the environment. 
The performance data presented covers all of our Automotive and
Aerospace subsidiary companies. It has been the subject of self-
certification by Group companies together with some independent
verification of data or data collection processes. We continue to seek
to influence our joint venture companies in matters of corporate
social responsibility and, so far as is practicable, are developing
systems to collect similar performance data from those companies.
From the beginning of 2003 we also began collecting data on
diversity in the workplace with a view to reporting in future years.
In previous years we have used sales as a measure for the key
environmental indicators. This has a number of disadvantages,
including distortions caused by price reductions, intra-Group trading
and widely varying consumption levels in differing manufacturing
processes. Whilst we are continuing to report Group performance 
by reference to sales (despite its limitations we still consider it to be
the most appropriate measure for presenting information on a Group
basis), we are beginning to collect and analyse divisional data by
reference to alternative measures of economic activity. We believe
that these will not only reflect more accurately ongoing performance
but that they will also provide more useful guidance for future
improvement actions. We are keeping the situation under review 
for future reporting. 
Managing our business
The principles of good corporate social responsibility are embedded
within GKN’s values. These are distributed and displayed throughout
the Group and can be viewed on our website (www.gknplc.com).
The Board views very seriously its responsibility for ensuring that
all the Group’s businesses act as good corporate citizens. Social
responsibility matters form part of the initial briefings for Directors
on appointment to the Board. A working group under the chairmanship
of Ian Griffiths, Managing Director GKN Driveline, has responsibility 28 GKN plc 2002 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
important. We are in dialogue with key suppliers to identify where 
we can usefully support them to our mutual benefit. As a component
supplier, the impact of our products has to be addressed also in
partnership with our customers as well as our suppliers. This is an
increasingly important focus of our activities.
Consultation mechanisms exist throughout the Group to provide
open communication between management and representatives of
union and non-unionised employees. Group companies encourage
employee participation in the process for improving health, safety
and environmental performance. These include the GKN Safety
Award Scheme and the GKN Green Scheme. These schemes, now in
their fifth year, recognise success and highlight best practice which
is then shared across the Group. In 2002, a total of 69 businesses
competed for the awards. Details of the award winners are given 
later in this review.
GKN is a founder member of the Industry and Parliament Trust which
celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2002 and which commended 
GKN as an excellent example of a company which supports greater
understanding and openness between legislators and industry.
GKN is a member of the Engineering Employers Federation and
Confederation of British Industry in the UK and the German Employers
Federation. It is also a member of the Society of Motor Manufacturers
and Traders in the UK, the Society of British Aerospace Companies, the
US Organisation for International Investment, the British Occupational
Health Foundation and is a founder member of the UK PerCent Club
and the UK Emission Trading Scheme.
Social
Living the Group’s values in 2002 – how GKN people and GKN
businesses are meeting expectations
Group policies
Defining our vision on corporate social responsibility is a series
of policies which are applied throughout the Group. 
Employment policies The Group’s Employment Law and Practices
policy requires every business in the Group to adopt employment
policies and procedures ensuring that employees and prospective
employees are given equal opportunities irrespective of sex, race,
sexual orientation, disability, religion or ethnic origin. Wherever it
operates, the Group complies with local employment law and practices.
All businesses are required to ensure that employment decisions
are based on qualifications and merit. The working environment
must respect employees’ human dignity and rights and be free from
all forms of discrimination and from any form of conduct, physical
or verbal, which could be considered to be harassing (including
sexual harassment), coercive or disruptive. Working conditions
must be safe and healthy and there are specific requirements in
relation to substance abuse and dangerous weapons. 
Policies are designed to encourage employees to report and discuss
problems on a confidential basis and to provide expeditious and
confidential grievance procedures. 
Ethical standards policy All GKN employees are required to maintain
high standards of integrity, honesty and fair dealing. As part of the
overall Group Ethical Standards policy, individual divisional and
company policies require that allbusiness should be conducted 
with respect to human dignity and rights, and in compliance with 
all applicable laws and regulations, and that corrupt practices and
the acceptance or making of bribes be prohibited. All commercial
transactions must be properly recorded, and assets and confidential
information must be fully protected and used only for the purpose 
for which they were provided. 
Employees are also required to avoid conflicts of interest between
their business relationships and personal activities. All employees
have access to appropriate nominated executives or groups of
executives for the purposes of advice and assistance and, where
necessary, rulings on ethical issues which may arise. 
Competition policy To ensure that Group companies comply with 
the laws relating to competition and fair trading, the Group has
a policy that relevant employees are trained in competition laws
applicable to their day-to-day activities. To date, well over 1,000
senior managers and employees have been trained by way of
attendance at courses or by use of interactive CD-ROM training
packages developed by the Group.
Data protection policy The Group’s Data Protection policy is
designed to ensure that personal information held throughout the
Group is treated with due respect for the privacy of the individual.
The policy is applied worldwide even where it is more exacting 
than local legislation.
Employee disclosure procedures policy Group companies are
required to establish appropriate procedures to enable employees to
disclose in good faith, at local company or if appropriate at divisional
level, instances of wrongdoing by other employees at any level,
including any substantial breach of the Group’s policies. Employees
must be able to do so in the knowledge that their concerns will be
investigated and dealt with properly and sensitively and without
fear of reprisal or disciplinary action. The process must also provide
for employees, should they so wish, to make disclosures in writing
directly to the Company Secretary or the head of the internal audit
department at the Corporate Centre. 
Compliance with policies Our internal control procedures (described
in the section on Corporate Governance on pages 78 to 80) are
designed to identify material breaches of the policies outlined
above. No such breaches have been identified in respect of 2002.
Political donations GKN does not make donations to political parties.
Defence industry involvement
GKN is aware that there are some investment organisations and
individuals concerned by involvement in the defence industry. GKN’s
primary interest in defence equipment is through its helicopter joint
venture, AgustaWestland. All sales outside domestic markets are in
strict accordance with UK and Italian Government export approval
procedures, as appropriate. GKN Aerospace Services is also a first
tier supplier of aerospace structures for US and European military
aircraft programmes, the export of which is in accordance with
government export approval procedures.
Education and training
GKN is committed to achieving the highest standards of performance
and ensures through training and development, at all levels within
the organisation, that employees have the skills and experience to
perform their roles as effectively as possible and are able to achieve
their potential within a culture of empowerment and accountability.
GKN’s International Leadership Development Programme recruits
high calibre graduates from many of the world’s leading universities.
The programme exposes individuals to diverse business situations
through demanding project work, instils confidence and self sufficiency
through international placements and develops proficiency in a 
new language. 29 GKN plc 2002 29 GKN plc 2002
13:44HRS
North Carolina, USA
GKN Driveline, Alamance facility, North Carolina, USA
Local time – 13:44 hrs, 4 December (GMT – 18:44 hrs, 4 December)
It’s Christmas Cheer at Alamance as employees collect gifts to brighten
up the festive season for local families in need. This is just one of
a number of fund-raising programmes which people in the facility
organise every year. From left to right: Tom McCoy, Brenda Fargis,
Cheiri White and Diane Walters.  30 GKN plc 2002 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
The Emerging Leaders programme, developed with Columbia
University, USA, targets young individuals with the potential to
progress quickly to a key role within the Group and who are an
important part of GKN’s succession plan. Divisions operate their 
own development programmes and apprentice training schemes
operate throughout the Group.
The Business Excellence Programme is being deployed progressively
on a worldwide basis as the primary route to best-in-class standards
in all aspects of managing the business. The programme uses
Business Excellence models and Six Sigma tools to identify
opportunities for continuous improvement in many activities
including leadership, people development and empowerment,
operational processes and customer relationship management. 
It has a particular focus on knowledge sharing and innovation.
As part of its community activities, GKN is also committed to the
promotion of training and development outside the Group. In the 
UK, GKN has for many years supported Young Enterprise, both
financially and through the provision of business advisers. GKN 
also provides management representation on its Board and
Leadership Council. GKN supports the Engineering Education
Scheme and Year in Industry and founded the West Midlands
Technology Tree. The Technology Tree was originally confined to 
West Midlands schools and in 2002, under the auspices of the
Engineering Employers Federation, it was launched nationally. Income
from The GKN Millennium Trust, a charitable trust established in 1995,
is used to fund a Chair of Manufacturing Engineering at Cambridge
University. An example of educational activities overseas is the
Family Development Plan at GKN’s joint venture in Mexico, Velcon,
which is designed to bridge the development and educational gap
that can exist between employees and their families. At weekends
up to 700 employees and family members attend sessions on
cooking, languages, sports, music and remedial education. 
GKN and its people in their communities
The Group is committed to enhancing the welfare of communities
in which it operates through charitable donations and practical
assistance. In 2002, charity and community contributions by
GKN plc and its subsidiary companies amounted to some £1 million.
Those organisations to which donations were made in 2002 are
listed on GKN’s website (www.gknplc.com). 
Community support is widespread across GKN’s worldwide
operations. The following are just a few examples:
USA GKN’s largest concentration of employees is in the US. Within
GKN Automotive Inc’s seven driveline facilities in North and South
Carolina and Michigan, 95% of the 2,100 employees take part
in community service activities. An engineering team from the
Alamance facility in North Carolina has been a major force in the
Habitat-for-Humanity project to construct homes for the needy and
wascommended for exceeding the achievements of any other team
on the project during 2002. Other projects include a high school
dropout prevention programme and assisting poor families with
food, clothing, fuel and presents at Christmas. Across the US the
GKN Foundation, a charitable body established some 30 years ago,
supported more than 250 different organisations in 2002 with
contributions of over $300,000.
Brazil GKN do Brasil Ltda supported the building of a children’s
hospital in Porto Alegre and also helped restore a chapel which had
fallen into serious disrepair, providing a local place of worship for
people in Charqueadas. This is in addition to continuing support in
the form of waste wood used as building materials for a centre in
Porto Alegre which looks after the elderly, sick and those suffering
from drug addiction.
India GKN Sinter Metals Ltd operates a wide range of activities
providing financial support for the children of employees to
encourage them to pursue full-time education. On the company’s
Annual Day merit certificates and cash gifts are given to the children
who successfully pass their school exams. A Consumer Co-operative
and an Employee Welfare Fund assist employees with their day-to-
day household necessities and medical requirements. Employees
also contribute a day’s wages, which is matched by the company, 
to help those affected by naturalcalamities such as floods, drought
and earthquakes.
South Africa GKN Sinter Metals’ plant in Cape Town actively supports
the Joan Cousins HIV/AIDS Mission with counselling, school and
business education, home care and support for people affected by
AIDS. In 2002 GKN plc provided the Mission with a motor vehicle to
deliver food parcels.
UK GKN’s charitable fund in the UK made contributions to organisations
primarily focused on education and the community. In addition,
individual businesses and their employees, such as AgustaWestland
in Yeovil, Somerset and OffHighway and AutoComponents in Telford,
Shropshire, operate their own charity and community support
programmes. In Yeovil, a group of apprentices have helped a local
inventor to demonstrate the feasibility of a unique system to produce
electrical energy from the pressure generated by vehicles on the road
surface leading into the plant. At the GKN Corporate Centre in Redditch
external maintenance is carried out in partnership with a national
charity which assists people with learning and social difficulties to
gain experience and confidence in a working environment.
Employee numbers
as at 31 December 2002
Subsidiaries 29,800
Joint ventures 3,500
Aerospace
Subsidiaries 5,900
Joint ventures 9,400
Automotive
Employee numbers
as at 31 December 2002
UK 10,900
Continental Europe 20,400
Americas 12,900
Rest of the World 4,400
(including subsidiaries and joint ventures) How GKN manages health and safety
Management of health and safety is an integral part of the Group’s
loss prevention policy. Primary responsibility for health and safety
rests with operational management supported by functional specialists.
Employees and their representatives are also actively involved in the
development and implementation of safe systems of work. The GKN
occupational safety and health management system is based on 
keyenablers which are used to assess the current position and 
set targets to achieve and maintain performance improvement.
Businesses submit health and safety performance data every six
months which is reported to the GKN Executive Committee and 
the Board. Feedback allows them to benchmark performance and
identify good practice. Particular attention is also paid to enablers,
such as leadership and training, which are reported and reviewed 
at least annually at Executive Committee level and more frequently
at divisional and plant level.
Each business is required to have safety improvement objectives.
Whilst some objectives are established at Group level, most are 
set at divisional or plant level to reflect the particular needs, risks,
priorities and opportunities within individual business operations.
Where performance does not meet acceptable standards, managers
have to present improvement plans to the GKN Executive Committee
or divisional committees. 
Safety review visits involving senior executives at corporate,
divisional and business level continue to provide visible leadership
and involvement from the top. Feedback discussions which include
employee representatives identify strengths and weaknesses together
with practical and sustainable improvement processes. A second
phase to the process comprises an improvement workshop to develop
the learning points and improvement opportunities in more detail.
The determination to continue to improve safety performance and
maintain a proper consideration of all stakeholder interests provided
the basis for a major case study at the GKN International Leadership
Conference in October 2002. Senior executives from all GKN
businesses had to consider a hypothetical new GKN acquisition in
terms of what was needed to achieve improvement in safety systems
and performance and also had to deal with a mock serious accident
including face to face meetings with key stakeholders both internal
and external. The direct experiences – some uncomfortable – and
lessons learned have provided a more informed leadership with
additional insights to help drive improvement.
Safety performance
Key performance indicators are established for safety, the most
significant of which – accident frequency rate and accident severity
rate – are shown below. Additional measures are used at corporate,
divisional and plant level to drive other elements of our occupational
safety and health management system and improvement process. 
The chart below left shows the accident frequency rate (i.e. the
number of incidents resulting in an individual being unable to work
for one day or more per 1,000 employees per annum). The chart
below right shows the accident severity rate (i.e. the number of days
lost due to accidents per 1,000 employees per annum). Over the
past five years the Group has improved its performance by 55% for
AFR and 30% for ASR. This reflects increasing management attention,
a proactive approach to risk reduction and prevention and thorough
investigation of accidents to prevent recurrence.
In 2002, the incidence of serious injuries, including those that
involved an employee being absent from work for four weeks or
more, was 2.2 per 1,000 employees – a 39% improvement over 
the last five years. 
GKN was deeply saddened by the deaths of two independent
contractors in 2002 as a result of accidents on GKN premises, 
both at plants in India. One involved an electrician and the other a
delivery driver. Both events were the subject of detailed internal and
external investigation and although safeguards were in place, further
improvement measures have been implemented. It is also with regret
that we report the death of a flight test engineer at AgustaWestland,
our joint venture helicopter company, when a development AB139
helicopter crashed during pre-certification flight testing at Rimini, Italy.
In 2002, 15 enforcement actions at plants in the UK, USA, Australia
and Brazil included two prohibition notices related to specific pieces
of equipment, five improvement notices and other mainly minor
actions with fines totalling £14,000.
Although the safety improvement trend has continued, the Executive
Committee has maintained a particular focus on serious accidents
and has continued actively to drive improvement in the application
of prevention techniques. 
In a keynote article for GKN Management News, Marcus Beresford,
the then Chief Executive wrote: 
“Our most recent results show that while we may be having fewer
accidents those which do occur are of the more serious kind. It may
be easy for us to express regret but we should never forget that for
the individual and their family the effects can be devastating.” ...
“It is the task of all of us, but especially everyone in management
and leadership roles, to give meaning to the GKN values and drive
through improvements in equipment, systems and behaviour.”
31 GKN plc 2002
98
99
00
01
24.8
21.4
19.7
13.4 02
Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) 
per 1,000 employees
29.8 98
99
00
01
372
359
350
297 02
Accident Severity Rate (ASR) 
per 1,000 employees
426 Occupational health
GKN’s concern goes beyond the employee’s physical safety and the
prevention of accidents at work to focus heavily on the avoidance of
work related ill health. Occupational health (OH) practitioners work
closely with safety and environmental advisers to create a working
environment which minimises the risk to employee health.
The efficiency of work equipment, and the use of chemicals and
physical agents are important considerations. We utilise risk
assessment and safe working systems analysis to define how the 
job will be done without causing harm. Surveillance programmes
enable the detection of any ill effects at the earliest stage so action
can be taken to prevent continuing exposure. OH issues are reviewed
centrally and regularly discussed, along with safety matters, by the
Executive Committee.
GKN Safety Awards
More than 100 people representing GKN’s worldwide operations
gathered in Paris in October 2002. Many were there to receive
awards on behalf of their businesses for outstanding achievement in
the areas of health and safety and the environment. Others, from the
senior management team, were there to honour those achievements. 
The GKN Safety Award winners were GKN Automotive in the US, 
GKN OffHighway Systems and GKN AutoComponents at Telford in the
UK, GKN Sinter Metals Emporium, Pennsylvania, USA, GKN FAD SpA,
Italy, GKN Sinter Metals Wisconsin, USA, and GKN Aerospace Chem-
tronics in California, USA. GKN FAD SpA, which was also the overall
winner receiving the Chief Executive’s Shield, embarked on a major
safety improvement programme following its acquisition in 2000 
and over two years reduced its ASR by 85% and its AFR by 87%.
Environmental
How GKN manages environmental issues
Environmental management forms an integral part of the Group’s
loss prevention policy. The primary responsibility for environmental
management, as with health and safety, rests with operational
management. Support is provided by environmental specialists
within the businesses and at the Corporate Centre.
The Group environmental management system (EMS) is part of the
integrated loss prevention approach and is broadly based on the
international EMS standard, ISO 14001. The core element of GKN’s
EMS is a requirement for continuous improvement driven by the
measurement and evaluation of performance, the identification and
implementation of action plans, the measurement of results and then
beginning the whole cycle again with re-evaluation of performance.
GKN’s EMS covers a number of key elements including general
environmental management systems, hazardous materials
management, air pollution control, water, waste, soil and
groundwater management and noise and energy management.
50 sites have been accredited to ISO 14001, an increase of 30 
from 2001, and three to the European EMAS standard. We are
currently investigating the possibility of co-ordinating the efforts
of companies, and their certifying bodies, to use ISO 14001
certification as a more effective means of demonstrating compliance
to a common environmental management and reporting system.
The increasing concern about climate change led GKN in 2000 to 
set an internal target of a 5% reduction relative to sales in carbon
dioxide emissions by 2005 starting from a 1999 baseline. This target
is intended to ensure that GKN’s reduction in emissions is broadly
in line with the targets set in the Kyoto Protocol.
Review and auditing
Group businesses continue to make annual self assessments
of environmental risk, management and performance. In 2002 
a system of quarterly reporting was introduced to ensure early
notification of trends. Company financial controllers are required 
to confirm the processes by which data is collected within their
company. In addition, as part of the certification to ISO 14001 by
Group companies, external independent certifying bodies will assess
the suitability of systems that are in place to gather and report data.
As part of its obligations as a member of the UK Emission Trading
Scheme, GKN has employed external verifiers to check the accuracy
of emission data collected during 1998–2000, the baseline years
of this scheme. This activity will continue during the five-year life 
of the scheme. 
Performance
We continue to concentrate on four key performance indicators,
energy use and associated carbon dioxide emissions, waste
generation, water use and volatile organic compound (VOC)
consumption. As described on page 27 (Scope of the review), the
data in respect of these suffers from some distortion as a result of
the differing profiles of the various manufacturing businesses and in
particular by the relatively high energy consumption of the US metal
powder manufacturer, Hoeganaes, acquired in 1999. Performance
data for Hoeganaes in 1998 is not available and therefore is not
included in the charts below. 
32 GKN plc 2002 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
98
99
00
01
119
121
107
119 02
Group performance: Waste
index is normalised to £1,000 sales with 1998 as 100
100 98
99
00
01
124
128
119
121 02
Group performance: Energy
index is normalised to £1,000 sales with 1998 as 100
100 Energy consumption The relative energy usage in 2002 has
increased from 2001 due principally to increased production levels
at Hoeganaes, where sales increased by 21%. Although Hoeganaes’
total sales represent only 4% of Group sales, its energy consumption
accounts for over 17% of the Group total. The consumption of energy
and the associated emissions of carbon dioxide will continue to be 
a key focus in the coming years. As a founder member of the UK
Emission Trading Scheme, GKN has committed itself to reducing
carbon dioxide emissions in the UK by 10,000 tonnes during the
lifetime of the scheme. This represents an ambitious target of around
10% in our absolute emissions over a five-year period. In the first
year of the scheme GKN exceeded its targets. The income from
incentive payments made by the UK Government under the scheme
and the sale of surplus allowances will be redistributed to Group
companies to support further energy saving projects. 
Waste generation Following a significant fall in waste generation as
a percentage of sales in 2001, 2002 saw an increase. Most of GKN’s
waste (63%) is metal scrap which is recycled. In 2002 there was a
significant amount of reorganisation in some companies which will
increase the efficiency of their operation in the future but in the short
term resulted in redundant plant and machinery which had to be
disposed of as scrap. The increased production levels achieved at
the Hoeganaes facility at Gallatin inevitably resulted in an increase 
in waste slag at that plant. However, it should be noted that all raw
material used in the production of metal powder at Gallatin is itself
scrap metal.
Water consumption Water consumption rose in 2002 after a number
of years of successive falls. Whilst this increase was in part due to
increased production levels, the overall level of water usage will be 
a key focus of attention over the ensuing year.
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) GKN, although not a major user of
volatile organic compounds, recognises their environmental impact
and closely monitors their use. The principal uses of these materials
are as constituents in paint systems and in cleaning solvents used in
paint plants. In recent years the introduction of high solids (i.e. low
solvent) paints has resulted in a steady reduction in the amounts of
these substances used by the Group and the significant reduction
from 1999 to 2000 is part of that pattern. This programme is now
complete and significant future reductions are not expected. The
level of VOC use, and hence VOC emissions, is expected to reflect
production levels in future years unless significant changes in
painting technology, such as the introduction of powder coatings,
take place. As a result we will cease to report VOC usage on a
separate basis in future although we will continue internally to monitor
their use.
In 2002, there were no instances in which action by regulatory
authorities disrupted production. However, two fines totalling
$165,000 were paid for violation of air permit and air quality
requirements relating to practices which pre-dated the acquisition of
the businesses concerned. Two other fines were imposed for exceeding
the permitted zinc concentration in a waste water discharge ($450)
and the late submission of an oil remediation plan ($8,500).
GKN Green Scheme Awards
The GKN Green Scheme recognises and rewards Group companies
which have developed innovative ways of reducing their environmental
impact. The GKN Green Scheme Award winners in 2002 were GKN
Indugasa and GKN Forjas de Precision de Legazpia in Spain, GKN
Aerospace Chem-tronics in the US, GKN Sinter Metals – Radevormwald
in Germany, GKN Sheepbridge Stokes based in Chesterfield in the UK
and GKN Gelenkwellenwerk Kiel in Germany. Each of these businesses
developed products or processes which resulted in significant
reductions in, for example, raw materials, carbon dioxide emissions,
water usage or waste. The overall winner was GKN Aerospace 
Chem-tronics for the development of a process to convert hazardous
waste into a non-hazardous product for use in the production 
and refinement of alloys and for the development of a re-usable
packaging system for the transport of jet engine components.
Conclusion
In preparing this review we have, as indicated previously, followed
best practice and reported within the framework recommended by
the Global Reporting Initiative. Each element covered in the review
represents an integral part of the way in which we conduct our
business. Our aim is to continue to develop all aspects of our
corporate social responsibility agenda and to progress towards
long-term sustainability in allof our products and processes. 
We will continue to work together with all of our stakeholders
towards the achievement of this goal.
33 GKN plc 2002
98
99
00
01
94
88
85
88 02
Group performance: Water
index is normalised to £1,000 sales with 1998 as 100
100 98
99
00
01
81
59
66
59 02
Group performance: VOC
index is normalised to £1,000 sales with 1998 as 100
100 01 Sir David Lees (Age 66)
Non-executive Chairman. Joined GKN in 1970 as an accountant becoming Group
Finance Director in 1982. Appointed Group Managing Director in 1987 and Chairman
and Chief Executive in 1988 before becoming non-executive Chairman in 1997.
Member of the National Defence Industries Council and the Panel on Takeovers
and Mergers. Non-executive Chairman of Tate & Lyle plc, non-executive joint Deputy
Chairman of Brambles Industries plc and Brambles Industries Limited and non-
executive Director of Royal Opera House, Covent Garden Ltd. Former non-executive
Director of the Bank of England and non-executive Chairman of Courtaulds plc. 
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. [B, C, E]
02 Kevin Smith CBE (Age 48)
Chief Executive. Joined GKN in 1999 as Managing Director Aerospace and appointed
Chief Executive on 1 January 2003. Chairman of AgustaWestland. Prior to GKN, held
various positions in BAE Systems over a 20 year period latterly as Group Managing
Director – New Business. Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society. Degree (BA) in
Business Studies from the University of Central Lancashire. [A, B, E]
03 Roy Brown (Age 56)
Non-executive Director. Appointed in 1996. Non-executive Chairman of Thus plc, 
non-executive Deputy Chairman of HMV Group plc and non-executive Director of
Brambles Industries plc, Brambles Industries Limited, The British United Provident
Association Ltd (BUPA) and the Franchise Board of Lloyd’s of London. Former
executive Director of Unilever plc and Unilever NV. Fellow of the Institution of
Mechanical Engineers and Fellow of the Institution of Electrical Engineers. Degree
(BSc) in Mechanical Engineering from University College London and MBA from
Harvard University. [B, C, D, E]
04 Richard Clowes (Age 52)
Managing Director Powder Metallurgy, OffHighway and AutoComponents. Joined GKN
in 1991 and appointed Chief Executive OffHighway Systems and AutoComponents in
1993. Appointed to the Board in November 2001. Prior to GKN, held various positions
with TI Group plc. Chartered Engineer and Member of the Institution of Mechanical
Engineers. Degree (BSc) in Mechanical Engineering from Birmingham University. [A]
05 Dick Etches (Age 57)
Human Resources Director. Joined GKN in 1997. Formerly Senior Vice-President,
Human Resources, of Grand Metropolitan plc’s food sector in the US. Degrees in
Psychology (BSc) from Edinburgh University and Management Studies (MSc) from
Durham University. [A]
06 Sir Ian Gibson CBE (Age 56)
Non-executive Director. Appointed 1 June 2002. Chairman of the DTI Automotive
Innovation/Growth Team and Member of Court of the Bank of England, non-executive
Director of Northern Rock plc, BPB plc and Chelys Ltd. Formerly President of Nissan
Europe and Senior Vice President of Nissan Motor Co. Japan and former Deputy
Chairman of ASDA Group plc. Fellow of the Institute of Physics. Degree (BSc) in
Applied Physics from Manchester University. [B, C, D, E]
07 Ian Griffiths (Age 52)
Managing Director GKN Driveline. Joined GKN in 1975. Appointed Chief Executive
Automotive Driveline Division in November 2000 and to the Board in January
2001. Responsible for the Group’s worldwide operations manufacturing driveline
components and systems. Has been a member of the GKN senior driveline
management team since 1990 during which time has been responsible for 
operations in the US and for global marketing and engineering. Degree (BSc) in
Mechanical, Electrical and Production Engineering from Coventry University. [A]
08 Baroness Hogg (Age 56)
Non-executive Director. Appointed in 1996. Chairman of 3i Group plc and Frontier
Economics Ltd, and non-executive Director of P&O Princess Cruises plc. A Governor of
the BBC and former Head of the Prime Minister’s Policy Unit. Degree (MA) in Politics,
Philosophy and Economics from Oxford University. [B, C, D, E]
09 Neal Keating (Age 48)
Managing Director Aerospace Services. Joined GKN on 19 August 2002 on
appointment to the Board and became Managing Director Aerospace Services
on 1 January 2003. Prior to GKN, was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer, Commercial Aerospace Systems of Rockwell Collins in the US. Spent 24 years
with Rockwell International, latterly as Vice President and General Manager, Air
Transport Systems and Vice President and General Manager, Passenger Systems.
Degree (BS) in Electrical Engineering from University of Illinois and MBA from
University of Chicago. [A]
10 Dr Klaus Murmann (Age 71)
Non-executive Director. Appointed in 1995. Chairman of Sauer-Danfoss Inc, formed
following the merger of Sauer-Sundstrand Group with Danfoss Fluid Power. Founded
Sauer Getriebe AG in 1969 and, following a merger with Sundstrand in 1987,
developed it into the leading global supplier of hydrostatic transmissions. Chairman
of Gothaer Versicherungsbank and non-executive Director of Bankgesellschaft
Berlin AG and EON Energie AG. Degree (BA) in Political Science and Dr. Juris. [B, D, E]
11 Nigel Stein (Age 47)
Finance Director. Joined GKN in 1994 and appointed to the Board as Finance 
Director in August 2001. Has held a range of commercial, general management
and finance roles within the Group, most recently Senior Vice-President, Finance 
and Chief Financial Officer of GKN Sinter Metals. Prior to GKN, had extensive
experience in the commercial vehicle and manufacturing sector. Member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland. Degree (BSc) in Engineering Science
from Edinburgh University. [A]
12 Sir Peter Williams (Age 57)
Non-executive Director. Appointed in June 2001. Chairman of the Engineering and
Technology Board and the Japan Business Network of Trade Partners UK. Formerly
Master of St. Catherine’s College Oxford, prior to which Chairman and previously
Chief Executive of Oxford Instruments plc. Non-executive Director of Advent VCT plc,
Advent 2 VCT plc and NPL Management Ltd. Fellow of the Royal Society and of the
RoyalAcademy of Engineering and President of the British Association for the
Advancement of Science. Degree (MA) in Natural Sciences and PhD from Cambridge
University. [B, C, D, E]
13 Grey Denham (Age 54)
Company Secretary. Joined GKN in 1980 and was head of the Group Legal function 
for nine years before being appointed Company Secretary in 1996. Holds various
positions on Industry and City bodies and currently Chairman of the Primary Markets
Group of the London Stock Exchange. Law Degree (LL.B) from London University and 
a barrister.
AMember of Executive Committee
BMember of Chairman’s Committee
CMember of Audit Committee
DMember of Remuneration Committee
EMember of Nominations Committee
The responsibilities of the Committees are described on page 78.
34 GKN plc 2002 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
01
08
02
09
03
10
04
11 35 GKN plc 2002
GKN Driveline
Karmelo Ayesta
Director, Materials Management
Richard Best
MD Operations – Americas
Arthur Connelly
Operational Systems Director
Maureen Constantine
Director, Human Resources
Al Deane 
Director, Engineering 
Simon Pryce
Director, Finance & Controlling
Andy Reynolds Smith
MD Operations – Europe
Ted Rodewig
Director, Marketing
Walter Rohregger
MD Operations – Asia Pacific
Tom Stone
MD Torque Systems Group
Powder Metallurgy
Sinter Metals
Dr Volker Arnhold
V-P, Innovation & Development
Dr Harald Neubert
V-P, Product Management and 
European Sales
Art Rogers
Senior V-P , Human Resources
Andrew Rooke
V-P , Finance
Ken Sparks
Senior V-P , Manufacturing
Don Spence
President
Dr Manfred Weber
Senior V-P , Technology
Hoeganaes
Bob Fulton
Director & President – Hoeganaes
Corporation
OffHighway Systems/AutoComponents
Rob Allen
Financial Controller – GKN
AutoComponents
Manfred Arntz
MD – GKN Walterscheid GmbH
Will Hoy
Financial Controller – GKN OffHighway
Systems
Brian Montgomery
General Manager – Cab Systems
Jochen Müller
MD – GKN Walterscheid GmbH
Brian Newman
MD – GKN Wheels
David Short
Director, Human Resources
Tim Smith
MD – GKN AutoComponents
Martyn Vaughan
CEO – GKN OffHighway Systems
Aerospace Services
Tom Battaglia
Executive V-P – 
GKN Aerospace 
North America Inc
Marcus Bryson
President & CEO – 
Europe
Graham Chisnall
Group Director Sales, 
Marketing & Engineering
Paul Cocker
Senior Vice President – 
Commercial
Graham Cole
Director, Government Affairs
Richard Deakin
Senior Vice President –
Programmes
Jay Fitzsimmons
President & CEO –
North America, East
Jimmy Johnston
Senior Vice President, 
Human Resources
Jim Legler
President & CEO – 
North America, West & Acting CFO
Corporate Centre
Peter Baillie
Director, Corporate Communications
Derek Butler
Head of Treasury
David Clarke
Head of Corporate Audit
Bill Curral
Group Financial Controller
Guy Eastaugh
Head of Corporate Finance
John Hughes
Deputy Finance Director 
Rufus Ogilvie Smals
Head of Group Legal Department
Andrew Moss
Head of Employment & Development
David Pulling
Head of Strategic Planning 
David Rood
Head of Investor Relations & External
Reporting
Mike Shaw
Head of Taxation
Stephen Smith
General Counsel – GKN North America
Background image: It is the established
practice of the GKN Board to visit two
Group locations each year. This provides
an opportunity to see operations at
first hand and to meet business unit
management and employees. During 2002
the GKN Board visited GKN Birfield SpA
and GKN Sinter Metals SpA in Brunico,
Italy and GKN Aerospace Services’ plant in 
St Louis, Missouri, USA. The background
image above shows Directors at St Louis.
Left to right: Neal Keating with Jay
Fitzsimmons, President & CEO – North
America, East, GKN Aerospace Services; 
Sir David Lees, Kevin Smith, Baroness
Hogg and Ian Griffiths.
05
12
06 07
13 Basis of review
In August 2001 the Group demerged its Industrial Services businesses.
This transaction was fully described in last year’s report and accounts
and pro forma financial information was presented for the continuing
businesses in order to provide comparability of results of those
businesses. For 2002, separate financial statements with pro forma
2001 comparatives are shown on pages 40 to 45 and this review
discusses the figures in those statements. The full financial statements
including the 2001 results of the Industrial Services businesses
up to the date of the demerger are set out on pages 46 to 74.
In this review and elsewhere in the annual report, in addition to 
the statutory measures of earnings, we have included references to
profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items since we
believe this shows most clearly the underlying trend in performance.
Accounting policies
The only change in accounting policy during the year arose from the
implementation of FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’ which requires deferred tax to
be recognised on most types of timing difference. The financial impact
on the results was not material and is discussed in the tax section of
this review. Prior year figures have been restated accordingly.
Sales and operating profit
Sales and operating profit both before and after goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items are discussed by business in the Operating
Review on pages 22 to 25.
Totalsales were £4,452 million compared with £4,337 million last
year, an increase of £115 million (2.7%). The impact of currency,
acquisitions, divestments and changes in status was not material
and the underlying increase was 3.0%.
36 GKN plc 2002 36 GKN plc 2002 FINANCIAL REVIEW
Nigel Stein, Finance Director (left), with
Mike Shaw, Head of Taxation. Automotive sales of £2,950 million were £106 million (3.7%) above
lastyear with an underlying increase of 4.2%. As described in the
Operating Review, 2002 was a year of uncertain market conditions,
with lower demand in European markets contrasting with unexpectedly
resilient demand in North America.
Aerospace sales of £1,502 million were much in line with last year,
with increases in military sales being offset by reduced civil demand.
Operating profit after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
was £230 million (2001 – £161 million), a 43% increase.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
of £315 million was £9 million (2.9%) above 2001 with an underlying
increase of 2.6%. Automotive operating profit on this basis increased
by £10 million (5.3%) to £197 million while Aerospace showed a
marginal reduction from £119 million to £118 million. This was after
charging an £11 million share of redundancy and reorganisation
costs in AgustaWestland in the first half of the year.
Notwithstanding this charge, AgustaWestland performed well,
achieving operating profits above lastyear’s underlying level,
adjusted for a non-recurring charge from Aerospace subsidiaries
to Helicopters of £8 million in 2001.
Our Aerospace subsidiaries had a mixed year with good performances
by the military, largely US, businesses being negated by difficult
conditions in the European plants which predominantly serve the
civilmarket. Adjusting for the non-recurring £8 million income from
Helicopters in 2001, Aerospace subsidiaries’ operating profits of
£23 million were slightly down from £24 million in the previous year.
Exceptional items
Exceptional costs charged to operating profit in the period totalled
£37 million. They related to restructuring actions announced in
October 2001 but only implemented in 2002 and arose in both
Automotive and Aerospace businesses. The cash cost of operating
exceptional charges in the period was £52 million due mainly to 
the timing of severance payments in connection with restructuring
announced in 2001.
Exceptional losses arising on the sale or closure of businesses
totalled £2 million. The main elements were a combination of cost
and asset write-downs of £7 million on the closure of the OffHighway
Systems cabs business, partially offset by a profit of £5 million on
the sale of the Group’s shareholding in GKN Ayra Cardan SA to Dana
Corporation in return for their shareholding in GKN Driveshafts Ltd.
Goodwill amortisation
Amortisation of goodwill was £48 million (2001 – £43 million) which
includes an £11 million accelerated write-down in respect of a Sinter
Metals plant acquired in January 2001 and therefore in its first year
of review for impairment. Given the difficulties in Sinter Metals North
America over the intervening period, the goodwill on the purchase 
of this plant has been written down substantially. No other goodwill
impairments have arisen during the year.
Interest
Net interest payable by subsidiaries was £47 million (2001 –
£59 million). £10 million of the reduction arose from the benefits
of lower foreign currency interest rates, as the Group hedges its
balance sheet, effectively switching its borrowings into the currency
in which its assets are held. This allowed it to benefit from low US
dollar interest rates, the largest such currency. This benefit cannot
be assumed to recur as the Group has reduced its level of foreign
currency asset hedging, although some compensation may be
gained from recent reductions in sterling interest rates.
Interest was covered 6.6 times (2001 – 5.0 times) by operating profit
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Profit before tax
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was
£267 million compared with £245 million in 2001, an increase of 9%.
After goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, profit before tax was
£180 million. This compared with the 2001 figure of £107 million.
Taxation
Taxation increased to £77 million from £64 million in 2001. 
The rate of tax expressed as a percentage of profit before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items for the year was 30.0%
compared with a 2001 figure of 27.4%, the increase being largely
attributable to a reduction in credits arising from settlement of
prior year tax liabilities. As noted above, FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’ 
was implemented during the year and, as a result, has contributed
an additional 1.5% to the 2002 tax rate.
The underlying rate in 2003 and beyond is expected to show a
modest, progressive increase as a result of future changes in the
geographical mix of profits. There may, however, be some favourable
impact from the satisfactory resolution of outstanding tax issues.
Taxrelief on exceptional items was £3 million (2001 – £3 million).
The effective tax rate based on profits after goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items was 42.8% (2001 – 59.8%).
The impact of FRS 19 on the prior year balance sheet was to increase
the net deferred tax provision by £50 million.
Earnings
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
increased by 5.0% to 25.2p (after these items – 13.7p; 2001 – 5.3p).
Dividend
A final dividend of 7.6p per share is proposed. Together with the
interim dividend of 3.7p the total dividend for the year will be 11.3p,
an increase of 2.7% over the equivalent figure for last year. The total
dividend is covered 2.2 times by earnings before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items (2001 – 2.2 times).
Cash flow
Operating cash flow, which GKN defines as cash inflow from
operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure and proceeds
from the disposal of fixed assets, was again very strong. This
year’s figure of £174 million is somewhat ahead of last year’s
pro forma amount of £210 million, allowing for the one-off receipt
in 2001 of £49 million of customer advances and the £52 million
cash cost of exceptional operating costs in 2002 (pro forma 
2001 – £27 million).
Tight management control led to a reduction of £29 million in working
capital and capital expenditure was reduced to £213 million (pro
forma 2001 – £246 million). This represented 120% of depreciation,
a reduction from the 149% of the previous year, as a number of major
investments were completed.
Dividends from joint ventures and associates were £45 million (2001
– £49 million) with the major receipt being from AgustaWestland
which has a policy of 100% distribution of earnings unless otherwise
agreed by the shareholders.
The net impact of acquisitions and divestments on cash flow was
an outflow of £75 million (2001 – £136 million) leaving a net cash
inflow for the year of £72 million (pro forma 2001 – £29 million).
37 GKN plc 2002 Treasury management
GKN co-ordinates all treasury activities through a central function
whose purpose is to manage the financial risks of the Group as
described below and to secure short- and long-term funding at the
minimum cost to the Group. The central treasury function operates
within a framework of clearly defined Board approved policies and
procedures, including permissible funding and hedging instruments,
exposure limits and a system of authorities for the approval and
execution of transactions. It operates on a cost centre basis and 
is not permitted to make use of financial instruments or other
derivatives other than to hedge identified exposures of the Group.
Speculative use of such instruments or derivatives is not permitted,
and none has occurred during the year.
The central treasury function prepares a formal report biannually
to the Board, and prepares formal monthly reports for the Finance
Director and other senior executives of the Group. In addition, 
the gross and net indebtedness of the Group is reported on a 
weekly basis to the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, whilst
liquidity, interest rate, currency and other financial risk exposures
are monitored daily. The central treasury function is subject to an
annual internal and annual external review of controls.
Funding and liquidity
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of retained
earnings and borrowing facilities, including bank and capital market
borrowings and leasing. The relative proportions of equity and
borrowings are governed by specific Board approved parameters.
These are designed to preserve prudent financial ratios, including
interest, dividend and cash flow cover, whilst also minimising the
overall weighted average cost of capital to the Group.
All the Group’s borrowing facilities are arranged by the central
treasury function and the funds raised are then lent to operating
subsidiaries on commercial ‘arm’s length’ terms. In some cases
operating subsidiaries have external borrowings, but these are
supervised and controlled centrally. The Group’s objective is to
maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility,
through borrowing at a range of maturities from both capital
markets and bank sources.
Bank borrowings are principally in the form of committed multi-
currency bilateral revolving credit facilities with a group of relationship
banks, and with a range of maturitiesfrom 364 days to five years.
Borrowings under these facilities are unsecured and were denominated
in sterling, euro and Japanese yen at 31 December 2002.
During the year the Group’s debt maturity profile was improved by
tapping the existing £300 million 6.75% bond maturing in 2019 for a
further £50 million and issuing, in two tranches, a new £325 million
7% bond maturing in 2012.
At the year end the Group had committed borrowing facilities of
£1,490 million, of which £873 million was drawn. The weighted
average maturity profile of the Group’s committed borrowings
was 11.3 years.
This leaves the Group well placed to fund its strategic growth plans
and to withstand any sudden changes in liquidity in the financial
markets. None of the Group’s borrowing facilities are linked to
specific credit ratings ascribed by rating agencies.
The Group also has access to substantial lines of uncommitted 
funds which are used principally to manage day-to-day liquidity.
Wherever practicable, pooling, netting or concentration techniques
are employed to minimise gross debt.
Risk management
The Group is exposed to a variety of market risks, including the
effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest
rates. In the normal course of business, the Group also faces risks
that are either non-financial or non-quantifiable, including country
and credit risk.
The Group uses interest rate swaps, swaptions, forward rate
agreements, netting techniques and forward exchange contracts to
manage the primary market exposures associated with its underlying
assets, liabilities and anticipated transactions.
Counterparty credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-
performance by counterparties to financial instruments. Credit risk
is mitigated by the Group’s policy of only selecting counterparties
with a strong investment graded long-term credit rating, normally at
least AA– or equivalent, and assigning financial limits to individual
counterparties.
Interest rate risk
The Group operates an interest rate policy designed to optimise
interest cost and reduce volatility in reported earnings. This policy
is achieved by maintaining a target range of fixed and floating rate
debt for discrete annual periods, over a defined time horizon. This
is achieved partly through the fixed rate character of the underlying
debt instrument, and partly through the use of straightforward
derivatives (forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps and
swaptions). As reported previously, it is the Group’s policy to 
keep the parameters governing interest rate fixing under review 
from time to time to take account of movements in the interest rate
environment and also changes in the disposition and nature of the
Group’s operating assets. The Group’s current policy is to require
interest rates to be fixed for 30% to 70% of the level of underlying
borrowings forecast to arise over a 12-month horizon, reducing 
on a tapering basis to a minimum of nilfixing for debt maturities
extending beyond three years on a rolling basis.
At 31 December 2002, 75% of the Group’s gross financial liabilities
were at fixed rates of interest due to the timing of the bond issue.
This has since been reduced to below the 70% ceiling during the 
first few weeks of 2003. The weighted average period in respect of
which interest has been fixed was 12.9 years.
Currency risk
The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from sales
or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the
subsidiaries’ functional currencies. Under the Group’s foreign exchange
policy, such transaction exposures are hedged once they are known,
mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The level of hedges may be varied from time to time as the volume of
underlying trading also varies. Differences arising on such variations
are taken to the profit and loss account either as a credit or a charge.
The Group has a significant investment in overseas operations,
particularly in continental Europe, and the Americas. As a result, 
the sterling value of the Group’s balance sheet can be affected by
movements in exchange rates. The Group therefore seeks to mitigate
the effect of these translational currency exposures by matching the
net investment in overseas operations with borrowings denominated
in their functional currencies, except where significant adverse
interest differentials or other factors would render the cost of such
hedging activity uneconomic. This is achieved by borrowing either
directly (in either the local domestic or eurocurrency markets), or
indirectly through the use of rolling annual forward foreign exchange
38 GKN plc 2002 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED contracts. Borrowings created through the use of such contracts
amounted to £656 million at 31 December 2002 and were
denominated in US dollars (64%) and euro (36%).
Recognising the risk to the Group’s overall level of borrowings if
there were to be sudden swings in exchange rates, in 2003 the
Group has reduced its level of hedging in some currencies to a 
lower level than in 2002.
Goodwill
At the year end the balance sheet showed goodwill of £470 million 
in relation to subsidiaries and a further £114 million within the
equity value of joint ventures and associates.
Net borrowings
At the end of the year the Group had net borrowings of £834 million
(2001 – £885 million). These included the benefit of customer advances
of £42 million (2001 – £50 million), which are shown in short-term
creditors in the balance sheet. There were no net borrowings in joint
ventures, which held substantial cash balances at 31 December 2002.
The reduction in net debt seen in the year was encouraging and arose
from the strong performance in operating cash flow. The net cost of
acquisitions and divestments was £75 million. A one-off benefit of
£66 million arose as a consequence of our balance sheet hedging policy.
Shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity was £950 million at the end of the year
compared with £970 million as restated for the impact of FRS 19 
at the end of 2001. Retained profits were £17 million which were
more than offset by £43 million adverse impact of currency.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits
Pension and post-retirement costs in these accounts have been
accounted for on an SSAP 24 basis. The total charge to Group 
profit in respect of defined benefit schemes was £49 million 
(2001 – £42 million).
The progressive implementation of FRS 17 ‘Accounting for Retirement
Benefits’, has been accompanied by considerable debate about
its suitability as a measure of present and future pension liabilities.
In line with the latest guidance from the Accounting Standards
Board, the Group has not adopted FRS 17 in these accounts, but is
disclosing fully the effects had it done so. These are shown in note
26 to the accounts on pages 68 to 71 which covers both the balance
sheet and profit and loss account impacts.
UK pensions
Much of the external focus is on the Group’s UK pension scheme
which has approximately 60,000 members of whom only 10% are
currently in service with the remainder either deferred or current
pensioners. As a UK defined benefit scheme this is run on a funded
basis with funds set aside in trust to cover future liabilities to
members. The scheme was in surplus on both an SSAP 24 and 
FRS 17 basis at 31 December 2000. Due to substantial falls in 
world stock markets and declines in interest rates used to calculate
the net present value of liabilities, the FRS 17 figures now show 
a significant deterioration to a gross deficit of £551 million. After
taking account of deferred taxation, this reduces to £415 million.
Recognising that in the short term at least, some of this deficit
is unlikely to be made up simply through the recovery in asset
values, the Group has already been making higher payments into
this fund. In addition to the regular £15 million cost of current
service entitlements, in 2002 the Group increased its discretionary
contributions to £18 million (2001 – £8 million) bringing total
annual company contributions to the fund in the year to £33 million.
The next formal actuarial valuation of the scheme on an SSAP 24
basis will take place in April 2003 and it is therefore not possible 
to give precise guidance on the likely contribution rate for 2003 
and beyond. However, the Group’s plans for 2003 assume a further
increase in contributions of up to £20 million bringing the total
annual cash cost to over £53 million. This increase is well within 
the cash flow and balance sheet capability of the Group.
Under SSAP 24 the charge to profit for the UK scheme was
£17 million (2001 – £14 million). The charge in 2003, which will
not be known until after the valuation in April, is estimated to rise 
by approximately £15 million.
Overseas pensions
FRS 17 also values post-retirement benefits in other parts of the
Group, including those countries where schemes are unfunded and it
is already the practice to provide for the liability in the balance sheet.
The principal regions involved are the US and continental Europe 
and the detailed assumptions underlying the FRS 17 additional
net liabilities in those territories of £36 million and £18 million
respectively, are set out in the note to the accounts.
Summary
In total, at 31 December 2002 on the FRS 17 basis, there would have
been an overall additional liability on all pension/post-retirement
obligations of £527 million (2001 – £169 million). This is after
allowance for the net £157 million (2001 – £144 million) already
included in net liabilities on the balance sheet and a deferred tax
credit of £202 million (2001 – £87 million) which, it should be noted,
has been restricted by the forecast availability of UK taxable profits.
The impact on the profit and loss accountofadopting FRS 17 would
have been insignificant. GKN has not benefited from abnormally
low pension charges nor taken a pension contribution holiday in
recent years.
Joint ventures
The equity value of joint ventures will also be affected by the
implementation of FRS 17 and the adjustment at the end of
2002 would have reduced shareholders’ funds by £58 million.
Share options
Both the UK Accounting Standards Board and the International
Accounting Standards Board published exposure drafts during the
year which will require the value of all share options granted after 
7 November 2002 to be charged to the profit and loss account. These
are likely to become standard for accounting periods commencing
after 1 January 2004. On the basis that existing option arrangements
continue but with a reduced level of discount on the all-employee
sharesave scheme, the future annualised cost of all current schemes,
including the long-term incentive plan, is estimated to be in the
region of £3 million in 2003 rising incrementally to some £8 million
in 2005.
Financial resources and going concern
At 31 December 2002 the Group had available, but undrawn,
committed borrowing facilitiestotalling £617 million.
Having assessed the future funding requirements of the Group, the
Directors are of the opinion that it is appropriate for the accounts
to be prepared on a going concern basis.
39 GKN plc 2002 Restated
(note 1)
Pro Acquisitions Other Total Total
forma in year companies 2002 2001
notes £m £m £m £m
Sales
Subsidiaries 31 3,274 3,305 3,317
Share of joint ventures – 1,051 1,051 963
Share of associates 43 53 96 57
74 4,378 4,452 4,337
Operating profit
Subsidiaries:
Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 4 192 196 193
Goodwill amortisation – (42) (42) (38)
Exceptional items 2 – (37) (37) (102)
Totalsubsidiaries 4 113 117 53
Share of joint ventures:
Before goodwill amortisation – 116 116 110
Goodwill amortisation – (6) (6) (5)
Totalshare of joint ventures – 110 110 105
Share of associates 123 3
Total operating profit 5 225 230 161
Exceptional items
Profits less losses on sale or closure of businesses:
Subsidiaries 2 – (2) (2) 2
Share of associates 2 ––– 5
Profit before interest and taxation 5 223 228 168
Net interest payable:
Subsidiaries (47) (59)
Share of joint ventures and associates (1) (2)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 180 107
Taxation (77) (64)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 103 43
Minority interests – equity (3) (5)
Earnings of the year 100 38
Dividends (83) (80)
Transfer to/(from) reserves 17 (42)
Earnings per share – p 3 13.7 5.3
Diluted earnings per share – p 3 13.6 5.2
Results before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
Operating profit – £m 315 306
Profit before tax – £m 267 245
Earnings per share – p 3 25.2 24.0
40 GKN plc 2002
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT WITH PRO FORMA COMPARATIVES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 Restated 
(note 1)
2002 2001
£m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 470 525
Tangible assets 1,374 1,399
1,844 1,924
Investments
Joint ventures:
Share of gross assets 1,198 1,070
Share of gross liabilities (972) (874)
226 196
Associates 39 9
Other investments 17 21
282 226
Totalfixed assets 2,126 2,150
Current assets
Stocks 488 503
Debtors 561 556
Cash at bank and in hand 105 167
1,154 1,226
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Short-term borrowings (43) (295)
Creditors (772) (730)
Taxation payable (182) (190)
Dividend payable (56) (53)
(1,053) (1,268)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 101 (42)
Totalassets less current liabilities 2,227 2,108
Creditors: amounts falling due beyond one year
Term loans and obligations under finance leases (894) (754)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (373) (362)
Net assets 960 992
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 366 364
Share premium account 13 3
Revaluation reserve 45 45
Other reserves (81) (84)
Profit and loss account 607 642
Equity interest 950 970
Minority interest – equity 10 22
960 992
41 GKN plc 2002
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 2002 2001
£m £m
Operating profit from continuing businesses 117 53
Depreciation 177 165
Goodwill amortisation 31 31
Impairment of goodwill 11 7
(Profit)/loss on sale of tangible fixed assets (6) 1
Impairment of tangible fixed assets 4 19
(Increase)/decrease in stocks (5) 44
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (10) 71
Increase in creditors 44 3
Increase in provisions 8 9
(Decrease)/increase in customer advances (4) 49
Net cash inflow from operating activities 367 452
SUMMARISED CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT WITH PRO FORMA COMPARATIVES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002
2002 2001
£m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities (see above) 367 452
Dividends from joint ventures and associates 45 49
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Net interest paid (34) (58)
Dividends paid to minority interests (1) (1)
(35) (59)
Taxation (38) (33)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (213) (246)
Other 21 2
(192) (244)
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (84) (137)
Sale of subsidiaries and joint ventures 9 1
(75) (136)
Cash inflow from continuing businesses 72 29
MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT WITH PRO FORMA COMPARATIVES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002
2002 2001
£m £m
Cash inflow from continuing businesses (see above) 72 29
Currency variations 66 (6)
Proceeds of Ordinary Share issues 9 15
Dividends (80) (148)
Formation of AgustaWestland – (144)
Subsidiaries acquired and sold (10) –
Continuing businesses total inflow/(outflow) 57 (254)
Cash outflow from discontinued businesses (6) (30)
Net borrowings at 1 January (885) (601)
Net borrowings at 31 December (834) (885)
42 GKN plc 2002
CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES WITH PRO FORMA COMPARATIVES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 Sales Operating profit Net operating assets
2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m £m £m
By business
Automotive: 
Subsidiaries 2,746 2,687 173 161 1,290 1,392
Joint ventures 161 157 23 26 85 91
Associates 43 – 1 – 41 –
2,950 2,844 197 187 1,416 1,483
Aerospace: 
Subsidiaries 559 630 23 32 353 328
Joint ventures 890 806 93 84 243 106
Associates 53 57 2 3 (6) 4
1,502 1,493 118 119 590 438
4,452 4,337 315 306 2,006 1,921
Goodwill amortisation – – (48) (43) – –
Exceptional items – – (37) (102) – –
Total 4,452 4,337 230 161 2,006 1,921
By region of origin 
Europe: 
Subsidiaries 1,687 1,715 123 122 837 842
Joint ventures 933 851 99 93 272 127
Associates 53 57 2 3 (6) 4
2,673 2,623 224 218 1,103 973
Americas: 
Subsidiaries 1,349 1,340 54 53 724 801
Joint ventures 62 68 10 11 32 42
1,411 1,408 64 64 756 843
Rest of the World: 
Subsidiaries 269 262 19 18 82 77
Joint ventures 56 44 7 6 24 28
Associates 43 – 1 – 41 –
368 306 27 24 147 105
Total 4,452 4,337 315 306 2,006 1,921
Notes:
1 The analyses of operating profit by business and by region of origin include an allocation of costs incurred in the United Kingdom.
2 Intra-group sales between businesses and regions are not significant. 
3 Operating profit of continuing businesses after charging goodwill amortisation and exceptional items is analysed by business as follows: Automotive £139 million (2001 – £129 million) 
and Aerospace £91 million (2001 – £32 million) and by region of origin as follows: Europe £186 million (2001 – £125 million), Americas £19 million (2001 – £14 million) and Rest of the World
£25 million (2001 – £22 million).
4 Net operating assets are analysed as follows:
2002 2001
£m £m
Tangible fixed assets 1,374 1,399
Stocks 488 503
Debtors 551 545
Creditors – short-term (770) (727)
Totalsubsidiaries 1,643 1,720
Net operating assets of joint ventures and associates 363 201
2,006 1,921
43 GKN plc 2002
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS WITH PRO FORMA COMPARATIVES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 Notes:
1 Basis of preparation
The current year financial information comprisesconsolidated profit and loss account, consolidated balance sheet and summarised
consolidated cash flow statement and notes thereto which have been extracted from the audited financial statements set out on 
pages 46 to 74. The unaudited pro forma comparative figures for the continuing GKN Group which appear on pages 40 to 45 have 
been prepared as if the Industrial Servicesbusinesses (which were demerged from the former GKN Group in August 2001) had been
demerged on 1 January 2001 and exclude the costs of the transaction itself. They are based on the audited consolidated accounts of
the GKN Group for the year ended 31 December 2001 from which the results of the Industrial Services businesses have been eliminated. 
The pro forma dividend for 2001 is based on 11.0p per share as noted in last year’s annual report.
Comparative figures have been restated to reflect the first time adoption of FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’. The standard requires deferred tax
liabilities or assets to be recognised in respect of transactions and events which have occurred by the balance sheet date. At the end of
2001 the net deferred tax liability was £52 million in subsidiaries, an increase of £50 million over the previous basis. Within joint ventures,
the share of the deferred tax liability has increased by £13 million and goodwill arising on the formation of AgustaWestland in 2001 has
reduced by £3 million. Consequently, shareholders’ equity at the end of 2001 was reduced by £66 million. The impact on the profit and 
loss account was an increase in the tax charge of £3 million in 2002 and £4 million in 2001.
2 Exceptional items
2002 2001
£m £m
a) Operating exceptional items
Asset impairments (14) (70)
Redundancy costs (15) (23)
Other (8) (9)
(37) (102)
Following the substantial downturn in civil aviation markets and uncertainties surrounding North American vehicle production levels, 
which were apparent in the second half of 2001, the Group took steps to reduce capacity in a number of aerospace and automotive plants. 
A reassessment was also made of the carrying value of certain aerospace assets. This resulted in a charge to operating profit of £102 million
in 2001 with a further £37 million in 2002 in respect of actions which had not been announced by 31 December 2001 and could not, therefore,
be accrued in the 2001 accounts. The cash outflow from these and earlier actions was £52 million in 2002 and £27 million in 2001.
2002 2001
£m £m
b) Non-operating exceptional items
Profits less losses on sale or closure of businesses
Subsidiaries:
GKN Aerospace Services sale of business – 9
Goodwill previously written off to reserves – (2)
– 7
GKN Driveline sale and closure of businesses 5 –
GKN OffHighway Systems closure of business (7) –
Other – (5)
Totalsubsidiaries (2) 2
Share of associates: 
Alvis plc – sale of shares in Avimo Group Ltd – 5
There was no goodwill previously written off to reserves on the businesses sold or closed during the year.
44 GKN plc 2002
FINANCIAL INFORMATION PRO FORMA COMPARATIVES 3 Earnings per share
Earnings per share for 2002 are based on earnings of the year of £100 million (2001 – £38 million) and calculated on the weighted average
number of 729.2 million shares in issue and ranking for dividend (2001 – 720.1 million shares). Diluted earnings per share, which takes
into account options over GKN plc shares, is calculated on the weighted average number of 734.6 million (2001 – 727.6 million) shares.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, which the Directors consider gives a useful additional indication 
of underlying performance, is calculated on the earnings of the year adjusted as follows: 
Earnings Earnings per share 
Restated Restated
(note1) (note1)
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m p p
Earnings of the year 100 38 13.7 5.3
Included in operating profit: 
Goodwill amortisation 48 43 6.5 6.0
Exceptional items 37 102 5.1 14.2
Non-operating exceptional items 2 (7) 0.3 (1.0)
Taxation attributable to exceptional items (3) (3) (0.4) (0.5)
Earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 184 173 25.2 24.0
45 GKN plc 2002 Continuing operations Restated
(note 1)
Acquisitions Other Total Total
in year companies 2002 2001
Notes £m £m £m £m
Sales
Subsidiaries 2 31 3,274 3,305 3,432
Share of joint ventures – 1,051 1,051 1,463
Share of associates 43 53 96 57
2 74 4,378 4,452 4,952
Operating profit
Subsidiaries:
Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 4 192 196 203
Goodwill amortisation – (42) (42) (40)
Exceptional items 4 – (37) (37) (106)
Totalsubsidiaries 3 4 113 117 57
Share of joint ventures:
Before goodwill amortisation – 116 116 180
Goodwill amortisation – (6) (6) (9)
Totalshare of joint ventures – 110 110 171
Share of associates 123 3
Total operating profit 5 225 230 231
Exceptional items
Profits less losses on sale or closure of businesses:
Subsidiaries 4 – (2) (2) (1)
Share of associates 4 ––– 5
Demerger costs 4 ––– (20)
Profit before interest and taxation 5 223 228 215
Net interest payable:
Subsidiaries 5 (47) (59)
Share of joint ventures and associates 5 (1) (21)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 180 135
Taxation 6 (77) (110)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 103 25
Minority interests – equity (3) (5)
Earnings of the year 100 20
Dividends 7 (83) (108)
Transfer to/(from) reserves 17 (88)
Earnings per share – p 8 13.7 2.8
Diluted earnings per share – p 8 13.6 2.7
Results before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
Operating profit – £m 315 386
Profit before tax – £m 267 306
Earnings per share – p 8 25.2 28.9
46 GKN plc 2002
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 Restated
(note 1)
2002 2001
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 10 470 525
Tangible assets 11 1,374 1,399
1,844 1,924
Investments
Joint ventures:
Share of gross assets 1,198 1,070
Share of gross liabilities (972) (874)
226 196
Associates 39 9
Other investments 17 21
12 282 226
Totalfixed assets 2,126 2,150
Current assets
Stocks 13 488 503
Debtors 14 561 556
Cash at bank and in hand 15 105 167
1,154 1,226
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Short-term borrowings 16 (43) (295)
Creditors 17 (772) (730)
Taxation payable 18 (182) (190)
Dividend payable (56) (53)
(1,053) (1,268)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 101 (42)
Totalassets less current liabilities 2,227 2,108
Creditors: amounts falling due beyond one year
Term loans and obligations under finance leases 19 (894) (754)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 (373) (362)
Net assets 960 992
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 366 364
Share premium account 24 13 3
Revaluation reserve 24 45 45
Other reserves 24 (81) (84)
Profit and loss account 24 607 642
Equity interest 950 970
Minority interest – equity 10 22
960 992
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2003 and were signed by:
Sir David Lees, Kevin Smith, Nigel Stein, Directors
47 GKN plc 2002
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 2002 2001
£m £m
Earnings of the year 
Subsidiaries 26 (83)
Share of joint ventures 71 97
Share of associates 3 6
100 20
Currency variations (43) (21)
Other reserve movements (4) (3)
Totalrecognised gains and losses of the year 53 (4)
Prior year adjustment (note 1) (66) –
Totalgains and losses recognised since last annual report (13) (4)
Earnings of the year on an historical cost basis are not materially different from those reported above. 
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002
Restated 
(note 1)
2002 2001
£m £m
Totalrecognised gains and losses of the year 53 (4)
Dividends (83) (108)
Demerger of Industrial Services – (402)
Issue of Ordinary Shares net of costs 12 15
Formation of AgustaWestland (2) 110
Goodwill on businesses sold and closed – 2
Total decrease (20) (387)
Shareholders’ equity at 1 January (note 1) 970 1,357
Shareholders’ equity at 31 December 950 970
MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002
2002 2001
£m £m
(Decrease)/increase in cash (74) 47
Increase/(decrease) in liquid resources and financing 60 (196)
Cash outflow before use of liquid resources and financing (14) (149)
Currency variations 66 (6)
Net proceeds of Ordinary Share issues 9 15
Formation of AgustaWestland – (144)
Subsidiaries acquired and sold (10) –
Total decrease/(increase) 51 (284)
Net borrowings at 1 January (885) (601)
Net borrowings at 31 December (834) (885)
48 GKN plc 2002
STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 2002 2001
Notes £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities a 361 439
Dividends from joint ventures and associates 45 75
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 22 16
Interest paid (56) (75)
Dividends paid to minority interests (1) (1)
(35) (60)
Taxation
United Kingdom – 15
Overseas (38) (51)
(38) (36)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (213) (258)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 20 6
Investment loans and capital contributions 1 (30)
Other financial investments – (1)
(192) (283)
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase of subsidiaries b (47) (137)
Purchase of joint ventures and associates (37) (9)
Sale of subsidiaries b 9 10
(75) (136)
Equity dividends paid (80) (148)
Cash outflow before use of liquid resources and financing (14) (149)
Management of liquid resources
Increase in short-term loans and deposits (61) (10)
Decrease in short-term loans and deposits 53 9
c (8) (1)
Financing
Net proceeds of Ordinary Share issues 9 15
Proceeds of other term borrowings 1,402 728
Repayment of other term borrowings (1,460) (538)
Finance leases (3) (8)
c (52) 197
(Decrease)/increase in cash c (74) 47
49 GKN plc 2002
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 2002 2001
£m £m
a) Net cash inflow from operating activities
Operating profit 117 57
Depreciation 177 171
Goodwill amortisation 31 31
Impairment of goodwill 11 7
Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets (6) –
Impairment of tangible fixed assets 4 23
(Increase)/decrease in stocks (5) 43
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (10) 75
Increase/(decrease) in creditors 44 (11)
Increase in provisions 8 8
(Decrease)/increase in customer advances (4) 49
Exceptional items (note 4) (6) (14)
Net cash inflow from operating activities (note i) 361 439
Acquisitions Sales
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m
b) Purchase and sale of subsidiaries
Tangible fixed assets (17) (66) 6 1
Working capital and provisions (9) (40) 4 3
Taxation payable – – (1) –
Cash (2) – 5 –
Loans and finance leases 10 3 – (3)
Minority interests (8) – (5) –
(26) (103) 9 1
Change from joint venture status 5 – – –
Surplus on sales – – 5 7
Goodwill (29) (29) – 2
Totalconsideration (50) (132) 14 10
Deferred consideration 1 (5) – –
Consideration (paid)/received (49) (137) 14 10
Less: cash 2 – (5) –
Net cash (outflow)/inflow (47) (137) 9 10
Change in 2002
Net borrowings at end of year Liquid
Cash resources
2002 2001 (note ii) (note iii) Financing
£m £m £m £m £m
c) Analysis of movements in net debt
Bank balances and cash 69 141 (72) – –
Short-term loans and deposits 36 26 –10 –
Bank overdrafts (26) (21) (5) – –
Other short-term borrowings (17) (274) –– 257
Term loans (877) (745) –– (132)
Finance leases:
Due within one year (2) (3) –– 1
Due in more than one year (17) (9) –– (8)
(834) (885) (77) 10 118
Net proceeds of Ordinary Share issues –– (9)
Subsidiaries acquired and sold – (1) 11
Currency variations 3 (1) (68)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow (74) 8 52
Notes:
i Included in cash inflow from operating activities is expenditure of £52 million (2001 – £27 million) in respect of operating exceptional items.
ii Cash consists of cash in hand and bank balances and overdrafts repayable on demand as defined by FRS 1 (revised).
iii Liquid resources consist of short-term investments, loans and deposits excluding cash.
50 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 1 Accounting policies
Basis of accounting
These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings, and comply with UK
applicable accounting standards. The Directors have conducted a review of the Group’s accounting policies and have confirmed that they are
the most appropriate for the purposes of giving a true and fair view of the Group’s results and that there have been no changes from last year.
One new standard, FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’, was applied in the period. The standard requires deferred tax liabilities or assets to be recognised
in respect of transactions and events which have occurred by the balance sheet date. At the end of 2001 the net deferred tax liability was
£52 million in subsidiaries, an increase of £50 million over the previous basis. Within joint ventures, the share of the deferred taxliability
has increased by £13 million and goodwill arising on the formation of AgustaWestland in 2001 has reduced by £3 million. Consequently,
shareholders’ equity at the end of 2001 was reduced by £66 million. The impact on the profit and loss account was an increase in the tax
charge of £3 million in 2002 and £15 million in 2001. Comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Basisofconsolidation
The group accounts consolidate the accounts for the year to 31 December 2002 of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss accountfrom the date 
of acquisition or to the date of disposal. In the case of acquisitions during the year the acquisition method of accounting is used.
Where material, profits or losses are analysed as discontinued operations where businesses are sold or closed by the date on which the
accounts are approved. Where businesses are treated as sold or closed in the current year, the prior year’s analyses are restated to reflect
those businesses as discontinued.
Foreign currencies
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated to sterling at average exchange rates.
Where practicable, transactions involving foreign currencies are protected by forward contracts. Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies
are translated at the appropriate forward contract rate or, if not covered, at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Differences
on revenue transactions are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
The exchange rates used for the currencies most important to the Group’s operations are:
£1= euro £1= US$
2002 average 1.59 1.50
2001 average 1.61 1.44
2002 year-end 1.53 1.61
2001 year-end 1.64 1.45
Financial instruments
The Group’s accounting policy for derivatives is to recognise in the group profit and loss account gains and losses on hedges of revenues
or operating payments only as they crystallise.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risks and hedge a proportion of its investment
in overseas subsidiaries and investments denominated in foreign currencies, where such hedging can be carried out on an economically
acceptable basis. Such financial instruments are treated as hedges against the underlying assets or liabilities, with matching accounting
treatments and cash flows. All gains or losses are taken to the statement of total recognised gains and losses until the instrument and the
underlying hedged investment are sold, when the profit or loss arising is recognised in the profit and loss account. Interest differentials
resulting from the use of financial instruments to hedge these exposures are dealt with in the group profit and loss account.
Any instruments no longer designated as hedges are restated at market value and any gains or losses are taken directly to the profit and 
loss account.
The book values of short-term debtors and creditors are the same as their fair values and have been excluded from the financial instrument
disclosures other than those on currency exposures.
Sales
Sales shown in the profit and loss account exclude value added taxes and, except in the case of long-term contracts in the AgustaWestland
joint venture, represent the invoiced value of goods and services charged to external customers. Invoices are raised when goods are despatched
to the customer unless other terms have been specifically agreed. On long-term contracts in AgustaWestland, sales are based on the
estimated sales value of work done at the achievement of predetermined milestones.
51 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS 1 Accounting policies continued
Research and development costs
Except as noted below, revenue expenditure on research and development is written off as incurred.
On major aerospace contracts that demonstrablyhave a life of more than ten years, net non-recurring initial costs (consisting of design,
development and tooling) are categorised as stocks and are amortised over a maximum period of ten years from the start of serial production.
On other contracts, design and development costs are written off as incurred and tooling over three years.
Reorganisation costs
Costs of reorganisation and redundancy, which are not part of a fundamental restructuring, are charged against operating profit in the period
when the announcement is made.
Intangible assets – goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation consists of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed prior to 31 December 1997 has been eliminated against reserves. Goodwill arising on acquisitions
after that date is capitalised as a fixed asset and amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life up to a maximum of 20 years.
Where an acquired business is sold and goodwill has been previously deducted from reserves, the goodwill is taken into account in
calculating the profit or loss on sale.
Tangible fixed assets
Cost
Tangible fixed assets are valued at cost or valuation less accumulated depreciation. Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly
incurred in bringing the asset into use but excludes interest.
Where freehold and long leasehold properties were carried at a valuation at 23 March 2000, the date of implementation of FRS 15, these
values have been retained as book values in accordance with the transitional arrangements of that standard.
Where assets are in the course of construction at the balance sheet date they are classified as capital work in progress. Transfers are made
to other asset categories when they are available for use.
Depreciation
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction. In the case of buildings, computers and contract
specific plant, depreciation is provided on valuation or original cost. For all other categories of asset, depreciation is provided on the 
written down value at the beginning of the financial year.
Depreciation is applied to specific classes of asset so as to reduce them to their residual values over their estimated useful lives.
The range of main rates of depreciation used are:
Straight Reducing 
line balance 
%% 
Freehold buildings 2–
General plant, machinery, fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 to 20 10 to 35
Computers and major software 20 to 33
1
⁄ 3 – 
Commercial vehicles and cars – 40 to 45
Leasehold properties are amortised by equal annual instalments over the period of the lease or 50 years, whichever is the shorter.
Leased assets
Where fixed assets are financed by leasing arrangements which give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they
had been purchased and the capital element of the leasing commitment is shown as obligations under finance leases. The rentals payable
are apportioned between interest, which is charged to the profit and loss account, and capital which reduces the outstanding obligation.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred over the lease term.
Joint ventures and associated companies
Joint ventures, although not subsidiaries, are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and is able to share control
with its partners under a contractual arrangement. Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and is
able to exercise significant influence through its representation on the Board of Directors.
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for in accordance with FRS 9 whereby the profit and loss account includes, at the appropriate
line, the Group’s share of their sales, operating profit, exceptional items, interest and taxation. They are stated in the balance sheet at the
Group’s share of their equity. Where the size criteria of FRS 9 are met additional information is given by way of note to the accounts.
52 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED Stocks
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, due allowance being made for obsolete or slow-moving items. 
Cost includes the relevant proportion of works overheads assuming normal levels of activity.
Taxation 
Following the introduction of FRS 19 provision is made for deferred tax in so far as a liability or asset arises as a result of transactions that have
occurred by the balance sheet date and give rise to an obligation to pay more tax in future, or a right to pay less tax in future. A deferred tax
asset is only recognised to the extent that it may be regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised are not discounted.
No provision is made for any additional taxation which might arise on remittance of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures
and associates except where distribution of such profits is planned.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits
The Group’s pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes throughout the world.
In the UK and in certain overseas companies pension arrangements are made through externally funded defined benefit schemes, the
contributions to which are based on the advice of independent actuaries or in accordance with the rules of the schemes. In other overseas
companies funds are retained within the business to provide for retirement obligations.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account is calculated, in accordance with SSAP 24, by independent actuaries as being the
expected cost of providing pensions on a systematic and rational basis over the period during which the Group expects to derive benefit
from the employees’ services. Additionally, certain amounts are charged in accordance with the rules of defined contribution pension plans.
The impact on the balance sheet, profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses of the adoption of FRS 17,
together with the assumptions made in computing that impact, are shown by way of note.
2 Sales
The geographical markets supplied by subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are as follows: 
Geographical markets supplied 
United Continental Rest of
Kingdom Europe Americas the World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Sales by subsidiaries
By business: 
Automotive 306 1,104 1,010 326 2,746
Aerospace 89 76 388 6 559
Total 2002 395 1,180 1,398 332 3,305
By region of origin: 
United Kingdom 315 126 57 7 505
Continental Europe 57 1,038 32 55 1,182
Americas 23 16 1,302 8 1,349
Rest of the World –– 7 262 269
Total 2002 395 1,180 1,398 332 3,305
Totalcontinuing operations 2001 374 1,241 1,389 313 3,317
Discontinued operations – Industrial Services –– 100 15 115
Total 2001 374 1,241 1,489 328 3,432
Group share of sales by joint ventures and associates
Total 2002 556 292 115 184 1,147
Continuing operations 503 293 137 87 1,020
Discontinued operations – Industrial Services 175 174 150 1 500
Total 2001 678 467 287 88 1,520
Analyses of sales, operating profit and net operating assets of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates by business and by region of origin
are shown on page 74.
53 GKN plc 2002 3 Operating profit
Continuing operations 2002 2001 
Acquisitions Other Continuing Discontinued 
in year companies Total operations operations Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Sales by subsidiaries 31 3,274 3,305 3,317 115 3,432
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress 167 (54) – (54)
Raw materials and consumables (10) (1,013) (1,023) (1,010) (46) (1,056)
Staff costs (note 9) (10) (1,055) (1,065) (1,069) (30) (1,099)
Redundancy and reorganisation costs:
Exceptional (note 4) – (23) (23) (32) – (32)
Other – (5) (5) (10) – (10)
Depreciation written off tangible fixed assets (including £3 million 
in respect of assets under finance leases, 2001 – £3 million) (1) (176) (177) (165) (4) (169)
Amortisation and impairment of goodwill – (42) (42) (38) (2) (40)
Exceptional charge for asset impairments (note 4) – (14) (14) (70) (4) (74)
Other external charges (7) (839) (846) (816) (25) (841)
(27) (3,161) (3,188) (3,264) (111) (3,375)
Operating profit 4 113 117 53 4 57
Details of companies acquired and sold are given in the review of operations on pages 22 to 25 and note 25.
Other external charges include rental for hire of equipment £17 million (2001 – £15 million) and rental for leased property £15 million 
(2001 – £17 million). Auditors’ remuneration, including expenses, was £2.9 million (2001 – £2.6 million). Non-audit fees payable to
PricewaterhouseCoopers are subject to review by the Audit Committee and the policy for using auditorsfor non-audit work is set out in the
Corporate Governance Report on page 80. The total payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers worldwide in respect of such fees is analysed below:
2002 2001
£m £m
Fees in connection with the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses – 2.5
Taxcompliance and advice fees 0.9 0.8
Other 0.5 0.5
1.4 3.8
In accordance with the provisions of UITF 17 (revised 2000), no charge to profit has been made in respect of employee share options issued
under Inland Revenue approved share save schemes.
Research and development costs in continuing subsidiaries totalled £85 million (2001 – £82 million) after including £3 million of expenditure
refunded by customers and other parties for development work carried out on their behalf and capital expenditure of £5 million. In addition,
GKN’s share of research and development in AgustaWestland in the year totalled £149 million (2001 – £115 million) after including 
£141 million (2001 – £103 million) of expenditure refunded by customers and other parties for development work carried out on their behalf.
54 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 4 Exceptional items
2002 2001
£m £m
a) Operating exceptional items
Asset impairments (14) (74)
Redundancy costs (15) (23)
Other (8) (9)
(37) (106)
Operating exceptional items arose from:
i) the substantial downturn in civil aviation markets and uncertainties surrounding North American vehicle production levels which were
apparent in the second half of 2001, as a result of which the Group took steps to reduce capacity in a number of aerospace and automotive
plants. A reassessment was also made of the carrying value of certain aerospace assets; and
ii) in 2001, the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses, which, together with the formation of the AgustaWestland joint venture at
the beginning of the year, resulted in a number of investments not appropriate to the engineering activities of the Group being written off
and a reduction in the level of central overheads.
These actions resulted in a charge to operating profit of £106 million in 2001 and a further £37 million in 2002 in respect of actions which
had not been announced by 31 December 2001 and could not, therefore, be accrued. The cash outflow from these and earlier actions was
£52 million in 2002 and £27 million in 2001.
2002 2001
£m £m
b) Non-operating exceptional items
i) Profits less losses on sale or closure of businesses
Subsidiaries: 
GKN Aerospace Services sale of business – 9
Goodwill previously written off to reserves – (2)
– 7
GKN Driveline sale and closure of businesses 5 –
GKN OffHighway Systems closure of business (7) –
Other: 
Continuing operations – (5)
Discontinued operations – (3)
– (8)
Totalsubsidiaries (2) (1)
Share of associates:
Alvis plc – sale of shares in Avimo Group Ltd – 5
There was no goodwill previously written off to reserves on the businesses sold or closed during the year.
ii) Costs arising from the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses – (20)
Demerger costs – 2001 
On 7 August 2001 the Group completed the demerger of its Industrial Services businesses to Brambles Industries plc and the merger of
those businesses with Brambles Industries Limited of Australia. The direct costs of this transaction were £20 million with cash of £14 million
spent in 2001 and a further £6 million in 2002.
55 GKN plc 2002 5 Net interest payable
2002 2001
£m £m
Subsidiaries
Loans to joint ventures and associates 2 4
Short-term investments, loans and deposits 20 11
22 15
Loans from joint ventures (5) (9)
Short-term borrowings (including bank interest £21 million (2001 – £34 million)) (23) (38)
Loans repayable within five years (including bank interest nil (2001 – £1 million)) (1) (1)
Loans repayable after five years (37) (24)
Finance leases (3) (2)
(47) (59)
Share of joint ventures and associates
Interest receivable 8 11
Interest payable (9) (32)
(1) (21)
6 Taxation
Taxcharge for the year
Restated 
(note 1)
2002 2001
£m £m
United Kingdom
Corporation Tax at 30% 41 40
Deferred tax (8) (7)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (12) (15)
21 18
Double tax relief (40) (46)
(19) (28)
Overseas
Continuing operations:
Corporation taxes 51 50
Deferred tax 11 13
Adjustments in respect of prior years (4) (8)
58 55
Discontinued operations – 30
58 85
Share of joint ventures and associates
Continuing businesses 38 37
Discontinued businesses – 16
38 53
77 110
Tax on exceptional items, included in the above, is: UK – nil (2001 – nil), Overseas – £3 million credit (2001 – £16 million charge), share of
joint ventures and associates nil (2001 – £1 million charge).
Included in the 2001 figures is a £20 million exceptional charge arising in relation to the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses.
56 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED Taxreconciliation
2002 2001
£m £m
Profit before tax 180 135
Profit before tax – discontinued businesses – (28)
Goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 87 171
Goodwill amortisation and exceptional items – discontinued businesses – (33)
Continuing businesses profit before tax (pre-goodwill amortisation and exceptional items) 267 245
Taxcalculated at 30% standard UK Corporation Tax rate 80 74
Differences between UK and non-UK corporate tax rates 20 16
Non-deductible and non-taxable items (10) (7)
Deferred taxation – origination and reversal of timing differences – (3)
Differences attributable to joint ventures and associates 2 3
Current year corporate tax charge on ordinary activities 92 83
Deferred taxation on ordinary activities 4 7
Adjustments in respect of prior years (16) (23)
Taxation in respect of exceptional items – continuing businesses (3) (3)
Taxation in respect of discontinued businesses (non-exceptional) – 26
Taxation in respect of discontinued businesses (exceptional) – 20
Totaltax charge for the year 77 110
7 Dividends
2002 2001 
£m £m 
Equity dividends
Interim (paid 30 September 2002) 3.7p per share (2001 – 7.6p per share) 27 55 
Final 7.6p per share (2001 – 7.3p per share) 56 53 
83 108
The 2001 interim dividend was in respect of the larger group, pre demerger of the Industrial Services businesses. 
8 Earnings per share 
Earnings per share for 2002 are based on earnings of the year of £100 million (2001 – £20 million) and calculated on the weighted 
average number of 729.2 million shares in issue and ranking for dividend (2001 – 720.1 million shares). 
Diluted earnings per share, which takes into account options over GKN plc shares, is calculated on the weighted average number of
734.6 million (2001 – 727.6 million) shares. 
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, which the Directors consider gives a useful additional indication
of underlying performance, is calculated on the earnings of the year adjusted as follows: 
Earnings Earnings per share 
Restated Restated
(note1) (note1)
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m p p
Earnings of the year 100 20 13.7 2.8
Included in operating profit: 
Goodwill amortisation 48 49 6.5 6.8
Exceptional items 37 106 5.1 14.7
Non-operating exceptional items 2 16 0.3 2.2
Taxation attributable to exceptional items (3) 17 (0.4) 2.4
Earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 184 208 25.2 28.9
57 GKN plc 2002 9 Staff costs and Directors’ remuneration 
2002 2001
£m £m
Wages and salaries 880 925
Social security costs 133 128
Other pension costs 52 46
1,065 1,099
The average numbers employed by subsidiaries during the year were:
2002 2001
United Kingdom 6,805 8,111
Continental Europe 14,927 15,720
Americas 11,775 13,396
Rest of the World 2,541 2,787
36,048 40,014
Full details of the Directors’ remuneration, which form part of these accounts, are contained in the auditable part of the Report on Directors’
Remuneration on pages 86 to 88.
10 Goodwill
Joint
Subsidiaries ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2002 608 117 – 725
Prior year adjustment (note 1) – (3) – (3)
608 114 – 722
Formation of AgustaWestland (note29) – (7) – (7)
Additions in year 29 4 9 42
Currency variations (51) 6 – (45)
At 31 December 2002 586 117 9 712
Accumulated amortisation 
At 1 January 2002 83 5 – 88
Charge for year 31 6 – 37
Impairment 11–– 11
Currency variations (9) 1 – (8)
At 31 December 2002 116 12 – 128
Net book value at 31 December 2002 470 105 9 584
Net book value at 31 December 2001 (restated) 525 109 – 634
The impairment charge has been calculated based on a value in use assessment in accordance with FRS 11. The discount rate applied to
pre-tax cash flows was 11.0%.
Joint venture and associate goodwill in the above table is included in the Group’s share of net assets of joint ventures and associates shown
in note 12.
58 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 11 Tangible assets
Other Capital
Land and tangible work in 
buildings fixed assets progress Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation 
At 1 January 2002 460 2,087 89 2,636
Subsidiaries acquired and sold 961 16
Capital expenditure 10 95 105 210
Disposals (13) (82) – (95)
Transfers 994 (103) –
Currency variations (12) (56) (6) (74)
At 31 December 2002 463 2,144 86 2,693
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2002 55 1,182 – 1,237
Subsidiaries acquired and sold 23 –5
Charge for the year 12 165 – 177
Disposals (4) (77) – (81)
Impairment (note 4) 13 –4
Currency variations – (23) – (23)
At 31 December 2002 66 1,253 – 1,319
Net book value at 31 December 2002 397 891 86 1,374
Owned assets 383 877 86 1,346
Assets under finance leases 14 14 – 28
397 891 86 1,374
Net book value at 31 December 2001 405 905 89 1,399
Net book value 
Cost or Accumulated
valuation depreciation 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m
Analysis of land and buildings:
Freehold land 91 – 91 88
Freehold buildings 334 (50) 284 295
Long leases 1 (1) – –
Short leases (expiring on or before 31 December 2052) 37 (15) 22 22
463 (66) 397 405
£m
Cost or valuation of land and buildings at 31 December 2002 includes: 
1996 valuation 182
Earlier years’ valuations 11
At cost or fair value on acquisition 270
463
Major freehold and long leasehold properties in the UK, US, Germany and France were valued at 31 December 1996 by DTZ Debenham
Thorpe and King Sturge & Co, Chartered Surveyors. Properties were valued, in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of the
RoyalInstitution of Chartered Surveyors, on the basis of open market value and existing use value except for specialised properties which
were valued on a depreciated replacement cost basis. In accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 15 these values have been
retained as book values.
The original cost of land and buildings at 31 December 2002 was £437 million; the notional net book value on the original cost basis would
have been £345 million.
59 GKN plc 2002 12 Investments
Restated
(notes 1 & 29)
2002 2001
£m £m
Joint ventures:
Goodwill (note 10) 105 109
Other fixed assets 159 159
Current assets 934 802
Liabilities due within one year (655) (689)
Liabilities due beyond one year (317) (185)
Group’s share of net assets 226 196
Associates 39 9
Loans to joint ventures and associates 17 21
Interest in own shares – –
Other investments – –
282 226
The movement in book value of investments is as follows:
2002 2001
£m £m
At 1 January 226 437
Prior year adjustment (note 1) – (10)
226 427
Demerger of Industrial Services – (354)
Formation of AgustaWestland (2) 95
Profit retained by joint ventures and associates 29 34
Additions 39 32
Disposals and change in status (8) –
Other movements – (7)
Currency variations (2) (1)
At 31 December 282 226
The Group’s share of net assets of joint ventures includes net fundsof £66 million (2001 – net debt £58 million). Further details of the
contribution to Group results by AgustaWestland are shown at note 29.
Interest in own shares represents the cost, less amounts written off, of 1,219,238 50p Ordinary Shares acquired by the GKN Employee
Benefit Trust in the open market in connection with the GKN long-term incentive plan. At 31 December 2002 the shares, on which dividend
rights have been waived, had a market value of £2.4 million.
Other investments include 686,694 shares of 5p each in Brambles Industries plc which were issued to the GKN Employee Benefit Trust and
the GKN Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) as a consequence of the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses in
August 2001. At 31 December 2002 these shares had a market value of £1.0 million.
The market values of investments in shares of associated companiesat 31 December 2002 were Alvis plc £48.9 million (2001 – £39.9 million),
Tochigi Fuji Sangyo (acquired March 2002) £13.8 million. Because these are both listed companies, the Group’s share of equity and results
is determined from their most recently published financial statements dated 30 June 2002 and 30 September 2002 respectively.
13 Stocks
2002 2001
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 201 195
Work in progress 191 210
Finished goods and goods for resale 96 98
488 503
Work in progress includes £45 million (2001 – £41 million) in respect of non-recurring costs (consisting of design, development and tooling)
on major aerospace contracts.
The replacement cost of stocks is not materially different from the historical cost value.
60 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 14 Debtors
Restated
2002 2001
£m £m
Due within one year: 
Trade debtors 394 388
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 13 18
Advance corporation tax recoverable 1 1
Other debtors 32 37
Prepayments and accrued income 28 28
468 472
Due in more than one year: 
SSAP 24 prepayment 72 59
Deferred tax asset (note 22) 9 10
Other debtors 12 15
561 556
15 Cash at bank and in hand 
2002 2001
£m £m
Bank balances and cash 69 141
Short-term loans and deposits 36 26
105 167
16 Short-term borrowings
2002 2001
£m £m
Bank overdrafts (note 20) 26 21
Short-term loans (note 20): 
AgustaWestland 7 72
Other 10 202
43 295
17 Creditors
2002 2001
£m £m
Trade creditors 334 295
Bills payable 10 10
Customer advances 42 50
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 8 4
Indirect and payroll taxes 30 31
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 2 3
Other creditors 130 121
Accruals and deferred income 216 216
772 730
18 Taxation payable 
2002 2001
£m £m
United Kingdom taxation 44 56
Overseas taxation 138 134
182 190
61 GKN plc 2002 19 Creditors: amounts falling due beyond one year 
2002 2001
£m £m
Term loans (note 20) 877 745
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 17 9
894 754
Term loans include:
> Bank borrowings.
> Unsecured £350 million (2001 – £300 million) 6.75% bonds maturing in 2019 less issue costs of £5 million and £325 million (2001 – nil)
7% bonds maturing 2012 less net issue costs of £1 million.
> Secured term loans of £48 million (2001 – £33 million). These include £30 million debenture stocks of Westland Group plc, which are
secured by a floating charge on the undertaking and assets of that company and certain of its subsidiaries and guaranteed by GKN Holdingsplc,
and £16 million secured by way of a fixed and floating charge on certain Aerospace assets.
20 Analysis of financial liabilities
The disclosures made in notes 20 and 21 should be read in conjunction with the discussion of the Group’s objectives, policies and strategies
with regard to financial instruments in the Financial Review on pages 36 to 39. Short-term debtors and creditors arising directly from the
Group’s operations are excluded from the following disclosures other than those on currency exposures. 
After taking into account the various interest rate and forward foreign exchange contracts entered into by the Group, the effective currency
and interest rate exposure of the Group’s borrowings were as follows: 
Fixed rate borrowings
Weighted
Weighted average time
Floating rate Fixed rate Total average for which rate
borrowings borrowings borrowings interest rate is fixed
£m £m £m % Years
At 31 December 2002
Sterling 22 702 724 7.0 12.9
US dollar 43 1 44 5.1 9.4
Euro 68 1 69 0.3 7.7
Other 101 1 102 – 3.5
234 705 939 6.9 12.9
At 31 December 2001
Sterling 644 330 974 7.1 16.7
US dollar 11 1 12 5.2 10.3
Euro 21 1 22 0.2 6.3
Other 43 1 44 1.3 4.2
719 333 1,052 7.1 16.6
The interest rates on floating rate borrowings are determined by reference to applicable LIBORs. 
62 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED The maturity of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December 2002 was as follows: 
2002 2001
£m £m
Bank loans, overdrafts and other borrowings repayable as follows: 
Within one year 43 295
One to two years 10 329
Two to five years 149 86
After five years 718 330
920 1,040
Finance leases repayable as follows: 
Within one year 2 3
One to two years 1 3
Two to five years 3 3
After five years 13 3
19 12
Total borrowings 939 1,052
At 31 December 2002 the Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities: 
2002 2001
£m £m
Expiring within one year 57 137
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years – 137
Expiring in more than two years 560 215
617 489
21 Financial instruments
a) Financial assets
Bank and cash Short-term loans
balances and deposits
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m
Sterling – 17 20 19
US dollar 30 62 – –
Euro 16 38 3 –
Other 23 24 13 7
69 141 36 26
The bank and cash balances comprise £26 million (2001 – £67 million) in respect of short-term balances earning interest and £43 million
(2001 – £74 million) in respect of balances which are non-interest earning. The weighted average interest rate at year-end on the interest
earning cash balances, which was all floating and set by reference to relevant LIBORs, was 3.5% (2001 – 2.2%). Surplus cash is deposited
for short-term periods typically with a maturity of less than three months. The weighted average interest rate on the deposit account balances
is 3.2% (2001 – 3.1%).
b) Currency exposures
As explained in the Financial Review on page 38, the Group’s objective in managing the translational currency exposures arising from its
overseas investments is to ensure that changes in the sterling equivalent of assets and liabilities caused by currency movements do not
have a material impact on the sterling value of shareholders’ equity. At 31 December 2002, there were £656 million of indirect borrowings
created through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge such exposures denominated in euro (36%) and US dollars (64%)
mirrored by indirectly created sterling deposits. Net gains and losses arising from these translational currency exposures are recognised 
in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. Interest differentials resulting from the use of financial instruments to hedge those
exposures are dealt with through the group profit and loss account.
After taking into account the effects of forward foreign exchange contracts, at 31 December 2002 there were no material currency exposures
that give rise to gains or losses recognised in the profit and loss account.
63 GKN plc 2002 21 Financial instruments continued
c) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The comparison of fair and book values of all the Group’s financialassets and liabilities at 31 December 2002 is set out below:
2002 2001 
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations
Bank and cash balances 69 69 141 141
Short-term loans and deposits 36 36 26 26
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings (43) (43) (295) (295)
Long-term borrowings (877) (901) (745) (741)
Finance leases (19) (19) (12) (12)
Financial instruments held to manage interest rate and currency exposures
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments –2 (4) (1)
Forward foreign exchange contracts –5 –5
Financial instruments held to hedge currency exposures on expected future 
trading transactions
Forward foreign exchange contracts –– – (17)
At 31 December (834) (851) (889) (894)
In addition to the above, the Group has a loan to joint ventures and associates, shown within investments, with a book value of £15 million
and fair value of £17 million. The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating fair values for financial instruments:
> Short-term borrowings, cash and deposits approximate to book value due to their short maturities.
> Long-term borrowings: Bank and other loans carrying fixed rates of interest – the repayments which the Group is committed to make have
been discounted at the relevant interest rates applicable at 31 December 2002. Bonds – quoted closing market value.
> Interest rate instruments – discounted cash flow analysis based on interest rates derived from market yield curves.
> Forward exchange contracts and currency swaps – marked-to-market.
d) Hedges
As explained in the Financial Review on page 38, the Group’s policy is to hedge the exposures summarised below. Translational currency
exposures are hedged where the costs and results of such hedging are economically acceptable. 
> Interest rate risk – using interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements. 
> Transactional and translational currency exposures – using forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps. 
Gains or losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised. Unrecognised
gains or losses on instruments used for hedging both transactional and translational currency exposures and the movements therein, are 
as follows: 
Total net
Gains Losses gains/(losses)
£m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2001 40 (49) (9)
Gains and losses from previous years recognised in 2002 (24) 22 (2)
Gains and losses arising before 1 January 2002 that were not recognised in 2002 16 (27) (11)
Gains and losses arising in 2002 that were not recognised in that year 23 (5) 18
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2002 39 (32) 7
Expected to be recognised in 2003 28 (18) 10
Expected to be recognised after 2003 11 (14) (3)
39 (32) 7
Of the net gains and losses from previous years recognised in 2002, a profit of £5 million was recognised in reserves and matched with
offsetting movements on translational foreign exchange variances. The remainder was recognised in the profit and loss account. Similarly, 
of the net unrecognised gains and losses on hedges shown at 31 December 2002, a profit of £5 million will be dealt with through reserves
and matched with offsetting movements on translational foreign exchange variances. The balance will be accounted for in the profit and loss
account together with the profits arising on the ultimate realisation of the underlying hedged transactions.
64 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 22 Provisions for liabilities and charges
Deferred Post-
taxation retirement Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2002 (restated – note 1) 62 213 87 362
Charge for the year 232 4 38
Paid or accrued during the year – (20) (8) (28)
Currency variations –5 (4) 1
At 31 December 2002 64 230 79 373
Deferred taxation 
Restated
(note 1)
2002 2001
£m £m
Accelerated tax allowances on fixed assets 139 123
Other timing differences (50) (62)
Tax losses (34) (9)
Net deferred tax liability 55 52
Deferred tax liability 64 62
Deferred tax asset (9) (10)
Net deferred tax liability 55 52
The movements in the net deferred tax balance were:
Restated
(note 1)
2002 2001
£m £m
Net deferred tax liability at beginning of year 52 90
Charged to profit and loss account 3 14
Subsidiaries acquired and sold – (53)
Currency variations – 1
Net deferred tax liability at end of year 55 52
There are other deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses totalling £63 million (2001 – £65 million) that have not been recognised on 
the basis that their future economic benefit is uncertain.
No provision has been made for deferred taxation in relation to gains recognised on revaluing assets to their market value or on the sale 
of assets where potentially taxable gains have been rolled over into the cost of replacement assets. Such tax would only become payable 
if assets were sold without it being possible to roll over any resultant gains. The total amount unprovided for is £9 million (2001 – £7 million). 
It is not anticipated that any such tax will become payable in the foreseeable future.
No provision has been made for deferred taxation which might arise on the remittance of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries, joint
ventures and associates except where the distribution of such profits is planned.
Post-retirement
Post-retirement includes provisions relating to pension benefits of £175 million (2001 – £159 million) and provisions for other post-retirement
benefits of £55 million (2001 – £54 million).
Other
Other provisions comprise mainly legal and other claims, environmental and warranty provisions, the timing of which is inherently uncertain.
They are established based on historical information or professional assessment.
65 GKN plc 2002 23 Share capital
Allotted, called up
Authorised and fully paid
2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m
Ordinary Shares of 50p each 450 450 366 364
Number Number Number Number
(’000) (’000) (’000) (’000)
Ordinary Shares of 50p each 900,000 900,000 732,894 727,052
The authorised and issued share capital of GKN plc includes one Special Share of 50p. The Special Share carries a fixed dividend of 2p
payable on 31 January in each year and carries no voting rights.
The options held by Group employees over GKN plc shares were as follows:
UK and overseas
SAYE scheme executive schemes
Number Number
(’000) (’000)
At 1 January 2002 29,091 5,941
Granted 5,336 3,714
Exercised (5,359) (483)
Lapsed (4,275) (91)
At 31 December 2002 24,793 9,081
Option price per share 99.16p–330.83p 120p–320p
Exercisable at dates extending to 2010 2012
Participants holding options over GKN Holdings plc Ordinary Shares granted under the SAYE or Executive share option schemes prior to
the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses could elect, by 29 January 2002, to exchange these options for options over GKN plc
Ordinary Shares in the ratio of 2.4 GKN plc shares for every GKN Holdings plc share under option (with a corresponding adjustment to 
the option price). Participants not electing to exchange their options had to exercise them by 29 January 2002 or they would lapse. Any
GKN Holdings plc shares issued as a result of such exercises were automatically exchanged for GKN plc shares in the above ratio. For the
purposes of this note, all outstanding options over GKN Holdings plc Ordinary Shares held at 1 January 2002 have been converted into
options over GKN plc Ordinary Shares in the ratio stated above and optionsover GKN Holdings plc Ordinary Shares exercised or lapsed
during the period 1 January to 29 January 2002 are treated as options over GKN plc Ordinary Shares in the ratio stated above.
All options granted in 2002 were over GKN plc Ordinary Shares (under the GKN SAYE Share Option Scheme 2001 at 230p per share
exercisable between 2005 and 2010, and under the GKN Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 at 308p–320p per share exercisable
between 2005 and 2012).
The consideration received by GKN plc in 2002 in connection with the exercise of options was £11.9 million. Employees paid £8.5 million 
to the Group for the issue of these shares and the balance of £3.4 million comprised contributions to the QUEST from subsidiaries.
66 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 24 Reserves
Share Profit
premium Revaluation Other and loss
account reserve reserves account Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Group
At 1 January 2002 345 (84) 708 672
Prior year adjustment (note 1) ––– (66) (66)
345 (84) 642 606
Arising from Ordinary Share issues 10––– 10
Transfer from profit and loss account ––– 17 17
Reversal of revaluation – (1) – – (1)
Currency variations:
Overseas net assets –1 1 (111) (109)
Foreign currency borrowings ––– 66 66
Transfers between reserves –– 2 (2) –
Other movements ––– (5) (5)
At 31 December 2002 13 45 (81) 607 584
Parent company and subsidiaries 13 45 (107) 570 521
Joint ventures and associates –– 26 37 63
13 45 (81) 607 584
Company
At 1 January 2002 3–– 840 843
Arising from Ordinary Share issues 10––– 10
Profit and loss account ––– (83) (83)
At 31 December 2002 13 – – 757 770
Cumulative goodwill eliminated directly against reserves amounted to £665 million (2001 – £691 million).
25 Acquisitions
Group
shareholding
Additional at
direct 31 December
Date shareholding 2002
%%
Subsidiaries
Boeing’s Kent, Washington Thermal Joining Center operation (USA) January 100 100
UPF (UK) Ltd’s Thompson Chassis business (UK) March 100 100
GKN Driveshafts (India) Ltd (India) April 45.4 96.4
ASTECH Inc (USA) May 100 100
Mahindra Sintered Products Ltd (India) July 51 100
GKN Driveshafts Ltd (UK) August 49 100
Joint ventures
Taiway Ltd (Taiwan) January 16.25 36.25
Associated companies
Tochigi Fuji Sangyo KK (Japan) March 33.3 33.3
67 GKN plc 2002 25 Acquisitions continued
The book and fair value of net assets acquired and total consideration payable for subsidiary acquisitions are analysed below:
Book value Accounting Fair value
prior to policy to the
acquisition Revaluations alignment Group
£m £m £m £m
Tangible fixed assets 18 (1) – 17
Stocks 9 (2) – 7
Debtors 7–– 7
Creditors (4) (1) – (5)
Cash 2–– 2
Loans and finance leases (10) – – (10)
Net assets acquired 22 (4) – 18
Less already owned as a joint venture (5)
Minority interests 8
21
Goodwill 29
Consideration including costs 50
The post-acquisition contribution of subsidiary acquisitions to Group cash flow was a net cash inflow of £9 million from operating activities,
payments of £1 million in respect of interest, payments of nil in respect of taxation and payments of £1 million in respect of capital expenditure
and financial investment.
26 Post-retirement benefits
The Group’s pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes throughout the world.
In the UK, pension arrangements are made through externally funded defined benefit schemes. Independent actuarial valuations of the
three main schemes were last carried out as at April 2000 using the projected unit method. The market value related basis assumed a 
yield pre-retirement of 6.5% per annum, which exceeded the annual rate of increases in pensionable salaries by 2.5% (GKN Group Pension
Scheme and the Westland Staff Pension Scheme) and 2% (Executive and Senior Staff Pension Scheme) with a yield post-retirement of 5.0%
per annum, which exceeded pension increases by 2.5%. The aggregate market value of the assets at the valuation date was £2,046 million
and the aggregate funding level on an ongoing basis was 101%.
With effect from 1 July 2002, a new pension scheme was established for the joint venture company AgustaWestland, with current AgustaWestland
employees transferring to the new scheme. Remaining members of the Westland Staff Pension Scheme and the GKN Executive and Senior
Staff Pension Scheme, including pensioners and deferred pensioners are being transferred into the GKN Group Pension Scheme. Assets to
the value of £237 million at 1 July 2002 were agreed to be transferred to the new AgustaWestland Scheme, the amount eventually transferred
being indexed to the payment date. The remaining assets and liabilities of the GKN UK schemes were estimated to be £1,454 million and
£1,820 million respectively as at 1 July 2002, based on market conditions at that date.
Company contributions in the year totalled £33 million (2001 – £24 million) compared with the regular cost in accordance with the application
of SSAP 24 of £11 million (2001 – £15 million). The total charge to operating profit was £17 million (2001 – £14 million). In addition, 
£3 million curtailment costs were charged against exceptional items in respect of closure of businesses. A cumulative advance payment
of £72 million is included in other long-term debtors (2001 – £59 million).
In certain overseas companies funds are retained within the business to provide for retirement obligations. The annual charge to provide 
for these obligations, which is determined in accordance with actuarial advice or local statutory requirements, amounted to £31 million
(2001 – £27 million).
The Group operates a number of retirement plans which provide certain employees with post-retirement healthcare benefits. The liability
for providing these benefits is recognised on an actuarial basis and included in post-retirement and other provisions disclosed in note 22.
The principal actuarial assumptions for the main UK plan as at December 2000, the date of the last review, were that the discount rate would
be 7% per annum and that medical costs would initially increase by 8% per annum for three years falling to 4.5% over the next five years.
68 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED The following information is provided in accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 17
The Group operates a number of small defined contribution schemes outside the United Kingdom. The charge to the profit and loss account
in the period was £4 million. There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at the balance sheet date.
Actuarial assessments of all the principal defined benefit post-retirement plans were carried out as at 31 December 2002.
The major assumptions used were:
2002 2001
UK USA Europe UK USA Europe
%%% %%%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.9 3.5 3.0 4.0 3.5 3.0
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.4 2.5 2.0 2.5 2.5 2.0
Discount rate 5.5 6.5 5.5 6.0 7.25 6.0
Inflation assumption 2.4 2.4 2.0 2.5 2.5 2.0
Rate of increases in medical costs: initial/long-term 8.0/3.9 8.5/5.0 n/a 8.0/4.5 9.0/5.0 n/a
The fair value of the assets in the schemes and the expected rates of return were:
UK USA Europe
Long-term Long-term Long-term
rate of rate of rate of
return return return
expected Value expected Value expected Value
%£m % £m %£m
At 31 December 2002
Equities 7.5 794 8.5 67 – –
Bonds 4.6 414 5.0 32 – –
Property 7.0 59––––
Cash 4.0 37 3.5 4 – –
Other assets 5.4 33 – – 6.0 7
1,337 103 7
At 31 December 2001
Equities 7.5 951 8.5 92 – –
Bonds 5.2 390 6.4 31 – –
Property 7.0 54––––
Cash 4.0 27 4.2 4 – –
Other assets 5.9 40 5.9 3 7.0 4
1,462 130 4
The overall position in respect of funded defined benefit pension schemes, unfunded pension obligations and other post-retirement
provisions disclosed in note 22 is:
31 December 2002
31 December
UK USA Europe Total 2001
£m £m £m £m £m
Totalmarket value of assets 1,337 103 7 1,447 1,596
Present value of post-retirement liabilities (1,888) (235) (210) (2,333) (1,996)
Gross deficit (551) (132) (203) (886) (400)
Related deferred tax credit 136 45 21 202 87
Net post-retirement liability (415) (87) (182) (684) (313)
Post-retirement liability already included in balance sheet 14 51 164 229 203
SSAP24 prepayment (72) – – (72) (59)
Additional liability (473) (36) (18) (527) (169)
69 GKN plc 2002 26 Post-retirement benefits continued
If the net post-retirement liability of £527 million set out above were to be recognised in the financial statements, together with deferred tax
on an FRS 19 basis, net assets and profit and loss reserve would be as follows:
31 December 31 December
2002 2001
£m £m
Net assets per balance sheet 960 992*
Post-retirement liability already included in balance sheet 157 144
Net assets excluding post-retirement liability 1,117 1,136
Post-retirement liability under FRS 17 (684) (313)
Net assets including post-retirement liability 433 823
Profit and loss reserve 607 642*
Additional post-retirement liability (527) (169)
Profit and loss reserve including post-retirement liability 80 473
*Restated (note 1)
Analysis of the amounts that would be charged to operating profit of subsidiaries
2002
£m
Current service cost (30)
Past service cost –
Total operating charge (30)
Analysis of the amounts that would be (charged)/credited to other finance income of subsidiaries
2002
£m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 105
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (121)
Net charge (16)
Total net charge to profit before tax under FRS 17 (46)
Actual charge to profit before tax for the year (48)
Difference 2
History of experience gains and losses that would be recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses
UK USA Europe
Difference between the expected and the actual return on scheme assets
Amount – £m (251) (28) –
Percentage of scheme assets (18.8%) (27.2%) –
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities
Amount – £m (89) (8) –
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (4.7%) (3.4%) –
Effect of changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities
Amount – £m (80) (24) (5)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (4.2%) (10.2%) (2.4%)
Total amount which would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses
Amount – £m (420) (60) (5)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (22.2%) (25.5%) (2.4%)
70 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED Movement in scheme gross deficits during year
UK USA Europe Total
£m £m £m £m
Gross deficit at 1 January 2002 (151) (74) (175) (400)
Current service cost (14) (9) (7) (30)
Contributions 33 8 10 51
Other income/(expense) 1 (6) (11) (16)
Actuarial loss (420) (60) (5) (485)
Currency variations –9 (15) (6)
Gross deficit at 31 December 2002 (551) (132) (203) (886)
27 Commitments and contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2002 the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees amounting to nil (2001 – nil). In the case
of certain joint venture companies engaged in long-term contracts, performance bonds and customer finance obligations have been entered
into in the normal course of business. 
Capital expenditure 
Contracts placed against capital expenditure sanctioned at 31 December 2002 so far as not provided for by subsidiaries amounted to 
£31 million (2001 – £52 million) and the Group’s share not provided for by joint ventures and associates amounted to £4 million 
(2001 – £2 million). 
Operating leases
The minimum payments which the Group is committed to make in 2003 under operating leases are as follows: 
2002 2001 
Land and Land and 
buildings Equipment buildings Equipment
£m £m £m £m
Leases which expire: 
Within one year 12 23
Two to five years 78 510
After five years 3– 5–
11 10 12 13
28 Related party transactions
In the ordinary course of business, sales and purchases of goods and services take place between subsidiaries, joint ventures and
associates priced on an ‘arm’s length’ basis. These transactions are not significant except for amounts charged to the AgustaWestland group 
of companies totalling £5 million in respect of property rentals and £32 million for production materials supplied. In 2001, £13 million was
charged in respect of management fees and commissions.
In addition, interest of £5 million (2001 – £9 million), accruing at a daily rate of base rate less 0.5 percentage points, was charged to the 
GKN Group in respect of a current account between the two groups.
There are no other related party transactions requiring disclosure under FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’.
71 GKN plc 2002 29 AgustaWestland
At the beginning of 2001 the Group and Finmeccanica SpA each contributed the assets of their helicopter businesses, ‘Westland’ and
‘Agusta’ respectively to a new joint venture company AgustaWestland NV, the shares in which are held equally by the two parties.
The transaction was accounted for so as to reflect its substance, whereby the Group exchanged 50% of its interest in the net liabilities of
Westland for a 50% interest in the fair value of the tangible net assets of Agusta. The provisional goodwill at the end of 2001 was £110 million.
Further review during the hindsight period, together with the first time application of FRS 19, has resulted in a revision to goodwill of £10 million.
The Group’s share of the AgustaWestland profit and net assets is as follows:
Restated
2002 2001
£m £m
Sales 865 784
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 93 82
Goodwill amortisation (5) (5)
Operating profit 88 77
Interest (2) (1)
Profit before tax 86 76
Taxation (29) (27)
Profit after tax 57 49
Fixed assets 186 188
Current assets 861 732
1,047 920
Liabilities due within one year (602) (649)
Liabilities due after one year (305) (167)
140 104
72 GKN plc 2002
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 2002 2001
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries at cost 3,550 3,548
Current assets
Cash at bank and in hand – 3
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiaries (2,358) (2,291)
Dividend payable (56) (53)
(2,414) (2,344)
Net current liabilities (2,414) (2,341)
Totalassets less current liabilities 1,136 1,207
Net assets 1,136 1,207
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 366 364
Share premium account 24 13 3
Profit and loss account 24 757 840
Equity interest 1,136 1,207
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2003 and were signed by:
Sir David Lees, Kevin Smith, Nigel Stein, Directors
As permitted by the Companies Act 1985 a separate profit and loss account for the parent company has not been presented.
Information on the principal divisions, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is shown on pages 90 and 91.
73 GKN plc 2002
BALANCE SHEET OF GKN PLC 
AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 Sales Operating profit Net operating assets
2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001
£m £m £m £m £m £m
By business
Automotive:
Subsidiaries 2,746 2,687 173 161 1,290 1,392
Joint ventures 161 157 23 26 85 91
Associates 43 – 1 – 41 –
2,950 2,844 197 187 1,416 1,483
Aerospace:
Subsidiaries 559 630 23 32 353 328
Joint ventures 890 806 93 84 243 106
Associates 53 57 2 3 (6) 4
1,502 1,493 118 119 590 438
Totalcontinuing operations 4,452 4,337 315 306 2,006 1,921
Goodwill amortisation – – (48) (43) – –
Exceptional items – – (37) (102) – –
4,452 4,337 230 161 2,006 1,921
Industrial Services:
Subsidiaries – 115 – 10 – –
Joint ventures – 500 – 70 – –
– 615 – 80 – –
Goodwill amortisation – – – (6) – –
Exceptional items – – – (4) – –
– 615 – 70 – –
Group total 4,452 4,952 230 231 2,006 1,921
Continuing operations by region of origin 
Europe:
Subsidiaries 1,687 1,715 123 122 837 842
Joint ventures 933 851 99 93 272 127
Associates 53 57 2 3 (6) 4
2,673 2,623 224 218 1,103 973
Americas:
Subsidiaries 1,349 1,340 54 53 724 801
Joint ventures 62 68 10 11 32 42
1,411 1,408 64 64 756 843
Rest of the World:
Subsidiaries 269 262 19 18 82 77
Joint ventures 56 44 7 6 24 28
Associates 43 – 1 – 41 –
368 306 27 24 147 105
Totalcontinuing operations 4,452 4,337 315 306 2,006 1,921
Notes: 
1 The analyses of operating profit by business and by region of origin include an allocation of costs incurred in the United Kingdom. 
2 Intra-group sales between businesses and regions are not significant. 
3 Operating profit of continuing businesses after charging goodwill amortisation and exceptional items is analysed by business as follows: Automotive £139 million (2001 – £129 million) and
Aerospace £91 million (2001 – £32 million) and by region of origin as follows: Europe £186 million (2001 – £125 million), Americas £19 million (2001 – £14 million) and Rest of the World 
£25 million (2001 – £22 million). 
4 Net operating assets for continuing operations are analysed as follows: 
2002 2001
£m £m
Tangible fixed assets 1,374 1,399
Stocks 488 503
Debtors 551 545
Creditors – short-term (770) (727)
Totalsubsidiaries 1,643 1,720
Net operating assets of joint ventures and associates 363 201
2,006 1,921
74 GKN plc 2002
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Continuing businesses As reported (including Industrial Services)
Pro forma
Restated Pro forma Restated
2002 2001 2000 2001 2000 1999 1998
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Consolidated profit and loss accounts
Sales
Subsidiaries 3,305 3,317 3,892 3,432 4,124 3,708 2,972
Share of joint ventures and associates 1,147 1,020 242 1,520 972 935 734
4,452 4,337 4,134 4,952 5,096 4,643 3,706
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items
Subsidiaries 196 193 389 203 421 396 331
Share of joint ventures and associates 119 113 35 183 172 162 132
315 306 424 386 593 558 463
Interest (payable)/receivable
Subsidiaries (47) (59) (34) (59) (31) (21) 20
Share of joint ventures and associates (1) (2) (4) (21) (34) (24) (21)
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items 267 245 386 306 528 513 462
Goodwill amortisation (48) (43) (28) (49) (35) (21) (3)
Exceptional profits/(losses):
Subsidiaries (39) (100) (18) (127) (18) 11 248
Share of joint ventures and associates – 5656 (2) –
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 180 107 346 135 481 501 707
Taxation (77) (64) (125) (110) (157) (139) (137)
Minority interests (3) (5) (5) (5) (5) (4) (3)
Earnings of the year 100 38 216 20 319 358 567
Earnings per share – p 13.7 5.3 30.2 2.8 44.6 50.4 80.2
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items – p 25.2 24.0 39.1 28.9 54.5 52.4 46.0
Consolidated balance sheets
Tangible fixed assets 1,374 1,399 1,341 1,399 1,391 1,214 976
Stocks 488 503 595 503 602 527 430
Creditors less debtors (219) (182) (341) (182) (346) (433) (477)
Net operating assets 1,643 1,720 1,595 1,720 1,647 1,308 929
Net (borrowings)/funds (834) (885) (601) (885) (601) (281) 139
Intangible assets – goodwill 470 525 535 525 579 402 39
Fixed asset investments 282 226 128 236 437 345 300
Taxation and dividend payable (237) (242) (295) (242) (295) (135) (154)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (364) (352) (291) (352) (291) (272) (236)
Net assets 960 992 1,071 1,002 1,476 1,367 1,017
Notes:
1 2001 results have been restated to reflect the adoption of FRS 19 – ‘Deferred Tax’.
2 The exceptional profit of £248 million in 1998 arose from the release of the balance of a provision made in 1996 in relation to the Meineke litigation.
3 Earnings per share are shown as restated to reflect the two for one share split in May 1998.
4 Net operating assets are defined in note 4 on page 74.
75 GKN plc 2002
GROUP FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL RECORD Business review
The principal businesses of the Group are described on pages 2 
and 3 and in the Operating Review on pages 22 to 25. A review of
the development of those businesses in 2002, events affecting the
Group since the end of the year and likely future developments are
referred to in the Chief Executive’s review on pages 9 to 11 and 
in the Operating Review. Reference should also be made to the
Financial Review on pages 36 to 39.
Share capital
During 2002, 5,841,627 GKN plc Ordinary Shares of 50p each were
issued in connection with the exercise of options under SAYE and
Executive share option schemes. The issued share capital at the end
of the year was 732,894,028 Ordinary Shares of 50p each and one
Special Share of 50p.
The Company has been informed of the following notifiable interests
in the issued voting capital of the Company at 28 February 2003:
% of issued capital
Legal& General Investment Management 3.4%
Franklin Resources Inc 3.3%
Annual General Meeting
The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2003,
together with an explanation of the resolutions to be considered 
at the meeting, is contained in the AGM circular enclosed with this
annual report.
Dividend
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.6p per 50p Ordinary
Share for the year ended 31 December 2002 payable on 16 May
2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on
14 March 2003. This, together with the interim dividend of 3.7p 
paid in September 2002, brings the total dividend for the year to
11.3p per share.
Keydates for the dividend reinvestment plan as it will operate in
respect of the proposed 2002 final dividend are given on page 93.
Directors
The constitution of the Board and of its Committees, together with
biographical notes on the Directors, are shown on page 34.
On 16 May 2002, Sir John Parker, non-executive Director, retired from
the Board. On 31 December 2002, Marcus Beresford retired as Chief
Executive, having reached his normal retirement date. The Directors
wish to record their appreciation of the considerable contribution
that each has made to the Group over the years.
On 1 June 2002, Sir Ian Gibson was appointed a non-executive
Director. On 19 August 2002, Neal Keating joined the Board as
an executive Director. On 1 January 2003, Kevin Smith (previously
Managing Director Aerospace) was appointed Chief Executive and
Neal Keating became Managing Director Aerospace Services.
As Directors appointed during the year, Sir Ian Gibson and Neal Keating
retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible,
offer themselves for re-election. In accordance with the provisions
for retirement by rotation in the articles of association, Sir David
Lees, Chairman, Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, and Baroness Hogg,
non-executive Director, retire at the Annual General Meeting and,
being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the executive Directors’ service agreements are given on
page 84. The non-executive Directors do not have service agreements.
Directors’ interests in GKN shares are shown on pages 87 to 89.
Life President
The death in July 2002, at the age of 93, of Lord Brookes, Life
President and former Chairman of GKN, is sadly recorded. He was
a Director of GKN from 1953, was appointed Managing Director in
1964, became Chairman and Managing Director in 1965 and was
Chairman and Chief Executive from 1968 until his retirement in
1974. He was appointed Life President upon his retirement.
Honours
The Directors record their great pleasure at the award of OBE to
Timothy Brookman, Marketing Executive, AgustaWestland, in the
2002 Queen’s Birthday Honours; and of MBE to Vera Corbett, PA 
to Richard Clowes (Main Board Director), Denis Evans, Key Account
Manager, GKN AutoStructures, Jeremy Tracy, Chief Test Pilot,
Westland Helicopters, and of OBE to Roger James, former Head 
of Region, Westland Helicopters, in the 2003 New Year Honours.
Donations
In 2002, donations made by the Group to registered charities in the
UK amounted to £353,000. Further details of contributions made by
the Group worldwide are given in the Social Responsibility Review 
on page 30.
76 GKN plc 2002
DIRECTORS’ REPORT While it is the policy of the Group not to make donations to political
organisations, the Group’s US aerospace business does have a
Political Action Committee (PAC) which is funded entirely by employees
and their spouses. No funds are provided to the PAC by GKN and 
any administrative services provided to the PAC by the US aerospace
business are fully charged to and paid for by the PAC, and the
Company does not therefore consider these political donations.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is
placed on employees to participate. Under US law, an employee-
funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
Payments to suppliers
It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers,
provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the
contract. Given the nature and diversity of the Group’s international
purchasing arrangements and contracts, it is not Group policy to
follow any code or standard in relation to payment practice.
GKN plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing 
to trade creditors at 31 December 2002.
Corporate governance
The Board’s statement on corporate governance matters is given on
pages 78 to 80, and its report on Directors’ remuneration is set out
on pages 81 to 89.
Directors’ responsibility for the accounts
At the end of each financial year the Directors are required by the
Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts which give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the
profit or loss of the Group for that year. In preparing the accounts for
the year ended 31 December 2002, the most appropriate accounting
policies, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and
estimates, have been used consistently and UK applicable accounting
standards have been followed. The Directors are responsible for
ensuring that the Group keeps proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts
comply with the Companies Act 1985. In addition, the Directors
are responsible for ensuring that an appropriate system of internal
control is in operation to provide them with reasonable assurance
that the assets of the Group are properly safeguarded and to 
ensure that reasonable steps are taken to prevent or detect fraud
and other irregularities.
Auditors
Following a change in the legal status of the auditors to a Limited
Liability Partnership (LLP), in January 2003 PricewaterhouseCoopers
resigned as auditors of the Company and the Directors appointed
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in their place. In accordance with the
Companies Act 1985, special notice has been received of the
resolution to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to be proposed
at the Annual General Meeting. A resolution will also be proposed 
at the meeting to authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration 
of the auditors.
On behalf of the Board
Grey Denham 
Secretary
28 February 2003
77 GKN plc 2002 The Combined Code on Corporate Governance contains 14 Principles
of Good Governance applicable to listed companies. The paragraphs
below together with the report on Directors’ remuneration set out on
pages 81 to 89 describe how these Principles are applied within GKN.
The Board and its Committees
The GKN Board currently comprises six executive and six non-executive
Directors and reflects a blend of different ages, experience and
backgrounds. The roles of Chairman (which is a non-executive position)
and Chief Executive have been split since 1997 and there is a clear
division of responsibility between the two. In the opinion of the Board,
all the non-executive Directorsare independent of management and
free from any business or other relationship which could materially
interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Upon appointment, Directorsreceive induction training and, thereafter,
individual training is available as required. Directors also have direct
access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is
tasked with ensuring that Board procedures are followed. In addition,
Directors may, in furtherance of their duties, take independent
professional advice, if necessary, at the Company’s expense.
The Board normally meets ten times a year, two of which are on 
the sites of subsidiary or joint venture companies. Comprehensive
briefing papers on items for consideration are circulated to each
Director one week prior to a Board Meeting. During 2002, the
Directors’ overall rate of attendance at Board Meetings was 95.5%. 
During 2002, the Board carried out an evaluation of Board and 
Board Committee effectiveness covering, inter alia, composition,
arrangements for and content of meetings, Committee terms of
reference, Director training and visits to operating sites, access
to information and administrative procedures. The results of the
evaluation were considered by the Board and certain recommendations
were implemented.
Under the Company’s articles of association, each of the Directors is
required to retire by rotation at least once every three years. Details
of the Directors retiring and seeking re-election at an Annual General
Meeting are given to shareholders in the Notice of Meeting.
Specific responsibilities have been delegated to the following Board
Committees:
Executive Committee
Comprises the executive Directorsunder the chairmanship of the Chief
Executive. The Committee, which normally meets monthly, oversees
the activities of the Group, decides how the various risks facing the
Group are to be managed and approves major human resource policy
issues including management development and training.
Chairman’s Committee
Comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive under
the chairmanship of the Chairman. It normally meets before Board
Meetings and is a forum for the Chairman and the Chief Executive 
to brief the non-executive Directors.
Audit Committee
Comprises the non-executive Directors (except Dr Klaus Murmann)
under the chairmanship of Roy Brown. It meets three times a year
and more frequently if required. The Committee examines the
process of financial reporting within the Group and reviews changes
in Group accounting policies. It also reviews annually the Group’s
system of internal control and the processes for monitoring and
evaluating the risks facing the Group. The Committee reviews the
scope and results of the audit with the external auditors and the
terms of reference and results of the work of the internal audit
department. It is also responsible for ensuring that an appropriate
relationship between GKN and the external auditors is maintained,
including reviewing non-audit services and fees (see ‘Independence
of external auditors’ on page 80).
Remuneration Committee 
Comprises the non-executive Directors (except Sir David Lees) 
under the chairmanship of Baroness Hogg. It meets periodically
as required. The Committee is responsible for approving the terms
of service and setting the remuneration of the executive Directors
and the Company Secretary in accordance with a remuneration 
policy which is approved annually by the Board.
Nominations Committee
Comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive 
under the chairmanship of the Chairman. It meets periodically
as required. The Committee assesses and recommends to the 
Board candidates for appointment as executive and non-executive
Directors of the Company and as Company Secretary. It makes
recommendations to the Board on its composition and balance 
and as to the appropriate processes for the appointment of executive
Directors, non-executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board and
the chairmen of Board Committees. It also reviews proposals for
changes in responsibilities of Directors.
Shareholder communications
Meetings between Directors, senior management and major
institutional shareholders are held periodically in accordance with
GKN’s investor relations programme and when required in relation 
to particular issues. All Directors normally attend the Annual General
Meeting and shareholdersare invited to ask questions during the
meeting and to meet with Directorsafter the formal proceedings
78 GKN plc 2002
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE have ended. Shareholders at the meeting are advised as to the 
level of proxy votes received and, following each vote on a show of
hands, the percentage of proxy votes for and against each resolution
is announced.
In its annual and interim reports, trading statements, results
presentations and City announcements generally, GKN endeavours
to present an accurate, objective and balanced picture in a style and
format which is appropriate for the intended audience. The Company’s
website (www.gknplc.com) provides financial and business information
about the Group including copies of annual and interim reports and
presentations made to institutional investors.
Internal control
The Board attaches considerable importance to the Group’s systems
of internal control and risk management. It acknowledges its
responsibility for them and for the regular review of their effectiveness.
The Board’s policy is to have systems in place which optimise 
the Group’s ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate
manner. The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee
responsibility for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks
facing the Group and for deciding how these are to be managed.
There is a standing agenda item at every Executive Committee
meeting to enable members of the Committee to advise if any
material internal control issues have arisen or any significant
new risks have been identified. 
Continuing processes are in place for all parts of the Group to assess
the major strategic, commercial and financial risks to which their
operations are exposed, the social responsibilities relating to such
operations and the way in which such risks and responsibilities
are monitored, managed and controlled. (‘Social responsibilities’
concern the responsibilities of the Group to various stakeholders
including its employees, the communities in which it operates, its
business partners and the environment including behaving ethically
and with regard to human rights. The Group’s Social Responsibility
Review is on pages 26 to 33.) These processes are summarised in 
a ‘risk map’ reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review 
their business risks and to report on whether there has been 
any material breakdown in their internal controls. Companies
also have to confirm annually their adherence to statutory and
regulatory obligations as well as with internal policies on matters
such as competition law, employment law, ethics, document
management, data protection and employee disclosure. Risk
profiling is undertaken across all subsidiaries to identify accidental
risks and highlight action required to mitigate such risks.
In implementing its policy on managing accidental risk, the 
Group pursues a systematic integrated loss prevention approach 
to safeguard people’s health, the environment, an uninterrupted
supply to its customers, its assets and its earnings, under the
auspices of a Group Loss Prevention Council. The Council formulates
and recommends Group loss prevention policies and acts as a
steering group for loss prevention activities across Group operations.
The Group has one major 50:50 joint venture, AgustaWestland,
which was formed in 2001 when GKN and Finmeccanica merged 
their respective helicopter manufacturing businesses. The
AgustaWestland Audit Committee is responsible for the overview 
of the corporate governance systems adopted by AgustaWestland
that are appropriate to the business and comply with the requirements
of both shareholders.
The Group’s systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, recognising that
any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.
The review process
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal
control and risk management on an ongoing basis by:
> considering the strategy of the Group at both Group and divisional
level and, within the framework of this, approving an annual budget
and medium-term projections. Central to this exercise is a review 
of the risks and opportunities facing each business and the steps
being taken to manage these;
> reviewing on a regular basis operational performance and updated
forecasts for the current year. Comparisons are made with budget
and the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to
optimise operational and financial performance;
> retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment
policy, and the approval of major capital expenditure and financing
arrangements. Below Board level there are clearly defined management
authorities for the approval of capital expenditure, major contracts,
acquisitions, investments and divestments, together with an
established framework for their appraisal, which includes a risk
analysis and post-implementation plan and, where appropriate, 
a post-acquisition review;
> receiving regular reports on the Group’s treasury activities, having
approved the operating policies and controls for this function;
> performing an annual review of the Group’s pension fund
arrangements and insurance and risk management programmes; 
79 GKN plc 2002 > receiving annual reports, following their review by the Executive
Committee, on environmental, health and safety matters as they
relate to the Group’s operations. The Executive Committee also
reviews interim reports on health and safety performance; 
> reviewing annually management development and succession
plans. The Executive Committee also reviews management
development issues twice a year; and
> receiving regular reports from the Audit Committee on whether 
the systems of internal control and risk management are operating
effectively.
The Audit Committee, which has independent access to the 
external auditors and to the internal audit function, is responsible 
for reviewing the ongoing control processes. It achieves this by:
> reviewing and approving the terms of reference and major findings
of the internal audit department. This department has a risk-based
work programme which is reviewed by the Audit Committee, and 
its purpose is to review and test the systems, controls, processes,
procedures and practices across the Group. Its head, who reports
directly to the Group Chief Executive, has access to, and regular reviews
with, the Chairman of the Audit Committee. There is an established
process to review the implementation of the recommendations of
the department and all its reports are seen by the relevant members
of the Executive Committee;
> reviewing reports from management and external and internal
auditors on the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and
risk management. In particular, in advance of the announcement
of the Group’s results for each year, it reviews a summary of the
annual detailed divisional reports on their business risks and
internal control processes; and
> discussing with management the resolution of control issues raised
by Board members or in reports reviewed by it.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s systems
of internal control and risk management during the period covered
by this annual report. It confirms that the processes described
above, which accord with the guidance on internal control published
in September 1999 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England & Wales, have been in place throughout that period and 
up to the date of approval of the annual report.
Independence of external auditors
The external auditors have in place processes to ensure their
independence is maintained and have written to the Audit Committee
confirming that, in their opinion, they are independent.
The Audit Committee has the specific task of keeping under review
the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors
in order to ensure that objectivity and independence are maintained.
Whilst the Audit Committee has no reason to doubt the independence
or objectivity of the auditors, as a matter of policy, the auditors are
excluded from invitations to undertake assignments of a consultancy
nature, except where their detailed knowledge of the Group in
comparison to other professional services firms is considered by
the Committee to represent a tangible advantage to the Group and 
its shareholders.
Guidelines for the operation of the policy, including the special
circumstances in which the auditorscan be used for non-audit work,
have been agreed by the Audit Committee and issued by the Finance
Director to all Group companies.
Compliance with the Combined Code
In addition to the 14 Principles of Good Governance, the Combined
Code also contains a Code of Best Practice with 45 detailed
provisions. Other than with regard to two of these provisions, GKN
was in compliance with the Code of Best Practice throughout 2002,
the two exceptions being: 
Recognised senior non-executive Director
The Board does not consider it necessary to identify a single 
senior non-executive Director, in addition to the Chairman, to 
whom shareholders’ concerns can be conveyed. The chairmen of
the Audit and Remuneration Committees, whose names are given 
on page 78, are both senior non-executive Directors and either may
be approached in circumstances where investors feel it inappropriate
to contact the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Notice periods
Although not in compliance during 2002, the Board’s current policy
is that, unless local employment practice requires otherwise, the
notice period in the service agreements of executive Directors shall
be one year. The service agreements of those executive Directors who
previously were entitled to two years’ notice of termination have been
amended to accord with this policy with effect from 1 January 2003.
The auditors’ responsibilities with regard to their review of the
Company’s compliance with the specified provisions of the Code 
of Best Practice and in relation to the annual report generally are 
set out on page 92.
80 GKN plc 2002
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Board’s Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating
the Group’s policy for the remuneration of the executive Directors of
GKN plc. The Committee reviews the policy annually and recommends
any changes to the Board as a whole for formal approval.
Within the framework of the agreed policy, the Committee
determines the detailed terms of service of the executive Directors,
including basic salary, incentives and benefits, and the terms upon
which their service may be terminated.
The Committee consists solely of the Company’s non-executive
Directors excluding Sir David Lees. Details of the current members
of the Committee are given on page 34. Sir John Parker was Chairman
of the Committee during 2002 until his retirement from the Board 
on 16 May and Sir David Lees was a member of the Committee
throughout 2002 and until 27 February 2003. 
The Committee receives input from the Group’s Chief Executive and
Human Resources Director when considering the remuneration of the
other executive Directors. The Committee may also appoint external
independent consultants to advise on executive remuneration
matters and in this regard the Committee received advice during
2002 from Towers Perrin on executive Director salary levels. From
time to time, GKN’s management inputs data into a senior executive
salary survey administered by Towers Perrin, the results of which
GKN finds useful in determining executive salary levels below Board
level. During 2002, Towers Perrin also provided advice to divisional
management on certain senior executive retirement and management
development matters outside the UK. Towers Perrin did not provide
any other advice on executive compensation direct to the Company
during the year. The Remuneration Committee adopted a policy
during 2002 under which, going forward, an individual external
consultant appointed by it to advise on the determination of the level
of executive Director remuneration shall not also act as consultant to
any company in the GKN Group.
Remuneration policy
This section describes GKN’s policy for the remuneration of its
executive and non-executive Directors as at the date of this report
and for the foreseeable future. 
GKN’s remuneration policy for executive Directors is designed to
attract, retain and motivate executives of the high calibre required 
to ensure that the Group is managed successfully to the benefit
of shareholders. To achieve this, an internationally competitive
package of incentives and rewards linked to performance is
provided. In setting remuneration levels the Remuneration
Committee takes into consideration the remuneration practices
found in other UK multinational companies of similar size and also
ensures that the remuneration arrangements for executive Directors
are compatible with those for executives throughout the Group. 
The fees of the non-executive Directorsare set at a level which will
attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make
a substantial contribution to the Group’s affairs. The fees paid are
commensurate with those paid by other leading UK listed companies.
The remuneration of the executive Directors comprises basic salary
and benefits in kind set at competitive levels, short-term variable
remuneration dependent upon the achievement of performance
targets, and longer-term rewards including retirement benefits and
performance-related long-term incentives. Further details of each 
of these elements are given in the following paragraphs. On the
basis of the expected value of long-term incentives and achievement
of on-target performance for the purposes of the short-term variable
remuneration scheme, the total annual remuneration of an executive
Director under the Group’s remuneration policy is weighted
approximately 60% performance-related and 40% non performance-
related, valued as at the time of award of long-term incentives. 
The Remuneration Committee believes that these proportions
represent an appropriate balance between certainty of income and
incentive-based remuneration linked to the achievement of GKN’s
operational and strategic objectives.
Basic salary
This is based on a number of factors including market rates together
with the individual Director’s experience, responsibilities and
performance. The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to maintain
salaries at around the median level of the relevant employment
market and in this connection it reviews annually data drawn from an
analysis of senior executive salary levels in approximately 100 major
UK companies. Individual salaries of Directors are normally reviewed
annually by the Committee with any increase usually being effective
from 1 July.
Benefits in kind
These comprise principally car benefits and membership of the
Group’s healthcare insurance scheme. The level of benefits provided
to executive Directors is consistent with that provided by other major
companies. These benefits do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Performance-related short-term variable remuneration
Payments may be made annually under arrangements which link
remuneration to the achievement of short-term operational targets
relevant to GKN’s long-term strategic objectives. These targets will
81 GKN plc 2002
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION typically relate to a combination of corporate and, where
appropriate, individual portfolio profit and cash flow performance.
Achievement of on-target performance will result in payments of
approximately 50% of an executive Director’s salary. Each year 
the Remuneration Committee considers in advance whether it is
appropriate to place a cap on the maximum amount that could be
paid to Directors under that year’s arrangements taking into account
the nature of the targets. Details of the targets for 2002, under 
which a cap operated, are given below in the section ‘Directors’
remuneration 2002’. 
The Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to alter 
targets to reflect changed circumstances such as material changes
in accounting standards or changes in the structure of the Group. 
It may also make discretionary payments in respect of exceptional
performance. Payments generally are based upon a percentage of
year-end basic salary and do not form part of pensionable earnings
under any of the Directors’ pension arrangements.
Long-term incentive arrangements
The Remuneration Committee believes that performance-related
long-term incentives which closely align executive rewards with
shareholders’ interests are an important component of overall
executive remuneration arrangements. In 2001, shareholders
approved both elements of GKN’s current long-term incentive
arrangements for executive Directors and other senior executives –
the GKN Long Term Incentive Plan 2001 and the GKN Executive Share
Option Scheme 2001. The Committee believes it appropriate to
operate these two elements in parallel as they each reflect differing
shareholder preferences for measuring investment performance,
namely the preference for relative shareholder return as a measure 
of comparative performance and the preference for earnings per
share as a measure of absolute growth in earnings. Award levels
under each element are set such that the combined rewards
available to an individual Director, assuming full vesting, are no
greater than they would have been had the Group’s long-term
incentive arrangements comprised only a single element.
GKN Long Term Incentive Plan 2001 (the ‘L TIP’)
In summary, under the LTIP as it currently operates, each executive
Director may be awarded annually a conditional right to acquire a
number of GKN plc Ordinary Shares equal in value up to a maximum
of 100% of annual basic salary and calculated by reference to 
the average of the daily closing prices of GKN plc Ordinary Shares
during the preceding year. (For awards made in 2001 and 2002, 
the preceding year’s share price is adjusted to reflect the demerger
of GKN’s Industrial Services businesses to Brambles Industries plc
(‘Brambles’) in August 2001 (the ‘Demerger’).) The number of
these shares that the Director will ultimately receive will depend 
on the Group’s performance during the three years commencing 
on 1 January in the year of award and on satisfaction of a personal
shareholding requirement (see page 85).
Performance is measured by comparing the Total Shareholder Return
(growth in share value assuming reinvestment of gross dividends), 
or ‘TSR’, from GKN shares with the return on shares of other
companies chosen by the Remuneration Committee as an
appropriate comparator group. The Committee considers TSR to be
an appropriate performance criterion as it represents the investment
return received by GKN’s shareholders over the measurement period
compared to the return investors could have received by investing 
in a basket of alternative stocks over the same period. This incentive
arrangement is therefore less affected by changes in economic
conditions and short-term stock market sentiment than plans based
on certain other measures. For awards made in 2001 and 2002, the
comparator group is the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index
at the start of the measurement period excluding companies in 
the telecommunications, media, technology and financial services
sectors. The Committee believes it appropriate to base the
comparison on the FTSE 100 Index as the peer group of leading
companies to which GKN aspires but to strip out certain non-
manufacturing sectors, some of which have in recent years
contributed significantly to the volatility of the FTSE 100 Index. 
If, at the end of the measurement period, GKN ranks in the upper
quartile of the comparator group, the executive Director will receive
all of the shares conditionally awarded. If the ranking is at the
median level, 50% of the shares will be received, with no shares
being received for below median. For intermediate rankings between
upper quartile and median, the executive Director will receive a
proportionate number of shares reducing on a straight-line basis.
GKN obtains the required TSR data and ranking information from an
external consultant which ensures that the comparative performance
is independently verified.
At the end of the three-year measurement period the conditional
award is converted into a deferred right to acquire the appropriate
number of shares which will not be released to the Director for at
least a further two years other than in the specific circumstances
set out in the rules of the LTIP . Irrespective of GKN’s TSR, before any
shares become eligible for release the Remuneration Committee
must be satisfied that this is justified by the underlying financial
performance of the Group over the measurement period. 
82 GKN plc 2002
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED Prior to the introduction of the LTIP , GKN operated a long-term
incentive plan (the ‘old LTIP’) which was similar to the LTIP except
that the TSR comparator group was the companies constituting the
entire FTSE 100 Index at the start of the measurement period and
there was no shareholding requirement. During 2001, shareholders
approved an amendment to the old LTIP in connection with the
Demerger whereby existing conditional rights became rights to
acquire equal numbers of GKN and Brambles shares, with a TSR
comparison of a bundle of GKN and Brambles shares. No rights
granted under the old LTIP now remain outstanding. 
GKN Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 (the ‘ESOS’)
In summary, under the ESOS each executive Director may be
awarded annually an option to subscribe for a number of GKN plc
Ordinary Shares. The Remuneration Committee decides the level
of awards in each year – for awards made in 2001 and 2002, the
value of the shares granted under option to an executive Director
was 1.5 times basic salary. A higher level may be applied in future 
where required specifically to recruit or retain an executive. Marcus
Beresford, who retired as Chief Executive on 31 December 2002, was
prohibited from being granted options under the rules of the ESOS
as he was within two years of his normal retirement date at the time
the scheme was launched.
The number of shares that a Director can ultimately acquire upon
exercise of the option is dependent upon satisfaction of a performance
condition and a personal shareholding requirement (see page 85),
set by the Remuneration Committee before an option is granted. 
For options granted in 2001 and 2002, the performance condition 
is linked initially to the increase in GKN’s earnings per share (‘eps’)
(calculated in accordance with UK Financial Reporting Standard 14,
adjusted to exclude goodwill amortisation together with any
exceptional items as disclosed in the Group’s financial statements
and the tax thereon) over the three years commencing on 1 January
in the year of grant. 50% of the shares can be acquired if the
increase over this period is not less than the increase in the Retail
Prices Index (‘RPI’) plus 9%. The remaining 50% can only be acquired
in full if such increase is RPI plus 15% (with a straight-line sliding
scale for increases between RPI plus 9% and RPI plus 15%). If the
performance condition is not satisfied in full after the first three-year
period, so that less than 100% of the shares under option can be
acquired, the performance condition will be reassessed each year up
to six years from the date of grant (the RPI plus 9% will be increased
by 3% for each year beyond the third year, and the RPI plus 15% will
be increased by 5% for each year beyond the third year). At the end
of the six-year period, any unvested options will lapse.
The Remuneration Committee believes that eps, as a true measure 
of the underlying profitability of a company, is a prime factor that
investors take into account when assessing their investment
decisions and that real growth in eps of between 9% and 15% is a
stretching target of direct relevance to shareholders. The Committee
therefore considers it an appropriate means of linking executive
rewards with shareholders’ interests. The RPI data used to assess
the extent to which an option is capable of being exercised is
obtained from public sources and GKN’s eps amount is extracted
from the Group’s audited financial statements.
GKN previously operated executive share option schemes until
the introduction of the old LTIP in 1996. These schemes were not
performance-related and had no personal shareholding requirement
in common with most other companies’ schemes in operation at
the time.
Options granted under the ESOS together with options outstanding
under the earlier executive share option schemes are normally
exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of
grant (between the fifth and tenth anniversary for options granted 
in 1995 and 1996). The exercise price is fixed at the market price 
of GKN’s shares at the time of grant. 
Retirement benefits
For executive Directors subject to the UK restrictions on pensionable
earnings in the Finance Act 1989 (the ‘earnings cap’), retirement
provision is secured by the Company by a combination of amounts
paid to individual ‘money-purchase’ schemes and supplementary
allowances paid to each Director. In certain cases, dependent in part
upon the individual’s salary level at commencement of employment,
retirement benefits are also provided through membership of the
Executive section of the GKN Group Pension Scheme, which is a
defined benefit scheme. The retirement provisions are made in order
to assist each Director towards securing overall retirement benefits
compatible in value with those available under the pension scheme
had it not been for the operation of the earnings cap.
GKN’s pension scheme provides Directors with a pension of up to
two-thirds of basic annual salary (up to the earnings cap) on retirement
at age 60 after 20 or more years’ service and proportionately less for
shorter service or for retirement before pension age. An employee
contribution of 5% is required under the scheme, except in the case
of members who joined it prior to 1991 when such contributions
were introduced.
Executive Directors employed outside the UK typically receive
retirement benefits consistent with local practice.
83 GKN plc 2002 Service agreements
The service agreements of executive Directors employed in the 
UK are with GKN Holdings plc, the parent company of the GKN 
Group prior to the Demerger and now a wholly-owned subsidiary
of GKN plc. Executive Directors employed overseas have their 
service agreements with an appropriate overseas subsidiary. 
The non-executive Directors do not have service agreements.
GKN’s current policy is that, unless local employment practice
requires otherwise, the service agreements of its executive Directors
will be terminable by the employing company on one year’s notice.
The service agreements of Kevin Smith, Dick Etches and Ian Griffiths
were amended to align with this policy with effect from 1 January
2003, having previously required two years’ notice. The service
agreements of Richard Clowes and Nigel Stein have contained 
one year notice provisions since their inception in 2001. Neal Keating
hasa US-style service agreement with GKN North America 
Services Inc which can be terminated by GKN without notice,
although for termination without cause an amount approximately
equal to one year’s basic salary and benefits would be payable to
him. The agreements terminate in any event at the end of the year 
in which the Director attains the age of 60.
If termination of an executive Director’s service agreement occurs on
less than due notice within 12 months following a change in control
of GKN plc, the Director has the right to claim one year’s basic salary
plus an amount equal to 75% of basic salary in lieu of one year’s
pension contributions, benefits in kind and loss of entitlements
under short-term performance-related remuneration arrangements.
In all other circumstances there is no contractual provision for 
pre-determined compensation payable upon early termination 
of a Director’s service agreement although in such an event the
principles of the severance policy adopted by the Board will be
applied by the Remuneration Committee.
Under the severance policy, which may be varied in individual cases,
an immediate lump sum severance payment will be made to the
Director equivalent to one year’s basic salary plus one year’s pension
contributions. Consideration would also be given to the inclusion in
the severance payment of additional elements relating to short-term
variable remuneration and major benefits in kind. However, such
additional elements will not normally be included where the
termination is as a result of underperformance and in such cases
consideration will also be given to paying the severance payment in
four equal instalments which will only be paid to the extent that the
Director has not been able to mitigate his or her loss by the date of
the relevant payment.
An enhancement to the pension rights of an executive Director upon
early retirement will only be considered in exceptional cases and a
full costing would be provided to the Remuneration Committee at the
time of its deliberations. In any event, such enhancement would not
be considered unless objectives set for the Director had been met or
it was otherwise merited.
It is also the Board’s policy that, at the time of consideration of a
proposed appointment of an executive Director, the Remuneration
Committee will take into account the likely cost of severance in
determining the appropriateness of the proposed terms of
appointment. 
External appointments
The Board recognises the benefit which GKN can obtain if executive
Directors of GKN serve as non-executive Directors of other companies.
Subject to review in each case, the Remuneration Committee’s
general policy is that each executive Director may accept one 
non-executive directorship with another company from which 
the Director may retain the fees.
Terms of appointment of Chairman and non-executive Directors
Sir David Lees’ term of appointment as non-executive Chairman 
was extended in 2001 by mutual agreement until the conclusion 
of the Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2004. His fees, which
are determined by the Board, were increased for the remainder of
his tenure as Chairman from £250,000 to £280,000 per annum 
with effect from 1 January 2002. He is not eligible to participate in
GKN’s short-term variable remuneration arrangements or long-term
incentive plans. Sir David is in receipt of a pension from the GKN
pension scheme (having retired from executive service within GKN 
at his normal pensionable age) and has the use of a car, the running
and associated costs of which are borne partially by GKN.
The fees received by each of the remaining non-executive Directors
are determined by the Board. The basicfee was increased from
£30,000 to £35,000 per annum from 1 April 2002, the previous
increase having been in July 1999. The chairmen of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees receive an additional fee of 12.5% of
the basic fee to reflect the significant extra responsibilities attached
to these positions. The non-executive Directors do not participate in
the Group’s short-term variable remuneration or long-term incentive
arrangements or in its pension scheme, nor do they receive benefits
in kind. The current policy is for non-executive Directors to serve on
the Board for a total of nine years with interim renewals, subject to
mutual agreement and performance reviews by the Nominations
Committee of the Board, after three and six years.
84 GKN plc 2002
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED Shareholding requirement
In order to reinforce the alignment of their interests with those of
shareholders generally, all Directors are subject to a shareholding
requirement.
Under a policy adopted by the Remuneration Committee, executive
Directors are required to establish and maintain an investment in
GKN plc Ordinary Shares equivalent to at least 100% of their basic
salary. The receipt of any shares by a Director from an award made
under the LTIP and ESOS is conditional upon the shareholding
requirement being met on the third anniversary of the grant of the
award. For these purposes any deferred rights under the LTIP will
be counted as shares.
In respect of awards made in 2001 and 2002, if insufficient shares
vest from an award to enable an executive Director to satisfy the
shareholding requirement, the requirement is deemed to be satisfied
for the purpose of that award. However, once the requirement is met
in respect of a particular award the Director is expected to retain
sufficient of the shares ultimately received from that award towards
the satisfaction of the requirement for future awards.
For awards made in or after 2003, each executive Director must
acquire the minimum required shareholding by adding to any
existing shareholding using performance-related rewards which 
may be received under the GKN short-term variable remuneration
and long-term incentive arrangements. Until the required
shareholding level is reached, an executive Director must apply, 
in the purchase of GKN shares, 30% of that amount of the gross
(i.e. before tax) payment under the short-term (annual) variable
remuneration scheme which exceeds 50% of the Director’s gross
basic salary at that time, and must retain such number of shares
received under the LTIP and ESOS as represents at least 30% of the
gross gain which the Director would have realised on the exercise 
of such an award had the shares been sold on the day of exercise.
The Board has also recently adopted a policy under which non-
executive Directors will normally be expected to acquire a holding 
of GKN plc Ordinary Shares of a value equivalent to 30% of one
year’s basic fee within three yearsofappointment. Directors have
been prohibited from dealing in GKN shares since this policy was
adopted and certain non-executive Directors have not therefore 
yet had an opportunity to acquire the necessary shares. 
TotalShareholder Return performance
The chart below (left) illustrates the TSR performance (based on 
an initial investment of £100) of GKN plc Ordinary Shares over the
period from the Demerger until the end of 2002 compared to the TSR
85 GKN plc 2002
Total Shareholder Return GKN and FTSE 100 Index 2001 to 2002
£90
£70
£80
£60
1/8
2001 2002
31/12 30/9 30/6 30/9 31/3 31/12
£120
£110
£100
GKN TSR FTSE 100 Index TSR
Total Shareholder Return % GKN and average for L TIP comparator group 
for completed three-year measurement periods under the GKN L TIP
      
GKN TSR
L TIP Comparator
Group TSR
97-99
96-98
00-02
99-01
98-00
(7.51)
(14.97)
3.58
0.67
10.74
16.48
16.82
28.30
19.29
33.19
that would have been obtained over the same period from a
hypothetical investment in the companies constituting the FTSE 100
Index. The interim points show the cumulative TSR at each calendar
quarter end date. (As GKN plc was incorporated during the course 
of 2001, the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 
(the ‘disclosure regulations’) only require the comparative TSR
performance of the Company’s shares to be shown since 1 August
2001 when the Company became the listed parent company of the
GKN Group just prior to the Demerger.)
The Committee chose the FTSE 100 Indexagainst which to represent
GKN’s TSR performance for the purpose of the chart as it is a readily
available broad equity market index (as required by the disclosure
regulations) of which the Company is a constituent. 
The TSR information presented in the chart in accordance with 
the disclosure regulations differs from the TSR data computed for 
the purposes of the GKN Long Term Incentive Plans both in terms
of the constituent companies involved (see page 82) and the TSR
calculation methodology. Given these differences, presented below
is GKN’s TSR and rank against the TSR of the relevant comparator
group, together with the percentage of the conditional award
converted into a deferred award, for completed measurement
periods as computed under the terms of the Plans. The chart below
(right) illustrates GKN’s TSR compared to the average TSR of the
relevant comparator group for such periods.
Deferred
FTSE 100 award
Period TSR % ranking conversion %
Jan 1996 – Dec 1998 33.19 17 100
Jan 1997 – Dec 1999 28.30 24 100
Jan 1998 – Dec 2000 16.48 32 86
Jan 1999 – Dec 2001
(a)
0.67 54 0
Jan 2000 – Dec 2002
(a)
(14.97) 77 0
(a) Comparative TSR performance for
these awards post-Demerger was based
on a bundle of GKN and Brambles
Ordinary Shares.  Directors’ remuneration 2002
With the exception of the dates of the executive Directors’ service agreements, the information set out on pages 86 to 88 represents the
auditable disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The remuneration of the executive Directors in 2002, excluding pension benefits and long-term incentives, was as follows:
Date of Performance- Total Total
service Salary related Benefits 2002 2001
(a)
agreement £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
M Beresford
(b)
19.3.96 544 660 22 1,226
(c)
500
R J Clowes
(d)
14.11.01 294 160 12 466
(c)
76
R W Etches 24.1.03 257 292 12 561
(c)
286
I R Griffiths
(e)
24.1.03 345 396 15 756
(c)
351
CJ Keating
(f)
19.8.02 114 72 33
(g)
219 –
K Smith 24.1.03 345 234 23 602
(c)
661
N M Stein
(h)
22.8.01 307 363 56
(g)
726
(c)
160
2,206 2,177 173 4,556 2,034
The 2002 performance-related payments were triggered by the achievement of a number of operational targets. For all executive Directors, 
a proportion of such payments was dependent upon the achieved level of GKN’s 2002 earnings before tax, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items. The outturn for the year was some 21% above the target level which was set at the beginning of 2002 and which was in
line with market expectations at that time. For those Directors with responsibility for business operations, payments were also dependent
upon the achieved level of operating profit of their respective portfolio in 2002. Profit performance equal to target would have resulted in
payments of 40% of salary. The maximum amount that an individual could receive under the profit element was 100% of salary. In addition,
cash flow targets were set for the Group as a whole and, where appropriate, the cash flow performance of the Director’s portfolio for each
half of the year. A total of 10% of salary was payable on achievement of all cash flow targets, all of which were met in full. Actual total
payments to executive Directorsunder the 2002 short-term variable remuneration scheme varied between 50% and 110% of year-end 
salary (other than Neal Keating whose payment was pro-rated to reflect his period of service during the year). Each of the current executive
Directors has agreed voluntarily to increase their investment in GKN plc Ordinary Shares by utilising at least 20% of the gross amount of their
entitlement under the 2002 scheme.
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors in 2002 was as follows:
Fees Benefits Total 2002 Total 2001
£000 £000 £000 £000
Sir David Lees 280 19 299 267
R D Brown
(i)
38 – 38 34
Sir Ian Gibson
(j)
20 – 20 –
Baroness Hogg 36 – 36 30
Dr K H Murmann 34 – 34 30
Sir Peter Williams
(k)
34 – 34 17
Sir John Parker
(l)
15 – 15 34
457 19 476 412
Directors’ aggregate emoluments for 2002 amounted to £5.4 million (2001 – £4.1 million). 
86 GKN plc 2002
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
(a) In connection with the Demerger, 
GKN plc became the parent company
of the former GKN plc which changed its
name to GKN Holdings plc. The comparative
remuneration figures for 2001 in this
report include the remuneration paid to
the Directors of GKN Holdings plc until
31 July 2001 and to the Directors of GKN plc
from 1 August 2001.
(b) Appointed Chief Executive with effect
from 7 August 2001 having previously
been Managing Director Industrial
Services. Retired 31 December 2002.
(c) Payments of supplementary allowances
to certain executive Directors to assist
them towards securing retirement benefits
are included in the money-purchase
contributions and allowances for pension
benefit purposes disclosed in the second
table on page 88. The allowances, detailed
below, have therefore been excluded from
the total remuneration shown in the table
above although they are part of the Directors’
aggregate emoluments for the purpose of
disclosure under the Companies Act 1985:
Mr M Beresford – nil (2001 – £26,000);
Mr R J Clowes – £79,000 (2001 – £13,000);
Mr R W Etches – £70,000 (2001 – £70,000);
Mr I R Griffiths – £103,000 (2001 – £83,000);
Mr K Smith – £45,000 (2001 – £43,000);
Mr N M Stein – £85,000 (2001 – £29,000).
(d) Appointed 1 November 2001.
(e) Appointed 19 January 2001.
(f) Appointed 19 August 2002. Mr Keating
is paid in US$ – for the purpose of this
report his emoluments have been
translated at US$1.50/£1.
(g) Includes relocation expenses.
(h) Appointed 7 August 2001.
(i) Mr Brown’s fees were, until 30 June 2001,
paid to his former employer, Unilever plc.
(j) Appointed 1 June 2002.
(k) Appointed 1 June 2001.
(l) Retired 16 May 2002. Options over GKN plc Ordinary Shares granted under the Executive and Save As You Earn (SAYE) share option schemes and held by the
executive Directors at 31 December 2002 and 1 January 2002 (or, if later, on appointment to the Board) were as follows:
Exercisable
(a)
Shares
2002
Shares
under option under option
31 December Exercise 1 January
Scheme From To 2002 price Granted Exercised Lapsed 2002
M Beresford Executive –– – –––––
SAYE 1.7.02 31.12.02 – ––– 2,928 2,928
R J Clowes Executive
(b)
8.4.97 8.4.04 120,000 120p––– 120,000
Executive
(b)
6.4.00 6.4.05 33,600 132.29p––– 33,600
Executive 21.9.04 20.9.11 169,928 242.75p––– 169,928
Executive 15.3.05 14.3.12 138,798 308p 138,798–––
SAYE 1.2.09 31.7.09 8,283 217p––– 8,283
R W Etches Executive 21.9.04 20.9.11 156,952 242.75p––– 156,952
Executive 15.3.05 14.3.12 123,701 308p 123,701–––
SAYE 1.2.05 31.7.05 4,377 217p––– 4,377
I R Griffiths Executive
(b)
6.4.00 6.4.05 28,800 132.29p––– 28,800
Executive 21.9.04 20.9.11 197,734 242.75p––– 197,734
Executive 15.3.05 14.3.12 165,584 308p 165,584–––
SAYE 1.7.02 31.12.02 – 99.16p – 4,718 – 4,718
SAYE 1.7.05 31.12.05 1,468 275.41p––– 1,468
CJ Keating Executive –– – –––––
SAYE –– – –––––
K Smith Executive 21.9.04 20.9.11 210,093 242.75p––– 210,093
Executive 15.3.05 14.3.12 165,584 308p 165,584–––
SAYE –– – –––––
N M Stein Executive
(b)
6.4.00 6.4.05 67,200 132.29p––– 67,200
Executive 21.9.04 20.9.11 169,928 242.75p––– 169,928
Executive 15.3.05 14.3.12 146,103 308p 146,103–––
SAYE 1.7.03 31.12.03 3,516 275.41p––– 3,516
Details of the options over GKN plc Ordinary Shares exercised by Directors during 2002 are shown below. 
Shares Exercise Price on Shares
issued on Date of price date of retained on
exercise grant per share exercise
(c)
exercise
I R Griffiths 4,718
(d)
7.12.01 99.16p 292.25p 4,718
87 GKN plc 2002
(a) Represents the earliest exercise 
date (assuming satisfaction of relevant
performance criteria and personal
shareholding requirements) and latest
expiry date of options held by the Director
during the year.
(b) Non performance-related Executive
share options.
(c) The closing mid-market price per share
on date of exercise.
(d) Option granted under the 1995 SAYE
Share Option Scheme.
(e) The SAYE share option scheme is
open to all UK employees with six months’
service or more. Participants save a regular
monthly sum of up to £250 for three or five
years and can use these savings and 
any bonus payable under the scheme to
exercise the options. As permitted by the
Finance Act 1989, the exercise price has
been set at 20% below the market price
before the start of the savings period.
(f) The closing mid-market price of GKN plc
Ordinary Shares on the London Stock
Exchange on 31 December 2002 was
200.75p and the price range during the
year was 198.25p to 350p.
(g) The aggregate of the total theoretical
gains on options exercised by Directors
during 2002 amounted to £9,000 (2001 –
£11,000). This is calculated by reference
to the difference between the closing mid-
market price of the shares on the date of
exercise and the exercise price of the
options, disregarding whether such shares
were sold or retained on exercise, and is
stated before tax. Conditional and deferred rights to GKN plc Ordinary Shares under the GKN Long Term Incentive Plans held by the executive Directors at
31 December 2002 and 1 January 2002 (or, if later, on appointment to the Board), together with awards made and lapsed during the year,
were as follows:
Awards held Awards held
31 December 2002 Conditional Conditional 1 January 2002
awards awards
Conditional Deferred made
(a)
lapsed Conditional Deferred
M Beresford
(b)
117,363 – – 32,350 194,470 –
R J Clowes 174,440 – 86,700 16,150 103,890 –
R W Etches 165,410 – 77,250 28,600 116,760 –
I R Griffiths 205,840 – 103,400 15,700 118,140 –
CJ Keating
(c)
89,059 – 89,059–––
K Smith 221,310 – 103,400 – 117,910 –
N M Stein 161,580 – 91,250 – 70,330 –
In addition Kevin Smith, in respect of the measurement period 1999 to 2001, had a long-term incentive arrangement to be satisfied in cash
which in all other respects was equivalent to an award over 26,950 shares made pursuant to the old LTIP . This was to compensate him partly
for the loss of benefits under his former employer’s long-term incentive plan on joining GKN. The entitlement could not be given in the form of
shares due to the timing of his joining. The award lapsed during the year. Nigel Stein has an award from an historical long-term incentive plan
operated by GKN Sinter Metals Inc (of which he was Chief Financial Officer prior to his appointment to the Board) under which participants
could receive payments based on the increase in value of the GKN Sinter Metals division over the five-year period to 31 December 2002. 
The award lapsed at the end of the year without any payment being made under it.
The first table below shows the amount paid as money-purchase contributions and allowances to executive Directors under the Group’s
pension arrangements. The second table below shows pension amounts for those Directors whose pension arrangements were either wholly
or partly of the defined benefit type.
Money-purchase contributions and allowances for pension benefit purposes
2002 2001
£000 £000
M Beresford 222 176
R J Clowes
(f)
80 13
R W Etches 104 100
I R Griffiths
(g)
106 84
CJ Keating
(h)
13 –
K Smith 141 134
N M Stein
(i)
87 30
Transfer
Transfer Transfer value at
value of value of 31 December
Accrued Accrued accrued accrued 2002 of
annual annual annual annual Change Increase increase
pension at pension at pension at pension at in transfer in annual in annual
31 December 1 January 31 December 1 January value in pension in pension in
2002
(j)
2002 2002 2002 2002
(k)
2002
(l)
2002
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
R J Clowes 36 32 473 390 78 3 38
I R Griffiths 40 36 527 441 86 3 36
N M Stein 26 23 264 218 42 3 28
88 GKN plc 2002
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
(a) The closing mid-market price on the
date of award of the shares comprising the
conditional awards made during the year
was 308p per share (247.5p per share 
in respect of Mr Keating’s award). The
measurement period relating to these
awards ends on 31 December 2004.
(b) Retired on 31 December 2002. Under
the rules of the LTIP , the shares which are
the subject of Mr Beresford’s conditional
awards are eligible for release at the 
end of the relevant measurement period.
The number of shares the subject of
Mr Beresford’s 2001 award has been
reduced pursuant to the rules of the LTIP 
to reflect his retirement during the course
of the relevant measurement period.
(c) Appointed 19 August 2002.
(d) Since 31 December 2002, the following
conditional rights to GKN and Brambles
Ordinary Shares in respect of awards
granted in relation to the measurement
period 2000 to 2002 have lapsed:
Mr M Beresford – 27,850 shares;
Mr R J Clowes – 14,850 shares;
Mr R W Etches – 23,200 shares;
Mr I R Griffiths – 20,600 shares;
Mr K Smith – 30,950 shares.
(e) During 2002, no conditional rights were
converted into deferred awards, no awards
vested and no shares were released to
Directors. The aggregate money value
(before tax) of the shares released to the
Directors in 2001 amounted to £3.8 million.
(f) From 1 November 2001.
(g) From 19 January 2001.
(h) From 19 August 2002.
(i) From 7 August 2001.
(j) The accrued annual pension includes
entitlements earned as an employee 
prior to becoming a Director as well as
for qualifying services after becoming 
a Director.
(k) Change in transfer value over the year
less any contributions made by the Director. 
(l) Increase over the year in accrued
pension in excess of inflation to which
each Director would have been entitled 
on leaving service.
(m) A transfer value represents the 
present value of accrued benefits. It does
not represent an amount of money which 
the individual is entitled to receive. The
change in transfer value over the year
reflects the additional pension but also
the effect of changes in stock market
conditions during the year. Transfer values
have been calculated in accordance with
version 1.5 of Guidance Note 11 prepared
by the Institute/Faculty of Actuaries. Share interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors, including family interests, in the Ordinary Shares of GKN plc at 31 December 2002 and 1 January 2002
(or, if later, on appointment to the Board) were as follows:
31 December 1 January
2002 2002
Sir David Lees 206,118 206,034
M Beresford 128,666 128,666
R D Brown 2,018 2,018
R J Clowes 39,090 37,892
R W Etches 28,382 27,384
Sir Ian Gibson
(a)
10,000 –
I R Griffiths 44,954 41,136
Baroness Hogg 893 893
CJ Keating
(b)
– –
Dr K H Murmann 80,197 80,197
K Smith 3,000 3,000
N M Stein 6,250 1,250
Sir Peter Williams 5,000 5,000
The executive Directors (other than Neal Keating), as potential beneficiaries, are deemed to have an interest in the Ordinary Shares of GKN plc
held from time to time by certain discretionary trusts established to facilitate the operation of the GKN long-term incentive arrangements. 
At 31 December 2002 and 28 February 2003 these trusts held 1,219,238 GKN plc Ordinary Shares (2001 – 1,219,238 shares).
As potential beneficiaries under the discretionary trust established to facilitate the operation of the GKN SAYE share option schemes, the
executive Directors are deemed to have an interest in the Ordinary Shares of GKN plc held by the trust from time to time. At 31 December 2002
and 28 February 2003 this trust held no GKN plc Ordinary Shares (2001 – nil shares).
There were no changes in the Directors’ interests in shares or options between 31 December 2002 and 28 February 2003 other than in respect
of the lapses of conditional rights to GKN plc Ordinary Shares under the old LTIP disclosed on page 88 and in relation to the allotment of
shares to and transfer of shares by certain of the discretionary trusts referred to above.
The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which contains full details of the Directors’ shareholdings, long-term incentive plan awards
and options to subscribe for shares in GKN plc, is available for inspection by shareholders upon request.
On behalf of the Board
Baroness Hogg
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
28 February 2003
89 GKN plc 2002
(a) Appointed 1 June 2002.
(b) Appointed 19 August 2002. Automotive
GKN Driveline 
GKN Automotive Ltd
GKN Automotive International GmbH Germany
GKN Automotive GmbH Germany
Europe
GKN Hardy Spicer Ltd
GKN Driveshafts Ltd 
GKN Glaenzer Spicer SA France
GKN Löbro GmbH Germany
GKN Gelenkwellenwerk Kaiserslautern GmbH Germany
GKN Gelenkwellenwerk Kiel GmbH Germany
GKN Gelenkwellenwerk Mosel GmbH Germany
GKN Walterscheid Presswerk GmbH Germany
GKN Automotive Umformtechnik GmbH Germany
GKN Birfield SpA Italy
GKN Componenti Firenze SpA Italy
GKN Automotive Polska Sp. z o.o. Poland
GKN Atras d.o.o. Slovenia
GKN Transmisiones España SA Spain
GKN Ayra Durex SA Spain
GKN Indugasa SA Spain
GKN Forjas de Precisión de Legazpia SA Spain
GKN-Lazpiur SL (51%) Spain
Americas
GKN Automotive Inc USA
GKN do Brasil Ltda Brazil
Transejes Transmisiones Homocinéticas de 
Colombia SA (49%) Colombia
Velcon SA de CV (49%) Mexico
Asia Pacific
GKN Asia Pacific Operations Pte Ltd Singapore
Unidrive Pty Ltd (60%) Australia
Shanghai GKN Drive Shaft Company Ltd (40%) China
Jilin GKN Norinco Drive Shaft Company Ltd (50%) China
GKN Driveshafts (India) Ltd (96.4%) India
GKN Japan Driveshafts Ltd Japan
GKN Toyoda Driveshafts Ltd (49%) Japan
GKN Driveshafts (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd (68.42%) Malaysia
Univel Transmissions (Pty) Ltd (50%) South Africa
GKN Driveshafts Korea Ltd South Korea
Taiway Ltd (36.25%) Taiwan
GKN Driveshafts (Thailand) Co Ltd Thailand
Torque management systems
GKN Viscodrive GmbH Germany
Viscodrive Japan KK (67.3%) Japan
Tochigi Fuji Sangyo KK (33.3%) Japan
Aftermarket operations
Companies in Europe
Other companies
Product and process development centres in Germany, USA and Japan
GKN Japan Ltd Japan
Export and representation companies in Europe and USA
Powder Metallurgy
Hoeganaes
Hoeganaes Corporation USA
Ancorsteel Powders GmbH Germany
Sinter Metals
GKN Sinter Metals Ltd
GKN Sinter Metals Inc USA
GKN Sinter Metals-St Thomas Ltd Canada
Premco Machine Ltd Canada
GKN Sinter Metals de Argentina SA Argentina
GKN Sinter Metals Ltda Brazil
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH Germany
GKN Sinter Metals Service GmbH Germany
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH-Bad Brückenau, 
Bad Langensalza, Bonn and Oberhausen Germany
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH & Co KG Radevormwald Germany
GKN Sinter Metals Filters GmbH Radevormwald Germany
GKN Sinter Metals SpA Italy
GKN Sinter Metals AB, Kolsva Sweden
GKN Sinter Metals Cape Town (Pty) Ltd South Africa
GKN Sinter Metals Ltd India
OffHighway Systems
GKN OffHighway Systems Ltd
GKN Wheels Nagbøl A/S Denmark
GKN Armstrong Wheels Inc USA
GKN FAD SpA Italy
GKN Geplasmetal SA Spain
GKN Walterscheid GmbH Germany
GKN Walterscheid Getriebe GmbH Germany
GKN Walterscheid Inc USA
GKN Walterscheid Canada Inc Canada
Matsui-Walterscheid Ltd (40%) Japan
Walterscheid Rohrverbindungstechnik GmbH Germany
90 GKN plc 2002
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 AutoComponents
GKN AutoStructures Ltd
GKN Thompson Chassis Ltd
Chassis Systems Ltd (50%)
GKN Sheepbridge Stokes Ltd
Catalytic Converters
Emitec Gesellschaft für Emissionstechnologie mbH (50%) Germany
Emitec Produktion GmbH (50%) Germany
Emitec Inc (50%) USA
Aerospace
GKN Aerospace Services
GKN Aerospace Services Ltd 
Aerospace Composite Technologies Ltd
GKN Aerospace GmbH Germany
ASTECH Engineered Products Inc USA
GKN Aerospace Chem-tronics Inc USA
GKN Aerospace North America Inc USA
GKN Westland Inc USA
GKN Westland Aerospace Inc USA
GKN CEDU Ltd
GKN Aerospace Engineering Services Pty Ltd Australia
AgustaWestland
AgustaWestland NV (50%) Netherlands
and operations in UK and Italy
Other companies
Aerosystems International Ltd (50%)
Alvis plc (29.4%)
Corporate
GKN Holdings plc
GKN (United Kingdom) plc
GKN Industries Ltd
Ipsley Insurance Ltd Isle of Man
GKN Netherlands BV Netherlands
GKN America Corp USA
91 GKN plc 2002
The issued share capitals of the 136
companies which at 31 December 2002
comprised the GKN Group are held
indirectly by GKN plc through intermediate
holding companies which are registered 
or incorporated in England, Netherlands,
USA and Germany. Certain intermediate
holding companies do not prepare
consolidated accounts.
The percentage of the share capital held
by GKN is indicated where companies are
not wholly-owned.
The country of incorporation or registration
and the principal country in which each
company operates is England unless
otherwise shown.
Of the group subsidiary sales of
£3,305 million, 95% related to
subsidiaries whose accounts are 
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ,
auditors of the parent company. We have audited the accounts which comprise the profit and loss
account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement
of total recognised gains and losses, the Company’s balance sheet,
the segmental analysis and the related notes. We have also audited
the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies
Act 1985 contained in the report on Directors’ remuneration (the
‘auditable part’).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the
report on Directors’ remuneration and the accounts in accordance
with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are
set out in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities on page 77. 
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable part
of the report on Directors’ remuneration in accordance with relevant
legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing
Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the Listing
Rules of the Financial Services Authority. This report, including the
opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members
as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985
and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, accept
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person
to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true
and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable part of the
report on Directors’ remuneration have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, 
in our opinion, the Directors’ report is not consistent with the accounts,
if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have
not received all the information and explanations we require for our
audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding
Directors’ remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information comprises only the Directors’ report, the
unaudited part of the report on Directors’ remuneration, the Chairman’s
statement, the Chief Executive’s review, the review of operations, 
the financial review and the corporate governance statement. 
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the
Company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if
it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover allrisks and controls, or to form
an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance
procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the accounts and the auditable part of the report
on Directors’ remuneration. It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the
preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the accounts and the auditable part of the report
on Directors’ remuneration are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation
of information in the accounts.
Opinion
In our opinion:
> the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and the Group at 31 December 2002 and of the profit and
cash flows of the Group for the year then ended;
> the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985; and
> those parts of the report on Directors’ remuneration required by
Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
In addition, we have reviewed, without performing an audit, the 
pro forma comparative financial information which comprises the
consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet, summarised
consolidated cash flow statement and related notes for the year
ended 31 December 2001 on pages 40 to 45 which have been
prepared to illustrate the results and state of affairs of the Group
following the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses. This
pro forma comparative financial information is the responsibility
of, and has been approved by, the Directors. In our opinion the pro
forma comparative financial information has been properly compiled
on the basis set out in the notes to that information.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Birmingham
28 February 2003
Notes:
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, 
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may
have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented 
on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in 
other jurisdictions.
92 GKN plc 2002
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC GKN website and share price information
Business and financial information on GKN, including this annual
report, the latest interim report and share price information updated
every 20 minutes, is available on GKN’s website at www.gknplc.com.
The latest GKN share price is also available on the Financial Times
Cityline Service: telephone 0906 843 2696 (BT) or 0906 003 2696
(Vodafone). Calls are charged at 60p per minute. 
Shareholding enquiries
Queries on shareholdings should be addressed to GKN’s Registrar,
Lloyds TSB Registrars (see page 95 for contact details). Shareholders
can view information on their shareholdings and recent dividends
and find practical help (including downloadable documents) on
transferring shares, receiving shareholder documents electronically
and updating their personal details by viewing the Lloyds TSB
Registrar’s website at www.shareview.co.uk. 
Demerger and corporate restructuring
In August 2001, the Industrial Services businesses of GKN plc were
demerged into a separate listed company, Brambles Industries plc,
and shareholders in GKN plc at the demerger record date received
shares in Brambles Industries plc. Brambles Industries plc entered
into a dual listed companies structure with Brambles Industries
Limited of Australia and, at the demerger date, GKN plc shareholders
collectively held a 43% economic and voting interest in the
combined Brambles group. Accordingly, the market price of GKN plc
shares reduced to reflect the value of the businesses demerged into
the Brambles group.
Electronic communications
Shareholders can elect to receive certain shareholder documents
(including annual and interim reports and notices of shareholder
meetings) electronically via the GKN plc website rather than by post.
If shareholders elect for the electronic option, they will receive a
notification by e-mail each time a document is published advising
them that it is available for viewing on GKN’s website. The e-mail
will contain a link to the relevant page on the website, providing
shareholders with easy access to the document which can then be
read or printed. By electing for this electronic option, shareholders
will receive shareholder documents more speedily, avoid the
possibility of delays in the postal system, save postage costs and
help conserve natural resources. Please visit the GKN or Lloyds TSB
Registrars websites (see page 95). When registering for this service,
shareholders will need to provide their 8-digit shareholder reference
number which can be found on GKN plc share certificates.
Financial calendar
Preliminary announcement of results for 2002 3 March 2003
Ordinary Shares quoted ex-dividend 12 March 2003
2002 final dividend record date 14 March 2003
Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms
(see below) 1 May 2003
Annual General Meeting 15 May 2003
2002 final dividend on Ordinary Shares payable 16 May 2003
DRIP share certificates and share purchase 
statements despatched 29 May 2003
CREST participant accounts credited with 
DRIP shares 30 May 2003
Announcement of half-year results for 2003 August 2003
2003 interim dividend on Ordinary Shares
payable September 2003
Preliminary announcement of results for 2003 February 2004
Dividend reinvestment plan
Under the dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP), shareholders can
mandate to reinvest cash dividends paid on their Ordinary Shares
in further GKN plc Ordinary Shares. Shareholders who would like to
receive details of the DRIP should contact the Share Dividend Team
at Lloyds TSB Registrars (see page 95). New DRIP mandates and any
withdrawals of existing mandates must be received by Lloyds TSB
Registrars by 1 May 2003 to be valid for the 2002 final dividend.
Other key dates are given in the financial calendar above.
GKN single company ISA
Lloyds TSB Registrars operate a Single Company Individual Savings
Account (ISA) in which GKN plc Ordinary Shares can be held in a tax
efficient manner. Full details and an application form can be obtained
by calling the Lloyds TSB Registrars’ ISA Helpline on 0870 24 24 244
or visit the shareview website (see page 95). Investors should note
that the value of any tax benefit will vary according to individual
circumstances and the tax rules relating to ISAs may change in the
future. If you are in any doubt you should seek professional advice.
93 GKN plc 2002
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Taxation
Guides to the general tax position of United Kingdom shareholders
under the return of capital to OrdinaryShareholders by way of a bonus
issue of redeemable ‘B’ Shares in May 2000 and under the Industrial
Services businesses demerger arrangements in August 2001 were
given in the circulars to shareholders dated 20 April 2000 and 22 June
2001 respectively, copies of which are available on request from
GKN’s Corporate Centre (see page 95).
Market values of GKN Ordinary Shares, ‘B’ Shares and Brambles
Industries plc (‘Brambles’) Ordinary Shares for Capital Gains Tax
(CGT) purposes are as follows:
First day of trading market values
(a)
GKN Brambles
Ordinary Shares ‘B’ Shares Ordinary Shares
30 May 2000
(b)
914.5p 11.7p –
(98.736774%) (1.263226%)
7 August 2001
(c)
282.5p – 360.375p
(43.943224%) (56.056776%)
1965/1982 market values
GKN GKN GKN
Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary
Shares Shares Shares
unadjusted for adjusted foradjusted for Brambles
‘B’ Shares or ‘B’ Shares but ‘B’ Shares and Ordinary
demerger
(d)
not demerger
(e)
demerger
(e)
‘B’ Shares
(e)
Shares
(e)
6 April 1965 116.175p 114.707p 50.406p 1.468p 64.301p
31 March 1982 104.870p 103.545p 45.501p 1.325p 58.044p
GKN American Depositary Receipts
GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt (ADR)
programme for which The Bank of New York acts as Depositary. Each
ADR represents one GKN plc Ordinary Share. The ADRs trade in the
US over-the-counter (OTC) market under the symbol GKNLY. When
dividends are paid to shareholders, the Depositary converts such
dividends into US dollars, net of fees and expenses, and distributes
the net amount to ADR holders. For enquiries, The Bank of New York
can be contacted on +1-908-769-9835 or +1-888-BNY-ADRS (toll-free
for US residents only) or via their website at www.adrbny.com.
Postal share dealing service
A postal service for buying and selling GKN plc Ordinary Shares
is provided by Cazenove & Co. Ltd. Dealing forms and terms and
conditions are available from GKN’s Corporate Centre (see page 95).
Unsolicited mail
GKN is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available
and as a consequence some shareholders may have received
unsolicited mail. If you wish to limit the amount of such mail
you should contact the Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 22,
London W1E 7EZ (telephone 020 7291 3310 or visit their website 
at www.mpsonline.org.uk).
Shareholder analysis
Holdings of Ordinary Shares at 31 December 2002:
Shareholders Shares
Number
Number % (million) %
Holdings
1–500 13,110 33.0 3.3 0.5
501–1,000 8,935 22.5 6.7 0.9
1,001–5,000 14,805 37.2 32.6 4.4
5,001–50,000 2,257 5.7 26.2 3.6
50,001–100,000 179 0.4 12.9 1.8
100,001–500,000 295 0.7 70.1 9.6
500,001–1,000,000 76 0.2 55.9 7.6
above 1,000,000 117 0.3 525.2 71.6
39,774 100 732.9 100
Shareholder type
Individuals 30,283 76.2 44.8 6.1
Institutions 7,119 17.9 676.1 92.2
Other corporates 2,372 5.9 12.0 1.7
39,774 100 732.9 100
94 GKN plc 2002
(a) The stated market values are used to
allocate the base cost of GKN Ordinary
Shares, on the basis of the relative
percentages specified, between GKN
Ordinary Shares and ‘B’ Shares and
between GKN Ordinary Shares and
Brambles Ordinary Shares in calculating
any CGT liability. Worked examples are 
set out on pages 14 and 43 respectively
of the circulars dated 20 April 2000 and 
22 June 2001.
(b) Being the first day of trading of the 
‘B’ Shares.
(c) Being the first day of trading of the
Brambles Ordinary Shares.
(d) Adjusted for subsequent rights and
capitalisation issues (prior to the issue 
of ‘B’ Shares on 30 May 2000) and the 
two for one GKN Ordinary Share split in
May 1998.
(e) If the GKN Ordinary Shares in respect
of which the ‘B’ Shares/Brambles Ordinary
Shares were issued were held by you on
6 April 1965 or 31 March 1982, you will
be deemed to have also held the ‘B’
Shares/Brambles Ordinary Shares on 
such date. In such cases, the 1965/1982
market values (adjusted as described in
note (d)) are apportioned between GKN
Ordinary Shares and ‘B’ Shares and, if you
also received Brambles Ordinary Shares,
between GKN Ordinary Shares and
Brambles Ordinary Shares using the
relative percentages specified above in
respect of the first day of trading market
values. The apportioned market values
are shown in the table.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Corporate Centre
PO Box 55
Ipsley House
Ipsley Church Lane
Redditch
Worcestershire B98 0TL
Tel +44 (0)1527 517715
Fax +44 (0)1527 517700
London Office
7 Cleveland Row
London SW1A 1DB
Tel +44 (0)20 7930 2424
Fax +44 (0)20 7930 3255
e-mail: information@gknplc.com
Website: www.gknplc.com
Registered in England No. 4191106
Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Tel0870 600 3962
(+44 121 433 8000 from outside UK)
Fax0870 600 3980
(+44 1903 854031 from outside UK)
Websites: www.lloydstsb-registrars.co.uk
www.shareview.co.uk
This annual report is available on the GKN website.
95 GKN plc 2002
CONTACT DETAILS Accounting policies 36, 51-53
Accounting standards 7, 36, 39, 51
Acquisitions 11, 23, 25, 67-68
Aerospace 3, 10-11, 24-25, 37, 91
Aerospace Services 3, 10, 11, 24-25, 35, 91
AgustaWestland 3, 10-11, 24, 25, 72, 91
American depositary receipts 94
Annual general meeting 76, 78-79
Auditors
– independence 80
– reappointment 77
– remuneration 54, 77
– report 92
AutoComponents 2, 10, 23, 35, 91
Automotive 2, 9-10, 22-23, 37
Balance sheets 41, 47, 73
Board and committees 34, 78
Capital expenditure 37, 71
Cash flow
– statutory 5, 9, 37, 49-50
– with pro forma comparatives 42
Chairman’s statement 6-7
Chief Executive’s review 9-11
Commitments and contingent liabilities 71
Community involvement 27, 30
Corporate governance 7, 27, 78-80
Corporate profile 1-3
Creditors 61, 62, 77
Debtors 61
Demerger of Industrial Services 6, 36, 55, 93
Directors
– biographies 34
– changes to the Board 6-7, 76
– interests 87-89
– remuneration 81-89
– report 76-77
– responsibility for the accounts 77
– service agreements 84
Dividend 5, 6, 37, 57, 76
– reinvestment plan 93
Donations 30, 76
Driveline 2, 9-10, 11, 22-23, 35, 90
Earnings per share 5, 37, 45, 57
Emitec 2, 23, 91
Employees 11, 26, 28, 30, 58
Environment 7, 32-33
Ethical standards 28
Exceptional items 37, 44, 55
Financial
– calendar 93
– five-year record 5, 75
– highlights 5, 9, 22, 24
– instruments 38-39, 51, 63-64
– review 36-39
Foreign currencies 38-39, 51, 63
Going concern 39
Goodwill 37, 39, 52, 58
Health and safety 7, 31-32
Interest payable (net) 37, 56
Internal control 79-80
Investments 60
ISA 93
Joint venture companies 90-91
Life President 7, 76
Long-term incentive plans 82-83, 88
Management team 35
Mission statement 1
OffHighway Systems 2, 10, 23, 35, 90
Operating profit 5, 9, 37, 54
Pensions/post-retirement benefits 7, 39, 53, 68-71, 83, 88
Policies
– competition 28
– data protection 28
– employee disclosure 28
– employment 28
– ethical standards 28
Powder metallurgy 2, 10, 23, 35, 90
Profit and loss accounts
– statutory 46
– with pro forma comparatives 40
Provisions for liabilities and charges 65
Recognised gains and losses 48
Related party transactions 71
Remuneration report 81-89
Reserves 67
Risk management 27, 38-39, 79-80
Sales 5, 9, 22, 23, 24, 25, 36-37,53
Segmental analysis
– statutory 74
– with pro forma comparatives 5, 43
Shareholder analysis 94
Shareholders’ equity 39, 48
Share option schemes 39, 66, 83, 87
Shares
– dealing service 94
– issued capital 66, 76
– price information 93
Social responsibility review 7, 26-33
Stakeholders 27-28
Stocks 60
Subsidiary companies 90-91
Tangible assets 59
Taxation 37, 53, 56-57, 61, 94
Training and development 28, 30
Treasury management 38
Website 93, 95
96 GKN plc 2002
SUBJECT INDEX Designed and produced by CGI BrandSense.
Photography – India: Atul Loke/Network Photographers. California: David Butow/
Corbis/Network Photographers. N. Carolina: Charles Harris/Corbis/Network
Photographers. Germany: Florian Wagner/Agentur Focus/Network Photographers.
Australia: Michael Amendolia/Network Photographers Sydney. Japan: Tom Wagner/
Corbis/Network Photographers. Yeovil: Homer Sykes/Network Photographers.
Printed by royle corporate print on Galerie Art Silk which is an elemental chlorine-free
paper derived from fully sustainable forest sources and holds the Nordic Swan
environmental label. GKN 
www.gknplc.com
