 ANNUAL REPORT 2003
WORLD-CLASS
TECHNOLOGY
FROM A TRULY
GLOBAL COMPANY CONTENTS
2 Business at a glance
4 Highlights
6 Chairman’s statement
8 Chief Executive’s review
12 Technology profiles:
Torque management
Aerospace composites
16 Board of Directors
18 Operating and 
financial review
32 Social responsibility review
42 Financial statements
72 Directors’ report
74 Corporate governance
80 Report on Directors’ 
remuneration
90 Principal subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and
associated companies
92 Auditors’ report
93 Shareholder information
95 Contact details
96 Subject index
Front cover images from GKN’s four major businesses.
Left to right:
Detail of a constant velocity jointed sideshaft produced by GKN Driveline.
Section of a light alloy jet engine casing produced by GKN Aerospace Services.
Components produced by GKN Sinter Metals.
Sensor systems on a Lynx helicopter produced by AgustaWestland. 1 GKN plc 2003
Technology and engineering from GKN is at the heart of the vehicles and
aircraft from the world’s leading automotive and aerospace manufacturers. 
48,000 people work in GKN companies and joint ventures in more than 
30 countries. 
Every day we harness our considerable technology and manufacturing
resources to supply the highest quality systems, structures, components
and services. 
When we fulfil the trust our customersplace in us we can enrich our
shareholders, reward our people and support our communities. 
And because we respect the environment and the dignity and human 
rights of others we are building a business which can be sustained by
future generations. 
Everyone involved with a great company should expect nothing less. 
But those with a stake in the performance of GKN should expect more.
21st century global leadership in our four major businesses, when our
history spans more than 240 years, speaks for standards of adaptability,
innovation and excellence which are difficult to surpass.
Expect more from GKN.
In 2003 GKN achieved sales of £4.6 billion and profit* of £246 million.
*Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 2 GKN plc 2003 GKN AUTOMOTIVE AT A GLANCE
GKN is one of very few truly global suppliers of automotive components and systems. More than 50 GKN engineering and manufacturing
facilities in Japan, Asia Pacific, India, South Africa, Europe and the Americas support all of the world’s leading manufacturers of cars, light
trucks and off-highway vehicles. 
GKN Driveline is the world’s No. 1 supplier of constant velocity jointed sideshafts (CVJs). This business has achieved substantial growth in
recent years and will continue to take advantage of growth in emerging markets and higher CVJ content on four wheel drive and all wheel
drive vehicles. These account for approximately 25% of all the light vehicles produced in North America. 
A further area of growth is driveline-related torque systems products. GKN Driveline has moved decisively to build on its knowledge and
product base by further developing its presence within the market for advanced torque management devices and systems which enhance
vehicles’ traction, stability and safety. 
GKN is the No. 1 supplier of powder metal parts and is the No. 1 producer of metal powder in the US. GKN’s capability in the technology
and production of powder metal parts and their raw material is unique among major companies. 
GKN is a major European and North American supplier of components and systems for agricultural and off-highway equipment. It is also a
leading supplier of automotive structural presswork and cylinder liners for automotive, industrial and marine applications. Emitec, a 50:50
joint venture with Siemens of Germany, is the world leader in metallic substrates for catalytic converters. 
Automotive
Powder metal
components
Components produced by
GKN Sinter Metals can be up to
30% cheaper than components
produced by conventional
casting or forging. Improvements
in density and surface finishing
will continue to expand the global
market for these components.
Metal powder
GKN is a world leader in 
Powder Metallurgy. Metal
powder, produced by GKN
company Hoeganaes in the 
US and in Europe, is the raw
material used by GKN Sinter
Metals to create a wide range 
of components primarily for
automotive customers.
Electronic Torque
Manager 
GKN Driveline’s most advanced
product which uses software,
electronics and electro-mechanical
devices to manage torque flow
proactively within a vehicle’s
driveline system.
Power Take Off (PTO)
shaft
GKN OffHighway Systems is the
world leader in the engineering
and manufacture of PTOs which
use power from an agricultural
vehicle such as a tractor to
power ancillary equipment.
Super LSD
Torque sensing device – one of
the products which are part of
GKN’s development of a torque
systems business.
CVJ
GKN has a 42% global market
share for CVJ sideshafts –
components fitted to 85% 
of light vehicles. 3 GKN plc 2003 GKN AEROSPACE AT A GLANCE
GKN has a significant presence in the world of aerospace. Approximately 80% of its overall aerospace revenuesare derived from the 
defence sector and this focus on defence is a significant strength, particularly at a time when there is a downturn in civil aerospace but
growth in military aerospace. 
Today, GKN operates as an international first tier supplier through GKN Aerospace and as a helicopter prime contractor through AgustaWestland. 
GKN Aerospace, which has engineering and manufacturing operations in Australia, Germany, the UK, US and Mexico, is the world’s No. 1
independent supplier of advanced composite structures. It is also a leading international supplier of high-performance alloy structures. 
Its customers include prime contractors such as Airbus, Boeing and Lockheed Martin and jet engine manufacturers such as Rolls-Royce 
and Pratt & Whitney. 
GKN supplies structures for US military aircraft such as the F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F/A-22 Raptor, C-17 Globemaster 111 and F-35 JSF.
Within the civil sector GKN is a supplier on all Airbus programmes including the A318/319/320 and 321 single aisle family, the A340
500/600 long-range aircraft and the A380.
AgustaWestland, a 50:50 joint venture with Finmeccanica of Italy, has one of the broadest and most balanced military and civil product
portfolios in the industry. It is a 32% partner in the European NH90 helicopter programme and has teamed with Lockheed Martin and Bell
to address a number of major US military programmes for medium-lift helicopters. 
Aerospace
Composite structure
Manufactured from uni-
directional carbon fibre tape,
this blade-stiffened, integrally
moulded structure is used on
the flap skin of the Airbus A340
long-range aircraft.
Aluminium component
High-speed machining, centred at GKN Aerospace’s St Louis plant in the 
US, is capable of high repeatability production of complex components
in a range of materials at competitive cost. Pictured here is a section of
a structural component for the F/A-22 fighter.
A320 acoustic panel
GKN Aerospace possesses a unique capability to produce complex-shaped
panels based on welded titanium and alloy steel honeycomb. One of the
primary uses of these panels is to suppress jet engine noise levels.
Helicopters
The Lynx helicopter produced
by AgustaWestland is one of
the world’s most successful
maritime rotorcraft with more
than 400 in service worldwide.
Pictured is the radar and opto-
electronic sensor system on 
a Royal Navy Mk8 Lynx.
The EH101 medium-lift
helicopter is the flagship of
AgustaWestland and the most
modern aircraft of its type.
Pictured here is a detail of the
tailrotor assembly on the EH101.
The Lynx and EH101 exemplify
AgustaWestland’s capability as
a prime contractor and systems
integrator.
Jet engine casing
GKN Aerospace Services is
a world leader in the use of
chemical milling. This is a section
of an integrally stiffened titanium
engine casing. Chemical milling
provides lower weight and 
cost compared to traditional
fabrication methods. 4 GKN plc 2003 HIGHLIGHTS
2003: WINNING NEW BUSINESS – SHAPING UP FOR THE FUTURE
Sales up 3% despite weaknesses in most major markets
Strong growth in automotive emerging markets
Results impacted by £17 million increase in UK pension deficit charges
Underlying profit before taxbroadly level excluding pension deficit cost
£41 million reduction in net borrowings
Dividend increase 2.7% to 11.6p per share
Substantial new business wins across the Group
Driveline – 29 new programmes
Aerospace – US$2 billion future business potential
Powder Metallurgy – US$150 million of new business
Strategic initiatives launched to provide future benefits of £60 million 
a year by 2007 5 GKN plc 2003
Increase/
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2003 2002 (decrease)
Sales £4,585m £4,452m 3%
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation 
and impairment and exceptional items £246m £267m (8%)
Profit before tax £173m £180m (4%)
Net borrowings £793m £834m n/a
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation 
and impairment and exceptional items 22.8p 25.2p (10%)
Earnings per share 13.8p 13.7p 1%
Dividend per share 11.6p 11.3p 2.7%
The measure of ‘profit before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items’ is shown in the above table and elsewhere in this report in order to show clearly the
underlying trend in earnings.
SALES £m
1,502
1,451
1,493
1,439
1,549
99
00
01
02
2,683
2,844
2,950
3,036 03
2,394
Automotive Aerospace
OPERATING PROFIT £m
before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items
120
116
119
138
130
99
00
01
02
308
187
201 (6)
195 (23) 03
273
Automotive Aerospace UK pension deficit charge
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2001-2003 £m
01
173
180
107
-200 -100 0 100 200 300 400
02
03
Operating profit before interest UK pension deficit charge
Goodwill amortisation Goodwill impairment
Exceptional profits/(losses) Interest 6 GKN plc 2003 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Results
The year 2003 was not an easy one for the Group with declines
in our major automotive markets exacerbated by continuous
downward pressure on prices and weaker demand in civil aerospace.
Nevertheless the results for 2003 were at the top end of market
expectations and thanks are due to all our people in GKN
responsible for this performance.
Pre-tax profits for the year before goodwill amortisation and
impairment and exceptional items were £246 million (2002 – 
£267 million) and earnings per share were 22.8p (2002 – 25.2p).
Cash inflow from operating activities was £287 million (2002 –
£361 million) and net debt at £793 million was £41 million lower than
at the end of 2002. Interest cover was 5.4 times (2002 – 6.6 times).
Dividend
Subject to prevailing economic conditions the Board is committed 
to a progressive dividend policy. The Board therefore recommends
that a final dividend of 7.8p should be paid on 21 May 2004 bringing 
the total for the year to 11.6p (2002 – 11.3p). The dividend of 11.6p
is covered 2.0 times by earnings before goodwill amortisation and
impairment and exceptional items (2002 – 2.2 times).
Post-retirement benefits
Last year we reported that the UK pension scheme, which has
60,000 members with 90% no longer in service, had a gross deficit
of £551 million. This figure was based on FRS 17, the accounting
standard that was then due to come into force on 1 January 2005. 
At the end of 2003, on the same basis the gross deficit was similar
at £549 million.
The Board fully recognises its responsibilities to pension scheme
members irrespective of whether they are current or former employees.
It therefore accepts that the substantial costs involved in funding
the UK pension fund deficit have to be charged against profits. 
The figures below set out the impact on pre-tax profits before
goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items
for the last three years.
Pre-tax profits
Pre-taxprofits UKpension before UK
as defined fund deficit pension fund 
above charge deficit charge
£m £m £m
2001 (pro forma) 245 – 245
2002 267 6 273
2003 246 23 269
In 2004 the UK pension fund deficit charge is expected to be
£39 million.
Social responsibility
We firmly believe that a positive attitude to social responsibility
is a sine qua non of a successful company. Reference has already
been made to our attitude to post-retirement benefits but the 
quest for continuous improvement in the management of health,
safety and environmental issues is an important goal for the Board
which regularly reviews performance. Pages 38 to 41 of this annual
report set out our achievements in the last year and they make
encouraging reading. Our two main measures of safety, namely the
accident frequency rate and the accident severity rate, show 2003 to
be the best ever year for the Group with a significant improvement
over 2002. Our environmental performance in 2003 also shows
an improvement with waste generation and both energy and water
consumption in relation to sales all lower than a year ago. Further
progress was made in terms of ISO 14001 accreditation which 
hasnow been achieved in 59 plants compared with 50 in 2002.
The Board
The last 12 months has seen a number of actual and prospective
changes to the Board. More than two years ago we announced that
Iwould be stepping down as Chairman at the AGM in May 2004 
and a year ago under the leadership of Sarah Hogg we set in train 
a rigorous process to select my successor in which external advisers
played a part. Roy Brown was duly selected and an announcement
to that effect was made in November of last year. Roy joined the
Board in 1996 as a non-executive Director and has accumulated
considerable experience of GKN. The Board has made a wise 
choice and on a personal basis I wish Roy every success.
On 1 December 2003 Sarah Hogg, who also joined the Board in
1996, was appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent
Director. Sarah brings extensive expertise to this role. She has given
me, as Chairman, considerable support and will undoubtedly do the
same for my successor. 
Sir Christopher Meyer and Helmut Mamsch both joined the Board 
as non-executive Directors in 2003 and their different international
experience will add value in our boardroom. Christopher was the
British Ambassador in Washington from 1997 until 2003 and prior
to that from 1994 to 1996 he was Chief Press Secretary to the 
Prime Minister. He is very well acquainted with both the British 
and American political and business scene. Helmut was formerly a
Management Board member of VEBA AG (now E.ON AG). He serves
as a Supervisory Board member and a non-executive Director on a
number of other German and UK company Boards. 
GKN’s strategy, which is focused on technology, 
our global customers and tight cash management,
will continue to serve us well. 7 GKN plc 2003
Klaus Murmann retires as a non-executive Director at the AGM in
May. Klaus joined the Board in 1995 and has brought to it a wealth
of international business knowledge. He has given generously of
his time for which his colleaguesare most appreciative.
Corporate governance
A year ago the report by Sir Derek Higgs on the role and effectiveness
of non-executive Directors had been published but the Combined
Code on Corporate Governance had not then been revised. When
the revised Combined Code finally emerged it reflected some of
the main representations made by GKN and other companies
and although the revised Code only comes into effect for UK listed
companies for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November
2003 (2004 in the case of GKN) we are substantially compliant
with its requirements. Pages 74 to 79 of this report address the
positioning of GKN with regard to the new Combined Code. 
It is worth commenting that five years ago three pages in the 
annual report were devoted to corporate governance. In this report,
and in smaller print, six pages are devoted to the subject. Does this
suggest in any way that standards of corporate governance in GKN
are twice as high now as they were then? Emphatically the answer 
is no. The Board of GKN has maintained high standards of corporate
governance for a long time and quantity of information should not
be confused with quality of execution. Of course if shareholders
require increasing amounts of information on corporate governance
it is incumbent upon the Board to provide it but at a time when
regulation has become a growth industry of its own it is perhaps
worth reflecting on two points neither of which is new. Firstly, that
the provision of more and more information almost certainly incurs
actual and opportunity costs for both the provider and the recipient.
It can therefore only be justified if it creates real value. Secondly,
strong adherence to the spirit of corporate governance is infinitely
more important than apparent compliance with its law.
The future
Twenty years ago, in 1984, the FTSE 100 Index was launched at
which point the industrial manufacturing sector accounted for 28 of
the 100 constituent companies. Today there are only 41 companies
who are still in the FTSE 100 Index who were part of the original 100
of which only six are in the industrial manufacturing sector. GKN is
one of them.
So how has GKN managed to keep its place in the premier league?
The answer almost certainly lies in the successful pursuit of a strategy
that places at its leading edge the importance of managing within
the core competences of its executive team, the development of
technology, the establishment of a focused global company serving
global customers and the tight management of cash. That strategy
has served us well for many years and will continue to do so.
Sixteen annual reports ago I ended my first Chairman’s statement
with a paragraph which said: “Looking further ahead, we have 
a clear strategy in place, a management team well capable of
executing it, and an international spread of manufacturing and
service businesses that give us a sound base for further growth.”
That paragraph is equally appropriate as an ending to my last
Chairman’s statement for I am as optimistic today about the future
prospects for GKN as I was then.
Sir David Lees
27 February 2004 GKN’s results in 2003, delivered in some difficult markets, 
confirm our long-standing reputation for consistently high levels
of operational and financial management as well as our success in
building strong positions in automotive and aerospace markets.
Our principal challenge in 2003 was declining light vehicle production
in North America, Western Europe and Japan and depressed conditions
in civil aerospace.
However, we were able to take full advantage of the growth in automotive
output in emerging markets and the continued strength of military
aerospace programmes. Our Driveline business and AgustaWestland
both delivered strong performances at the top end of our expectations.
We have also been successful in winning substantial new business
from our global customer base and there was strong order intake
across the entire Group. In Automotive, Driveline won more than 
70% of all available new constant velocity joint (CVJ) programmes,
Sinter Metals won US$150 million of new orders and in Aerospace
our technologyhas won us positions on all the important new aircraft
under development in Europe and the US.
Underlying profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items, was down on last year. The 8% reduction was
largely caused by increased UK pension deficit charges of £17 million,
without which we would have been close to last year.
GKN’s recognition of its pension fund obligations saw the Group
contribute £44 million of cash in 2003 towards the deficit alone. 
In spite of that our cash performance was encouraging. Despite
increased pension contributions we have reduced net debt for the
second successive year.
Developments in 2003
GKN Driveline has positioned itself to take advantage of the growth
in emerging markets. Through a strategic programme of investment
and partnership it has established market positions in Asia Pacific
and Latin America which are considerably in excess of its 42% global
market share in CVJ products.
Our long-term presence in China and India – where vehicle output
grew by 37% and 26% respectively in 2003 – has allowed us to take
full advantage of the economic expansion in these markets.
Meanwhile GKN Aerospace Services, through a series of targeted
outsourcing agreements and acquisitions, has grown to become a
keysupplier of aircraft structures and components to virtually all of
the USA’s frontline military aircraft.
There were a number of significant developments in 2003:
> following the acquisition of Pilkington Aerospace, GKN Aerospace
Services became the world’s No. 1 supplier of transparencies to
the military market and No. 2 supplier to the civil market;
> the Japan Defence Agency selected the AgustaWestland EH101 for
an initial requirement for 14 aircraft. This is a major breakthrough
into a market dominated for more than 40 years by US aircraft;
> GKN Driveline completed two new joint ventures in Thailand with
Toyoda Machine Works (TMW) of Japan to supply driveshafts for 
a new vehicle to be produced by Toyota in the region. GKN has
well-established relationships with TMW and Toyota;
> Hoeganaes, GKN’s metal powder production business, established
its first full manufacturing base in Europe when it acquired Ductil
Iron Powder of Romania; and
> GKN completed the sale of its 29% stake in Alvis plc to BAE Systems
for £73 million in cash. This transaction, which marked GKN’s exit
from the armoured vehicle business waswell received by investors.
Accelerating the development of technology
The leadership team which is now taking GKN forward believes in the
strategic potential of our technology. During 2003 a team of senior
engineering executives from across the Group identified product and
process technologies which have the greatest potential to expand
our available markets. 
This accelerated development of our technology is focused primarily
on the performance and packaging of torque systems and geared
components, the achievement of significantly higher levels of density
and surface finishing on a wider range of powder metal parts and
the application of highly automated processes to the production of
composite aircraft structures. On pages 12 to 15 we look in some
detail at how technology is shaping the future of our Automotive
and Aerospace activities.
Other measures of performance
Ultimately our performance is judged on financial and commercial
criteria and our ability to deliver value to our shareholders. But there
are other measures which we also value. 
The well-being and safety at work of GKN people is of paramount
concern. Safety is measured on the basis of accident frequency,
accident severity and serious injuries incurred. During the last five
years all three measures have reduced by between one third and
8 GKN plc 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
We have been successful in winning new business
from our global customer base and there was strong
order intake across the entire Group. 9 GKN plc 2003
one half. GKN’s performance compares well with industry averages
in the UK, Germany and the US but our ultimate goal is to create a
working environment with zero preventable accidents. On pages 38
and 39 we look in more detail at our performance in this critical area.
During the last 12 months many of our businesses have again received
a number of awards from customersfor our performance in areas
such as quality, delivery, service and technology demonstrating
GKN’s ranking as a world-class supplier. During 2003 GKN Driveline
received its second Global Contribution Award from Toyota – the
only non-Japanese supplier to have ever done so. DaimlerChrysler
selected GKN Driveline and GKN Sinter Metals to jointly share its
Global Power Train Supplier Award and GKN Driveline received a
global award from General Motors for continuous improvement.
There were also further awards from Mazda, Honda and Nissan.
Throughout the year thousands of GKN people once more gave freely
of their time to support their local communities and we take pride in
personal thanks from individuals and in more formal civic recognition
of our contribution. 
GKN people have always been conscious that they are expected not
only to deliver short-term performance but to build a business which
can be sustained by future generations. We see no conflict between
our commercial imperatives and our wider social responsibilities
about which we explain more on pages 32 to 41.
During 2003 I visited 38 GKN plants and locations in the Americas,
Europe and Asia Pacific. Without exception I found a tremendous
sense of pride and belief in GKN and a deep-seated optimism that
whatever the difficulties we face in our markets this Group has the
strength to overcome any challenge. The GKN leadership team places
enormous value on the spirit of our people and the contribution which
they can make to the future success and prosperity of the Group. 
We readily acknowledge our gratitude to them.
Kevin Smith
Chief Executive 10 GKN plc 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Automotive
Global light vehicle production is expected to grow at slightly above
its historical rate over the next five years. We expect production to
increase at a compound annual rate of about 3.3% between 2003
and 2008. Over that period, the largest economies of Western Europe,
North America and Japan will account for a relatively small proportion
of that growth in light vehicle production. Most of the growth will
come from the developing economiesof South America, Eastern
Europe and Asia Pacific.
GKN Driveline is well positioned to serve its customers in these 
fast-growing regions. The division has long-standing and strong
relationships with all the key Japanese vehicle manufacturers,
relationships which began through support of Japanese transplant
operations in North America and Western Europe and have now been
extended to include operations in Japan itself. In 2003, Driveline’s
share of the Japanese market for CVJs reached 17.5% – up sharply
from only 3.3% five years ago.
GKN Driveline is operating in a global market which is becoming
increasingly competitive and subject to pricing pressure as vehicle
manufacturers (VMs) look to suppliers to reduce prices while
improving technology, service and quality. While the number and
variety of cars offered for sale has increased, the consolidation of
VMshas created larger and more effective purchasing groups which
leverage their scale and scope. We estimate that the top six VM
groups now account for more than 75% of global vehicle production.
The issues which we face in Powder Metallurgy are more challenging
in the short term. 
Hoeganaes continues to perform well and in 2003, as referred to
earlier, acquired a powder production plant in Romania – its first
production facility in Europe. This will enhance our competitive
position in Europe and broaden our international production base. 
In Europe GKN Sinter Metals has a track record of good performance
and continued new programme wins will sustain future growth. 
In 2003 the restructuring of our UK Sinter Metals operations was
completed and work began on a new central European research 
and technology centre which is due for completion in 2004.
In the US GKN Sinter Metals has a high exposure to the North American
automotive market which saw vehicle output fall by 3.5% in 2003.
The impact of this market weakness was exacerbated for GKN 
Sinter Metals by a combined 6% decline in output by its three
largest customers.
Recovery actions in the US enabled us to win new programmes for
2006 and beyond with an annual sales value of US$80 million. The
business has been able to improve operating efficiency but more
remains to be done and the market weakness we encountered has
impaired our ability to deliver an improved financial performance.
We continue to be confident that the powder metallurgy sector offers
significant opportunities for growth as VMscapitalise on the lower
cost production processes for sintered components to substitute
them for cast or forged components and as our technology creates
new market opportunities for sintered components. 
Our smaller automotive businesses faced mixed conditions.
OffHighway Systems saw sales fall but by less than the overall
decline in the agricultural and construction equipment market. 
This continues to be a robust business which has proved its ability
time and again to weather difficult market conditions. In the UK
our AutoStructures business successfully completed pre-production
work on the chassis for a new Land Rover model. Emitec continued
to grow in Europe but this was offset by reduced sales in the US.
Aerospace
Within the aerospace sector GKN operates as an international first
tier supplier through its wholly-owned business GKN Aerospace
Services and as a prime contractor and systems integrator through
AgustaWestland, a 50:50 joint venture with Finmeccanica of Italy. 
Defence contracts account for approximately 80% of our overall
Aerospace revenues. This is not only a particular advantage at
a time when the civil aircraft market is in the grip of a protracted
downturn but also offers long-term advantages. Military procurement
programmes are not closely linked to the cyclicality of the civil
economy and offer predictable, long-term revenue streams. Military
work on current US programmes isworth an estimated US$6 billion
to GKN Aerospace Services. AgustaWestland, at the end of 2003,
had a £4.4 billion forward order book following a £1.2 billion order
intake during the year from its worldwide customers.
Our successful management of the outsourcing by Boeing Integrated
Defense Systems (IDS) of its military aircraft structures business in
St Louis, Missouri was enhanced by applying our previous experience
within GKN Driveline. As a result of our performance, Boeing IDS
awarded GKN life-of-programme contracts on the F-15, F/A-18 and
C-17 worth more than US$850 million.
AgustaWestland continued to perform strongly in 2003 making a
substantial contribution to our results. At the heart of AgustaWestland
is the EH101, the most modern medium-lift helicopter in the world.
It is this aircraft which has taken us into the Japanese defence
market following the selection of 14 EH101 aircraft by the Japan
Defence Agency and there is the potential for further orders. This
is a significant breakthrough for Japan had previously acquired 
its major front line helicopters from the US. Other countries in Asia
Pacific could well be influenced by Japan’s selection of the EH101.
In the US there is an opportunity for a US variant of the EH101,
spread across five programmes, for a total of 360 new helicopters.
AgustaWestland has teamed with Lockheed Martin as US prime
contractor and Bell Helicopters as the US air vehicle manufacturer.
AgustaWestland’s performance to date has met all our expectations
and it has the scale of operations and the product range to compete
very effectively in all its markets.
Shaping up for the future – a new direction for Driveline
GKN Driveline has been a consistently high-performing business.
During 2003 and early 2004, we undertook a full review of our
current Driveline manufacturing and business footprint to assess
its future suitability for our key global markets. As a result of
this strategic review we have now decided to embark on a 11 GKN plc 2003
programme of reorganisation which we are confident will provide a
platform to significantly improve the quality of earnings in our core
Driveline business and position us well to serve the future needs
of our customers.
Our major markets of Western Europe and North America have
provided little overall market growth in recent years with intense
competition amongst manufacturers putting increased pressure 
on pricing and productivity. In contrast, the emerging markets in
South America, Asia and Eastern Europe are providing strong growth 
in automotive production and we have continued to successfully
build our presence in all three regions, which also offer potential
to provide much lower cost sources of supply.
To take advantage of this opportunity we have developed a global
manufacturing strategy for our CVJ business which today represents
75% of our Driveline sales. Over the next three years we will migrate
about 20% of our global production from high cost to low cost
economies so that by 2007 over 50% of our CVJ manufacture will
be sourced from low cost locations. This will require a significant
realignment of our manufacturing network.
Detailed plans are being prepared to deploy this strategy and will
be announced in due course. We expect that the exceptional cash
costs of restructuring in Driveline will average around £35 million
per year over the next three years, with additional non-cash costs
being likely in 2004. Total exceptional costs, which should not
exceed £150 million, will be finalised as the detailed plans are
approved. Any additional capital expenditure required should not
increase the Group’s overall level of expenditure above the normal
level of 110-120% of depreciation. 
Although there will be little benefit from this strategy in 2004, by
2007 we estimate full year profit benefits from completion of this
exceptional restructuring to be in the region of £40 million a year.
Supporting US Sinter Metals’ recovery, realigning our cost base
Although our success in winning new orders in US Sinter Metals
should lead to a resumption of growth in 2006, this recovery is
at an early stage. We intend to support recovery and underpin its
base by further reducing costs and focusing activities on our areas
of technological advantage. Additional restructuring is therefore
expected in 2004. Detailed plans are being developed and will
be announced in due course. 
In addition, across the Group as a whole we intend to realign
overhead expenditure to better reflect the future shape of our
business and reduce costs.
The cash costs of restructuring US Sinter Metals and realigning 
our cost base across the Group are expected to total some 
£30-£40 million, falling largely in the next 12 months. The impact
of these actions on the carrying value of related assets will be
revisited as the detailed plans are developed. 
In summary, by investing in reshaping Driveline, by supporting 
US Sinter Metals’ recovery and by realigning our cost base, we 
will build a stronger business in a world which still offers excellent
opportunities for growth. The measures outlined above will leave
GKN well positioned to take full advantage of these opportunities. 
In total we estimate the exceptional cash cost of restructuring over
the next three years to be some £140 million, with some £90 million
likely to be charged to operating profit in 2004, together with any
non-cash write-offs required as the detailed plans are developed.
Our initial scenario planning indicates that such charges might be 
in the region of £60-£80 million, broadly shared equally between
the two projects. The cash flow impact in 2004 should be some 
£50 million. Benefits in 2004 will be small, but will rise incrementally
to an estimated £60 million a year by 2007 giving an overall cash
payback of just over three years. The maximum cumulative cash
outlay is likely to peak at around £80 million in 2005, well within
the funding capacity of the Group.
Outlook
In contrast to the declines of recent years there is now a more
positive outlook for our major markets. Automotive production 
is forecast to increase slightly in North America whilst in Europe
volumes are expected to be level or marginally ahead of 2003.
Continuing strong demand is expected in most of Asia Pacific. 
In aerospace, military demand looks set to remain strong with 
civil demand at its cyclical low. 
However, competitive pressures in all our markets are expected 
to remain intense, exacerbated by increasing pressure from rising
world raw material prices. The Group’s global footprint means
that the proportion of sales exported from one currency region 
to another is relatively small but the fall in the US dollar will affect
approximately £150 million of exports from Europe to the US as the
hedging cover now in place is at lower average rates than in 2003. 
Against that background, the Group expects to make further
improvements in its underlying operational performance although 
the overall result will be impacted by the charge relating to UK
pension deficit costs increasing from £23 million to £40 million, 
as previously indicated. 
Looking further ahead, GKN will continue to focus on its core strengths:
technology, exceptional customer service and performance and, with
the benefits of the strategic initiatives outlined above, the Group
will continue to move forward with confidence.
Kevin Smith 
27 February 2004 12 GKN plc 2003 AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY PROFILE
GKN Driveline is one of the world’s premier, first tier automotive
suppliers. 
It is also the undisputed world leader in the technology and
manufacture of constant velocity jointed (CVJ) sideshafts which 
are used on 85% of all of the cars and light vehicles produced 
in the world.
CVJ sideshafts transmit torque – rotational power – from the
powertrain to the driven wheels in front wheel drive (FWD) 
vehicles, rear wheel drive (RWD) vehicles with independent
rear suspension and many four wheel drive (4WD) vehicles. 
CVJs are critical to the performance and refinement of these 
vehicles as they ensure the even flow of power to the wheels.
Two years ago GKN decided to create another premier position
within the global automotive industry. In doing so it is building 
on market leadership, close relationships with all of the world’s
leading vehicle manufacturers (VMs) and a deep understanding 
of the science and engineering of driveline systems.
GKN Driveline established a Torque Systems Group (TSG) in 
2002 with the objective of becoming the world leader in non-CVJ
driveline products by the end of this decade. These products include
propeller shafts, geared components (transfer cases, power transfer
units and final drive units) and torque management devices.
Today, the TSG represents annual turnover of more than £300 million,
including wholly-owned businesses and a 33% interest in Tochigi Fuji
Sangyo (TFS) of Japan. Customers include BMW, DaimlerChrysler,
Ford, General Motors, Honda, Jaguar, Land Rover, Mitsubishi, Nissan,
Porsche, Subaru, Toyota and Volkswagen. GKN Driveline’s goal is
for TSG to achieve sales of £800 million per annum by 2008.
GKN Driveline believes that demand for high-performance vehicle
drivelines will continue to grow, driven by the continued popularity
of sports utility vehicles and ‘crossover’ vehicles that combine the
functionality of 4WD with the refinement and feel of conventional
passenger cars. 
GKN offers the widest range of driveline products of any supplier
and is well positioned to capitalise on the demand for capable,
lightweight drivelines that not only react to changing road conditions
but contribute proactively to vehicle stability and performance.
The TSG comprises three product areas:
Premium propshafts GKN’s high-performance longitudinal shafts
can be of complex metallic or composite construction utilising a
number of CVJs and other couplings. Their primary applications
are in RWD and 4WD vehicles.
Geared driveline components These complex units include power
transfer units, transfer cases and final drive units.
TECHNOLOGY IN ACTION AT GKN:
AUTOMOTIVE TORQUE MANAGEMENT 13 GKN plc 2003
A power transfer unit (PTU) is used most commonly to convert
a FWD platform to 4WD. The PTU takes power from the transaxle 
unit through a 90 degree angle to a propeller shaft connected to 
the rear axle.
A transfer case is typically used in vehicles with a longitudinally
mounted engine at the front and enables power to be transferred
through a 180 degree angle to the driven front axle.
A final drive unit (FDU) is used in RWD and 4WD vehicles with
independent suspension. Like a PTU, the FDU transfers power
through a 90 degree angle from a longitudinal propeller shaft
to the transverse sideshafts.
Torque management devices (TMDs) These devices manage the flow
of torque. They range from mechanical limited-slip devices to
complex electronically-controlled clutches. They can be incorporated
into geared components or installed as stand-alone units.
GKN Driveline has a complete range of TMDs and is the world leader
in viscous couplings. GKN’s most advanced product is the Electronic
Torque Manager, which uses a combination of software, electronics
and electro-mechanical devices to manage torque flow proactively
according to a vehicle’s control strategy.
Two other automotive trends also favour GKN’s strategic ambitions
to develop and grow in torque systems.
RWD vehicles, which account for approximately 20% of vehicle
production, are increasingly using independent rear suspension
which requires the installation of an FDU and two CVJ sideshafts.
Within the FWD segment, which accounts for more than 60% of
vehicle production, modern engines are now capable of power
outputs which exceed the practical limit for conventional FWD
systems. Vehicle designers will increasingly turn to TMDs such as
those produced and under development by GKN to ensure higher
levels of stability and control for these more powerful vehicles.
Unlike the global market for CVJs within which there are a handful
of major players, the torque systems market is fragmented and few
suppliers can claim to operate on a global basis. The combination 
of GKN and TFS is potentially very powerful not only through GKN’s
global presence but because no other single competitor operates
across the same wide range of devices and technologies.
Photograph: High end variants of the VW Touareg utilise GKN’s Electronic Torque Manager. TECHNOLOGY IN ACTION AT GKN:
HIGH-PERFORMANCE AEROSPACE
COMPOSITES
14 GKN plc 2003 AEROSPACE TECHNOLOGY PROFILE
GKN is the world’s leading independent supplier of composite
structures to the world’s aircraft and aero engine manufacturers.
A composite material is produced by fusing or bringing together
different elements and materials the individual characteristics
of which combine to produce an outstanding combination of
properties. 
Modern composites enable today’s aerospace engineers to produce
lightweight and stiff structures with often complex shapes which 
will make a major contribution to the efficiency of commercial and
military aircraft now under development. 
The origins of GKN’s involvement with composites can be traced 
to the late 19th century when aviation pioneer Sam Saunders,
based on the Isle of Wight in the UK, created a lightweight laminate
which he used on seaplanes. Hiscompany evolved to produce
rocket-propelled fighters, satellite launch rockets, hovercraft and
helicopters and in 1994 became part of GKN.
The business has expanded from its Isle of Wight origins and GKN
now supplies customers from plants in the UK, Germany and the US. 
GKN’s aerospace engineering teams are focused on the
development of high-performance composite materials and the
processes used in their manufacture. Today’s composite structures
are produced from carbon fibre, fibreglass, Kevlar and high-tech
resins. GKN’s products include engine nacelles, wing structures,
flight control surfaces and fuselage sub-assemblies.
There has been rapid growth in the application of composites to
aircraft structures during the last 20 years. 
Composite content on civil and military aircraft in the 1980s was
no more than 3% by weight. It is estimated that the Airbus A380 
will be 25% composite and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter will have 
a composite content of 45%. 
For civil aircraft, composites offer the opportunity for higher
efficiencies through their low weight and high strength. The same
properties allow military aircraft designers to achieve higher thrust-
to-weight ratios for enhanced combat performance.
This increase in the importance of composites has driven an
increased application of technology to enhance the performance 
of the material and to improve the quality and efficiency of the
manufacturing process. 
Following three years of intensive development in liaison with
customers, GKN is at the forefront of two new processes – 
Resin Film Infusion and Resin Transfer Moulding.
Resin Film Infusion (RFI) This process has been developed at GKN’s
Cowes facility on the Isle of Wight in collaboration with Airbus, and 15 GKN plc 2003
the A380 is the first full-scale production application of RFI. 
It is a process suited to civil aircraft because of its ability to 
deliver large, lightweight, high-quality structures at lower cost
than previous processes.
The introduction and certification of RFI could lead to far-reaching
future developments. The conventional use of autoclaves – large,
high-temperature ovens – to bond carbon filaments and epoxy resins
within a mould has limited the cycle time of the production process
as well as the size of one-piece structures which can be produced.
RFI is undertaken at low pressures and does not require an autoclave.
Current work by GKN indicates that automation could be applied to
the previously labour-intensive process of laying up the carbon fibre
and applying the epoxy resins by hand. 
Future developments aim to create an automated system in which
layers of fibre and low density epoxy film are brought together and
the required temperatures are applied in situ dispensing with the
need for expensive and energy hungry autoclaves. The RFI system
promises to be highly flexible and could produce a range of
structures of potentially unlimited size.
Resin Transfer Moulding (RTM) Military aircraft are the principal
target market for RTM although certain high-volume commercial
applications are also attractive. RTM does not deliver the same 
cost benefits as RFI but produces high-strength, complex shapes
to very precise tolerances which can operate in the highly-stressed
environment of a combat aircraft’s airframe or engine.
Carbon fibres are formed into a dry approximate shape of the 
final component to be produced. The material is placed in a metal
mould and epoxy resin injected. The mould is then subjected to a
combination of high pressure and high temperature which produces
a finished, net shape component. 
GKN’s RTM processes are concentrated in St Louis in the US and 
are used on the F/A-22 and F-35 fighters. On the F-35’s engine,
GKN’s RTM process has allowed one-piece composite structures
to replace complex metal fabrications for the first time.
Significant advances are also being made in metallics. New
processes promise to radically reduce the cost of titanium, new
fabrication technologies for high-speed cold spray of powder metals
promise the ability to create parts which would be impossible to
produce by machining, and developments within GKN are bringing
metal matrix materials close to the market.
Photograph: The Airbus A380 is the launch platform for new composite processes
developed by GKN. 16 GKN plc 2003 BOARD OF DIRECTORS
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
01 Sir David Lees (Age 67) [B, E]
Chairman. Joined GKN in 1970 as an accountant becoming Group
Finance Director in 1982. Appointed Group Managing Director in
1987 and Chairman and Chief Executive in 1988 before becoming
Chairman only in 1997. Member of the National Defence Industries
Council and the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers. Chairman of
Tate & Lyle plc, non-executive joint Deputy Chairman of Brambles
Industries plc and Brambles Industries Limited (Australia) and 
non-executive Director of Royal Opera House, Covent Garden Ltd.
Former Chairman of Courtaulds plc and former Member of Court
of the Bank of England. Fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales.
Sir David Lees retires from the Board following the Annual General
Meeting on 20 May 2004.
02 Baroness Hogg (Age 57) [B, C, D, E]
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director. Joined the 
Board as a non-executive Director in 1996 and appointed Deputy
Chairman and Senior Independent Director on 1 December 2003.
Chairman of 3i Group plc and Frontier Economics Ltd, and 
non-executive Director of Carnival plc and Carnival Corporation
(Panama). Former Head of the Prime Minister’s Policy Unit. Degree
(MA) in Politics, Philosophy and Economicsfrom Oxford University.
03 Kevin Smith, CBE (Age 49) [A, B, E]
Chief Executive. Joined GKN in 1999 as Managing Director Aerospace
and appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2003. Chairman of
AgustaWestland. Prior to GKN, held various positions in BAE
Systems over a 20 year period latterly as Group Managing Director –
New Business. Director of The Society of Motor Manufacturers and
Traders Ltd and Council member of The Society of British Aerospace
Companies Ltd. Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society. Degree
(BA) in Business Studies from the University of Central Lancashire.
04 Roy Brown (Age 57) [B, C, D, E]
Non-executive Director. Appointed in 1996. Non-executive 
Chairman of Thus plc, non-executive Deputy Chairman of HMV
Group plc and non-executive Director of Brambles Industries plc,
Brambles Industries Limited (Australia), The British United 
Provident Association Ltd (BUPA) and the Franchise Board of
Lloyd’s of London. Former executive Director of Unilever plc
and Unilever NV. Fellow of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers
and Fellow of the Institution of Electrical Engineers. Degree (BSc) 
in Mechanical Engineering from University College London and 
MBA from Harvard University. 
RoyBrown will succeed Sir David Lees as Chairman following the
Annual General Meeting on 20 May 2004.
05 Richard Clowes (Age 53) [A]
Managing Director Powder Metallurgy, OffHighway and
AutoComponents. Joined GKN in 1991 and appointed Chief
Executive OffHighway Systems and AutoComponents in 1993.
Appointed to the Board in 2001. Prior to GKN, held various positions
with TI Group plc. Chartered Engineer and Member of the Institution
of Mechanical Engineers. Degree (BSc) in Mechanical Engineering
from Birmingham University.
06 Dick Etches (Age 58) [A]
Human Resources Director. Joined GKN in 1997. Formerly Senior
Vice President Human Resources of Grand Metropolitan plc’s food
sector in the US. Degrees in Psychology (BSc) from Edinburgh
University and Management Studies (MSc) from Durham University. 
07 Sir Ian Gibson, CBE (Age 57) [B, C, D, E]
Non-executive Director. Appointed in 2002. Member of Court of
the Bank of England, non-executive Deputy Chairman of BPB plc,
and non-executive Director of Northern Rock plc and Chelys Ltd.
Former President of Nissan Europe and corporate officer of Nissan
Motor Co Ltd (Japan) and former Deputy Chairman of ASDA 
Group plc. Fellow of the Institute of Physics. Degree (BSc) in 
Applied Physics from Manchester University.
08 Ian Griffiths (Age 53) [A]
Managing Director GKN Driveline. Joined GKN in 1975. Appointed
Chief Executive GKN Driveline in 2000 and to the Board in 2001.
Responsible for the Group’s worldwide operations manufacturing
driveline components and systems. Has been a member of the
senior driveline management team since 1990 during which 
time has been responsible for operations in the US and for 
global marketing and engineering. Non-executive Director of
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc. Degree (BSc) in Mechanical, 
Electrical and Production Engineering from Coventry University. 17 GKN plc 2003
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
09 Neal Keating (Age 48) [A]
Managing Director Aerospace Services. Joined GKN in 2002 
on appointment to the Board and became Managing Director
Aerospace Services on 1 January 2003. Prior to GKN, was Executive
Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Commercial Aerospace
Systems of Rockwell Collins in the US. Spent 24 years with Rockwell
International, latterly as Vice President and General Manager, 
Air Transport Systems and Vice President and General Manager,
Passenger Systems. Degree (BS) in Electrical Engineering from
University of Illinois and MBA from University of Chicago.
10 Helmut Mamsch (Age 59) [B, C, D, E]
Non-executive Director. Appointed 1 December 2003. Non-executive
Deputy Chairman of LogicaCMG plc and non-executive Director 
of RMC Group plc and Sappi Limited (South Africa). Member of
Supervisory Board of K&S Aktiëngesellschaft and Readymix AG.
Formerly Management Board member of VEBA AG (now E.ON AG).
Degree in Economics.
11 Sir Christopher Meyer, KCMG (Age 60) [B, C, D, E]
Non-executive Director. Appointed 1 August 2003. Chairman of
the Press Complaints Commission and non-executive Director of
The Sanctuary Group plc and Riggs Bank Europe Ltd. Former British
Ambassador to the United States and Germany, and also served 
in the British Diplomatic Service in Russia, Spain and the UK
representative office to the European Community, Brussels. Former
Prime Minister’s Chief Press Secretary. Degree (MA) in History from
Cambridge University. 
12 Dr Klaus Murmann (Age 72) [B, D, E]
Non-executive Director. Appointed in 1995. Chairman of Sauer-
Danfoss Inc, formed following the merger of Sauer-Sundstrand
Group with Danfoss Fluid Power. Founded Sauer Getriebe AG in
1969 and, following a merger with Sundstrand in 1987, developed 
it into the leading global supplier of hydrostatic transmissions.
Chairman of Gothaer Versicherungsbank and non-executive 
Director of Bankgesellschaft Berlin AG. Degree (BA) in Political
Science and Dr. Juris.
Dr Murmann retires from the Board following the Annual General
Meeting on 20 May 2004.
13 Nigel Stein (Age 48) [A]
Finance Director. Joined GKN in 1994 and appointed to the 
Board as Finance Director in 2001. Has held a range of commercial,
general management and finance roles within the Group, most
recently Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer 
of GKN Sinter Metals. Prior to GKN, had extensive experience in 
the commercial vehicle and manufacturing sector. Non-executive
Director of Wolseley plc. Member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Scotland. Degree (BSc) in Engineering Science 
from Edinburgh University.
14 Sir Peter Williams (Age 58) [B, C, D, E]
Non-executive Director. Appointed in 2001. Chairman of the
Engineering and Technology Board and the Japan Business
Network of Trade Partners UK. Formerly Master of St Catherine’s
College Oxford, prior to which Chairman and previously Chief
Executive of Oxford Instruments plc. Non-executive Chairman 
of NPL Management Ltd and non-executive Director of Advent
VCT plc and Advent 2 VCT plc. Fellow of the Royal Society and 
of the Royal Academy of Engineering, and Past President of the
British Association for the Advancement of Science. Degree (MA) 
in Natural Sciences and PhD from Cambridge University. 
15 Grey Denham (Age 55)
Company Secretary. Joined GKN in 1980 and was head of the 
Group Legal function for nine years before being appointed
Company Secretary in 1996. Holds various positions on Industry
and City bodies and currently Chairman of the Primary Markets
Group of the London Stock Exchange. Member of the Business
Leadership Council of Young Enterprise. Law Degree (LLB) from
London University and a barrister.
A Member of Executive Committee
B Member of Chairman’s Committee
CMember of Audit Committee
D Member of Remuneration Committee
EMember of Nominations Committee
The Company Secretary is secretary to these Board Committees. 
The responsibilities of the Committees are described on pages 76 and 77. 18 GKN plc 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
GROUP ACTIVITIES
GKN is a global engineering business serving the automotive and
aerospace markets. 
Automotive activities comprise GKN Driveline, Powder Metallurgy,
and OffHighway and AutoComponents.
Aerospace activities comprise Aerospace Services and
AgustaWestland, a 50% joint venture with Finmeccanica SpA.
These activities are discussed in more detail on pages 8 to 15 and 
22 to 27.
STRATEGY
GKN is committed to providing long-term shareholder value 
by supplying outstanding products and services to our global
automotive and aerospace customersto produce growth in sales
and sustained profitability. This will be achieved largely through 
a combination of organic development of our businesses and
selective acquisitions which add to our technological capabilities
or geographical presence or are in support of customer outsourcing
programmes. More detail on the development of this strategy in
2003 is contained in the Chief Executive’s review.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
In this review and elsewhere in the annual report, in addition to the
statutory measures of earnings, we have included references to profit
before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items
since we believe this shows most clearly the trend in performance.
In the segmental analysis the cost of the UK pension deficit, which is
material and cannot readily be attributed to the current Automotive
or Aerospace businesses, is shown separately. The segmental
analysis of operating profit for 2002 has been restated accordingly.
Group performance
Sales
Totalsales, including our share of joint ventures and associates, were
£4,585 million compared with £4,452 million in 2002, an increase of
£133 million (3.0%). Excluding the translational impact of currency,
acquisitions and divestments, underlying sales were 1.1% above
last year.
Automotive sales of £3,036 million were £86 million (2.9%) above
lastyear with an underlying increase of 0.6%. As described on page
22, 2003 was a year of weaker market conditions in both Europe
and North America which were compensated to some extent by
rapid growth in emerging markets, particularly China.
Aerospace sales of £1,549 million were £47 million (3.1%) 
higher than 2002. Excluding the translational impact of currency,
acquisitions and the share of Alvis plc which was sold in the year,
sales were broadly level with increases in military being offset by
further reductions in civil demand.
Operating profit (before goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items)
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items of £302 million was £13 million (4.1%) lower than
2002. The translational impact of currency was £12 million positive
but this was almost entirely offset by £11 million negative impact
from transactional effects. Net acquisitions and divestments
contributed £3 million. Total operating profit was also impacted by
an increase of £17 million in the charge for the UK pension deficit. 
Automotive operating profit decreased by £6 million (3.0%) to 
£195 million. Excluding translational currency effects, acquisitions
and divestments the decrease was £18 million (8.5%).
Aerospace profits improved from £120 million to £130 million.
However, the 2002 figure for Aerospace was after charging an
£11 million share of redundancy and reorganisation costs in
AgustaWestland. Adjusting for this, translational currency impacts,
and acquisitions and divestments, underlying profit reduced by
£4 million (3.0%).
As noted above, the charge to operating profit in respect of the UK
pension scheme deficit rose to £23 million from £6 million in 2002.
Goodwill amortisation and impairment
Amortisation of goodwill was £37 million (2002 – £37 million). 
An impairment charge of £91 million (2002 – £11 million) has
also been recognised in the year. Most of this (£83 million) arose 
as a consequence of continued disappointing performance in the
US powder metal business with £8 million in Aerospace Services
following the normal annual review of asset carrying values.
Statutory operating profit
Operating profit after goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items was £174 million (2002 – £230 million), 
a 24.3% decrease. There were no exceptional items charged to
operating profit in the year (2002 – £37 million). 
Exceptional items
Exceptional profits arising on the sale or closure of businesses
totalled £55 million (2002 loss – £2 million). This mainly related to
profit on the disposal of the Group’s 29% shareholding in Alvis plc
for a cash consideration of £73 million.
Interest
Net interest payable by subsidiaries was £56 million (2002 –
£47 million). This planned increase was due to a combination 
of higher rates arising from the Group’s issue of bonds in 2002
(which lengthened the debt maturity profile) and lower levels of
balance sheet currency hedging.
Interest costs were covered 5.4 times (2002 – 6.6 times) by
operating profit before goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items.
Profit before tax
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and impairment and
exceptional items was £246 million compared with £267 million 
in 2002, a decrease of 7.9%.
Statutory profit before tax was £173 million. This compared with 
the 2002 figure of £180 million.
Taxation
Taxation decreased to £70 million from £77 million in 2002. 
The underlying rate of tax expressed as a percentage of profit
before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional 19 GKN plc 2003
items for the year was 31.3% compared with a 2002 figure of
30.0%, the increase being largely attributable to a reduction in
credits arising from the settlement of prior year tax liabilities.
The underlying rate in 2004 and beyond is still expected to show 
a modest, progressive increase as a result of future changes in the
geographical mix of profits. There may, however, be some favourable
impact from the satisfactory resolution of outstanding tax issues.
The tax credit on exceptional items and goodwill impairment was
£7 million (2002 tax credit – £3 million).
The effective tax rate based on profits after goodwill amortisation
and impairment and exceptional items was 40.5% (2002 – 42.8%).
Earnings
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items were 22.8p compared with 25.2p in 2002, 
a reduction of 9.5% (after these items the figure was 13.8p, little
changed from the 2002 figure of 13.7p).
Dividend
As noted in the Chairman’s statement on page 6, a final dividend 
of 7.8p per share is proposed. Together with the interim dividend 
of 3.8p the total dividend for the year will be 11.6p, an increase of
2.7% over the equivalent figure for last year. The total dividend is
covered 2.0 times by earnings before goodwill amortisation and
impairment and exceptional items (2002 – 2.2 times). 
Cash flow
Operating cash flow, which GKN definesascash inflow from operating
activities (£287 million) adjusted for capital expenditure (£162 million)
and proceeds from the disposal of fixed assets (£13 million), was
again strong and this year’s figure of £138 million compared with
£168 million in 2002.
Continuing tight management control led to a sound working capital
performance and lower capital expenditure. Before the cash outflow
in respect of prior year exceptional charges (£13 million), the increase
in UK pension prepayment (£21 million) and one-off payments in
respect of overseas pension obligations (£13 million) there was a
cash outflow from working capital and post-retirement provisions of
£19 million. After these items there was an outflow of £66 million.
Capital expenditure was £162 million (2002 – £213 million) and
represented 89% of depreciation (2002 – 120%). This was somewhat
lower than expected as certain large items of expenditure anticipated
in 2003 will now take place in 2004. Looking forward, it is expected
that the normal level of capital expenditure to depreciation will be
closer to 110-120%.
Interest paid was £70 million compared with £56 million in 2002 since
interest on the bonds issued during that year was not paid until 2003. 
Dividends from joint ventures and associates were £68 million
(2002 – £45 million) with the major receipt being from AgustaWestland
which has a policy of 100% distribution of earnings unless
otherwise agreed by the shareholders. The dividend received from
AgustaWestland in 2003 was somewhat higher than its normalised
distribution, reflecting its strong profit and cash performance.
Taxpaid totalled £63 million compared with £38 million in 2002
and reflected the settlement of prior years’ tax issues. The figure 
for 2004 is expected to be somewhat lower.
The net impact of acquisitions and divestments was an inflow of
£29 million (2002 outflow – £75 million) leaving a net cash inflow
for the year, before dividend payments, of £118 million (2002 – 
£66 million). The major transactions in the year were the sale of
our 29% stake in Alvis plc for £73 million and the acquisition of
Pilkington’s aerospace transparency business for £36 million in cash
(in addition there were borrowings on acquisition of £6 million).
Net borrowings
At the end of the year the Group had net borrowings of £793 million
(2002 – £834 million). These included the benefit of customer
advances of £48 million (2002 – £42 million), which are shown in
short-term creditors in the balance sheet. There were no net borrowings
in joint ventures, which held net cash balances at 31 December 2003.
The reduction in net debt seen in the year was encouraging, reflecting
the continued focus on cash management throughout the Group.
Goodwill
At the year-end the balance sheet showed goodwill of £340 million
(2002 – £470 million) in relation to subsidiaries and a further 
£114 million (2002 – £114 million) within the equity value of
joint ventures and associates. The significant decrease in value 
of goodwill in subsidiaries reflects the £91 million impairment
charge noted earlier.
Shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity was £926 million at the end of the year
compared with £950 million at the end of 2002. Retained profits
were £16 million which were more than offset by £41 million
adverse impact of currency.
Left
GKN Driveline’s modern production
facility at Rayong in Thailand. Thailand
has become an important centre of
light vehicle production in the Asia
Pacific region. During 2003 GKN and
Toyoda Machine Works (TMW) of Japan
established two joint ventures based in
Thailand to supply driveline components
for a new Toyota light vehicle platform. 20 GKN plc 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Above
The assembly shop in GKN
Driveline’s plant in Rayong,
Thailand. Operators Khun Prakob
(left) and Khun Tanawut verifying
and packing a driveshaft for a
General Motors vehicle produced
in the Asia Pacific region.
AUTOMOTIVE
Sales 2003 £m By origin By market
Europe 1,646 1,500
Americas 933 996
Rest of the World 457 540
Total 3,036 3,036 21 GKN plc 2003
Left
GKN Driveline’s new precision
forming plant in Rayong,
Thailand opened in 2003.
Operators Khun Jittipong and
Khun Jaran with Mark Tristram,
production manager, checking 
a fixed outer race (part of
a CVJ sideshaft) for a new 
Toyota multi-purpose vehicle
produced locally.
Left
Assistant head of the design
department at GKN Sinter
Metals’ Radevormwald plant
in Germany, Andreas Knecht,
measures a first prototype 
of a synchroniser ring for a
vehicle transmission system.
The tools to produce the ring
were designed in-house. 22 GKN plc 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE
Automotive
By comparison with 2002, car and light vehicle production 
declined in both North America and Western Europe by 3.2% 
and 0.7% respectively. This was partially offset by growth in the
emerging markets of Asia Pacific where production rose by some
19% to 7.9 million units. Notwithstanding these difficult markets
and pricing pressure which remained intense, sales revenue of
£3,036 million was £86 million higher than 2002. The favourable
translational impact of currency was £19 million and the full year
impact of 2002 acquisitions added £58 million. The impact of
divestments was small at £10 million so that on a like-for-like 
basis sales were 0.6% higher than in 2002.
Operating profit was £195 million, £6 million (3.0%) below 2002.
The translational impact of currency was £11 million favourable
while net acquisitions and divestments added £1 million. Excluding
these factors profits fell by £18 million (8.5%) but it should be noted
that this result reflects the transactional impact of currency which,
by comparison with 2002, reduced profit by some £7 million. Some
impact was seen from increased raw material costs, particularly
steel, on which we spend some £500 million per annum, but since
these largely occurred late in the year their effect on 2003 was small.
GKN Driveline
Products and markets
GKN Driveline specialises in the manufacture of components for
light vehicle drivelines (defined as the components that transfer
torque between a vehicle’s transmission and its driven wheels).
These components include geared components (transfer cases,
power transfer units and final drive units), torque management
devices and driveshafts (propshafts for longitudinal power
transmission and sideshafts for lateral transmission).
GKN Driveline is the global leader in the production of constant
velocity jointed (CVJ) products for use in light vehicle drivelines. 
The majority of CVJs are used in sideshafts for front wheel drive, 
rear wheel drive and four wheel drive vehicles; CVJ sideshafts
are required for every driven axle with independent suspension.
Some but not all longitudinal propshafts are also fitted with CVJs.
In 2003, based on internal estimates, GKN Driveline companies
produced in excess of 42% of CVJs for the global light vehicle market.
The market share of the next largest producer was approximately
17%. Nearly 24% of CVJs are produced by vehicle manufacturers
(VMs) for their own use through ‘in-house’ operations. GKN Driveline
manufactures CVJs and related products in 37 plants in 21 countries
across all of the vehicle producing regions of the world and has
enjoyed considerable success in the developing markets, with
market shares of some 80% in South America and 55% in the 
Asia Pacific region excluding Japan and South Korea.
GKN Driveline is also a global leader in the market for torque
management devices (TMDs) and premium propshafts. TMDs are
mechanical or electro-mechanical devices that improve vehicle
performance and handling by controlling the flow of torque to the
driven wheels based on road conditions, vehicle situation and
driver intent. GKN offers a wide range of TMD solutions as both
stand-alone and integrated devices to VMs and to certain Tier 
One suppliers. In 2002, GKN acquired a 33% stake in Tochigi Fuji
Sangyo (TFS), a Japanese manufacturer of TMDs and other driveline
components. We estimate that in 2003 GKN and TFS together
supplied approximately 18% of TMDsfor light vehicle applications
on a global basis. GKN Driveline is also one of the largest suppliers
of premium propshafts, which we define as those propshafts with
sophisticated joints, materials or other features. We estimate that
in 2003 premium propshafts represented approximately 32% of
global light vehicle propshaft demand, or some 9 million propshaft
assemblies. GKN Driveline’s share of this segment was in the region
of 17%.
Sales by GKN Driveline of geared components are currently not
significant but we are involved in many active development projects
on future vehicle programmes. We expect above market growth 
in power transfer units and final drive units as VMs continue to
introduce new ‘crossover’ vehicles that combine four wheel drive
with car-like dynamics and comfort. GKN Driveline also operates an
aftermarket business, primarily in Europe, that serves distributors
and service outlets with a range of new and remanufactured
driveline and other components.
The GKN Driveline business is managed globally to ensure effective
use of resources and capital. Customers are served by global
account teams that are structured to reflect customer organisations,
and all manufacturing and sourcing decisions are reviewed from the
perspective of global capacity and strategy.
2003 highlights
Sales in 2003 were £1,938 million (2002 – £1,826 million).
The full year impact of our 33% shareholding in TFS, which was
acquired in 2002, accounted for £50 million of the increase, the effect
of translational currency was £25 million favourable whilst the net
impact of other acquisitions and divestments was £7 million negative,
leaving the underlying increase at £44 million (2.4%). This overall
increase was encouraging as it was achieved in the face of lower
vehicle production and significant pricing pressure in major markets.
The pricing environment continued to be difficult. Productivity
improvements offset some of the price reductions but margins were
also adversely affected by higher steel prices and industrial action
by the German metal workers’ union in Mosel. Overall, therefore,
there was a slight reduction in operating margins from 2002. 
As part of the global strategy noted above, in August the division
entered into two joint ventures with Toyoda Machine Works in
Thailand which will manufacture and supply driveshafts for a 
new vehicle for Toyota, beginning production in August 2004. 
In December 2003 we agreed, subject to regulatory approval, 
an increase in our shareholding in Shanghai GKN Drive Shaft
Company Ltd from 40% to 50%.
Orders won during the year confirm that there is unlikely to be 
any major change in the division’s market share in the period 
up to 2006, the latest date for which reliable data is available. 
There continued to be a high degree of focus on research and
development and during the year the division invested some  23 GKN plc 2003
£68 million, including expenditures for product and process
improvement, cost reduction and innovation. All these costs
were charged to operating profit during the year.
Powder Metallurgy
Products and markets
GKN’s Powder Metallurgy division produces both metal powder and
sintered products. This combination, which is unique amongst the
larger powder metallurgy companies, gives a competitive advantage
through enhanced technology and a wide range of capabilities.
Until November 2003, when a small Romanian company was
acquired, powder production was confined to the Hoeganaes
operations in the US. Hoeganaes largely serves the US market
with approximately half of current production going to GKN’s own
sintering companies and the remainder to third party customers. 
It is the largest producer of powder in North America with a 53%
market share. Hoeganaes’ third party sales account for just over
10% of the division’s sales. 
GKN Sinter Metals manufactures components from metal powder,
largely iron although aluminium and other alloys are also used. The
technology is essentially substitutional and can result in significant
cost savings by comparison with cast or forged components
requiring extensive subsequent machining. The largest market is
automotive, for which parts such as connecting rods and gearbox
components are produced. 
GKN’s sintered component production takes place in North and
South America, Western Europe and India with the percentages
being 59%, 38% and 3% respectively. In a highly fragmented global
market, GKN Sinter Metals has approximately 16% share with the
next largest company at 4%. Over 50% of the global market is
represented by producers with lessthan 1% each. In North America,
sales to DaimlerChrysler, Ford and General Motors account for some
70% of turnover. 
2003 highlights
2003 sales of £608 million were £24 million (3.8%) lower 
than 2002. £20 million of the reduction was due to currency on
translation so that on a like-for-like basis sales were broadly level
with last year. Sales improved in India, where there was strong
growth in automotive demand, and in continental Europe but
were offset by lower figures in North America, reflecting the weaker
automotive markets noted earlier exacerbated by the continued 
loss of market share by the division’s major customers. Operational
improvements continued to be made but the lower production
levels seen during the year impacted the reported performance 
of the US sintering business, though Europe, the Rest of the World
and Hoeganaes remained satisfactory.
In view of the continuation of these market conditions, as noted in
the financial section of this review it was considered appropriate to
make an impairment charge of £83 million in respect of capitalised
goodwill in the US business. Plans for accelerating the recovery
process are well advanced and will be implemented in 2004.
During the year new business with an annualised value of
approximately US$150 million was won. US$80 million of this
wasfor the US business and will come on stream from 2006 at
which point annual US revenues can be expected to resume growth.
In the early part of the year the creation of a dedicated research 
and development centre in Germany was announced. This facility,
which will be opened in May 2004, aims to increase the speed of
product development and, in particular, improve the strength of
sintered components. 
As noted earlier, in November a small Romanian powder
manufacturer was acquired. This will broaden the division’s
production capacity, lead to lower material costs in Europe 
and provide a basis for further development in Eastern Europe. 
It is likely that further ‘bolt-on’ strategic acquisitions will be made 
in developing markets.
OffHighway and AutoComponents (including Emitec)
Products and markets
The division comprises a number of smaller businesses which
supply agricultural, construction equipment and automotive
customers with power take off equipment, wheels, structural
components, engine cylinder liners and metal substrates for
catalytic converters.
The European agricultural market has been relatively depressed 
for some time and saw further falls in the early part of the year 
as a consequence of a reduction in the level of farm incomes,
uncertainty caused by the new Common Agricultural Policy and 
a loss of confidence by farmers. Some recovery was seen in the
second half of the year but expectations for 2004 remain muted. 
In North America, after a slow start, there was some recovery in 
the second half of the year but only back to the same level as 2002.
2004 is also expected to remain around these levels.
In construction markets Europe was flat and is expected to remain
so but North America is likely to improve slightly in 2004 after a
static 2003.
2003 highlights
Sales for the year of £490 million compared with £492 million 
in 2002. Currency translation was £14 million favourable and 
the full year impact of 2002 acquisitions was £5 million, leaving 
the underlying figure £21 million lower. In addition to the weak
market conditions noted above, this reduction reflected lower 
sales by Emitec in the US as a number of major contracts came 
to an end. However, the division continued to generate cash and
margins were substantially maintained, notwithstanding these
challenging conditions.
During the year the division completed the closure of the UK cabs
business, costs of which were provided in the 2002 accounts. 24 GKN plc 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Above
EH101 final assembly line at
AgustaWestland’s Vergiate plant
in Italy. Vergiate assembles all
‘Agusta’ products and shares
production of the EH101 with
AgustaWestland’s UK plant in
Yeovil, Somerset.
AEROSPACE
Sales 2003 £m By origin By market
Europe 1,190 1,021
Americas 357 433
Rest of the World 2 95
Total 1,549 1,549 25 GKN plc 2003
Left
Diana Anderson completing
installation of a wiring harness
on an AS907 Honeywell
Challenger 300 engine being
assembled for Bombardier 
at GKN Aerospace Services’ 
St Louis plant in Missouri, USA.
Left
The C-17 military transporter 
is an important programme 
for GKN Aerospace Services’ 
St Louis plant. Ervin Mayhew
adds clamping provisions to 
a C-17 main landing gear in
preparation for machining on 
a multi-spindle gantry profile. 26 GKN plc 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Aerospace
The civil aerospace market weakened further in 2003 with combined
deliveries by Airbus and Boeing decreasing from 684 aircraft in
2002 to 586 in 2003. Military demand, however, remained firm 
and offset much of this decline. As a result, sales for the year were
£1,549 million compared with £1,502 million in 2002. Overall,
there was no translational impact of currency with reductions in
subsidiaries offset by increases in AgustaWestland and on a like-
for-like basis, excluding acquisitions and Alvis, sales were broadly
level with last year.
Operating profit was £130 million, £10 million (8.3%) higher than
2002 although the latter included £11 million of reorganisation
costs in AgustaWestland. The translational impact of currency was
£1 million favourable while acquisitions added £2 million. Excluding
these factors together with the 2002 reorganisation costs, profits
decreased by £4 million largely as a consequence of the slightly
lower levels of activity in AgustaWestland.
Aerospace Services
Products and markets
GKN Aerospace Services manufactures structural components,
assemblies and systems for aircraft and aero engine manufacturers,
and provides a range of engineering services, for both military and
civil aerospace markets. Currently, sales are 70% to military and
30% to civil markets. 
At present, the aerostructures market is fragmented with most
of the production currently in-house by the aircraft manufacturers.
We believe that as these companies look to outsource this
manufacturing and supply chain management responsibility,
additional growth opportunities will arise. In addition, our leading
position in advanced composite technologies will position us to
benefit from the accelerating trend toward increased composite
usage on new military and civil aircraft.
Overall, the market for civil aircraft is not expected to improve in
2004, with no significant recovery expected until 2006. Military
markets, however, remain solid with the US defence budget
expected to grow by some 4% annually to the end of the decade.
2003 highlights
Sales of £559 million were exactly the same as in 2002. The effect
of currency on translation of sales revenue was £30 million negative,
while the impact of 2002 and 2003 acquisitions was £16 million.
Eliminating these factors, sales were £14 million (2.6%) higher 
than 2002. 
Profits for the year of £23 million compared with £25 million 
in 2002. With some two-thirds of its sales and almost all of
its operating profit generated in the US, GKN Aerospace Services
operating profit was significantly impacted by the fall in the US
dollar against the pound with an adverse translational currency
effect of £4 million. This was partially offset by the £2 million
contribution from acquisitions. Half of this was from the Pilkington
aerospace business acquired in October 2003, which performed
well in its first three months of GKN ownership. Actions to integrate
it and GKN’s existing canopies business are proceeding apace.
At constant exchange rates and excluding acquisitions, profits
were level with 2002. The military side of the business continued 
to perform steadily, particularly the St Louis facility acquired from
Boeing as an outsourcing in 2001, which successfully secured further
contract life extensions on several of its major programmes. Costs
were incurred on supporting advanced design and development
work on the new Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) programme. 
However the civil business, which over the last two years has
successfully reduced its cost base to significantly lower levels, 
saw further weakness in its markets and also absorbed the costs
of development work on new programmes including on the Airbus
A380 aircraft.
As part of the normal annual review of fixed asset carrying values,
and in the light of specific trading performance at one of our US
operations, it was considered appropriate to make a goodwill
impairment charge of £8 million. 27 GKN plc 2003
During the year, the division has been successful in winning
business both for Airbus and on the F-35 JSF. At the end of the 
year the weighted average value for GKN on the Airbus A380 was
US$2.0 million per aircraft and on the JSF US$0.4 million whilst the
estimated future value of our work on all US Department of Defense
programmes was US$6 billion.
The acquisition of the Pilkington aerospace business, which was
completed at the beginning of October, positions the division as the
market leader in military transparencies and as a strong number two
in the civil market.
AgustaWestland
Products and markets
AgustaWestland, which was formed as a 50:50 joint venture
between GKN and Finmeccanica SpA of Italy at the beginning of
2001, manufactures a range of medium to heavy-lift helicopters
and provides engineering support and training services. It is one 
of the world’s largest helicopter suppliers by sales revenue with
approximately 80% being to military and 20% to civil markets.
Approximately 60% of current revenue reflects aircraft production
and 40% engineering support and training. The company’s market
is largely defined by national government budgets and programmes.
The main global influence is US Department of Defense spending,
where there are a number of major programmes which will be
initiated in the next two or three years. In addition, there are market
opportunities for the company’s products in both Europe and South
East Asia. 
2003 highlights
GKN’s share of sales revenue in 2003 of £876 million was £11 million
above the 2002 figure. There was, however, a £30 million benefit
from currency translation and, excluding this, sales were £19 million
(2.1%) lower, largely as a consequence of the completion of the
EH101 for the UK Ministry of Defence during the early part of the
year and the mix of production on other contracts.
Operating profit of £102 million was £9 million above last year’s
figure of £93 million, which contained an £11 million charge for 
the reorganisation of the company’s UK facilities. Excluding this
and the £5 million favourable impact from currency translation 
the profit was £7 million (6.4%) lower than last year.
Helicopter deliveries in the year included seven EH101s and 25
Apaches. It is expected that the final six Apaches for the British
Army will be delivered in the first half of 2004. The value of orders
received during the year was £1.2 billion and at the year-end the
order book stood at £4.4 billion. Looking forward, it is anticipated
that 2004 revenue and profit will be slightly lower than 2003 with
further reduction in 2005 before new programmes start to come 
on stream in 2006.
Above 
Section of an Airbus A380 floor beam
produced using GKN’s new Resin Film
Infusion (RFI) composite manufacturing
process at Cowes on the Isle of Wight in
the UK. The A380 is the first full-scale
production application of RFI. It is a
process suited to civil aircraft because 
of its ability to deliver large, lightweight,
high-quality structures at lower cost than
previous processes.
Left
The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, which is
now at an advanced stage of development,
is expected to become the world’s largest
military programme – more than 3,500
aircraft are expected to be produced. 
GKN Aerospace Services continued to 
win business on this aircraft during 
2003 when it was awarded a contract to
produce composite flight control surfaces.
This follows a significant contract win on
the aircraft’s engine during 2002. 28 GKN plc 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
5
4
3
2
1
0
2002 Actual 2003 Actual 2004 Forecast
NORTH AMERICAN LIGHT VEHICLE PRODUCTION 2002-2004  
2002-2003 actual 2004 forecast (million units)
1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr
Source: Global Insight 
5
4
3
2
1
0
2002 Actual 2003 Actual 2004 Forecast
WESTERN EUROPEAN LIGHT VEHICLE PRODUCTION 2002-2004  
2002-2003 actual 2004 forecast (million units)
1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr
Source: Global Insight 
GLOBAL LIGHT VEHICLE PRODUCTION 1990-2008
1990-2003 actual 2004-2008 forecast (million units)   
70
60
50
40
30
90 92 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 08
Source: Global Insight
–– –– Actual/forecast - - - - - Trend line showing average
compound annual growth rate
from 1990 to 2008 of 2.2%
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Business jets
Civil rotorcraft Regional aircraft
Commercial jetliners
CIVIL AIRCRAFT MARKET 2002-2008
2002-2003 actual 2004-2008 forecast (by aircraft type US$ billion)
02 03 04 05 06 07 08
Source: Teal
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Trainers/light attack
Military rotorcraft Military transports
Fighters
MILITARY AIRCRAFT MARKET 2002-2008
2002-2003 actual 2004-2008 forecast (by aircraft type US$ billion)
02 03 04 05 06 07 08
Source: Teal 29 GKN plc 2003
OTHER FINANCIAL MATTERS
Accounting policies
No new accounting policies have been adopted in the year.
Treasury management
GKN co-ordinates all treasury activities through a central function
whose purpose is to manage the financial risks of the Group as
described below and to secure short and long-term funding at
the minimum cost to the Group. The central treasury function
operates within a framework of clearly defined Board approved
policies and procedures, including permissible funding and hedging
instruments, exposure limits and a system of authorities for the
approval and execution of transactions. It operates on a cost centre
basis and is not permitted to make use of financial instruments or
other derivatives other than to hedge identified exposures of the
Group. Speculative use of such instruments or derivatives is not
permitted, and none has occurred during the year.
The central treasury function prepares a formal twice yearly report
to the Board, and prepares formal monthly reports for the Finance
Director and other senior executives of the Group. In addition, the
gross and net indebtedness of the Group is reported on a weekly
basis to the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, whilst liquidity,
interest rate, currency and other financial risk exposures are monitored
daily. The central treasury function is subject to an annual internal
and annual external review of controls.
Funding and liquidity
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of retained
earnings and borrowing facilities, including bank and capital
markets borrowings and leasing. The relative proportions of equity
and borrowings are governed by specific Board approved parameters.
These are designed to preserve prudent financial ratios, including
interest, dividend and cash flow cover, whilst also minimising the
overall weighted average cost of capital to the Group.
All the Group’s borrowing facilities are arranged by the central
treasury function and the funds raised are then lent to operating
subsidiaries on commercial arm’s-length terms. In some cases
operating subsidiaries have external borrowings, but these are
supervised and controlled centrally. The Group’s objective is to
maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility
through borrowing at a range of maturities from both capital
markets and bank sources.
Bank borrowings are principally in the form of committed 
multi-currency bilateral revolving credit facilities with a group 
of relationship banks, and with a range of maturities from 364 days
to four years. Borrowings under these facilities are unsecured and
were denominated in euro and Japanese yen at 31 December 2003.
Capital markets borrowing includes unsecured issues of £350 million
6.75% bonds maturing in 2019 and £325 million 7% bonds maturing
in 2012.
At the year-end the Group had committed borrowing facilities of
£1,526 million, of which £880 million was drawn. The weighted
average maturity profile of the Group’s committed borrowings was
10.6 years. This leaves the Group well placed to fund its strategic
growth plans and to withstand any sudden changes in liquidity in
the financial markets.
The Group also has access to substantial lines of uncommitted
funds which are used principally to manage day-to-day liquidity.
Wherever practicable, pooling, netting or concentration techniques
are employed to minimise gross debt.
Risk management
The Group is exposed to a variety of market risks, including the
effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest
rates. In the normal course of business, the Group also faces risks
that are either non-financial or non-quantifiable, including country
and credit risk.
The Group uses interest rate swaps, swaptions, forward rate
agreements, netting techniques and forward exchange contracts
to manage the primary market exposures associated with its
underlying assets, liabilities and anticipated transactions.
Counterparty credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-
performance by counterparties to financial instruments. Credit risk
is mitigated by the Group’s policy of only selecting counterparties
with a strong investment graded long-term credit rating, normally at
least AA– or equivalent, and assigning financial limits to individual
counterparties.
Interest rate risk
The Group operates an interest rate policy designed to optimise
interest cost and reduce volatility in reported earnings. This policy
is achieved by maintaining a target range of fixed and floating rate
debt for discrete annual periods, over a defined time horizon. This
is achieved partly through the fixed rate character of the underlying
debt instrument, and partly through the use of straightforward
derivatives (forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps and 30 GKN plc 2003 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
swaptions). The Group’s current policy is to require interest rates
to be fixed for 30% to 70% of the level of underlying borrowings
forecast to arise over a 12 month horizon.
The timing of cash flows at the year-end resulted in 76% of the
Group’s gross financial liabilities at fixed rates of interest, however
this was reduced below the 70% ceiling during the first few weeks
of 2004. The weighted average period in respect of which interest
has been fixed was 11.9 years.
Currency risk
The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from 
sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other
than the subsidiaries’ functional currency. Under the Group’s
foreign exchange policy, such transaction exposures are hedged
once they are known, mainly through the use of forward foreign
exchange contracts. The level of hedges may be varied from time 
to time as the volume of underlying trading also varies. Differences
arising on such variations are taken to the profit and loss account
either as a credit or a charge.
The Group has a significant investment in overseas operations,
particularly in continental Europe and the Americas. As a result, 
the sterling value of the Group’s balance sheet can be affected 
by movements in exchange rates. The Group therefore seeks to
mitigate the effect of these translational currency exposures by
matching the net investment in overseas operations with borrowings
denominated in their functional currencies, except where significant
adverse interest differentials or other factors would render the cost
of such hedging activity uneconomic. This is achieved by borrowing
either directly (in either the local domestic or eurocurrency markets),
or indirectly through the use of rolling annual forward foreign
exchange contracts. Borrowings created through the use of such
contracts amounted to £597 million at 31 December 2003 and 
were denominated in US dollars (64%) and euro (36%). These
amounts are less than the full value of the Group’s balance sheet
held in those currencies since, during 2003, the Board decided 
to restrict the level of hedging to ensure that the Group’s total
level of borrowings would not be overly sensitive to any exchange
rate movement.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits
Pension costs in these accounts have been accounted for on 
an SSAP 24 basis. The total charge to Group profit in respect of
defined benefit schemes was £68 million (2002 – £49 million). 
The increase, which was predicted in last year’s annual report, 
arose largely as a consequence of the triennial valuation of the 
UK scheme which took place during the course of the year and which
is discussed in more detail below and in note 26 to the accounts.
Because the valuation applied for only part of the year there will be
a further increase in the charge in 2004 when it is anticipated that
the equivalent charge for pensions and post-retirement liabilities
will be in the region of £86 million, of which £40 million will be in
respect of pension deficit charges in the UK. It is not possible to give
guidance beyond the current year as, following the implementation
of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in 2005, the
cost of pensions will be reported on a different basis.
In line with guidance from the Accounting Standards Board and
because of the uncertainty surrounding the eventual IFRS on pensions,
the Group has not adopted FRS 17 in the 2003 accounts, but is
disclosing fully the effects had it done so. These are shown in note
26 to the accounts on pages 65 to 67 which covers both the balance
sheet and profit and loss account impacts.
UK pensions
Much of the external focus is on the Group’s UK pension scheme
which has approximately 60,000 members of whom only 10% are
currently in service with the remainder either deferred or current
pensioners. As a UK defined benefit scheme, this is run on a funded
basis with funds set aside in trust to cover future liabilities to
members. An actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out
during the year which showed that the aggregate funding on an
ongoing basis was 69%. As a consequence, the Group has raised 
its annual cash payment to the fund to £54 million. This figure is
expected to apply at least until the next valuation in three years’
time and is £21 million higher than in 2002 (which had already been
increased by £10 million in anticipation of the review). Employees
have also increased their contributionsto reflect the higher cost of
providing future benefits.
Under SSAP 24 the charge to profit for the UK scheme was
£33 million (2002 – £17 million), analysed as £10 million in 
respect of current service and £23 million in respect of the deficit.
Because of the materiality of the deficit and since it relates in large
part to employees of companies which are no longer part of the
Group, it is shown separately in the segmental analysis to enable
underlying performance to be better understood. Prior year figures
have been restated accordingly. 31 GKN plc 2003
Overseas pensions
The charge for overseas post-retirement benefits under SSAP 24 was
£35 million and the charge for 2004 is expected to remain at around
this level.
During 2003 the Group took advantage of its good cash position
and ‘bought out’ an unfunded pension obligation in one of its
European companies.
FRS 17 also values post-retirement benefits outside the UK,
including those countries where schemes are unfunded and it is
already the practice to provide for the liability in the balance sheet.
The principal regions involved are the US and continental Europe
and the detailed assumptions underlying the FRS 17 additional
net liabilities in those territories, of £37 million and £28 million
respectively, are set out in note 26 to the accounts.
Summary
In total, at 31 December 2003 on the FRS 17 basis, there was a 
net additional liability on all pension/post-retirement obligations
of £563 million (2002 – £527 million) in addition to the net
£138 million (2002 – £157 million) already included in long-term
liabilities/prepayments on the balance sheet. This net liability arises
after a deferred tax credit of £203 million (2002 – £202 million)
which, it should be noted, is restricted by the forecast availability
of UK taxable profits.
Joint ventures
The equity value of joint ventures will also be affected by the
implementation of FRS 17 and the adjustment at the end of
2003 would have reduced shareholders’ funds by £54 million 
(2002 – £58 million).
International Financial Reporting Standards
The European Union requires all listed companies to report under
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for accounting
periods commencing on or after 1 January 2005 with prior year
comparatives on the same basis. 
In 2002 the Group initiated a project to review the requirements of
IFRS, recommend appropriate accounting policies for consideration
by the Audit Committee and identify their impact on Group results
and balance sheet. The project operates under a steering committee
chaired by the Group Finance Director and consisting of divisional
finance directors together with other senior employees with
responsibility for external and internal reporting and systems
development and implementation.
A number of working parties containing representatives from line
and central financial management were established to consider 
all IFRS requirements. With the exception of those considering 
areas where standards have not yet been finalised all working
parties have identified the key areas of difference between IFRS
and current UK GAAP which will affect the Group.
Work is continuing on developing appropriate policies. Once this is
completed the systems requirements will be finalised, appropriate
training programmes will be established and an estimate of the
impact on the Group’s reported results evaluated. With several
accounting standards still to be finalised, it is too early to predict
the results of this evaluation although it is already clear that the
adoption of IFRS will undoubtedly introduce more volatility into
company accounts in general.
Financial resources and going concern
At 31 December 2003 the Group had available, but undrawn,
committed borrowing facilitiestotalling £646 million.
Having assessed the future funding requirements of the Group, the
Directors are of the opinion that it is appropriate for the accounts to
be prepared on a going concern basis.
Cautionary statement
The operating and financial review and certain other sections of this
annual report contain forward looking statements that are subject
to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic
and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the
countries and sectors in which the Group operates. It is believed that
the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but
they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause
actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated. 32 GKN plc 2003 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW
BUILDING A BUSINESS FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS
GKN can trace its roots back almost 250 years and has been
incorporated in its present form (originally as Guest, Keen 
and Nettlefolds) for over 100 years. This longevity has not been
achieved without recognising the need, in pursuing its objectives, 
to take account of the interests of a range of stakeholders, including
customers, employees, shareholders and communities. As long 
ago as the mid 19th century, the Guest business in Dowlais in South
Wales was instrumental in bringing fresh water and sanitation to the
town of Merthyr Tydfil and the village of Dowlais. 
GKN is committed to providing long-term, sustainable value to its
shareholders by delivering outstanding products and services to its
customers. When it does so successfully GKN can reward its people
and help support the communities of which it is a part.
Every working day some 35,000 people come to work in GKN plants
and offices located in more than 30 countries around the world. All
of those people have expectations of GKN. They expect to work in a
safe environment which will not damage their health. They expect
their rights, dignity and equality of opportunity to be respected 
by a company which upholds high ethical standards. They expect
to be rewarded fairly for their efforts and to know how they and the
company they work for are performing. GKN values the contribution
of all its employees and works hard to meet their expectations.
These also include freedom of association and collective bargaining
where requested by a majority of employees, fair systems to deal
with grievance and discipline, and the absence of any form of
discrimination.
Those 35,000 people live in communities of which their employing
company is a member. Those communities also have expectations.
They expect GKN to minimise the impact of its operations on the
environment. They expect GKN to make a contribution to community
life and well-being. In less developed countries, GKN aims to 
ensure that community activities are sensitive to the local social
and physical environment and will have positive long-term impact.  33 GKN plc 2003
Scope of the review
In this year’s social responsibility review GKN has again used, as
a framework to present the information, the Reporting Guidelines
produced by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an international
multi-stakeholder group. The GRI Guidelines, last published in 
June 2002, are based on the ‘triple bottom line’ reporting concept
covering economic, social and environmental performance. The
financial aspects of the economic performance of the Group in 
2003 are reported on elsewhere in this annual report.
GKN supports the terms of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
and continues to work towards ensuring that there is no breach 
of these within its businesses. Our ultimate aim is to ensure that
similar standards operate throughout our supply chains.
The review covers all of our subsidiary companies. The Group
operates globally and it is therefore appropriate that our approach
to social responsibility is global. To this end it also embraces our
joint venture companies through an open exchange of information
and ideas; where practicable performance data is collected from
those companies. Joint ventures may also participate in our global
Safety and Green Scheme Award programmes.
The performance data presented in this review has been the 
subject of self-certification by Group companies together with 
some independent verification of data or data collection processes
as described below. 
We have again used sales as a measure for key environmental
indicators. As referred to in last year’s review this has a number 
of disadvantages, including distortions caused by price reductions,
intra-Group trading and widely varying consumption levels in
differing manufacturing processes. The development of alternative
metrics continues. These will vary from division to division due to
the differing nature of their business processes. We will report on
them once adequate comparative data is available.
Building team spirit. A group of operators, design engineers and maintenance technicians
of GKN Driveline and its joint venture with Toyoda Machine Works at Rayong in Thailand
in training for the annual Tako tournament. Tako is a popular Thai sport which combines
the rules of volleyball and soccer and the tournament is used to develop team spirit
among operators and managers across the businesses. 
Behind the net, from left to right: Khun Jarun, Khun Pichet and Khun Wanachai.
Foreground, from left to right: Khun Jittipong, Khun Yuttasart and Khun Anuchit.
Referees, left to right: Khun Thonchai and Khun Anu. 34 GKN plc 2003 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
GOVERNANCE
Management systems
The principles of good corporate social responsibility are embedded
within GKN’s values which are embraced throughout the Group.
They can be viewed on our website at www.gknplc.com. 
The Board views very seriously its responsibility for ensuring that
all the Group’s businesses act as good corporate citizens. A working
group chaired by Ian Griffiths, Managing Director GKN Driveline, 
has responsibility for guiding the adoption of the principles of
sustainable development throughout all the Group’s businesses;
Dick Etches, Human Resources Director, has responsibility for
Health, Safety and Environment programmes; and Grey Denham,
Company Secretary, together with the Corporate Audit Department
and the Audit Committee, oversees compliance with Group policies.
The management of social responsibility issues is an integral
part of the Group’s overall corporate governance procedures
and therefore this review should be read in conjunction with the
corporate governance section on pages 74 to 79. In particular, 
the management of social, environmental and ethical risks is
encompassed within the internal control procedures described 
in that section.
The internal control procedures are supplemented by arrangements
under GKN’s Integrated Loss Prevention Policy which is designed to
protect assets, prevent accidents and losses, contribute to a safer
working environment for all GKN employees as well as achieving and
demonstrating sound environmental performance. The policy, which
can be viewed on GKN’s website, sets out the Group’s systematic
approach to loss prevention and covers all accidental risk areas.
Operational management, supported by a network of specialists,
advisers, Divisional Loss Prevention Committees (DLPCs) and the
Group Loss Prevention Council (GLPC), has primary responsibility
for implementing the policy, for integrating loss prevention into 
the business process and for performance delivery.
The GLPC assists this process by providing direction and promoting
best practice, whilst the DLPCs are responsible for co-ordinating
loss prevention activity within each division, investigating serious
accidents and losses and reporting on performance to the GLPC. 
Health, safety and environmental performance is reported to the
Executive Committee on a quarterly basis and at least annually to
the Board. Significant incidents are reported to executive Directors
within 24 hours and to the next meeting of the Executive Committee.
The Business Excellence Programme is our primary route to
achieving best-in-class standards in all aspects of managing the
business which, going forward, will incorporate our corporate 
social responsibilities. The programme uses Business Excellence
models and Six Sigma tools to identify opportunities for continuous
improvement across a wide range of activities including leadership,
empowerment, organisational processes, customer relationship
management, and community contributions. 
The most significant risks in relation to social responsibility issues
are loss of reputation resulting from the manner of operation of our
businesses and safety issues arising from quality or design of our
products. Both of these could, potentially, impact shareholder value
significantly as well as our employees and the communities in which
we operate. In environmental terms, our manufacturing processes
are not inherently high risk, however greatcare is taken to prevent
any adverse impact arising.
Group governance policies
A series of governance policies, which are applied throughout
the Group, underpin our vision on corporate social responsibility.
Our internal control procedures (described in the corporate
governance section on pages 78 and 79) are designed to confirm
proper implementation and identify material breaches of these
policies. No such breaches have been identified in respect of 2003.
In support of its governance procedures, our Aerospace business,
which operates in the highly regulated world of government
contracting, has established an external Ethics Hotline. This provides
employees with a means of voicing concerns on compliance and
regulatory issues to a third party provider, on an anonymous basis
if they wish. 35 GKN plc 2003
Ethical standards policy
The ethical standards policy sets high standards of integrity, honesty
and fair dealing for all employees. As part of the overall Group ethical
standards policy, individual divisional and company policies require
that all business should be conducted with respect to human dignity
and rights, and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations,
and that corrupt practices and the acceptance or making of bribes be
prohibited. All commercial transactions must be properly recorded,
and assets and confidential information must be fully protected and
used only for the purpose for which they were provided.
Employees are also required to avoid conflicts of interest between
their business relationships and personal activities. All employees
have access to appropriate nominated executives or groups of
executives for the purposes of advice and assistance and, where
necessary, rulings on ethical issues which may arise.
Competition policy
To ensure that Group companies comply with the laws relating to
competition and fair trading, the Group has a policy that relevant
employees are trained in competition laws applicable to their 
day-to-day activities. Employees are trained by way of attendance 
at courses or by use of interactive CD-ROM training packages
developed by the Group. 
Data protection policy
The Group’s data protection policy is designed to ensure that
personal information held throughout the Group is treated with 
due respect for the privacy of the individual. The policy is applied
worldwide even where it is more exacting than local legislation.
Employment policies
The Group’s employment law and practices policy requires every
business in the Group to adopt employment policies and procedures
ensuring that employees and prospective employees are given
equal opportunities irrespective of sex, race, sexual orientation,
disability, religion or ethnic origin. Wherever it operates, the 
Group complies with local employment law and practices.
All businesses are required to ensure that employment decisions
are based on qualifications and merit. The working environment
must respect employees’ human dignity and rights and be free from
all forms of discrimination and from any form of conduct, physical or
verbal, which could be considered to be harassing (including sexual
harassment), coercive or disruptive. Working conditions must be
safe and healthy and there are specific requirements in relation to
substance abuse and dangerous weapons.
Policies are designed to encourage employees to report and discuss
problems on a confidential basis and to provide expeditious and
confidential grievance procedures.
Employee disclosure procedures policy
Group companies are required to establish appropriate procedures
to enable employees to disclose in good faith, at local company or 
if appropriate at divisional level, instances of wrongdoing by other
employees at any level, including any substantial breach of the
Group’s policies. Employees must be able to do so in the knowledge
that their concerns will be investigated and dealt with properly and
sensitively and without fear of reprisal or disciplinary action. The
process must also provide for employees, should they so wish, to
make disclosures in writing directly to the Company Secretary or the
Head of the Corporate Audit Department at the Corporate Centre.
Defence industry involvement
We are aware that there are some investment organisations and
individuals who are concerned by companies’ involvement in the
defence industry. GKN’s primary interest in defence equipment
is through its helicopter joint venture, AgustaWestland. All sales
outside domestic markets are in strict accordance with UK and
Italian Government export approval procedures, as appropriate. 
As well as having applications in defence, in many parts of the 
world AgustaWestland helicopters playa vitalrole in rescue, relief
and humanitarian aid. GKN Aerospace Services is also a first tier
supplier of aerospace structures for US and European military
aircraft programmes, the export of which is in accordance with
government export approval procedures. 36 GKN plc 2003 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
FOCUS ON OUR EMPLOYEES
At GKN we are committed to creating an environment in which
employees are able to realise their full potential. Training and
development programmes at all levels within the organisation 
aim to ensure that employees have the skills and knowledge to
perform their roles as effectively as possible and that they are 
able to maximise their potential and contribution.
Communication
GKN recognises the importance of communication as a two-way
process and the substantial contribution employees can make 
to improving business performance. During 2003 we completed 
a programme of surveys of over 30,000 employees across the 
Group (85% of subsidiary company employees). The surveys
covered a wide range of topics including product quality, health,
safety and the environment, career development, communication
and leadership, and company reputation. Key points which emerged
from the surveys recognised as an important strength the ability
to set clear objectives and the routes to their attainment. Whilst
employees regard GKN as positive in its approach to change,
communication was identified as an area for improvement across
the businesses. There is also an opportunity to broaden our
development activities across a wider population in order to help
realise the potential of employees. The responses will help focus
improvement initiatives and provide a benchmark against which 
to measure progress.
Effective consultation mechanisms exist throughout the Group 
to provide open communication between management and
representatives of union and non-unionised employees. During
2003, GKN Driveline Mosel received an award from the German
Institute for Business Studies for its employee suggestion scheme
which was judged to be the best in Germany. Group companies
encourage employee participation in the process for improving
health, safety and environmental performance. Employee
involvement is also encouraged and recognised through the 
GKN Safety Awards and the GKN Green Scheme. These schemes,
now in their sixth year, recognise success and highlight best
practice which is then shared across the Group. In 2003, a total
of 72 applications were received. Details of the award winners
are given later in this review.
Training
At operating company level, training and development activities
continue to be an integral part of our business strategy, focused 
on equipping employees with the skills and knowledge needed 
to support their effective contribution to the Group’s business
objectives. New employees receive induction training to 
introduce them to the Group as well as to the company at
which they are based, and ongoing training is available through 
on-the-job experience, in-house training programmes and external
educational providers.
Within GKN Driveline, the International College of Engineering
provides a wide range of product-based teaching programmes
which focus on technology as well as product development, and 
are for support staff as well as for engineers. The development
of the IT infrastructure will support an e-learning facility which, 
in the course of the next 12 months, will be available to a wide
range of employees.
GKN’s International Leadership Development Programme 
recruits high calibre graduates from many of the world’s leading
universities and exposes them to diverse business situations
through challenging assignments and project work. It instils
confidence and self-sufficiency through international placements
and develops proficiency in a new language. The Emerging Leaders
programme targets individuals with the potential to progress quickly
EMPLOYEES – by region 
as at 31 December 2003
Continental Europe 20,300
UK 10,400
Americas 12,600
Rest of the World 4,600
(including subsidiaries and joint ventures)
EMPLOYEES – by business 
as at 31 December 2003
Joint ventures 3,400
Aerospace
Subsidiaries 29,400
Automotive
Subsidiaries 5,800
Joint ventures 9,300 37 GKN plc 2003
to a key role within the Group. Together these programmes were
recognised as the Best Executive Development Programme for 
2003 in the prestigious Hays Group Awards organised by Human
Resources magazine, a leading UK business publication.
Diversity and inclusion
One of our key strengths lies in the individuals who work for 
GKN as part of one global team. In order to ensure that we have 
the appropriate balance of skill, nationality and gender throughout
the businesses, review processes which address issues of diversity
were further developed during 2003. The aim of this ongoing
analysis of our employee base is to gather relevant information
which will help us progress our business strategy whilst maintaining
operating principles in accordance with our core values. Whilst the
engineering industry around the world is still largely populated 
by male professionals, recruitment processes aim to identify
the best candidate for any given job, without regard to gender 
or racial background. 
In developing our approach to diversity going forward we are
mindful of the need to review our internal data in the context
of the population of the local communities in which we operate. 
Our data in the US, for example, shows that 79% of GKN employees
are white, 13% are black and the remaining 8% are of other ethnic
origin, compared with an overall population where 75% are white,
12% are black and the rest are of other ethnic origin. Across the 
20 states in which GKN operates, the match between employee 
and local population profiles isbroadly similar. 
WORKING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We define stakeholder as any person or organisation who 
is affected by, or whose actions impact upon, our business. 
These include local communities, shareholders, customers,
suppliers, employees, business partners, local authorities,
government agencies and non-governmental organisations
(NGOs). We engage with these stakeholders in a variety of ways. 
Under the guidance of the working group on sustainable development,
chaired by Ian Griffiths, the GKN Driveline Leadership Programme
involved young managers in a significant project to promote
understanding of how sustainable development applies throughout
the operations. They presented their work to the Group Loss Prevention
Council and in January 2004 to the Executive Committee.
As part of our aim to contribute positively to the communities in
which we operate, wherever possible we employ local labour in 
our businesses. We invest in local community projects both by
wayof financial donations and through the volunteer work of our
employees, particularly in less developed countries. Examples of
local initiatives are given on page 38.
A number of meetings have been held with major shareholders and
NGOs to discuss the Group’s performance with regard to corporate
social responsibility and it is our intention to continue to seek
dialogue with major stakeholders.
In addition to the impact of our own activities, the impact of our
supply partners and the products we manufacture both during 
their life and in their end of life phase are of increasing importance.
We continue to seek to identify ways in which we can support our
keysuppliers in this regard to our mutual benefit. As a component
supplier, the impact of our products has to be addressed in
partnership with our customers aswell as our suppliers. This
continues to be an important focus of attention.
GKN plays a substantive role in a number of key industrial
organisations. We are founder members of the Industry and
Parliament Trust, the UK Per Cent Club and the UK Emission Trading
Scheme. We are members of the Engineering Employers’ Federation
and Confederation of British Industry in the UK and the German
Employers’ Federation. We are also members of The Society of
Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT) in the UK, The Society of
British Aerospace Companies, the US Organisation for International
Investment and the British Occupational Health Research Foundation.
In 2000, GKN Driveline was one of 11 founding signatories to the
SMMT’s sustainability strategy ‘Towards Sustainability’ which outlines
the automotive industry’s commitment to balance economic progress
with environmental care and social responsibility. 38 GKN plc 2003 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
OUR COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY
GKN is committed to enhancing the welfare of the communities in
which it operates. In 2003, charity and community contributions by
Group companies amounted to some £840,000. Those organisations to
which cash contributions were made during 2003 are listed on GKN’s
website at www. gknplc.com. Community support is widespread across
GKN’s worldwide operations. The following are just a few examples:
Ukraine – A team of graduates from GKN Driveline refurbished 
a home for mentally handicapped children in the Ukraine. The
children’s home, in Liwtschyzi in the small district of Shydachiwsky
in western Ukraine, provides a refuge for over 100 children. The
graduates erected a greenhouse to enable the home to grow its
own vegetables and also renovated parts of the main dining room
and kitchen. Another priority was to replace equipment at the 
home which was outdated and had fallen into disrepair. 
Brazil – During 2003 a team of GKN Driveline employees revisited
the Lar Carolina children’s orphanage in Brazil where they helped to
provide facilities on two previousoccasions. During their stay, the
team constructed a building which will contain a library, needlework
room and workshop. On the first visit by GKN Driveline employees
in 1999, a bakery was built at the home to provide it with the means
to raise money by selling bread to the local community. The second
visit in 2001 resulted in an upgraded playground for the children as
well as new landscaping.
UK – GKN Aerospace Services Structures in Yeovil works with 
the Fiveways Resource Centre to provide workplace opportunities
for adults with varying degreesoflearning difficulties. Through a
carefully structured programme the business provides meaningful
employment bringing with it a sense of belonging and the rewards
most people take for granted from a working life. In 2003, Kyle
Yunnie, one of five such employees at Yeovil, travelled with his
parents to San Diego in the US to receive an Aerospace Services
Excellence Award.
Germany – Employees at GKN Driveline Deutschland in Mosel have
responsibility for a project in which constant velocity joint assembly
is subcontracted to a local workshop for people with mental and
physical disabilities. The employees ensure appropriate health and
safety and provide training. Quality levels and customer satisfaction
have all been maintained.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
Health and safety are well established as an integral part of a 
strong company culture based on shared values which are reflected
in the behaviour of employees at all levels of the organisation. We
continue to believe that strong, committed, visible and supportive
leadership is the main driver for health and safety improvement and
it remains a strong focus of attention. For 2003, we introduced an
element of executive bonus based on safety performance.
Performance
Our performance in 2003 again shows an improvement against
the key performance indicators of accident frequency rate (AFR) 
and accident severity rate (ASR). Group results are shown in the
charts opposite. 
Over the past five years AFR performance has improved by 67% 
and ASR by 51%. In addition to a reduction in the total number of
accidents we have maintained a particular focus on the causes and
prevention of serious accidents. All serious accidents are reported
to and reviewed by the Executive Committee. Our serious injury
rate which is specifically designed to track and maintain visibility of
serious accidents has shown a 70% reduction over the past five years.
In 2003, 17 enforcement actions occurred at plants in the UK, US
and Australia. One action in the UK involved prosecution as a result
of an accident in 2002 when an employee suffered serious injury
whilst attempting an unauthorised and unsafe (but well intentioned)
repair on a piece of equipment. Total fines for all actions of £17,414
reflect the generally minor nature of the issues raised. Nevertheless
every one points to an improvement need and opportunity which is
used to support our focus on prevention. 
Targets
Our ultimate goal is zero preventable accidents and, to drive
continuous performance improvement towards this goal, objectives
and targets are set, primarily at plant level where they can best
reflect the particular needs, risks, priorities and opportunities
for each site. The targets aim to ensure that GKN achieves an 
overall, clear and positive improvement trend leading to consistent
achievement by every business of sustained performance at a world
class level.
Where considerable improvement is needed aggressive targets
are set. In 2003, 66% of plants achieved their AFR targets and 
81% maintained or improved AFR performance. For ASR, 70% of
plants achieved their targets and 83% maintained or improved
performance. All divisions improved their AFR and ASR performance 39 GKN plc 2003
with 75% achievement of both AFR and ASR targets. On an annual
basis, plants that are considered to be underperforming are required
to present their improvement plansto the Executive Committee.
In addition to performance targets for AFR and ASR we also apply
targets and performance measures to key ‘enablers’ including
health and safety training, the application of internal/self audit
and the establishment of health and safety objectives and plans.
The enablers and targets are subject to change as part of a dynamic
approach to matching needs and priorities. Other arrangements that
contribute to performance improvements are safety review visits by
senior executives, safety workshops, high severity risk workshops,
best practice guidelines, the GKN Safety Awards and internal and
external benchmarking of practices and performance. Benchmarking
results show our performance as significantly better than industry
averages in the UK, Germany and the US, and against peer
companies in the UK our performance compares very favourably.
Many GKN businesses now incorporate in their operations features
from the Health and Safety Management System OHSAS 18001. In
2003 six Group companies achieved certification to this standard.
Verification
A focused external review of the processes and procedures used in
the collection and reporting of health and safety data has recently
been completed. This review, which involved a sample of ten sites,
will act as the base for a more detailed exercise in 2004 and whilst
no significant deficiencies have been identified, minor improvement
opportunities are being pursued.
Occupational health
GKN’s concern goes beyond the employee’s physical safety and the
prevention of accidents at work to focus heavily on the avoidance 
of work related ill health. Occupational health practitioners work
closely with safety and environmental advisers to help create a
working environment which minimises the risk to employee health
from the physical factors which can impact on workers, including
noise, working practices and substances in the workplace. Concurrent
health surveillance programmes revealextremely low levels of adverse
health effects among our staff and this reassuring combination 
is confirmed by very low levels of staff turnover or retirement on
health grounds. Data on occupational ill health is collated centrally
and, where cases occur, focused examination of the circumstances
enables action to be taken to identify cause and prevent recurrence.
Occupational health issues are reviewed and regularly discussed,
along with safety matters, by the Executive Committee.
GKN Safety Awards
From a total of 37 applications, five teams received awards from
Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, at the GKN Safety Awards presentation
in November 2003. The overall winner was GKN Driveline Utsunomiya,
Japan, for its commitment to continuous improvement and innovative
approaches to communication, risk reduction and employee
participation, as well as for its sustained excellent safety performance.
Other award winners were GKN Driveline Alamance, USA, GKN Sinter
Metals Conover, USA, GKN Aerospace St Louis, USA, and GKN Driveline
Bruneck, Italy.
Three special safety awards were also presented to sites that
had shown a clear commitment to safety and a significant effort
to achieve improvement. GKN Aerospace Services Cowes and 
GKN Sinter Metals Lichfield, both in the UK, had demonstrated
commitment to continuous improvement while undergoing major
change and challenges within their organisation. GKN Sinter Metals
Emporium, USA, was recognised for its consistent demonstration 
of best practice and achievement of three million aggregate working
hours without a lost time accident.
ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE (AFR) 
(lost time accidents per 1,000 employees)
99
00
01
02
21.4
19.7
13.4
8.3 03
24.8
ACCIDENT SEVERITY RATE (ASR) 
(days/shifts lost per 1,000 employees)
99
00
01
02
359
350
297
181 03
372 40 GKN plc 2003 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
ENVIRONMENT
The Group’s environmental management system (EMS), originally
introduced in 1994, is part of the integrated loss prevention
approach and is broadly based on the international management
standard, ISO 14001. The EMS, like ISO 14001, imposes on
companies a requirement to achieve continuous improvement in
performance; ISO 14001 also requires companies to demonstrate
that improvement to the certifying body.
Targets
GKN is committed to achieving accreditation to ISO 14001 at all its
manufacturing sites throughout the world. 59 sites, representing
75% of Group subsidiary sales, are currently accredited and a
further 26 have plans to achieve accreditation in 2004.
GKN maintains its commitment to reducing carbon dioxide (CO 2)
emissions relative to sales by 5% in 2005 starting from a 1999
baseline. The target, if achieved, will bring GKN’s reduction in
emissions broadly in line with the targets set in the Kyoto Protocol.
Performance
We continue to concentrate on the key performance indicators of
energy use and associated CO 2 emissions, waste generation and
water use. As indicated in last year’s report, we are no longer reporting
externally on VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) usage as the use 
of such substances has now reduced to very low levels. However, 
we continue to monitor our performance internally in this regard.
Reference is made on page 33 to our reasons for using sales as
a measure of Group environmental performance and also to the
disadvantages of doing so. These disadvantages have the effect
of understating the actual level of activity in terms of the number 
of products sold and thus also any performance improvement. The
operating divisions are developing more relevant activity-based
measures to monitor their individual performance.
Energy consumption
Energy consumption relative to sales showed a small decrease 
in 2003 compared with 2002. Variations in sales from division to
division were not as marked as in 2002 and the reduction, although
small, represents a real improvement in underlying performance.
However, the potential for future savings in energy usage remains
and we will strive to ensure that this potential is realised wherever 
it is economically viable. We do not consider there to be significant
scope for major energy saving projects, but improvements will be
made by the implementation of large numbers of relatively minor
projects which cumulatively should deliver real reductions in 
energy consumption.
We are currently ahead of target in meeting the reduction of
10,000 tonnes of CO 2 required by 2006 under the UK Emission Trading
Scheme (this represents an ambitious target of around 10% reduction
in our absolute emissions over a five-year period) and, as a result,
we now have a surplus of allowances. The current low price of these
allowances has discouraged trading and we are maintaining stocks
of allowances against a potential future shortfall. On a global scale
our reported CO 2 emissions have increased but that is principally due
to increased emissions of CO 2 by energy generators from which we
source energy in the UK and US, two of our major areas of operation.
GROUP PERFORMANCE: ENERGY
index is normalised to £1,000 sales with 1999 as 100
99
00
01
02
103
95
97
96 03
100
GROUP PERFORMANCE: WASTE
index is normalised to £1,000 sales with 1999 as 100
99
00
01
02
100
86
96
89 03
100
GROUP PERFORMANCE: WATER
index is normalised to £1,000 sales with 1999 as 100
99
00
01
02
93
87
94
88 03
100 41 GKN plc 2003
Waste generation
2003 saw a reversal of the increase in waste generation relative 
to sales experienced in 2002. The significant change in product
mix between 2001 and 2002, which was largely the cause for the
2002 increase, was not repeated in 2003. The proportion of our
waste which consists of recyclable metal scrap continues to be 
high at 67%. The removal of a stockpile of steelmaking slag at our
Hoeganaes plant at Gallatin, USA, during 2002 also contributed to
the amount of waste ‘generated’ that year. We are currently trying 
to gain approval from the US state authorities for the re-use of this
material as an aggregate in the manufacture of road paving.
Water consumption
In our 2002 review we stated that water consumption would be a
keyfocus of attention. As a result there has been a reduction of 5%
in the absolute volume of water consumed despite an increase in
production. GKN operates in a wide variety of locations, in some of
which water is plentiful and in others where it is not. There is still
potential for significant savings in water consumption but these
involve capital expenditure and can be hindered by poor rates of
return where water supply is plentiful and cheap.
Five GKN companies, all in the US, had enforcement action taken
against them by regulatory authorities. Currently, total fines of
US$5,000 have been imposed and in some cases the level of
the fine is still under negotiation. The offences related to violations
of air permits (3), exceeding wastewater discharge permits (1) and
waste operations (1). There were a further six minor offences, again
all in North America, which resulted in notices of violations being
served although in these cases no punitive action is being taken by
the regulator. In addition a fine of US$50,000 was paid in respect of
a violation of an air permit which occurred in a prior year. Whilst the
size of the fines indicate the relatively minor nature of the offences,
nevertheless they all provide evidence of improvement needs which
are being addressed.
Verification
The suitability of systems in place to gather and report data is
assessed by external independent certifying bodies as part of the
certification to ISO 14001. Group companiesare required to confirm
the accuracy of the data. In addition, as part of its obligations as a
member of the UK Emission Trading Scheme, GKN has employed
external verifiers to check the accuracy of emission data collected
during 1998–2000, the baseline years of the scheme. This will
continue during the five-year life of the scheme and has already
been completed for 2002 and 2003 data.
GKN Green Scheme Awards
35 submissions were made for the Green Scheme Awards with the
overall winner being Hoeganaes Gallatin in the US. The company was
chosen for its development of an entirely new method of recycling
oversize metal powder into the arcfurnace. This development has
increased the efficiency of the process and has significantly increased
the efficiency of energy utilisation. The other award winners were
GKN Sinter Metals Emporium, USA, GKN Freight Services, UK, GKN
Wheels Nagbøl, Denmark, and GKN Sinter Metals Bonn, Germany. The
winners received their award from Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, who
also presented a special award to Gunner Kjær-Hansen, Environment
and Safety Manager at GKN Wheels Nagbøl, for his contribution over
34 years to reducing energy consumption at the plant.
Special achievements
We would like to take the opportunity of congratulating the employees
of GKN do Brasil (GKN Driveline) for the part they have played in the
company’s achievement of certification to OHSAS 18001 (Health
and Safety Management), ISO 14001 (Environmental Management)
and ISO TS 16949 (Quality Management). GKN do Brasil is believed
to be one of only three automotive companies worldwide to have
achieved the Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety, and Social
Accountability Integrated Management System certificate.
CONCLUSION
Overall, GKN continues to strive to be a good corporate citizen. 
We recognise that, viewed against the GRI Guidelines, we have
opportunities for further development. In the area of corporate
social responsibility, as in other areas, we know our stakeholders
will over time expect more. We aim to deliver this. Continuing operations
2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Sales
Subsidiaries 2 3,334 3,305
Share of joint ventures 1,064 1,051
Share of associates 187 96
2 4,585 4,452
Operating profit
Subsidiaries:
Before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 168 196
Goodwill amortisation (31) (31)
Goodwill impairment (91) (11)
Exceptional items 4 – (37)
Totalsubsidiaries 3 46 117
Share of joint ventures:
Before goodwill amortisation 129 116
Goodwill amortisation (6) (6)
Totalshare of joint ventures 123 110
Share of associates 5 3
Total operating profit 174 230
Exceptional items
Profits less losses on sale or closure of businesses:
Subsidiaries 4 (4) (2)
Associated company 4 59 –
Profit before interest and taxation 229 228
Net interest payable:
Subsidiaries 5 (56) (47)
Share of joint ventures and associates 5 – (1)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 173 180
Taxation 6 (70) (77)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 103 103
Minority interests – equity (2) (3)
Earnings of the year 101 100
Dividends 7 (85) (83)
Transfer to reserves 16 17
Earnings per share – p 8 13.8 13.7
Diluted earnings per share – p 8 13.7 13.6
Results before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items
Operating profit – £m 302 315
Profit before tax – £m 246 267
Earnings per share – p 8 22.8 25.2
42 GKN plc 2003
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 10 340 470
Tangible assets 11 1,329 1,374
1,669 1,844
Investments
Joint ventures:
Share of gross assets 1,201 1,198
Share of gross liabilities (944) (972)
257 226
Associates 29 39
Other investments 6 17
12 292 282
Total fixed assets 1,961 2,126
Current assets
Stocks 13 487 488
Debtors 14 630 561
Cash at bank and in hand 15 131 105
1,248 1,154
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Short-term borrowings 16 (36) (43)
Creditors 17 (760) (772)
Taxation payable 18 (166) (182)
Dividend payable (57) (56)
(1,019) (1,053)
Net current assets 229 101
Totalassets less current liabilities 2,190 2,227
Creditors: amounts falling due beyond one year
Term loans and obligations under finance leases 19 (887) (894)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 (361) (373)
Net assets 942 960
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 367 366
Share premium account 24 14 13
Revaluation reserve 24 40 45
Other reserves 24 (96) (81)
Profit and loss account 24 601 607
Equity interest 926 950
Minority interest – equity 16 10
942 960
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2004 and were signed by:
Sir David Lees, Kevin Smith, Nigel Stein, Directors
43 GKN plc 2003
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2003 2003 2002
£m £m
Earnings of the year
Subsidiaries 5 26
Share of joint ventures 92 71
Share of associates 4 3
101 100
Currency variations (41) (43)
Other reserve movements (1) (4)
Total recognised gains and losses of the year 59 53
Earnings of the year on an historical cost basis are not materially different from those reported above.
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003
2003 2002
£m £m
Totalrecognised gains and losses of the year 59 53
Dividends (85) (83)
Issue of Ordinary Shares net of costs 2 12
Formation of AgustaWestland – (2)
Total decrease (24) (20)
Shareholders’ equity at 1 January 950 970
Shareholders’ equity at 31 December 926 950
MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003
2003 2002
£m £m
Increase/(decrease) in cash 28 (74)
Increase in liquid resources and financing 6 60
Cash inflow/(outflow) before use of liquid resources and financing 34 (14)
Currency variations 13 66
Net proceeds of Ordinary Share issues 2 9
New finance leases (1) –
Subsidiaries acquired and sold (7) (10)
Total decrease 41 51
Net borrowings at 1 January (834) (885)
Net borrowings at 31 December (793) (834)
44 GKN plc 2003
STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 Notes 2003 2002
£m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities a 287 361
Dividends from joint ventures and associates 68 45
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 17 22
Interest paid (70) (56)
Dividends paid to minority interests (1) (1)
(54) (35)
Taxation
United Kingdom – –
Overseas (63) (38)
(63) (38)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (162) (213)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 13 20
Investment loans and capital contributions (4) 1
Other financial investments 4 –
(149) (192)
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase of subsidiaries b (45) (47)
Purchase of joint ventures and associates (1) (37)
Sale of subsidiaries b 2 9
Sale of associated company 73 –
29 (75)
Equity dividends paid (84) (80)
Cash inflow/(outflow) before use of liquid resources and financing 34 (14)
Management of liquid resources
Increase in short-term loans and deposits (32) (61)
Decrease in short-term loans and deposits 28 53
c (4) (8)
Financing
Net proceeds of Ordinary Share issues 2 9
Proceeds of other term borrowings 497 1,402
Repayment of other term borrowings (498) (1,460)
Finance leases (3) (3)
c (2) (52)
Increase/(decrease) in cash c 28 (74)
45 GKN plc 2003
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 2003 2002
£m £m
a) Net cash inflow from operating activities
Operating profit 46 117
Depreciation 182 177
Goodwill amortisation 31 31
Impairment of goodwill 91 11
Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets (5) (6)
Impairment of tangible fixed assets 2 4
Decrease/(increase) in stocks 4 (5)
Increase in debtors (43) (10)
(Decrease)/increase in creditors (24) 44
(Decrease)/increase in provisions (3) 8
Increase/(decrease) in customer advances 9 (4)
Exceptional items (note 4) (3) (6)
Net cash inflow from operating activities (note i) 287 361
Purchases Sales
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
b) Purchase and sale of subsidiaries
Tangible fixed assets (17) (17) 3 6
Working capital and provisions (10) (9) 3 4
Taxation payable 1 – – (1)
Cash – (2) – 5
Loans and finance leases 7 10 – –
Minority interests – (8) – (5)
(19) (26) 6 9
Change from joint venture status – 5 – –
(Loss)/profit on sales – – (4) 5
Goodwill (24) (29) 1 –
Totalconsideration (43) (50) 3 14
Deferred consideration (2) 1 (1) –
Consideration (paid)/received (45) (49) 2 14
Less: cash – 2 – (5)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow (45) (47) 2 9
Change in 2003
Net borrowings at end of year Liquid
Cash resources
2003 2002 (note ii) (note iii) Financing
£m £m £m £m £m
c) Analysis of movements in net debt
Bank balances and cash 91 69 22––
Short-term loans and deposits 40 36 –4 –
Bank overdrafts (22) (26) 4––
Other short-term borrowings (14) (17) –– 3
Term loans (872) (877) –– 5
Finance leases:
Due within one year (1) (2) –– 1
Due in more than one year (15) (17) –– 2
(793) (834) 26 4 11
Net proceeds of Ordinary Share issues –– (2)
Subsidiaries acquired and sold –– 7
New finance leases –– 1
Currency variations 2– (15)
Net cash inflow 28 4 2
Notes
i Included in cash inflow from operating activities is expenditure of £13 million (2002 – £52 million) in respect of operating exceptional items.
ii Cash consists of cash in hand and bank balances and overdrafts repayable on demand as defined by FRS 1 (revised).
iii Liquid resources consist of short-term investments, loans and deposits excluding cash.
46 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of accounting
These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings, in accordance 
with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards. The Directors have conducted a review of the Group’s accounting
policies and have confirmed that they are the most appropriate for the purposes of giving a true and fair view of the Group’s results and 
that there have been no changes from last year.
Basis of consolidation
The group accounts consolidate the accounts for the year to 31 December 2003 of the Company and its subsidiaries unless those
subsidiaries are subject to severe long-term restrictions on the ability of the Group to control them.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss accountfrom the date 
of acquisition or to the date of disposal. In the case of acquisitions during the year the acquisition method of accounting is used.
Where material, profits or losses are analysed as discontinued operations where businesses are sold or closed by the date on which 
the accounts are approved. Where businesses are treated as sold or closed in the current year, the prior year’s analyses are restated 
to reflect those businesses as discontinued.
Foreign currencies
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated to sterling at average exchange rates.
Where practicable, transactions involving foreign currencies are protected by forward contracts. Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies
are translated at the appropriate forward contract rate or, if not covered, at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date. Differences
on revenue transactions are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
The exchange rates used for the currencies most important to the Group’s operations are:
£1=euro £1=US$
2003 average 1.45 1.64
2002 average 1.59 1.50
2003 year-end 1.42 1.79
2002 year-end 1.53 1.61
Financial instruments
The Group’s accounting policy for derivatives is to recognise in the group profit and loss account gains and losses on hedges of revenues or
operating payments only as they crystallise.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risks and hedge a proportion of its
investment in overseas subsidiaries and investments denominated in foreign currencies, where such hedging can be carried out on an
economically acceptable basis. Such financial instruments are treated as hedges against the underlying assets or liabilities, with matching
accounting treatments and cash flows. All gains or losses are taken to the statement of total recognised gains and losses until the instrument
and the underlying hedged investment are sold, when the profit or loss arising is recognised in the profit and loss account. Interest
differentials resulting from the use of financial instruments to hedge these exposures are dealt with in the group profit and loss account.
Any instruments no longer designated as hedges are restated at market value and any gains or losses are taken directly to the profit and 
loss account.
The book values of short-term debtors and creditors are the same as their fair values and have been excluded from the financial instrument
disclosures other than those on currency exposures.
Sales
Sales shown in the profit and loss account exclude value added taxes and, except in the case of long-term contracts in the AgustaWestland
joint venture, represent the invoiced value of goods and services charged to external customers. Invoices are raised when goods are
despatched to the customer unless other terms have been specifically agreed. On long-term contracts in AgustaWestland, sales are based 
on the estimated sales value of work done at the achievement of predetermined milestones.
47 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Research and development costs
Except as noted below, revenue expenditure on research and development is written off as incurred.
On major aerospace contracts that demonstrablyhave a life of more than ten years, net non-recurring initial costs (consisting of design,
development and tooling) are categorised as stocks and are amortised over a maximum period of ten years from the start of serial production.
On other contracts, design and development costs are written off as incurred and tooling over three years.
Reorganisation costs
Costs of reorganisation and redundancy, which are not part of a fundamental restructuring, are charged against operating profit in the 
period when the announcement is made.
Intangible assets – goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation consists of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions completed prior to 31 December 1997 has been eliminated against reserves. Goodwill arising on acquisitions
after that date is capitalised as a fixed asset and amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life up to a maximum of 20 years.
To the extent that the carrying value exceeds the value in use, determined from estimated discounted future net cash flows, goodwillis
written down to the value in use and an impairment charge is recognised in the profit and loss account. Where an acquired business is
sold and goodwill has been previously deducted from reserves, the goodwill is taken into account in calculating the profit or loss on sale.
Tangible fixed assets
Cost
Tangible fixed assets are valued at cost or valuation less accumulated depreciation. Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly
incurred in bringing the asset into use but excludes interest.
Where freehold and long leasehold properties were carried at a valuation at 23 March 2000, the date of implementation of FRS 15, these
values have been retained as book values in accordance with the transitional arrangements of that standard.
Where assets are in the course of construction at the balance sheet date they are classified as capital work in progress. Transfers are made
to other asset categories when they are available for use.
Depreciation
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction. In the case of buildings, computers and contract
specific plant, depreciation is provided on valuation or original cost. For all other categories of asset, depreciation is provided on the written
down value at the beginning of the financial year. Depreciation is applied to specific classes of asset so as to reduce them to their residual
values over their estimated useful lives.
The range of main rates of depreciation used are:
Straight Reducing
line balance
%%
Freehold buildings 2–
General plant, machinery, fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 to 20 10 to 35
Computers and major software 20 to 33
1
⁄ 3 –
Commercial vehicles and cars – 40 to 45
Leasehold properties are amortised by equal annual instalments over the period of the lease or 50 years, whichever is the shorter.
Leased assets
Where fixed assets are financed by leasing arrangements which give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they
had been purchased and the capital element of the leasing commitment is shown as obligations under finance leases. The rentals payable
are apportioned between interest, which is charged to the profit and loss account, and capital which reduces the outstanding obligation.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred over the lease term.
Joint ventures and associated companies
Joint ventures, although not subsidiaries, are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and is able to share control
with its partners under a contractual arrangement. Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and is
able to exercise significant influence through its representation on the board of directors.
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for in accordance with FRS 9 whereby the profit and loss account includes, at the appropriate
line, the Group’s share of their sales, operating profit, exceptional items, interest and tax. They are stated in the balance sheet at the
Group’s share of their equity. Where the size criteria of FRS 9 are met additional information is given by way of note to the accounts.
48 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED Stocks
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, due allowance being made for obsolete or slow-moving items. 
Cost includes the relevant proportion of works overheads assuming normal levels of activity.
Taxation
Provision is made for deferred tax in so far as a liability or asset arises as a result of transactions that have occurred by the balance sheet
date and give rise to an obligation to pay more tax in future, or a right to pay less tax in future. A deferred tax asset is only recognised to 
the extent that it may be regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised are not discounted.
No provision is made for any additional tax which might arise on remittance of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and
associates except where distribution of such profits is planned.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits
The Group’s pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes throughout the world.
In the UK and in certain overseas companies pension arrangements are made through externally funded defined benefit schemes, the
contributions to which are based on the advice of independent actuaries or in accordance with the rules of the schemes. In other overseas
companies funds are retained within the business to provide for retirement obligations.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account is calculated, in accordance with SSAP 24, by independent actuaries as being the
expected cost of providing pensions on a systematic and rational basis over the period during which the Group expects to derive benefit
from the employees’ services. Additionally, certain amounts are charged in accordance with the rules of defined contribution pension plans.
The impact on the balance sheet, profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses of the adoption of FRS 17,
together with the assumptions made in computing that impact, are shown by way of note.
2 SALES
The geographical markets supplied by subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are as follows:
Geographical markets supplied
United Continental Rest of
Kingdom Europe Americas the World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Sales by subsidiaries
By business:
Automotive 292 1,172 946 365 2,775
Aerospace 76 86 391 6 559
Total 2003 368 1,258 1,337 371 3,334
By region of origin:
United Kingdom 290 154 62 8 514
Continental Europe 69 1,091 54 73 1,287
Americas 912 1,213 10 1,244
Rest of the World – 1 8 280 289
Total 2003 368 1,258 1,337 371 3,334
Total 2002 395 1,180 1,398 332 3,305
Group share of sales by joint ventures and associates
Total 2003 495 400 92 264 1,251
Total 2002 556 292 115 184 1,147
Analyses of sales, operating profit and net operating assets of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates by business and by region of origin
are shown on page 70.
49 GKN plc 2003 3 OPERATING PROFIT
Continuing operations
2003 2002
£m £m
Sales by subsidiaries 3,334 3,305
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress (7) 7
Raw materials and consumables (1,045) (1,023)
Staff costs (note 9) (1,108) (1,065)
Redundancy and reorganisation costs:
Exceptional (note 4) – (23)
Other (12) (5)
Depreciation written off tangible fixed assets (including £2 million 
in respect of assets under finance leases, 2002 – £3 million) (182) (177)
Impairment of tangible fixed assets (2) –
Amortisation of goodwill (31) (31)
Impairment of goodwill (91) (11)
Exceptional charge for asset impairments (note 4) – (14)
Other external charges (810) (846)
(3,288) (3,188)
Operating profit of subsidiaries 46 117
Details of companies acquired are given in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 18 to 31 and note 25. There were no 
discontinued activities in either 2003 or 2002.
Other external charges include rental for hire of equipment £19 million (2002 – £17 million) and rental for leased property £16 million 
(2002 – £15 million). Auditors’ remuneration, including expenses, was £2.9 million (2002 – £2.9 million). Non-audit fees payable to
PricewaterhouseCoopers are subject to review by the Audit Committee and the policy for using auditors for non-audit work is set out
in the Corporate Governance Report on page 77. The total payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers worldwide in respect of such fees is
analysed below:
2003 2002
£m £m
Tax compliance 0.4 0.4
Tax advice 0.6 0.5
Other 0.1 0.5
1.1 1.4
In accordance with the provisions of UITF 17 (revised 2000), no charge to profit has been made in respect of employee share options
issued under Inland Revenue approved share save schemes.
Research and development costs in subsidiariestotalled £84 million (2002 – £85 million) including £3 million of expenditure refunded 
by customers and other parties for development work carried out on their behalf and capital expenditure of £4 million. In addition, GKN’s
share of research and development in AgustaWestland in the year totalled £154 million (2002 – £149 million) including £148 million 
(2002 – £141 million) of expenditure refunded by customers and other parties for development work carried out on their behalf.
50 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 4 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
2003 2002
£m £m
a) Operating exceptional items
Asset impairments – (14)
Redundancy costs – (15)
Other – (8)
– (37)
Operating exceptional items in 2002 arose from the substantial downturn in civil aviation markets and uncertainties surrounding North
American vehicle production levels which were apparent in the second half of 2001, as a result of which the Group took steps to reduce
capacity in a number of Aerospace and Automotive plants. A reassessment was also made of the carrying value of certain Aerospace assets.
These actions resulted in a charge to operating profit of £106 million in 2001 and a further £37 million in 2002 in respect of actions which
had not been announced by 31 December 2001 and could not, therefore, be accrued. The cash outflow from these and earlier actions was
£13 million in 2003, £52 million in 2002 and £27 million in 2001.
2003 2002
£m £m
b) Non-operating exceptional items – Profits less losses on sale or closure of businesses
i) Subsidiaries (4) (2)
ii) Sale of shares in associated company – Alvis plc 59 –
There was no goodwill previously written off to reserves on the businesses sold or closed during the year.
Losses on sale of subsidiaries includes provisions relating to a small operation where divestment was ongoing at the date these accounts
were signed and completion is expected in the first quarter of the year.
There was a £3 million cash outflow in 2003 in respect of a prior year business closure.
5 NET INTEREST PAYABLE
2003 2002
£m £m
Subsidiaries
Loans to joint ventures and associates 1 2
Short-term investments, loans and deposits 16 20
17 22
Loans from joint ventures (2) (5)
Short-term borrowings (including bank interest £13 million, 2002 – £21 million) (16) (23)
Loans repayable within five years (including bank interest nil, 2002 – nil) (5) (1)
Loans repayable after five years (48) (37)
Finance leases (2) (3)
(56) (47)
Share of joint ventures and associates
Interest receivable 8 8
Interest payable (8) (9)
– (1)
51 GKN plc 2003 6 TAXATION
Taxcharge for the year
2003 2002
£m £m
United Kingdom
Corporation tax at 30% 89 41
Deferred tax (2) (8)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (1) (12)
86 21
Double tax relief (87) (40)
(1) (19)
Overseas
Corporation taxes 53 51
Deferred tax (8) 11
Adjustments in respect of prior years (5) (4)
40 58
Share of joint ventures and associates 31 38
Total taxcharge for the year 70 77
Tax on exceptional items, included in the above, is: UK – £2 million (2002 – nil), Overseas – nil (2002 – £3 million credit).
Taxreconciliation
2003 2002
£m £m
Profit before tax 173 180
Goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 73 87
Profit before tax (pre-goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items) 246 267
Taxcalculated at 30% standard UK Corporation Tax rate 74 80
Differences between UK and non-UK corporate tax rates 17 20
Non-deductible and non-taxable items (10) (10)
Deferred tax – origination and reversal of timing differences 12 –
Differences attributable to joint ventures and associates – 2
Current year corporate tax charge on ordinary activities 93 92
Deferred tax on ordinary activities (10) 4
Adjustments in respect of prior years (6) (16)
Deferred tax credit in respect of goodwill impairment (9) –
Taxin respect of exceptional items 2 (3)
Totaltax charge for the year 70 77
52 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 7 DIVIDENDS
2003 2002
£m £m
Equity dividends
Interim (paid 30 September 2003) 3.8p per share (2002 – 3.7p per share) 28 27
Final 7.8p per share (2002 – 7.6p per share) 57 56
85 83
8 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Earnings per share for 2003 are based on earnings of the year of £101 million (2002 – £100 million) and calculated on the weighted average
number of 733.0 million shares in issue and ranking for dividend (2002 – 729.2 million shares). Diluted earnings per share, which takes
into account options over GKN plc shares, is calculated on the weighted average number of 736.1 million (2002 – 734.6 million) shares.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items, which the Directors consider gives a useful
additional indication of underlying performance, is calculated on the earnings of the year adjusted as follows:
Earnings Earnings per share
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m p p
Earnings of the year 101 100 13.8 13.7
Included in operating profit:
Goodwill amortisation 37 37 5.0 5.1
Goodwill impairment 91 11 12.4 1.4
Exceptional items – 37 – 5.1
Non-operating exceptional items (55) 2 (7.5) 0.3
Deferred tax attributable to goodwill impairment (9) – (1.2) –
Tax attributable to exceptional items 2 (3) 0.3 (0.4)
Earnings before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 167 184 22.8 25.2
53 GKN plc 2003 9 STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
2003 2002
£m £m
Wages and salaries 886 880
Social security costs 148 133
Other pension costs 74 52
1,108 1,065
The average numbers employed by subsidiaries during the year were:
2003 2002
United Kingdom 6,001 6,805
Continental Europe 15,155 14,927
Americas 11,603 11,775
Rest of the World 2,725 2,541
35,484 36,048
Full details of the Directors’ remuneration, which form part of these accounts, are contained in the auditable part of the Report on Directors’
Remuneration on pages 86 to 88.
10 GOODWILL
Joint Associated
Subsidiaries ventures company Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2003 586 117 9 712
Subsidiaries sold (2) – – (2)
Additions in year 24–– 24
Currency variations (52) 7 – (45)
At 31 December 2003 556 124 9 689
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2003 116 12 – 128
Subsidiaries sold (1) – – (1)
Charge for year 31 6 – 37
Impairment 91–– 91
Currency variations (21) 1 – (20)
At 31 December 2003 216 19 – 235
Net book value at 31 December 2003 340 105 9 454
Net book value at 31 December 2002 470 105 9 584
The impairment charge has been calculated based on a value in use assessment in accordance with FRS 11. The discount rate applied 
to pre-tax cash flows was 11%.
Joint venture and associated company goodwill in the above table is included in the Group’s share of net assets of joint ventures and
associates shown in note 12.
54 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 11 TANGIBLE ASSETS
Other Capital
Land and tangible work in
buildings fixed assets progress Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2003 463 2,144 86 2,693
Subsidiaries acquired and sold 18 23 1 42
Capital expenditure 57382 160
Disposals (17) (70) – (87)
Transfers 18 82 (100) –
Currency variations (5) (10) (3) (18)
At 31 December 2003 482 2,242 66 2,790
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2003 66 1,253 – 1,319
Subsidiaries acquired and sold 8 20 – 28
Charge for the year 13 169 – 182
Disposals (7) (65) – (72)
Impairment 12 –3
Currency variations (2) 3 – 1
At 31 December 2003 79 1,382 – 1,461
Net book value at 31 December 2003 403 860 66 1,329
Owned assets 384 851 66 1,301
Assets under finance leases 19 9 – 28
403 860 66 1,329
Net book value at 31 December 2002 397 891 86 1,374
Net book value 
Cost or Accumulated
valuation depreciation 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Analysis of land and buildings:
Freehold land 81 – 81 91
Freehold buildings 353 (66) 287 284
Long leases 3 (2) 1 –
Short leases (expiring on or before 31 December 2053) 45 (11) 34 22
482 (79) 403 397
£m
Cost or valuation of land and buildings at 31 December 2003 includes:
1996 valuation 166
Earlier years’ valuations 9
At cost or fair value on acquisition 307
482
Major freehold and long leasehold properties in the UK, US, Germany and France were valued at 31 December 1996 by DTZ Debenham
Thorpe and King Sturge & Co, chartered surveyors. Properties were valued, in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of the
RoyalInstitution of Chartered Surveyors, on the basis of open market value and existing use value except for specialised properties which
were valued on a depreciated replacement cost basis. In accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 15 these values have been
retained as book values.
The original cost of land and buildings at 31 December 2003 was £450 million; the notional net book value on the original cost basis would
have been £345 million.
55 GKN plc 2003 12 INVESTMENTS
2003 2002
£m £m
Joint ventures:
Goodwill (note 10) 105 105
Other fixed assets 157 159
Current assets 939 934
Liabilities due within one year (543) (655)
Liabilities due beyond one year (401) (317)
Group’s share of net assets 257 226
Associates 29 39
Loans to joint ventures and associates 6 17
Other investments – –
292 282
The movement in book value of investments is as follows:
2003 2002
£m £m
At 1 January 282 226
Formation of AgustaWestland – (2)
Profit retained by joint ventures and associates 28 29
Additions 6 39
Disposals and changes in status (14) (8)
Loan to Alvis plc reclassified as long-term debtor (15) –
Currency variations 5 (2)
At 31 December 292 282
The Group’s share of net assets of joint ventures includes net fundsof £28 million (2002 – £66 million). Further details of the contribution 
to Group results by AgustaWestland are shown at note 29.
Other investments include: 
> 289,238 shares of 5p each in Brambles Industries plc which were originally issued to the GKN Employee Benefit Trust, now owned directly
by the Group, and 397,456 shares of 5p each in Brambles Industries plc issued to the GKN Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust
(QUEST) as a consequence of the demerger of the Industrial Servicesbusinesses in August 2001. At 31 December 2003 these shares had 
a market value of £1.4 million; 
> 1,219,238 50p Ordinary Shares acquired by the GKN Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust in connection with the GKN long-term
incentive plan. At 31 December 2003 the shares, which have been written down to nil, had a market value of £3.3 million.
The market value at 31 December 2003 of the Group’s 33% shareholding in its associated company Tochigi Fuji Sangyo (TFS) was
£18 million (2002 – £14 million). Because TFS is a listed company, the Group’s share of equity and results is determined from their 
most recently published financial statements dated 30 September 2003. 
In 2003 a new wholly-owned subsidiary, GKN Aerospace Services Structures Corp., was formed. This US corporation operates under a proxy
agreement with the United States Department of Defense developing high technology, classified products for the Joint Strike Fighter. The
agreement places significant restrictions on the Group’s management of the business for the life of the contract so that, in accordance with
FRS 2, it has been excluded from the consolidation and treated as an investment. The amount of the investment has been fully provided 
so that the carrying value is nil. At 31 December 2003, the excluded net liabilities were £1 million and the operating loss was £2 million.
During the year, the Group provided engineering and design services to GKN Aerospace Services Structures Corp. amounting to £1 million.
56 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 13 STOCKS
2003 2002
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 193 201
Work in progress 190 191
Finished goods and goods for resale 104 96
487 488
Work in progress includes £56 million (2002 – £45 million) in respect of non-recurring costs (consisting of design, development and tooling)
on major aerospace contracts.
The replacement cost of stocks is not materially different from the historical cost value.
14 DEBTORS
2003 2002
£m £m
Due within one year:
Trade debtors 424 394
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 19 13
Advance corporation tax recoverable 1 1
Other debtors 40 32
Prepayments and accrued income 26 28
510 468
Due in more than one year:
SSAP 24 prepayment (note 26) 93 72
Deferred tax asset (note 22) 6 9
Other debtors 21 12
630 561
15 CASH AT BANK AND IN HAND
2003 2002
£m £m
Bank balances and cash 91 69
Short-term loans and deposits 40 36
131 105
16 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
2003 2002
£m £m
Bank overdrafts (note 20) 22 26
Short-term loans (note 20):
AgustaWestland 6 7
Other 8 10
36 43
17 CREDITORS
2003 2002
£m £m
Trade creditors 334 334
Bills payable 8 10
Customer advances 48 42
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 14 8
Indirect and payroll taxes 29 30
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 1 2
Other creditors 120 130
Accruals and deferred income 206 216
760 772
57 GKN plc 2003 18 TAXATION PAYABLE
2003 2002
£m £m
United Kingdom tax 46 44
Overseas tax 120 138
166 182
19 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE BEYOND ONE YEAR
2003 2002
£m £m
Term loans (note 20) 872 877
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 15 17
887 894
Term loans include:
> Bank borrowings.
> Unsecured £350 million (2002 – £350 million) 6.75% bonds maturing in 2019 less issue costs of £5 million and £325 million 
(2002 – £325 million) 7% bonds maturing in 2012 less net issue costs of £1 million.
> Secured term loans of £46 million (2002 – £48 million). These include £30 million (2002 – £30 million) debenture stocks of
Westland Group plc, which are secured by a floating charge on the undertaking and assets of that company and certain of its subsidiaries
and guaranteed by GKN Holdings plc, and £14 million (2002 – £16 million) secured by way of a fixed and floating charge on certain
Aerospace assets.
20 ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
The disclosures made in notes 20 and 21 should be read in conjunction with the discussion of the Group’s objectives, policies and
strategies with regard to financial instruments in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 29 and 30. Short-term debtors and 
creditors arising directly from the Group’s operations are excluded from the following disclosures other than those on currency exposures.
After taking into account the various interest rate and forward foreign exchange contracts entered into by the Group, the effective currency
and interest rate exposure of the Group’s borrowings were as follows:
Fixed rate borrowings
Weighted
Weighted average time
Floating rate Fixed rate Total average for which rate
borrowings borrowings borrowings interest rate is fixed
£m £m £m % Years
At 31 December 2003
Sterling 9 702 711 7.0 11.9
US dollar 28 – 28 4.3 10.5
Euro 90 1 91 0.3 6.7
Other 92 2 94 – 4.5
219 705 924 6.9 11.9
At 31 December 2002
Sterling 22 702 724 7.0 12.9
US dollar 43 1 44 5.1 9.4
Euro 68 1 69 0.3 7.7
Other 101 1 102 – 3.5
234 705 939 6.9 12.9
The interest rates on floating rate borrowings are determined by reference to applicable LIBORs.
58 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED The maturity of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December 2003 was as follows:
2003 2002
£m £m
Bank loans, overdrafts and other borrowings repayable as follows:
Within one year 36 43
One to two years 12 10
Two to five years 175 149
After five years 685 718
908 920
Finance leases repayable as follows:
Within one year 1 2
One to two years 2 1
Two to five years 1 3
After five years 12 13
16 19
Total borrowings 924 939
At 31 December 2003 the Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities:
2003 2002
£m £m
Expiring within one year 32 57
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years – –
Expiring in more than two years 614 560
646 617
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
a) Financial assets
Bank and cash Short-term loans
balances and deposits
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Sterling 30 – 21 20
US dollar 8 30 – –
Euro 19 16 2 3
Other 34 23 17 13
91 69 40 36
The bank and cash balances comprise £20 million (2002 – £26 million) in respect of short-term balances earning interest and £71 million
(2002 – £43 million) in respect of balances which are non-interest earning. The weighted average interest rate at year-end on the interest
earning cash balances, which was all floating and set by reference to relevant LIBORs, was 2.6% (2002 – 3.5%). Surplus cash is deposited
for short-term periods typically with a maturity of less than three months. The weighted average interest rate on the deposit account
balances is 3.2% (2002 – 3.2%).
b) Currency exposures
As explained in the Operating and Financial Review on page 30, the Group’s objective in managing the translational currency exposures
arising from its overseas investments is to ensure that changes in the sterling equivalent of assets and liabilities caused by currency
movements do not have a material impact on the sterling value of shareholders’ equity. At 31 December 2003, there were £597 million 
of indirect borrowings created through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge such exposures denominated in euro 
(36%) and US dollars (64%) mirrored by indirectly created sterling deposits. Net gains and losses arising from these translational currency
exposures are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. Interest differentials resulting from the use of financial
instruments to hedge those exposures are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
After taking into account the effects of forward foreign exchange contracts, at 31 December 2003 there were no material currency exposures
that give rise to gains or losses recognised in the profit and loss account.
59 GKN plc 2003 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
c) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The comparison of book and fair values of all the Group’s financialassets and liabilities at 31 December 2003 is set out below:
2003 2002
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations
Bank and cash balances 91 91 69 69
Short-term loans and deposits 40 40 36 36
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings (36) (36) (43) (43)
Long-term borrowings (872) (933) (877) (901)
Finance leases (16) (16) (19) (19)
Financial instruments held to manage interest rate and currency exposures
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments –1 –2
Forward foreign exchange contracts 88 –5
Financial instruments held to hedge currency exposures on expected future 
trading transactions
Forward foreign exchange contracts –6 ––
At 31 December (785) (839) (834) (851)
In addition to the above, the Group has a loan to another company, shown within long-term debtors, with a book value of £15 million 
and fair value of £16 million. The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating fair values for financial instruments:
> Short-term borrowings, cash and deposits approximate to book value due to their short maturities.
> Long-term borrowings: Bank and other loans carrying fixed rates of interest – the repayments which the Group is committed to make 
have been discounted at the relevant interest rates applicable at 31 December 2003. Bonds – quoted closing market value.
> Interest rate instruments – discounted cash flow analysis based on interest rates derived from market yield curves.
> Forward exchange contracts and currency swaps – marked-to-market.
d) Hedges
As explained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 29 and 30, the Group’s policy is to hedge the exposures summarised below.
Translational currency exposures are hedged where the costs and results of such hedging are economically acceptable.
> Interest rate risk – using interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
> Transactional and translational currency exposures – using forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
Gains or losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised.
Unrecognised gains or losses on instruments used for hedging both transactional and translational currency exposures and the 
movements therein, are as follows:
Net
Gains Losses gains/(losses)
£m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2002 39 (32) 7
Gains and losses from previousyears recognised in 2003 (32) 20 (12)
Gains and losses arising before 1 January 2003 that were not recognised in 2003 7 (12) (5)
Gains and losses arising in 2003 that were not recognised in that year 36 (24) 12
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2003 43 (36) 7
Expected to be recognised in 2004 27 (20) 7
Expected to be recognised after 2004 16 (16) –
43 (36) 7
In 2003 net translational gains and losses arising on forward foreign exchange contracts have been recognised through reserves and
matched with offsetting movements on translational foreign exchange variances. Gains of £5 million arising in prior years have been
recognised in the profit and loss account in the year and have offset currency losses on underlying transactions.
60 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 22 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
Deferred Post-
taxation retirement Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2003 64 230 79 373
(Credit)/charge for the year (13) 34 4 25
Paid or accrued during the year – (39) (2) (41)
Currency variations (1) 8 (3) 4
At 31 December 2003 50 233 78 361
Deferred taxation
2003 2002
£m £m
Accelerated tax allowances on fixed assets 120 139
Other timing differences (38) (50)
Tax losses (38) (34)
Net deferred tax liability 44 55
Deferred tax liability 50 64
Deferred tax asset (6) (9)
Net deferred tax liability 44 55
The movements in the net deferred tax liability were:
2003 2002
£m £m
At 1 January 55 52
(Credit)/charge for the year (10) 3
Currency variations (1) –
At 31 December 44 55
There are other deferred tax assets in relation to tax losses totalling £73 million (2002 – £63 million) that have not been recognised on 
the basis that their future economic benefit is uncertain.
No provision has been made for deferred tax in relation to gainsrecognised on revaluing assets to their market value or on the sale of assets
where potentially taxable gains have been rolled over into the cost of replacement assets. Such tax would only become payable if assets
were sold without it being possible to roll over any resultant gains. The total amount unprovided for is £15 million (2002 – £9 million). 
It is not anticipated that any such tax will become payable in the foreseeable future.
No provision has been made for deferred tax which might arise on the remittance of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures
and associates except where the distribution of such profits is planned.
Post-retirement
Post-retirement includes provisions relating to pension benefits of £176 million (2002 – £175 million) and provisions for other post-retirement
benefits of £57 million (2002 – £55 million).
Other
Other provisions comprise mainly legal and other claims, environmental and warranty provisions, the timing of which is inherently uncertain.
They are established based on historical information or professional assessment.
61 GKN plc 2003 23 SHARE CAPITAL
Allotted, called up
Authorised and fullypaid
2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m
Ordinary Shares of 50p each 450 450 367 366
Number Number Number Number
(’000) (’000) (’000) (’000)
Ordinary Shares of 50p each 900,000 900,000 734,113 732,894
The authorised and issued share capital of GKN plc included one SpecialShare of 50p until 15 May 2003 when the Special Share was
purchased by the Company at its nominal value. The Special Share carried a fixed dividend of 2p per annum and no voting rights. Following
the purchase of the Special Share, the authorised but then unissued Special Share in the capital of the Company was reclassified as one
Ordinary Share of 50p.
The options held by Group employees over GKN plc shares were as follows:
UK and overseas
SAYE scheme executive schemes
Number Number
(’000) (’000)
At 1 January 2003 24,793 9,081
Granted 1,880 7,554
Exercised (944) (275)
Lapsed (5,970) (484)
At 31 December 2003 19,759 15,876
Option price per share 164.58p–330.83p 120p–320p
Exercisable at dates extending to 2010 2013
All options granted in 2003 were over GKN plc Ordinary Shares (under the GKN SAYE Share Option Scheme 2001 at 229p per share
exercisable between 2006 and 2007, and under the GKN Executive Share Option Scheme 2001 at 163.05p and 174.25p per share
exercisable between 2006 and 2013).
The consideration received by GKN plc in 2003, all from employees, in connection with the exercise of options was £2 million.
62 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 24 RESERVES
Share Profit
premium Revaluation Other and loss
account reserve reserves account Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Group
At 1 January 2003 13 45 (81) 607 584
Arising from Ordinary Share issues 1 – – – 1
Transfer from profit and loss account – – – 16 16
Reversal of revaluation – (1) – – (1)
Currency variations:
Overseas net assets – 1 3 (58) (54)
Foreign currency borrowings – – – 13 13
Transfers between reserves – (5) (18) 23 –
At 31 December 2003 14 40 (96) 601 559
Parent company and subsidiaries 14 40 (103) 529 480
Joint ventures and associated company – – 7 72 79
14 40 (96) 601 559
Company
At 1 January 2003 13 – – 757 770
Arising from Ordinary Share issues 1 – – – 1
Transfer to profit and loss account – – – (85) (85)
At 31 December 2003 14 – – 672 686
Cumulative goodwill eliminated directly against Group reserves amounted to £639 million (2002 – £665 million).
25 ACQUISITIONS
Group
shareholding
Additional at
direct 31 December
Date shareholding 2003
%%
Subsidiaries
Ecasol SA (Uruguay) July 100 100
Pilkington Aerospace Ltd (UK) October 100 100
Pilkington Aerospace Inc (USA) October 100 100
Pilkington Aerospace do Brasil Ltda (Brazil) October 100 100
Pilkington Aerospace (Thailand) Ltd (Thailand) October 100 100
Ductil Iron Powder SA (Romania) November 100 100
63 GKN plc 2003 25 ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED
The book and fair value of net assets acquired and total consideration payable for subsidiary acquisitions are analysed below:
Book value Accounting Fair value
prior to policy to the
acquisition Revaluations alignment Group
£m £m £m £m
Tangible fixed assets 18 1 (2) 17
Stocks 9–– 9
Debtors 11–– 11
Creditors (10) (1) – (11)
Loans and finance leases (7) – – (7)
Net assets acquired 21 – (2) 19
Goodwill 24
Consideration including costs 43
Acquisitions during the year contributed sales of £14 million and operating profit of £1 million. The contribution to group cash flow was a 
net cash inflow of £3 million from operating activities, payments of nil in respect of interest, payments of nil in respect of tax and payments
of £1 million in respect of capital expenditure and financial investment.
26 POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Group’s pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes throughout the world.
In the UK, pension arrangements are made through an externally funded defined benefit scheme. An independent actuarial valuation of the
scheme was carried out as at April 2003 using the projected unit method. The market value related basis assumed a yield pre-retirement of
7.5% per annum, which exceeded the annual rate of increases in pensionable salaries by 3.4% (2.65% in respect of future service) with a
yield post-retirement of 5% per annum (4.75% in respect of future service), which exceeded pension increases by 2.4% (2.15% in respect
of future service). The aggregate market value of the assets at the valuation date was £1,297 million and the aggregate funding level on an
ongoing basis was 69%.
Company contributions in the year to the UK scheme totalled £54 million (2002 – £33 million) compared with the regular cost in accordance
with the application of SSAP 24 of £10 million (2002 – £11 million). The total charge to operating profit was £33 million (2002 – £17 million).
There were no curtailment costs charged against exceptional items in respect of closure of businesses (2002 – £3 million). A cumulative
advance payment of £93 million is included in long-term debtors (2002 – £72 million).
In certain overseas companies funds are retained within the business to provide for retirement obligations. The annual charge to provide 
for these obligations, which is determined in accordance with actuarial advice or local statutory requirements, amounted to £35 million
(2002 – £31 million).
The Group operates a number of retirement plans which provide certain employees with post-retirement healthcare benefits. The liability
for providing these benefits is recognised on an actuarial basis and included in post-retirement and other provisions disclosed in note 22.
The principal actuarial assumptions for the main UK plan as at December 2000, the date of the last review, were that the discount rate would
be 7% per annum and that medical costs would initially increase by 8% per annum for three years falling to 4.5% over the next five years.
The Group operates a number of small defined contribution schemes outside the United Kingdom. The charge to the profit and loss account
in the year was £4 million (2002 – £4 million). There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at the balance sheet date.
64 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED The following information is given in accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 17
Actuarial assessments of all the principal defined benefit post-retirement plans were carried out as at 31 December 2003.
The major assumptions used were:
2003 2002 2001
UK USA Europe UK USA Europe UK USA Europe
%%% %%%%%%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.3 3.5 3.0 3.9 3.5 3.0 4.0 3.5 3.0
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.8 2.5 1.5 2.4 2.5 2.0 2.5 2.5 2.0
Discount rate 5.4 6.0 5.5 5.5 6.5 5.5 6.0 7.25 6.0
Inflation assumption 2.8 2.4 1.5 2.4 2.4 2.0 2.5 2.5 2.0
Rate of increases in medical costs: 
initial/long-term 9.5/4.3 8.5/5.0 n/a 8.0/3.9 8.5/5.0 n/a 8.0/4.5 9.0/5.0 n/a
In the UK the rate of increase in medical costs is assumed to be fixed for the next three years and thereafter tapers down over a further 
five years to the long-term rate. In the US the rate is assumed to reduce by 0.5 percentage points per annum over a seven year period.
The fair value of the assets in the schemes and the expected rates of return were:
UK USA Europe
Long-term Long-term Long-term
rate of rate of rate of
return return return
expected Value expected Value expected Value
%£m % £m %£m
At 31 December 2003
Equities 7.5 941 8.5 84 – –
Bonds 4.8 417 5.0 33 4.5 9
Property 7.0 70––––
Cash 4.0 18 3.5 1 – –
Other assets 5.4 42 – – 5.5 11
1,488 118 20
At 31 December 2002
Equities 7.5 794 8.5 67 – –
Bonds 4.6 414 5.0 32 – –
Property 7.0 59––––
Cash 4.0 37 3.5 4 – –
Other assets 5.4 33 – – 6.0 7
1,337 103 7
At 31 December 2001
Equities 7.5 951 8.5 92 – –
Bonds 5.2 390 6.4 31 – –
Property 7.0 54––––
Cash 4.0 27 4.2 4 – –
Other assets 5.9 40 5.9 3 7.0 4
1,462 130 4
The overall position in respect of funded defined benefit pension schemes, unfunded pension obligations and other post-retirement
provisions disclosed in note 22 is:
31 December 2003
31 December
UK USA Europe Total 2002
£m £m £m £m £m
Totalmarket value of assets 1,488 118 20 1,626 1,447
Present value of post-retirement liabilities (2,037) (252) (241) (2,530) (2,333)
Gross deficit (549) (134) (221) (904) (886)
Related deferred tax credit 131 52 20 203 202
Net post-retirement liability (418) (82) (201) (701) (684)
Post-retirement liability already included in balance sheet 13 45 173 231 229
SSAP 24 prepayment (93) – – (93) (72)
Additional liability (498) (37) (28) (563) (527)
65 GKN plc 2003 26 POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
If the net post-retirement liability of £563 million set out above were to be recognised in the financial statements, together with deferred tax,
net assets and the profit and loss reserve would be as follows:
31 December 31 December
2003 2002
£m £m
Net assets per balance sheet 942 960
Net post-retirement liability already included in balance sheet 138 157
Net assets excluding net post-retirement liability 1,080 1,117
Net post-retirement liability under FRS 17 (701) (684)
Net assets including net post-retirement liability 379 433
Profit and loss reserve 601 607
Additional net post-retirement liability (563) (527)
Profit and loss reserve including net post-retirement liability 38 80
Analysis of the amounts that would be charged to operating profit of subsidiaries
2003 2002
£m £m
Current service cost (30) (30)
Past service cost (1) –
Total operating charge (31) (30)
Analysis of the amounts that would be (charged)/credited to other finance income of subsidiaries
2003 2002
£m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 92 105
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (129) (121)
Net charge (37) (16)
Total net charge to profit before tax under FRS 17 (68) (46)
Actual charge to profit before tax for the year (68) (48)
Difference – 2
History of experience gains and losses that would be recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses
2003
UK USA Europe
Difference between the expected and the actual return on scheme assets:
Amount – £m 116 13 –
Percentage of scheme assets 7.8% 11.4% –
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount – £m 13 (7) (3)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.6% (2.7%) (1.3%)
Effect of changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities:
Amount – £m (149) (18) (1)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (7.3%) (7.4%) –
Total amount which would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount – £m (20) (12) (4)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (1.0%) (4.7%) (1.5%)
66 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 2002
UK USA Europe
Difference between the expected and the actual return on scheme assets:
Amount – £m (251) (28) –
Percentage of scheme assets (18.8%) (27.2%) –
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount – £m (89) (8) –
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (4.7%) (3.4%) –
Effect of changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities:
Amount – £m (80) (24) (5)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (4.2%) (10.2%) (2.4%)
Total amount which would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount – £m (420) (60) (5)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (22.2%) (25.5%) (2.4%)
Movement in scheme gross deficits during year
UK USA Europe Total
£m £m £m £m
Gross deficit at 1 January 2003 (551) (132) (203) (886)
Current service cost (13) (10) (7) (30)
Contributions 54 13 20 87
Other net expenses (19) (8) (12) (39)
Actuarial loss (20) (12) (4) (36)
Currency variations –15 (15) –
Gross deficit at 31 December 2003 (549) (134) (221) (904)
27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2003 the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees amounting to £6 million (2002 – nil). 
In the case of certain joint ventures engaged in long-term contracts, performance bonds and customer finance obligations have been
entered into in the normal course of business.
Capital expenditure
Contracts placed against capital expenditure sanctioned at 31 December 2003 so far as not provided for by subsidiaries amounted 
to £40 million (2002 – £31 million) and the Group’s share not provided for by joint ventures and associates amounted to £7 million 
(2002 – £4 million).
Operating leases
The minimum payments which the Group is committed to make in 2004 under operating leases are as follows:
2003 2002
Land and Land and
buildings Equipment buildings Equipment
£m £m £m £m
Leases which expire:
Within one year 15 12
Two to five years 10 5 78
After five years 71 3–
18 11 11 10
28 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
In the ordinary course of business, sales and purchases of goods and services take place between subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
priced on an ‘arm’s length’ basis. These transactions are not significant except for amounts charged to AgustaWestland totalling £5 million
(2002 – £5 million) in respect of property rentals and £35 million (2002 – £32 million) for production materials supplied.
In addition, interest of £2 million (2002 – £5 million), accruing at a daily rate of base rate less 0.5 percentage points, was charged to the
Group in respect of a current account with AgustaWestland.
There are no other related party transactions requiring disclosure under FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’.
67 GKN plc 2003 29 AGUSTAWESTLAND
The Group’s share of AgustaWestland’s results and net assets was as follows:
2003 2002
£m £m
Sales 876 865
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and restructuring costs 102 104
Restructuring costs – (11)
Goodwill amortisation (6) (5)
Operating profit 96 88
Net interest – (2)
Profit before tax 96 86
Taxation (24) (29)
Profit after tax 72 57
Fixed assets 183 186
Current assets 860 861
1,043 1,047
Liabilities due within one year (489) (602)
Liabilities due beyond one year (385) (305)
169 140
The restructuring costs of £11 million in 2002 arose from the consolidation of AgustaWestland’s UK operation onto its Yeovil site and the
closure of the Weston-super-Mare facility.
68 GKN plc 2003
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED 2003 2002
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries at cost 3,550 3,550
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiaries (2,440) (2,358)
Dividend payable (57) (56)
(2,497) (2,414)
Totalassets less current liabilities 1,053 1,136
Net assets 1,053 1,136
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 367 366
Share premium account 24 14 13
Profit and loss account 24 672 757
Equity interest 1,053 1,136
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2004 and were signed by:
Sir David Lees, Kevin Smith, Nigel Stein, Directors
As permitted by the Companies Act 1985 a separate profit and loss account for the parent company has not been presented.
Information on the principal divisions, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is shown on pages 90 and 91.
69 GKN plc 2003
BALANCE SHEET OF GKN PLC
AT 31 DECEMBER 2003 Sales Operating profit* Net operating assets
2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m £m £m
By business
Automotive:
Subsidiaries 2,775 2,746 168 177 1,333 1,290
Joint ventures 162 161 26 23 83 85
Associates 99 43 1 1 45 41
3,036 2,950 195 201 1,461 1,416
Aerospace:
Subsidiaries 559 559 23 25 347 353
Joint ventures 902 890 103 93 383 243
Associates 88 53 4 2 – (6)
1,549 1,502 130 120 730 590
UK pension deficit – – (23) (6) – –
Sub-total 4,585 4,452 302 315 2,191 2,006
Goodwill amortisation and impairment – – (128) (48) – –
Exceptional items – – – (37) – –
Group total 4,585 4,452 174 230 2,191 2,006
By region of origin
Europe:
Subsidiaries 1,801 1,687 133 129 902 837
Joint ventures 947 933 108 99 410 272
Associates 88 53 4 2 – (6)
2,836 2,673 245 230 1,312 1,103
Americas:
Subsidiaries 1,244 1,349 42 54 681 724
Joint ventures 46 62 8 10 27 32
1,290 1,411 50 64 708 756
Rest of the World:
Subsidiaries 289 269 16 19 97 82
Joint ventures 71 56 13 7 29 24
Associates 99 43 1 1 45 41
459 368 30 27 171 147
UK pension deficit – – (23) (6) – –
4,585 4,452 302 315 2,191 2,006
*Operating profit for 2002 has been re-analysed to show separately the charge in respect of the UK pension deficit, most of which relates to businesses which are no longer part of the Group.
Notes:
1 The analyses of operating profit by business and by region of origin include an allocation of costs incurred in the United Kingdom other than the pension deficit noted above.
2 Intra-group sales between businesses and regions are not significant.
3 Operating profit/(loss) after charging goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items is analysed by business as follows: Automotive £89 million (2002 – £143 million), Aerospace
£108 million (2002 – £93 million) and UK pension deficit £(23) million (2002 – £(6) million) and by region of origin as follows: Europe £212 million (2002 – £192 million), Americas £(66) million
(2002 – £19 million) and Rest of the World £28 million (2002 – £25 million).
4 Net operating assets are analysed as follows:
2003 2002
£m £m
Tangible fixed assets 1,329 1,374
Stocks 487 488
Debtors 623 551
Creditors – short-term (759) (770)
Totalsubsidiaries 1,680 1,643
Net operating assets of joint ventures and associates 511 363
2,191 2,006
70 GKN plc 2003
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Continuing businesses As reported (including Industrial Services)
Pro forma Pro forma
2003 2002 2001 2000 2001 2000 1999
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Consolidated profit and loss accounts
Sales
Subsidiaries 3,334 3,305 3,317 3,892 3,432 4,124 3,708
Share of joint ventures and associates 1,251 1,147 1,020 242 1,520 972 935
4,585 4,452 4,337 4,134 4,952 5,096 4,643
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 
and impairment and exceptional items
Subsidiaries 168 196 193 389 203 421 396
Share of joint ventures and associates 134 119 113 35 183 172 162
302 315 306 424 386 593 558
Net interest payable:
Subsidiaries (56) (47) (59) (34) (59) (31) (21)
Share of joint ventures and associates – (1) (2) (4) (21) (34) (24)
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and impairment
and exceptional items 246 267 245 386 306 528 513
Goodwill amortisation (37) (37) (43) (28) (49) (35) (21)
Goodwill impairment (91) (11) –––––
Exceptional profits/(losses):
Subsidiaries 55 (39) (100) (18) (127) (18) 11
Share of joint ventures and associates –– 5656 (2)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 173 180 107 346 135 481 501
Taxation (70) (77) (64) (125) (110) (157) (139)
Minority interests (2) (3) (5) (5) (5) (5) (4)
Earnings of the year 101 100 38 216 20 319 358
Earnings per share – p 13.8 13.7 5.3 30.2 2.8 44.6 50.4
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items – p 22.8 25.2 24.0 39.1 28.9 54.5 52.4
Dividend per share – p 11.6 11.3 11.0 n/a 14.9 19.8 18.0
Consolidated balance sheets
Tangible fixed assets 1,329 1,374 1,399 1,341 1,399 1,391 1,214
Stocks 487 488 503 595 503 602 527
Creditors less debtors (136) (219) (182) (341) (182) (346) (433)
Net operating assets 1,680 1,643 1,720 1,595 1,720 1,647 1,308
Net borrowings (793) (834) (885) (601) (885) (601) (281)
Intangible assets – goodwill 340 470 525 535 525 579 402
Fixed asset investments 292 282 226 128 236 437 345
Taxation and dividend payable (222) (237) (242) (295) (242) (295) (135)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (355) (364) (352) (291) (352) (291) (272)
Net assets 942 960 992 1,071 1,002 1,476 1,367
71 GKN plc 2003
GROUP FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL RECORD Business review
The principal businesses of the Group are described on pages 2 
and 3 and in the operating and financial review on pages 22 to 27. 
A review of the development of those businesses in 2003, events
affecting the Group since the end of the year and likely future
developments are referred to in the Chief Executive’s review on
pages 8 to 11 and in the operating and financial review. 
Share capital
During 2003, 1,219,368 GKN plc Ordinary Shares of 50p each were
issued in connection with the exercise of options under SAYE and
Executive share option schemes. The issued share capital at the 
end of the year was 734,113,396 Ordinary Shares of 50p each. 
On 15 May 2003, the Special Share in the capital of the Company,
issued in connection with the Industrial Services businesses demerger
in August 2001, was purchased by the Company at its nominal value
of 50p and then reclassified as an Ordinary Share of 50p forming
part of the Company’s authorised but unissued share capital.
The Company has been informed of the following notifiable interests
in the issued capital of the Company at 27 February 2004: 
% of issued capital
Franklin Resources Inc 6.98
Aviva plc 3.95
Legal& General Group plc 3.19
Annual General Meeting
The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.30 a.m.
on Thursday 20 May 2004 at the Institution of Electrical Engineers,
Savoy Place, London WC2, together with an explanation of the
resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is contained in the
AGM circular enclosed with this annual report.
Dividend
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.8p per 50p 
Ordinary Share for the year ended 31 December 2003 payable 
on 21 May 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of
business on 30 April 2004. This, together with the interim dividend
of 3.8p paid in September 2003, brings the total dividend for the
year to 11.6p per share.
Keydates for the dividend reinvestment plan as it will operate in
respect of the proposed 2003 final dividend are given on page 93.
Directors
The constitution of the Board and of its Committees, together with
biographical notes on the Directors, are shown on pages 16 and 17.
Sir Christopher Meyer and Helmut Mamsch were appointed non-
executive Directors on 1 August and 1 December 2003 respectively.
As Directors appointed during the year, they each retire at the
forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
Sir David Lees retires as Chairman at the conclusion of the
forthcoming AGM to be succeeded by Roy Brown. Sir David joined
GKN in 1970 as an accountant, becoming Finance Director in 1982.
He was appointed Group Managing Director in 1987 and Chairman
and Chief Executive in 1988 before becoming Chairman only in
1997. Klaus Murmann, non-executive Director since 1995, also
retires at the conclusion of the AGM following completion of his
term of appointment. The Directors wish to record their appreciation
of the considerable contribution that Sir David and Dr Murmann
have made to the Group over the years. 
In accordance with the provisions for retirement by rotation in 
the articles of association, Roy Brown, non-executive Director, 
and Ian Griffiths, Managing Director GKN Driveline, retire at the 
AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. 
Directors’ interests in GKN shares are shown on pages 87 to 89.
Honours
The Directors record their great pleasure at the award of CBE
to Marcus Beresford, former Chief Executive, GKN plc, of OBE to
Colin Hague, Chief Test Pilot, Westland Helicopters, and of MBE
to Nicholas Whitney, Head of Future Lynx, Westland Helicopters, 
in the 2003 Queen’s Birthday Honours.
Donations
Contributions to good causes made by Group companies around 
the world amounted to some £840,000 in 2003. This included cash
donations to UK registered charities of £261,000 for educational
purposes and £98,000 for community activities. Further details of
contributions made by the Group worldwide are given in the social
responsibility review on page 38 and on the Company’s website.
While it is the policy of the Group not to make donations to political
organisations, the Group’s US aerospace business does have a
72 GKN plc 2003
DIRECTORS’ REPORT Political Action Committee (PAC) which is funded entirely by employees
and their spouses. No funds are provided to the PAC by GKN and 
any administrative services provided to the PAC by the US aerospace
business are fully charged to and paid for by the PAC, and the
Company does not therefore consider these to be political donations.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is
placed on employees to participate. Under US law, an employee-
funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
Payments to suppliers
It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with
suppliers, provided that the supplier has performed its obligations
under the contract. Given the nature and diversity of the Group’s
international purchasing arrangements and contracts, it is not Group
policy to follow any code or standard in relation to payment practice.
GKN plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to
trade creditors at 31 December 2003.
Corporate governance
The Board’s statement on corporate governance matters is given on
pages 74 to 79, and its report on Directors’ remuneration is set out
on pages 80 to 89.
Directors’ responsibility for the accounts
At the end of each financial year the Directors are required by the
Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts which give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group 
and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year. In preparing 
the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003, the most
appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable and
prudent judgements and estimates, have been used consistently
and UK applicable accounting standards have been followed. 
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group keeps
proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy
at any time the financial position of the Group and which enable
them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act
1985. In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that
an appropriate system of internal control is in operation to provide
them with reasonable assurance that the assets of the Group are
properly safeguarded and to ensure that reasonable steps are taken
to prevent or detect fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors
Resolutions to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of
the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration
will be proposed at the AGM.
On behalf of the Board
Grey Denham
Secretary
27 February 2004
73 GKN plc 2003 Compliance with the Combined Code
Throughout 2003, GKN was in compliance with the 45 provisions of
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as it applied to the
Company during the year, except with regard to the requirement for a
recognised Senior Independent Director. Following the appointment of
Baroness Hogg as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director
on 1 December 2003, GKN complied fully with this version of the Code.
The following paragraphs, together with the report on Directors’
remuneration on pages 80 to 89, provide a description of how the
14 Principles of this Combined Code have been applied within GKN. 
A new Combined Code on Corporate Governance came into effect
for UK listed companies for reporting years beginning on or after
1November 2003. Although GKN is not obliged to report on its
compliance with the new Code until the publication of the 2004
annual report in the spring of 2005, the Board has reviewed 
its procedures with a view to complying with all of the detailed
provisions of the new Code during 2004. In accordance with the
Financial Reporting Council’s request for companies to report
early on the steps taken to implement the new Code, the following
paragraphs also provide a description of how the new Combined
Code is being applied.
The Board of Directors
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
Its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within
a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk
to be assessed and managed; to set the Company’s strategic aims,
ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place
for the Company to meet its objectives, and review management
performance; to set the Company’s values and standards and
ensure that its obligations to its shareholders (including reporting to
shareholders on the Board’s stewardship) and others are understood
and met. Specific responsibilities reserved to the Board include:
> setting Group strategy and approving an annual budget and
medium-term projections; 
> reviewing operational and financial performance;
> approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure;
> reviewing the Group’s systems of financial control and risk
management;
> ensuring that appropriate management development and
succession plans are in place; 
> reviewing the environmental, health and safety performance 
of the Group;
> approving appointments to the Board and as Company Secretary,
and approving policiesrelating to Directors’ remuneration and the
severance of Directors’ contracts; and
> ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takesplace with shareholders.
A description of the role of the Board, together with that of
the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director 
and Company Secretary, is available on the GKN website at
www.gknplc.com and further details of the Board’s role in 
relation to the Group’s systems of internal control and risk
management are given on pages 78 and 79. Descriptions
of the specific responsibilities which have been delegated to 
the principal Board Committees are given on pages 76 and 77. 
The Board currently comprises six executive and eight non-executive
Directors as listed in the table on page 78. Biographical details of
the Directors are given on pages 16 and 17. With the exception 
of the Chairman, who is presumed under the Combined Code not to
be independent, all the non-executive Directors are regarded by the
Board as independent. 
The Board normally meets 10 times a year, two of such meetings
being held at subsidiary or joint venture companies. Comprehensive
briefing papers are provided to all Directors one week before Board
meetings.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of
the Company Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that Board
procedures are followed. In addition, Directors may, in furtherance
of their duties, take independent professional advice, if necessary,
at the Company’s expense.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been split since
1997. Whilst collectively they are responsible for the leadership of
the Company, the Chairman’s primary responsibility is for leading
the Board and ensuring its effectiveness and the Chief Executive 
is responsible for running the Company’s business. 
74 GKN plc 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In November 2003, GKN announced that, following selection by
the Nominations Committee and Board approval, Roy Brown will
replace Sir David Lees as Chairman following Sir David’s retirement
at the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting in May.
Induction and professional development
On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction
pack which includes background information about GKN and its
Directors, and details of Board meeting procedures, Directors’
responsibilities, procedures for dealing in GKN shares and a 
number of other governance-related issues. This is supplemented 
by a briefing with the Company Secretary. The Director meets with
the Chief Executive to be briefed on the general Group strategy
and with the Managing Directors in relation to each individual
business portfolio. Plant visits are organised as necessary for new
non-executive Directors. External training, particularly on matters
relating to the role of a Director and the role and responsibilities
of Board Committees, is arranged as appropriate.
Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary and may be
identified in annual performance reviews (see below) or on an ad
hoc basis. The suitability of external courses is kept under review 
by the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the
induction of new Directors both into the business and as to their
roles and responsibilities as Directors, as well as with assisting in
the ongoing training and development of Directors. 
Performance evaluation
Formal evaluations of the performance of the Board and of the
principal Board Committees will be conducted by the Chairman in
2004. The process will build on that developed in 2002 when the
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees was reviewed covering,
inter alia, composition, arrangements for and content of meetings,
Committee terms of reference, Director training and visits to operating
sites, access to information and administrative procedures. As in
2002, the results of the evaluation will be reported to the Board and
agreed recommendations for improvement will be implemented.
Evaluation of individual Directors in their role as members
of the Board will also be conducted by the Chairman in 2004. 
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for the evaluation 
of the Chairman and will meet at least annually with the other 
non-executive Directorsto appraise his performance. 
Director re-election
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first
Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
Under the articles of association of the Company, each of the
Directors is required to retire by rotation at least once every three
years. Details of the Directorsretiring and seeking re-election at
an AGM are given to shareholders in the Notice of Meeting.
Communicating with shareholders
Meetings between Directors, senior management and major
institutional shareholders are held during the year in accordance
with GKN’s investor relations programme and when required in
relation to particular issues. The Senior Independent Director 
and the other non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend
presentations to analysts and shareholders, in particular the 
annual and interim results presentations.
In fulfilment of his obligations under the new Combined Code, 
the Chairman will give feedback to the Board on issues raised with
him by major shareholders. This will be supplemented by twice
yearly feedback to the Board on meetings between management
and investors, and the non-executive Directorswill receive an
annual briefing from the Company’s brokers on the market’s
perception of GKN. Existing arrangements for the whole Board 
to receive periodically a presentation by external consultants on
investor perceptions and for external brokers’ reports on GKN to 
be circulated to all Directors will be maintained. 
All Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and
shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and 
to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Shareholders at the meeting are advised as to the level of proxy
votes received including the percentage for and against each
resolution following each vote on a show of hands, and, from 
the 2004 AGM, abstentions will also be advised.
In its annual and interim reports, trading statements, results
presentations and City announcements generally, GKN endeavours
to present an accurate, objective and balanced picture in a style and
format which is appropriate to the intended audience. The GKN website
provides information about the Group including copies of annual and
interim reports and presentations made to institutional investors. 
75 GKN plc 2003 Board Committees
The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees are
available upon request and on the GKN website:
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee comprises the executive Directors under
the chairmanship of the Chief Executive. The Committee is tasked
with overseeing and directing the activitiesof the Group, reviewing
Group strategy and deciding how the various risks facing the Group
are to be managed. It also reviews acquisitions and divestments
and approves major human resource policy issues including
management development and training. It normally meets monthly.
Chairman’s Committee
The Chairman’s Committee comprises all the non-executive
Directors together with the Chief Executive under the chairmanship
of the Chairman. The Committee is a forum for the Chairman and
Chief Executive to brief and obtain the views of the non-executive
Directors on particular issues.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive
Directors (other than Klaus Murmann). It is currently chaired by
RoyBrown but from the conclusion of the Company’s 2004 Annual
General Meeting will be chaired by Sir Peter Williams.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference in 2003 in the 
light of the new Combined Code and recommended to the Board
certain changes, all of which have been implemented. Under its
revised terms of reference, the Committee monitors the integrity
of the Company’s financial statements and the effectiveness of
the external audit process. It is responsible for ensuring that an
appropriate relationship between GKN and the external auditors
is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees. 
It also reviews annually the Group’s systems of internal control
and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing 
the Group. The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the 
internal audit function and is responsible for approving, upon 
the recommendation of the Chief Executive, the appointment
and termination of the Head of that function. From 2004 the
Committee will review annually its terms of reference and its
effectiveness and recommend to the Board any changes
required as a result of such review.
In 2003, the Audit Committee, operating under its previous terms
of reference, discharged its responsibilities by:
> reviewing the Group’s draft 2002 financial statements and 2003
interim results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing 
the external auditors’ detailed reports thereon;
> reviewing the Group’s December trading update announcement
prior to release;
> reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies;
> reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Group’s financial
statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset
values and proposed International Accounting Standards;
> reviewing and approving the 2002 audit fee and reviewing 
non-audit fees payable to the Group’s external auditors in 2002; 
> reviewing the external auditors’ plan for the audit of the Group’s
2003 accounts, which included key areas of extended scope work,
keyrisks on the accounts, confirmations of auditor independence
and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement
for the audit;
> reviewing an annual report on the Group’s systems of internal
control and its effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results
of the review (see page 79) and receiving regular updates on key
risk areas of financial control;
> reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and performance
of significant recent acquisitions; 
> reviewing the risks associated with major business programmes; and
> reviewing the internal audit function’s terms of reference, its 2003
work programme and quarterly reports on its work during the year.
From 2004 the Audit Committee will meet at least four times a 
year, including meetings before the annual and interim results
announcements and at the commencement of the annual external
audit process. Members’ attendance record at meetings of the
Committee in 2003 is given on page 78.
The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its
terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information and
to obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company.
Should there be any disagreement between the Committee and 
the Board which cannot be resolved, the Committee has the right
to report the issue to shareholders within the Company’s next
annual report.
No person other than the members of the Committee is entitled to
be present at meetings but others may be invited to attend by the
Committee. Sir David Lees, who, as Chairman of the Board, ceased
to be a member of the Committee in November 2003 to comply with
the requirements of the new Combined Code, has continued to act
as an adviser to the Committee in the absence currently of another
non-executive Director having the financial background required
under the new Code. A non-executive Director with the appropriate
76 GKN plc 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED qualifications will be appointed in 2004. The Head of the internal
audit function and the external auditors usually attend meetings
of the Committee. At each meeting there is an opportunity for the
external auditors, and annually an opportunity for the Head of
internal audit, to discuss matters with the Committee without any
executive management being present. Both the Head of internal
audit and the external auditors have direct access to the Chairman
of the Committee outside of formal Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee has the specific task of keeping under 
review the nature and extent of non-audit services provided 
by the external auditors in order to ensure that objectivity and
independence are maintained. As a matter of policy, the auditors
are excluded from invitations to undertake assignments of a
consultancy nature. For other non-audit work, the policy is that
GKN does not use the external auditorsunless there are compelling
reasons to do so, i.e. they can provide a unique skill or a service 
not readily available from any other source. Under the policy, 
agreed by the Board, anyproposal to use the auditors for non-audit
work must be submitted to the Group Finance Director who will,
depending on the nature of the service, seek the prior authorisation
of the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The external auditors have
in place processes to ensure their independence is maintained
including safeguards to ensure that where they do provide non-
audit services, their independence is not threatened. They have
written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in their opinion,
they are independent.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent non-
executive Directors under the chairmanship of Baroness Hogg. 
The Committee is responsible for approving the terms of service 
and setting the remuneration of the executive Directors and the
Company Secretary in accordance with a remuneration policy
which is approved annually by the Board. It is also responsible for
determining the fees of the Chairman and the terms upon which 
the service of executive Directors isterminated having regard to a
severance policy adopted by the Board. It also prepares for approval
by the Board the annual report on Directors’ remuneration (set out
on pages 80 to 89).
The Committee meets periodically when required. Members’
attendance record at meetings of the Committee in 2003 is given 
on page 78. No person other than the members of the Committee 
is entitled to be present at meetings but others may be invited by
the Committee to attend. No Director nor the Company Secretary is
present when the Committee considersmatters relating to himself
or acts in matters relating to himself. 
The Committee has access to such information and advice both from
within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it
deems necessary. It is responsible for appointing any consultants
in respect of executive Directors’ remuneration.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee comprises the non-executive 
Directors and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the
Chairman of the Board (except when the Committee is dealing with
the appointment of a successor as Chairman of the Board when 
the Senior Independent Director chairs the Committee). 
The Committee leads the process for identifying and makes
recommendations to the Board on candidates for appointment
as Directors of the Company and as Company Secretary, giving 
full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs
of the Group. It also makes recommendations to the Board on the
composition of the Chairman’s and Nominations Committees and
the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration
Committees. It reviews regularly the structure, size and composition
of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and
experience and the independence of the non-executive Directors,
and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Committee meets periodically when required. Members’
attendance record at meetings of the Committee in 2003 is given 
on page 78.
The Board has agreed the procedures to be followed by the
Nominations Committee in making appointments to the various
positions on the Board and as Company Secretary. These
procedures, under which the Committee agrees a description of
the role, experience and capabilities for a Director, are available on
GKN’s website. The Committee has access to such information and
advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the
Company, as it deems necessary. This may include the appointment
of external executive search consultants, where appropriate. 
The procedures referred to above were used in the appointment
during 2003 of Sir Christopher Meyer and Helmut Mamsch as
non-executive Directors and for the appointment of Roy Brown 
as successor as Chairman with effect from May 2004. This included
an assessment of the time commitment expected from the Director
and, for the Chairman, recognising the need for his availability
in the event of a major corporate action. Independent executive
search consultants were used in connection with each appointment. 
Sir David Lees, as current Chairman, was not a member of the
Nominations Committee panel which recommended to the Board
the appointment of Roy Brown as successor to Sir David.
77 GKN plc 2003 Directors’ attendance record
The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of
the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during
2003 was as follows:
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Director (10 meetings) (4 meetings) (8 meetings) (6 meetings)
Sir David Lees
(a)
10 3/3* 2/2* 6
Chairman
BaronessHogg 10 4 8 6
Deputy Chairman and
Senior Independent Director
Executive Directors
Kevin Smith 10 – – 6
Chief Executive
Richard Clowes 10–––
DickEtches10–––
Ian Griffiths 9/10* – – –
NealKeating 10–––
NigelStein 10–––
Other independent non-executive Directors
Roy Brown 10486
Sir Ian Gibson 10 4 8 6
Helmut Mamsch
(b)
1/1* – 1/1* 1/1*
Sir Christopher Meyer
(c)
4/5* 1/3* 3/4* 4/4*
Dr Klaus Murmann 7/10* – 6/8* 5/6*
Sir Peter Williams 10 4 8 6
*Actual attendance/maximum number of meetings Director could attend as a member.
Internal control
The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges
its responsibility for, the Group’s systems of internal control and risk
management and carries out regular reviews of their effectiveness.
The Board’s policy is to have systems in place which optimise the
Group’s ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility
for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the 
Group and for deciding how these are to be managed. There is
a standing agenda item at every Executive Committee meeting 
to enable members of the Committee to advise if any material
internal control issues, serious accidents or events having a major
commercial impact have arisen or any significant new risks have
been identified, with subsequent reporting to the next Board
meeting if appropriate. 
Continuing processes are in place for all parts of the Group 
to assess the major strategic, commercial and financial risks to
which their operations are exposed, the social responsibilities
relating to such operations and the way in which such risks and
responsibilities are monitored, managed and controlled. (‘Social
responsibilities’ concern the responsibilities of the Group to various
stakeholders including its employees, the communities in which 
it operates, its business partners and the environment including
behaving ethically and with regard to human rights. The Group’s
social responsibility review is on pages 32 to 41.) These processes
are summarised in a ‘risk map’ which is reviewed at least annually
by the Audit Committee.
Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review 
their business risks and to report on whether there has been any
material breakdown in their internal controls. Companies also have
to confirm annually whether they have complied with statutory and
regulatory obligations as well as with internal policies on matters
such as competition law, employment law, ethics, document
management, data protection and employee disclosure. Risk
profiling is undertaken across all subsidiaries to identify accidental
risks and highlight action required to mitigate such risks.
In implementing its policy on managing accidental risk, the 
Group pursues a systematic integrated loss prevention approach 
to safeguard people’s health, the environment, an uninterrupted
supply to its customers, its assets and its earnings, under the
auspices of a Group Loss Prevention Council. The Council formulates
and recommends Group loss prevention policies and acts as a
steering group for loss prevention activities across Group operations.
The Group has one major 50:50 joint venture, AgustaWestland,
which was formed in 2001 when GKN and Finmeccanica merged their
respective helicopter manufacturing businesses. The AgustaWestland
Audit Committee (whose members include the Finance Director of
GKN plc) is responsible for the overview of the corporate governance
procedures adopted by AgustaWestland that are appropriate to the
business and comply with the requirements of both shareholders.
78 GKN plc 2003
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
(a) Resigned as a member of the Audit
Committee in November 2003 and of the
Remuneration Committee in February
2003.
(b) Appointed 1 December 2003.
(c) Appointed 1 August 2003. The Group’s systems and procedures are designed to identify,
manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects
of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. They are not
designed to eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The review process
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal
control and risk management on an ongoing basis by:
> setting the strategy of the Group at both Group and divisional
level and, within the framework of this, approving an annual budget
and medium-term projections. Central to this exercise is a review 
of the risks and opportunities facing each business and the steps
being taken to manage these;
> reviewing on a regular basis operational performance and updated
forecasts for the current year. Comparisons are made with budget
and the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to
optimise operational and financial performance;
> retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment
policy, and the approval of major capital expenditure, major
contracts and financing arrangements. Below Board level there 
are clearly defined management authorities for the approval of
capital expenditure, major contracts, acquisitions, investments
and divestments, together with an established framework for their
appraisal, which includes a risk analysis and post-implementation
plan, and where appropriate, a post-acquisition review;
> receiving regular reports on the Group’s treasury activities, having
approved the operating policies and controls for this function;
> performing at least annually a review of the Group’s pension fund
arrangements and insurance and risk management programmes; 
> receiving reports at least annually, following their review by
the Executive Committee, on environmental, health and safety
performance of the Group’s operations. The Executive Committee
also reviews interim reports on health and safety performance; 
> reviewing at least annually management development and
succession plans. The Executive Committee also reviews
management development issues twice a year; and
> receiving annual reports from the Audit Committee on whether 
the systems of internal control and risk management are operating
effectively.
The Audit Committee, which has independent access to the 
external auditors and to the internal audit function, is responsible
for reviewing the ongoing control processes. It achieves this by:
> reviewing and approving the terms of reference and major findings
of the internal audit department. This department has a risk-based
work programme which is reviewed by the Audit Committee, and 
its purpose is to review and test the systems, controls, processes,
procedures and practices across the Group. The Head of internal
audit, who reports directly to the Group Chief Executive, has access
to, and regular reviews with, the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
There is an established process to review the implementation of
the recommendations of the department and all its reports are 
seen by the relevant members of the Executive Committee;
> reviewing reports from management, the internal audit function
and the external auditors on the effectiveness of the systems of
internal control and risk management. In particular, in advance of
the announcement of the Group’s results for each year, it reviews a
summary of the annual detailed divisional reports on their business
risks and internal control processes; and
> discussing with management the resolution of control issues
raised by Board members or in reports reviewed by it.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s systems
of internal control and risk management during the period covered
by this annual report. It confirms that the processes described
above, which accord with the guidance on internal control now
appended to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (the
Turnbull Guidance) have been in place throughout that period 
and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
79 GKN plc 2003 Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Board’s Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating
the Group’s policy for the remuneration of the executive Directors of
GKN plc. The Committee reviews the policy annually and recommends
any changes to the Board as a whole for formal approval.
Within the framework of the agreed policy, the Committee determines
the detailed terms of service of the executive Directors, including
basic salary, incentives and benefits, and the terms upon which their
service may be terminated. The Committee also determines the fees
of the Chairman and is responsible for recommending to the Chief
Executive and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for
the most senior managers below Board level. The Committee’s full
terms of reference are available on GKN’s website at www.gknplc.com. 
Baroness Hogg has chaired the Committee since May 2002. 
The other members of the Committee are currently Roy Brown, 
Sir Ian Gibson, Helmut Mamsch, Sir Christopher Meyer, Dr Klaus
Murmann and Sir Peter Williams. Sir David Lees was a member 
of the Committee until 27 February 2003. The Chairman of the 
Board is no longer a member of the Committee which, under its
recently revised constitution, is comprised solely of independent
non-executive Directors. Members’ attendance at meetings of the
Committee in 2003 is summarised on page 78. 
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for appointing external
independent consultants to advise on executive remuneration matters
and has adopted a policy under which an individual external
consultant appointed by it to advise on the determination of Board
level remuneration shall not also act as consultant to any company
in the GKN Group. The Committee has appointed, and received advice
during 2003 from, Kepler Associates in relation to incentive plan
structure and Towers Perrin in relation to executive Director salary
levels. During 2003, Towers Perrin were also appointed by the Group,
at the instigation of the Chairman, to provide advice to the Board 
on non-executive Director fee levels and structure. Towers Perrin
consultants (different from the consultant who provided the advice
to the Remuneration Committee and the Board) were also appointed
by the Group to provide advice during the year to GKN subsidiaries
in Brazil, Japan and the US on pensions and administration systems.
Towers Perrin did not provide any other services directly to the Group
during the year (although from time to time, GKN’s management
inputs data into a senior executive salary survey administered by
Towers Perrin, the results of which GKN finds useful in determining
executive salary levels below Board level) and Kepler Associates
did not provide any services directly to the Group during the year. 
The Committee also receives input from the Group’s Chief Executive
when considering the remuneration of the other executive Directors.
The Committee has reviewed its terms of reference and procedures
in the light of the publication in July 2003 of the new Combined
Code on Corporate Governance to ensure that it complies with the
Code’s best practice provisions. (The Board’s statement of compliance
with the June 1998 Combined Code generally is given on page 74.) 
Remuneration policy
This section describes GKN’s policy for the remuneration of its
executive and non-executive Directors as at the date of this report.
At the Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting shareholders
will be asked to approve certain changes to the operation of the
Group’s long-term incentive arrangements in which the executive
Directors participate. In all other respects the remuneration policy
described here remains the policy for the foreseeable future.
GKN’s remuneration policy for executive Directors is designed to
attract, retain and motivate executives of the high calibre required
to ensure that the Group is managed successfully to the benefit
of shareholders. To achieve this, an internationally competitive
package of incentives and rewards linked to performance is
provided. In setting remuneration levels the Remuneration
Committee takes into consideration the remuneration practices
found in other UK multinational companies of similar size and also
ensures that the remuneration arrangements for executive Directors
are compatible with those for executives throughout the Group. It
also considers the most recent pay awards in the Group generally
when reviewing the basic salaries of the executive Directors.
The remuneration of the executive Directors comprises basic salary
and benefits in kind set at competitive levels, short-term variable
remuneration dependent upon the achievement of performance
targets, and longer-term rewards including retirement benefits and
performance-related long-term incentives. Further details of each of
these elements are given in the following paragraphs. On the basis
of the expected value of long-term incentives and achievement of
on-target performance for the purposes of the short-term variable
remuneration scheme, the total annual remuneration (excluding
pension benefits) of an executive Director under the Group’s
remuneration policy is weighted approximately 50% performance-
related and 50% non performance-related, valued as at the time 
of award of long-term incentives, with flexibility to change the
balance between the performance-related and non performance-
related elements when the Remuneration Committee considers
it appropriate. The Remuneration Committee believes that these
proportions represent an appropriate balance between certainty
of income and incentive-based remuneration linked to the
achievement of GKN’s operational and strategic objectives.
The fees of the non-executive Directorsare set at a level which will
attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make
a substantial contribution to the Group’s affairs. The fees paid are
commensurate with those paid by other leading UK listed companies.
80 GKN plc 2003
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION Basic salary
This is based on a number of factors including market rates together
with the individual Director’s experience, responsibilities and
performance. The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to maintain
salaries at around the median level of the relevant employment
market and in this connection it reviews annually data drawn from an
analysis of senior executive salary levels in approximately 100 major
UK companies. Individual salaries of Directors are reviewed annually
by the Committee with any increase usually being effective from 1 July.
Benefits in kind
These comprise principally car and health care benefits and
premiums paid on additional life assurance policies in connection
with pension arrangements. The level of benefits provided to
executive Directors is consistent with that provided by other major
companies. These benefits do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Performance-related short-term variable remuneration
Payments may be made annually under arrangements which link
remuneration to the achievement of short-term operational targets
relevant to GKN’s long-term strategic objectives. These targets,
which may include some key personal objectives, will typically
relate to a combination of corporate and, where appropriate,
individual portfolio profit and cash flow performance. Achievement
of on-target performance will result in payments of approximately
45% of an executive Director’s salary and payments are normally
capped at around 100% of salary. Details of the targets and cap for
2003 are given below in the section ‘Directors’ remuneration 2003’. 
The Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to alter
targets to reflect changed circumstances such as material changes
in accounting standards or changes in the structure of the Group. 
It may also make discretionary payments in respect of exceptional
performance. Payments generally are based upon a percentage of
year-end basic salary and do not form part of pensionable earnings
under Directors’ pension arrangements.
Long-term incentive arrangements
The Remuneration Committee believes that performance-related
long-term incentives which closely align executive rewards with
shareholders’ interests are an important component of overall
executive remuneration arrangements. In 2001 shareholders
approved both elements of GKN’s current long-term incentive
arrangements for executive Directors and other senior executives
– the GKN Long Term Incentive Plan and the GKN Executive Share
Option Scheme. Proposals for revisions to these arrangements
are set out in the AGM circular being sent to shareholders with 
this annual report – the substantive differences from the current
arrangements are referred to below.
Award levels under each of the Long Term Incentive Plan and the
Executive Share Option Scheme are set such that the combined
rewards available to an individual Director, assuming full vesting,
are no greater than they would have been had the Group’s long-term
incentive arrangements comprised only a single element and this
will remain the case under the proposed revised arrangements.
GKN Long Term Incentive Plan (the ‘L TIP’)
In summary, under the LTIP as it currently operates, each executive
Director may be awarded annually a conditional right to receive a
number of GKN plc Ordinary Shares equal in value up to a maximum
of 100% of basic salary and calculated by reference to the average
of the daily closing prices of GKN plc Ordinary Shares during the
preceding year. (For awards made in 2001 and 2002, the preceding
year’s share price was adjusted to reflect the demerger of GKN’s
Industrial Services businessesto Brambles Industries plc in 
August 2001.) The combined maximum potential award under 
both elements of the revised long-term incentive arrangements
will remain, in line with the existing arrangements, at 250% of
basic salary or such higher overall percentage which may be 
applied where necessary specifically to recruit or retain an individual.
However, within this overall amount, the maximum award under 
the LTIP will be increased to 150% of salary. The number of shares
that the Director will ultimately receive will depend on the Group’s
performance during the three years commencing on 1 January in 
the year of award and on satisfaction of a personal shareholding
requirement (see pages 84 and 85).
Performance is measured by comparing the total shareholder 
return (i.e. the internal rate of return from the cash flows arising
from buying, owning and selling a company’s shares), or ‘TSR’, 
from GKN shares with the return on shares of other companies
chosen by the Remuneration Committee as an appropriate
comparator group. The Committee considers relative TSR to be an
appropriate performance criterion as it represents the investment
return received by GKN’s shareholders over the measurement period
compared to the return investors could have received by investing in
alternative stocks over the same period. This incentive arrangement
is therefore less affected by changes in economic conditions and
short-term stock market sentiment than plans based on certain
other measures. For awards made from 2001 to 2003 inclusive, 
the comparator group is the companies constituting the FTSE 100
Index at the start of the measurement period excluding companies
in the telecommunications, media, technology and financial
services sectors. It was thought appropriate to strip out certain 
non-manufacturing sectors, some of which have in recent years
contributed significantly to the volatility of the FTSE 100 Index. 
As explained in the AGM circular, the Remuneration Committee now
believes it appropriate to use a tailored peer group representing
GKN’s major competitors and customers worldwide which will,
under the proposed revised LTIP , provide a more meaningful
comparator group going forward. 
81 GKN plc 2003 Under the present arrangements if, at the end of the three-year
measurement period, GKN ranks in the upper quartile of the
comparator group, the conditional award is converted into a
deferred right to receive all of the shares which will not be released
to the Director for at least a further two years other than in the
specific circumstances set out in the rules of the LTIP . (Under the
revised arrangements for the LTIP , this deferment period would 
be one year.) If the ranking is at the median level, 50% of the 
shares will be received at the end of the deferment period, with no
shares being received for below median. For intermediate rankings
between upper quartile and median, the executive Director will
receive a proportionate number of shares reducing on a straight-line
basis. Under the proposed revised arrangements for the LTIP , 30% 
of the shares will be received if the ranking is at the median level
rising on a straight-line basis to 100% at the 75th percentile and
above. Under these revised arrangements dividends will be treated
as having accrued from the beginning of the third year of the
measurement period on any shares that vest and the equivalent
cash amount will be paid to the Director on release of such shares
(no dividends accrue on either vested or unvested shares under 
the present arrangements).
GKN obtains the required TSR data and ranking information 
from an external consultant which ensures that the comparative
performance is independently verified. However, irrespective 
of GKN’s TSR, before any shares become eligible for release the
Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that this is justified 
by the underlying financial performance of the Group over the
measurement period. 
Prior to the introduction of the LTIP in 2001, GKN operated a similar
plan which was essentially the same as the current LTIP except that
the TSR comparator group was the companies constituting the entire
FTSE 100 Index at the start of the measurement period and there
was no shareholding requirement. All remaining rights granted
under this former LTIP lapsed during 2003. 
GKN Executive Share Option Scheme (the ‘ESOS’)
In summary, under the ESOS each executive Director may be
awarded annually an option to subscribe for a number of GKN plc
Ordinary Shares. The Remuneration Committee decides the level
of awards in each year – for awards made since 2001, the value of
the shares granted under option to each executive Director below
Chief Executive level has been 1.5 times basic salary. Kevin Smith,
who was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 1 January 2003,
received an award in 2003 of 2.25 times his basic salary.
The number of shares that a Director can ultimately acquire upon
exercise of the option is dependent upon satisfaction of a performance
condition and a personal shareholding requirement (see pages 84
and 85), set by the Remuneration Committee before an option is
granted. For options granted under the ESOS as it currently
operates, the performance condition is linked to the increase 
in GKN’s earnings per share, or ‘EPS’, (calculated in accordance 
with UK Financial Reporting Standard 14, adjusted to exclude
goodwill amortisation and impairment together with any exceptional
items as disclosed in the Group’s financial statements and the 
tax thereon) over the three years commencing on 1 January in the
year of grant. 50% of the shares can be acquired if the increase 
over this period is not less than the increase in the Retail Prices
Index (‘RPI’) plus 9%. The remaining 50% can only be acquired 
in full if such increase is RPI plus 15% (with a straight-line sliding
scale for increases between RPI plus 9% and RPI plus 15%). If the
performance condition is not satisfied in full after the first three-year
period, so that less than 100% of the shares under option can 
be acquired, the performance condition will be reassessed each
year up to six years from the date of grant (the RPI plus 9% will be
increased by 3% for each year beyond the third year, and the RPI plus
15% will be increased by 5% for each year beyond the third year). 
At the end of the six-year period, any unvested options will lapse. 
Historically, EPS has been regarded as a true measure of the
underlying profitability of a company and the Committee therefore
considered it an appropriate means of linking executive rewards
with shareholders’ interests. The Remuneration Committee believes
that real growth in EPS of between 9% and 15% is a stretching
target of direct relevance to shareholders. The RPI data used to
assess the extent to which an option is capable of being exercised 
is obtained from public sources and GKN’s EPS amount is extracted
from the Group’s audited financialstatements. However, as
explained in the AGM circular, the requirement for all publicly
quoted companies in the EU to report under International Financial
Reporting Standards from 2005 is likely to introduce a far greater
level of volatility into reported earnings figures making short-term
comparison difficult. Although it may be possible to make a series
of adjustments to reported EPS figures to remove volatility, this is
likely to detract from transparency. For this reason the Remuneration
Committee believes that EPS will prove unsuitable for use as a
performance measure in long-term incentive schemes. It is therefore
proposed that going forward the ESOS will use a relative total
shareholder return criterion rather than an EPS based criterion
although the comparator group chosen will be a different one 
from that used in the LTIP . 
Performance under the proposed revised ESOS will be measured 
by comparing the TSR from GKN shares to the TSR from shares of
companies in a comparator group comprising the constituents
of the FTSE 350 Index at the start of the three-year measurement
period. The Remuneration Committee believes the FTSE 350 Index
to be appropriate as it is a broadly based index which contains more
manufacturing and engineering companies than the FTSE 100 Index.
82 GKN plc 2003
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED Under the proposals, 50% of the shares under option can 
be acquired by the Director if GKN ranks at the median level
in the comparator group with no shares being receivable for 
below median. 100% of the shares can only be acquired if
GKN ranks in the upper quartile of the comparator group, with a
straight-line sliding scale for rankings between upper quartile and
median. Unlike the current ESOS, there will be no retesting of the
performance condition after the end of the measurement period.
As with the LTIP , the TSR information for the revised ESOS will be
obtained from an external consultant to ensure that the performance
is independently verified. In addition, the provisions of the ESOS
will be brought into line with those of the LTIP in requiring that,
notwithstanding GKN’s TSR, the Remuneration Committee must be
satisfied that the vesting of an option is justified by the underlying
financial performance of the Group over the measurement period.
There remain outstanding a number of options granted under earlier
executive share option schemes which were in operation until 1996.
These schemes were not performance-related and had no personal
shareholding requirement in common with most other companies’
schemes in operation at the time.
Options granted under the ESOS together with options outstanding
under the earlier executive share option schemes are normally
exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of
grant (between the fifth and tenth anniversary for options granted 
in 1995 and 1996). The exercise price is fixed at the market price 
of GKN’s shares at the time of grant. 
Retirement benefits
For executive Directors subject to the UK restrictions on pensionable
earnings in the Finance Act 1989 (the ‘earnings cap’), retirement
provision is secured by the Company by a combination of amounts
paid to individual ‘money-purchase’ schemes and supplementary
allowances paid to each Director. In certain cases, dependent in part
upon the individual’s salary level at commencement of employment,
retirement benefits are also provided through membership of the
Executive section of the GKN Group Pension Scheme, which is a
defined benefit scheme. The retirement provisions are made in order
to assist each Director towards securing overall retirement benefits
comparable in value with those available under the pension scheme
had it not been for the operation of the earnings cap.
GKN’s pension scheme provides Directors with a pension of up to
two-thirds of basic annual salary (up to the earnings cap) on retirement
at age 60 after 20 or more years’ service and proportionately less
for shorter service or for retirement before pension age. A standard
employee contribution of 5% of gross salary is required under 
the scheme, except in the case of members who joined it prior to
1991 when such contributions were introduced. In addition, from 
1 October 2003 all executive Directors, in common with other
members, have been required to pay a further 1% (which will rise 
to 2% from April 2004). 
Executive Directors employed outside the UK typically receive
retirement benefits consistent with local practice. In particular, 
in accordance with standard practice in the US, GKN contributes
an amount equivalent to 11% of Neal Keating’s basic salary and
annual performance-related short-term variable remuneration 
to his defined contribution pension arrangement.
Service agreements
The service agreements of executive Directors employed in the 
UK are with GKN Holdings plc, the parent company of the GKN 
Group prior to the Industrial Services demerger in 2001 and 
now a wholly-owned subsidiary of GKN plc. Executive Directors
employed overseas have their service agreements with an
appropriate overseas subsidiary. The non-executive Directors
do not have service agreements, their terms of service being
contained in letters of appointment. 
The Board’s current policy is that, unless local employment
practice requires otherwise, the service agreements of its executive
Directors will be terminable by the employing company on one
year’s notice. Neal Keating has a US-style service agreement with
GKN North America Services Inc which can be terminated by GKN
without notice, although for termination without cause an amount
approximately equal to one year’s basic salary and benefits would
be payable to him. The agreements terminate in any event at the
end of the year in which the Director attains the age of 60. 
Other than in the event of early termination following a change of
control of GKN plc, there is no contractual provision for predetermined
compensation payable upon early termination of an executive
Director’s service agreement. In the event of early termination 
(other than on a change of control) the Remuneration Committee
would apply the principles of the severance policy adopted by the
Board. Under this policy, which may be varied in individual cases,
an immediate lump sum severance payment will be made to the
Director equivalent to one year’s basic salary plus one year’s
pension contributions. Consideration would be given to the
inclusion in the severance payment of additional elements
relating to short-term variable remuneration and major benefits
in kind. However, such additional elements will not normally be
included where the termination is as a result of underperformance.
Consideration would also be given to paying the severance payment
in 12 equal instalments which will only be paid to the extent that
the Director has not been able to mitigate his or her loss by the 
date of the relevant payment. 
As permitted by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, if
termination of a Director’s service agreement occurs on less than
due notice within 12 months following a change in control of
83 GKN plc 2003 GKN plc, a predetermined amount is payable to the Director
equivalent to one year’s basic salary, pension contributions,
benefits in kind and loss of entitlements under short-term
performance-related remuneration arrangements. 
An enhancement to the pension rights of an executive Director 
upon early retirement will only be considered in exceptional
cases and a full costing would be provided to the Remuneration
Committee at the time of its deliberations. In any event, such
enhancement would not be considered unless objectives set
for the Director had been met or it was otherwise merited in 
the opinion of the Remuneration Committee.
It is also the Board’s policy that, at the time of consideration 
of a proposed appointment of an executive Director, the
Remuneration Committee will take into account the likely cost
of severance in determining the appropriateness of the proposed
terms of appointment. 
External appointments
The Board recognises the benefit which GKN can obtain if
executive Directors of GKN serve as non-executive Directors
of other companies. Subject to review in each case, the Board’s
general policy is that each executive Director may accept one 
non-executive directorship with another company (but not the
chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company) from which the Director 
mayretain the fees.
Since April 2003 Ian Griffiths has been a non-executive Director of
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc. He retains the fees payable in respect
of this appointment (currently £25,000 per annum). Nigel Stein has
been a non-executive Director of Wolseley plc since December 2003.
He retains the fees payable in respect of this appointment (currently
£33,000 per annum). 
Terms of appointment of Chairman and non-executive Directors
Sir David Lees will retire as Chairman at the conclusion of the
Company’s Annual General Meeting in 2004. He is not eligible to
participate in GKN’s short-term variable remuneration or long-term
incentive arrangements. Sir David is in receipt of a pension from the
GKN pension scheme (having retired from executive service within
GKN at his normal pensionable age) and has the use of a car, the
running and associated costs of which are borne partially by GKN.
RoyBrown will become Chairman with effect from Sir David’s
retirement. He will receive a fee, determined by the Remuneration
Committee, of £240,000 per annum. He will not participate in the
Group’s short-term variable remuneration or long-term incentive
arrangements or in its pension scheme.
The fees received by each of the remaining non-executive Directors,
including the Deputy Chairman, are determined by the Board upon the
recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive. Baroness
Hogg was appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent
Director with effect from 1 December 2003 at an annual fee of
£55,000. The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees
receive an amount in addition to the basic non-executive Directors’
fee (see below) to reflect the significant extra responsibilities attached
to these positions. Until 31 December 2003 this additional fee was
set at 12.5% of the basic fee. From 1 January 2004 the additional
amount has been set at £7,000 per annum for the Chairman of the
Audit Committee and £5,000 per annum for the Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee. As chairman of the Remuneration
Committee, Baroness Hogg will continue to receive the additional fee.
The basic fee received by the other non-executive Directors has been
increased from £35,000 to £40,000 per annum from 1 January 2004,
the previous increase having been in April 2002. The non-executive
Directors do not participate in the Group’s short-term variable
remuneration or long-term incentive arrangements or in its pension
scheme, nor do they receive benefits in kind. The current policy is
for non-executive Directors to serve on the Board for a total of nine
years with interim renewals after three and six years, subject to
mutual agreement and annual performance reviews.
Shareholding requirement
In order to reinforce the alignment of their interests with those of
shareholders generally, all Directors are subject to a shareholding
requirement. 
Under a policy adopted by the Remuneration Committee, executive
Directors are required to establish and maintain an investment in
GKN plc Ordinary Shares equivalent to at least 100% of their basic
salary. The receipt of any shares by a Director from an award made
under the LTIP and ESOS is conditional upon the shareholding
requirement being met on the third anniversary of the grant of the
award. For these purposes any deferred rights under the LTIP will
be counted as shares. 
84 GKN plc 2003
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED In respect of the awards made in 2002, if insufficient shares
vest from the award to enable an executive Director to satisfy
the shareholding requirement, the requirement is deemed to 
be satisfied for the purpose of that award. However, once the
requirement is met in respect of the award the Director is expected
to retain sufficient of the shares ultimately received from it towards
the satisfaction of the requirement for future awards. 
For awards made since 2003, each executive Director must acquire
the minimum required shareholding by adding to any existing
shareholding using performance-related rewards which may be
received under the GKN short-term variable remuneration and 
long-term incentive arrangements. Until the required shareholding
level is reached, an executive Director must apply, in the purchase
of GKN shares, 30% of that amount of the gross (i.e. before tax)
payment under the short-term (annual) variable remuneration
scheme which exceeds 50% of the Director’s gross basic salary
at that time, and must retain such number of shares received 
under the LTIP and ESOS as represents at least 30% of the gross
gain which the Director would have realised on the exercise of
such an award had the shares been sold on the day of exercise.
It is the Board’s policy that non-executive Directors will normally
be expected to acquire a holding of GKN plc Ordinary Shares of
a value equivalent to 30% of one year’s basic fee within three 
years of appointment. 
TotalShareholder Return performance
The chart below (left) illustrates the TSR performance (based on 
an initial investment of £100) of GKN plc Ordinary Shares over the
period from the Industrial Services demerger in 2001 until the end
of 2003 compared to the TSR that would have been obtained over
the same period from a hypothetical investment in the companies
constituting the FTSE 100 Index. The interim points show the
cumulative TSR at each calendar quarter-end date. (As GKN plc was
incorporated during the course of 2001, the Directors’ Remuneration
Report Regulations 2002 (the ‘disclosure regulations’) only require
the comparative TSR performance of the Company’s shares to be
shown since 1 August 2001 when the Company became the listed
parent company of the GKN Group just prior to the demerger.)
The Committee considers it appropriate to represent GKN’s TSR
performance against the TSR of the FTSE 100 Index for the purpose
of the chart as this index is a readily available broad equity market
index (as required by the disclosure regulations) of which the
Company is a constituent.
The TSR information presented in the chart in accordance with 
the disclosure regulations differs from the TSR data computed for
the purposes of the current GKN Long Term Incentive Plan both 
in terms of the constituent companies involved (see page 81) 
and the TSR calculation methodology. Given these differences,
presented below is GKN’s TSR and rank against the TSR of the
relevant comparator group, together with the percentage of the
conditional award converted into a deferred award, for completed
measurement periods as computed under the terms of the Plan. 
The chart below (right) illustrates GKN’s TSR compared to the
average TSR of the relevant comparator group for such periods.
Percentile 
ranking in
comparator Deferred
group award
Period TSR % (rank no.1 = 100)
(a)
conversion %
Jan 1996–Dec 1998 33.19 83 100
Jan 1997–Dec 1999 28.30 76 100
Jan 1998–Dec 2000 16.48 68 86
Jan 1999–Dec 2001
(b)
0.67 46 0
Jan 2000–Dec 2002
(b)
(14.97) 23 0 
Jan 2001–Dec 2003 (13.26) 25 0
(a) For measurement periods ending
before or on 31 December 2002, the
comparator group was based on the
entire FTSE 100 Index. For the
subsequent measurement period it was
based on the FTSE 100 Index less the
telecommunications, media, technology
and financial services sectors and
comprised 57 companies (including GKN). 
(b) Comparative TSR performance for
these awards post the Industrial Services
demerger in 2001 was based on a bundle
of GKN plc and Brambles Industries plc
Ordinary Shares. 
85 GKN plc 2003
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN GKN and FTSE 100 Index 2001-2003    
£120
£110
£50
1/8 30/9
2001 2002 2003
31/12 31/3 30/6 30/9 31/12 31/3 30/6 30/9 31/12
£60
£70
£80
£90
£100
GKN TSR                   FTSE 100 Index TSR
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN % GKN and average for LTIP comparator  
group for completed three-year measurement periods under the GKN LTIP
97-99
98-00
99-01
00-02
(7.51)
(14.97)
(3.15)
(13.26) 01-03
0.67
3.58
16.48
10.74
28.30
16.82
LTIP Comparator  
Group TSR
GKN TSR 86 GKN plc 2003
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Directors’ remuneration 2003
With the exception of the dates of the executive Directors’ service agreements shown in the table below, note (a) to the tables below and
note (i) to the tables on page 87, the information set out on pages 86 to 88 represents the auditable disclosures required by Part 3 of
Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The remuneration of the executive Directors in 2003, excluding pension benefits and long-term incentives, was as follows:
Date of Performance- Total Total
service Salary
(a)
related Benefits 2003 2002
agreement £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
K Smith 24.1.03 592 208 16 816
(b)
605
R J Clowes 14.11.01 337 80 11 428
(b)
467
R W Etches 24.1.03 270 66 36
(c)
372
(b)
562
I R Griffiths 24.1.03 395 266 17 678
(b)
759
CJ Keating
(d)
19.8.02 280 100 18 398 219
N M Stein 22.8.01 340 111 11 462
(b)
728
M Beresford
(e)
––– – 1,231
2,214 831 109 3,154 4,571
The 2003 performance-related payments were triggered by the achievement of a number of operational targets. For all executive Directors, 
a proportion of such payments was dependent upon the achieved level of GKN’s 2003 earnings before tax, goodwill amortisation and
impairment and exceptional items. For those Directors with responsibility for business operations, payments were also dependent upon the
achieved level of operating profit of their respective portfolio in 2003. Profit performance equal to target would have resulted in payments
of 35% of salary. The maximum amount that an individual could receive under the profit element was 90% of salary. In addition, cash flow
targets were set for the Group as a whole and, where appropriate, the cash flow performance of the Director’s portfolio for each halfofthe
year. A total of 10% of salary was payable on achievement of all cash flow targets, all of which were met in full. Actual total payments to
executive Directors under the 2003 short-term variable remuneration scheme varied between 23.2% and 65.9% of year-end salary. 
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors in 2003 was as follows:
Fees Benefits Total 2003 Total 2002
£000 £000 £000 £000
Sir David Lees 280 18 298 299
Baroness Hogg
(f)
41 – 41 36
R D Brown 39 – 39 38
Sir Ian Gibson
(g)
35 – 35 20
H C-J Mamsch
(h)
3– 3 –
Sir Christopher Meyer
(i)
15 – 15 –
Dr K H Murmann 35 – 35 34
Sir Peter Williams 35 – 35 34
Sir John Parker
(j)
–– – 15
483 18 501 476
Directors’ aggregate emoluments for 2003 amounted to £4.2 million (2002 – £5.4 million).
(a) The executive Directors’ basic salaries
at the end of the year were: Mr K Smith –
£609,500; Mr R J Clowes – £343,200;
Mr R W Etches – £275,600; Mr I R Griffiths
– £404,250; Mr C J Keating – US$468,000;
Mr N M Stein – £349,800. 
(b) Payments of supplementary
allowances to certain executive Directors
to assist them towards securing
retirement benefits are included in the
money-purchase contributions and
allowances for pension benefit purposes
disclosed in the second table on page 88.
The allowances, detailed below, have
therefore been excluded from the total
remuneration shown in the table above
although they are part of the Directors’
aggregate emoluments for the purpose of
disclosure under the Companies Act 1985:
Mr K Smith – £135,000 
(2002 – £45,000);
Mr R J Clowes – £95,000 
(2002 – £79,000);
Mr R W Etches – £74,000 
(2002 – £70,000);
Mr I R Griffiths – £118,000 
(2002 – £103,000);
Mr N M Stein – £97,000 
(2002 – £85,000).
(c) Includes discretionary bonus of
£20,000.
(d) Appointed 19 August 2002.
Mr Keating is paid in US$ – for the
purpose of this report his emoluments
have been translated at US$1.64/£1.
(e) Retired as Chief Executive
31 December 2002.
(f) Appointed Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee May 2002 and
Deputy Chairman and Senior
Independent Director 1 December 2003.
(g) Appointed 1 June 2002.
(h) Appointed 1 December 2003.
(i) Appointed 1 August 2003.
(j) Retired 16 May 2002. 87 GKN plc 2003
Options over GKN plc Ordinary Shares granted under the Executive and Save As You Earn (SAYE) share option schemes and held by the
executive Directors at 31 December 2003 and 1 January 2003 were as follows:
Shares Shares
Exercisable
(a)
under option 2003 under option
31 December Exercise 1 January
Scheme From To 2003 price Granted Exercised Lapsed 2003
K Smith Executive 21.9.04 20.9.11 210,093 242.75p––– 210,093
Executive 15.3.05 14.3.12 165,584 308p––– 165,584
Executive 19.3.06 18.3.13 793,468 163.05p 793,468–––
SAYE – – – –––––
R J Clowes Executive
(b)
8.4.97 8.4.04 120,000 120p––– 120,000
Executive
(b)
6.4.00 6.4.05 33,600 132.29p––– 33,600
Executive 21.9.04 20.9.11 169,928 242.75p––– 169,928
Executive 15.3.05 14.3.12 138,798 308p––– 138,798
Executive 19.3.06 18.3.13 294,388 163.05p 294,388–––
SAYE 1.2.09 31.7.09 8,283 217p––– 8,283
R W Etches Executive 21.9.04 20.9.11 156,952 242.75p––– 156,952
Executive 15.3.05 14.3.12 123,701 308p––– 123,701
Executive 19.3.06 18.3.13 204,576 163.05p 204,576–––
Executive
(c)
19.3.06 18.3.13 36,693 174.25p 36,693–––
SAYE 1.2.05 31.7.05 4,377 217p––– 4,377
I R Griffiths Executive
(b)
6.4.00 6.4.05 – 132.29p – 28,800 – 28,800
Executive 21.9.04 20.9.11 197,734 242.75p––– 197,734
Executive 15.3.05 14.3.12 165,584 308p––– 165,584
Executive 19.5.06 18.5.13 354,185 163.05p 354,185–––
SAYE 1.7.05 31.12.05 1,468 275.41p––– 1,468
CJ Keating Executive 19.3.06 18.3.13 225,481 163.05p 225,481–––
Executive
(c)
19.3.06 18.3.13 36,693 174.25p 36,693–––
SAYE – – – –––––
N M Stein Executive
(b)
6.4.00 6.4.05 67,200 132.29p––– 67,200
Executive 21.9.04 20.9.11 169,928 242.75p––– 169,928
Executive 15.3.05 14.3.12 146,103 308p––– 146,103
Executive 19.3.06 18.3.13 303,587 163.05p 303,587–––
SAYE 1.7.03 31.12.03 – 275.41p – – 3,516 3,516
SAYE 1.12.06 31.5.07 4,028 229p 4,028–––
Details of the options over GKN plc Ordinary Shares exercised by Directors during 2003 are shown below. 
Shares Exercise Price on Shares
issued on Date of price date of retained on
exercise grant per share exercise
(d)
exercise
I R Griffiths 28,800
(e)
28.9.01 132.29p 161p 28,800
(a) Represents the earliest exercise 
date (assuming satisfaction of relevant
performance criteria and personal
shareholding requirements) and latest
expiry date of options held by the
Director during the year.
(b) Non performance-related Executive
share option.
(c) This element of the Director’s award
for the year was granted as a US
Incentive Stock Option. 
(d) The closing mid-market price per
share on date of exercise.
(e) Option originally granted under the
GKN Overseas Executive Share Option
Scheme 1988 on 6 April 1995 and
subsequently adjusted (and regranted on
the date shown above) in respect of the
Industrial Services demerger in 2001.
(f) The SAYE share option scheme is open
to all UK subsidiary employees with six
months’ service or more. Participants
save a regular monthly sum of up to £250
for three years (or five years for options
granted prior to 2003) and can use these
savings and any bonus payable under
the scheme to exercise the options. 
For options granted prior to 2003, the
exercise price was set at the maximum
discount permitted by the Finance Act
1989 of 20% below the market price
before the start of the savings period. 
For options granted in 2003 this discount
was reduced to 10%.
(g) The closing mid-market price of
GKN plc Ordinary Shares on the London
Stock Exchange on 31 December 2003
was 267p and the price range during the
year was 147.25p to 290.5p.
(h) The aggregate of the total theoretical
gains on options exercised by Directors
during 2003 amounted to £8,000 (2002
– £9,000). This is calculated by reference
to the difference between the closing
mid-market price of the shares on the
date of exercise and the exercise price of
the options, disregarding whether such
shares were sold or retained on exercise,
and is stated before tax.
(i) At 31 December 2003, the total
number of GKN plc Ordinary Shares
which had been issued on the exercise of
options granted by the Company or were
the subject of such options remaining
outstanding under the Executive and SAYE
share option schemes was 14.8 million
and 15.4 million respectively. This
represents approximately 2.0% of the
issued share capital of the Company
at that date in respect of discretionary
(i.e. executive) schemes and 4.1% of
the issued share capital of the Company
at that date in respect of all (i.e. both
executive and all-employee) schemes. 88 GKN plc 2003
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Conditional and deferred rights to GKN plc Ordinary Shares under the GKN Long Term Incentive Plans held by the executive Directors at
31 December 2003 and 1 January 2003, together with awards made and lapsed during the year, were as follows:
Awards held Awards held
31 December 2003 Conditional Conditional 1 January 2003
awards awards
Conditional Deferred made
(a)
lapsed
(b)
Conditional Deferred
K Smith 398,110 – 207,750 30,950 221,310 –
R J Clowes 275,190 – 115,600 14,850 174,440 –
R W Etches 237,960 – 95,750 23,200 165,410 –
I R Griffiths 324,340 – 139,100 20,600 205,840 –
CJ Keating 190,659 – 101,600 – 89,059 –
N M Stein 280,780 – 119,200 – 161,580 –
The first table below shows the amount paid as money-purchase contributions (paid only in respect of those Directors who are not members
of GKN’s defined benefit pension scheme) and supplementary allowances to executive Directors under the Group’s pension arrangements.
The second table below shows pension amounts for those Directors whose pension arrangements are either wholly or partly of the defined
benefit type.
Money-purchase contributions and allowances for pension benefit purposes
2003 2002
£000 £000
K Smith
(e)
237 138
R J Clowes 95 79
R W Etches
(e)
108 103
I R Griffiths 119 103
CJ Keating
(f)
38 13
N M Stein 97 85
M Beresford
(e)(g)
– 218
Transfer
Transfer Transfer value at
value of value of 31 December
Accrued Accrued accrued accrued 2003 of
annual annual annual annual Change Increase increase
pension at pension at pension at pension at in transfer in annual in annual
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December value in pension in pension in
2003
(h)
2002 2003 2002 2003
(i)
2003
(j)
2003
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
R J Clowes 40 36 556 473 78 3 41
I R Griffiths 44 40 612 527 85 3 39
N M Stein 30 26 321 264 51 3 30
(a) The closing mid-market price on the
date of award of the shares comprising
the conditional awards made during 
the year was 182p per share. The
measurement period relating to these
awards ends on 31 December 2005.
(b) Following the Industrial Services
demerger in 2001, these awards were
converted into rights to acquire equal
numbers of GKN plc and Brambles
Industries plc Ordinary Shares. 
(c) Since 31 December 2003, the
following conditional rights to GKN
Ordinary Shares in respect of awards
granted in relation to the measurement
period 2001 to 2003 have lapsed:
Mr K Smith – 86,960 shares;
Mr R J Clowes – 72,890 shares;
Mr R W Etches – 64,960 shares;
Mr I R Griffiths – 81,840 shares;
Mr N M Stein – 70,330 shares.
(d) During both 2003 and 2002, no
conditional rights were converted into
deferred awards, no awards vested and
no shares were released to Directors. 
(e) The difference between the Director’s
pension cost shown in this table and 
the supplementary allowance amount
disclosed in note (b) on page 86
represents GKN’s contribution to the
Director’s money-purchase pension
arrangement. 
(f) Appointed 19 August 2002.
(g) Retired 31 December 2002.
(h) The accrued annual pension includes
entitlements earned as an employee
prior to becoming a Director as well as
for qualifying services after becoming 
a Director.
(i) Change in transfer value over the
year less any contributions made by
the Director.
(j) Increase over the year in accrued
pension in excess of inflation to which
the Director would have been entitled 
on leaving service.
(k) A transfer value represents the present
value of accrued benefits. It does not
represent an amount of money which 
the individual is entitled to receive. 
The change in transfer value over the 
year reflects the additional pension
earned and the effect of changes in 
stock market conditions during the year.
Transfer values have been calculated in
accordance with paragraph 1.5 of version
9.0 of Guidance Note 11 prepared by the
Institute/Faculty of Actuaries. 89 GKN plc 2003
Share interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors, including family interests, in GKN plc Ordinary Shares at 31 December 2003 and 1 January 2003 
(or, if later, on appointment to the Board) were as follows:
31 December 1 January
2003 2003
Sir David Lees 221,236 206,118
Baroness Hogg 5,893 893
K Smith 88,273 3,000
R D Brown 2,018 2,018
R J Clowes 61,299 39,090
R W Etches 67,097 28,382
Sir Ian Gibson
(a)
10,000 10,000
I R Griffiths 103,832 44,954
CJ Keating 8,313 –
H C-J Mamsch
(b)
– –
Sir Christopher Meyer
(c)
– –
Dr K H Murmann 255,197 80,197
N M Stein 54,044 6,250
Sir Peter Williams 10,000 5,000
The executive Directors (other than Neal Keating), as potential beneficiaries, are deemed to have an interest in the GKN plc Ordinary Shares
held from time to time by the discretionary trust established to facilitate the operation of the GKN long-term incentive arrangements. 
At 31 December 2003 and 27 February 2004 this trust held 1,219,238 GKN plc Ordinary Shares (2002 – 1,219,238 shares).
There were no changes in the Directors’ interests in shares or options between 31 December 2003 and 27 February 2004 other than in
respect of the lapses of conditional rights to GKN plc Ordinary Shares under the LTIP disclosed on page 88. 
The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which contains full details of the Directors’ shareholdings, long-term incentive plan awards
and options to subscribe for shares in GKN plc, is available for inspection by shareholders upon request.
On behalf of the Board
Baroness Hogg
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 February 2004
(a) Appointed 1 June 2002.
(b) Appointed 1 December 2003.
(c) Appointed 1 August 2003. AUTOMOTIVE
Driveline
GKN Driveline Headquarters Ltd
GKN Driveline International GmbH Germany
Sideshafts
Europe
GKN Driveline Birmingham Ltd
GKN Driveline SA France
GKN Driveline Florange SARL France
GKN Driveline Ribemont SARL France
GKN Driveline Deutschland GmbH Germany
GKN Gelenkwellenwerk Kaiserslautern GmbH Germany
GKN Driveline Trier GmbH Germany
GKN Automotive Umformtechnik GmbH Germany
GKN Driveline Bruneck AG Italy
GKN Driveline Firenze SpA Italy
GKN Driveline Polska Sp. z o.o. Poland
GKN Driveline Slovenija d.o.o. Slovenia
GKN Driveline España SA Spain
GKN Driveline Zumaia SA Spain
GKN Driveline Vigo SA Spain
GKN Driveline Legazpi SA Spain
GKN Driveline Lazpiur SL (51%) Spain
Americas
GKN Driveline North America Inc USA
GKN do Brasil Ltda Brazil
GKN Driveline Uruguay SA Uruguay
Transejes Transmisiones Homocinéticas de 
Colombia SA (49%) Colombia
Velcon SA de CV (49%) Mexico
Asia Pacific
GKN Driveline Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore
Unidrive Pty Ltd (60%) Australia
Shanghai GKN Drive Shaft Company Ltd (40%) China
Jilin GKN Norinco Drive Shaft Company Ltd (50%) China
GKN Driveline (India) Ltd (96.8%) India
GKN Driveline Utsunomiya Ltd Japan
GKN Toyoda Driveshafts Ltd (49%) Japan
GKN Driveline Malaysia Sdn Bhd (68.4%) Malaysia
Univel Transmissions (Pty) Ltd (50%) South Africa
GKN Driveline Korea Ltd South Korea
Taiway Ltd (36.25%) Taiwan
GKN Driveline (Thailand) Ltd Thailand
GKN TOYODA (Thailand) Ltd (49%) Thailand
GKN Driveline TOYODA Manufacturing Ltd (51%) Thailand
Torque Systems Group
GKN Driveline Walsall Ltd
GKN Driveline Deutschland GmbH, Offenbach Germany
GKN Driveline Bruneck AG Italy
GKN Driveline North America Inc, Columbia USA
Viscodrive Japan KK (67.3%) Japan
Tochigi Fuji Sangyo KK (33%) Japan
Aftermarket operations
Companies in Europe
Other companies
Research and Product Development centres in Germany, 
USA and Japan
GKN Japan Ltd Japan
Export and representation companies in Europe and USA 
Powder Metallurgy
Hoeganaes
Hoeganaes Corporation USA
Ancorsteel Powders GmbH Germany
Hoeganaes Europe SA Romania
Sinter Metals
GKN Sinter Metals Ltd
GKN Sinter Metals Inc USA
GKN Sinter Metals-St Thomas Ltd Canada
Premco Machine Ltd Canada
GKN Sinter Metals de Argentina SA Argentina
GKN Sinter Metals Ltda Brazil
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH Germany
90 GKN plc 2003
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES
AT 31 DECEMBER 2003 GKN Sinter Metals Service GmbH Germany
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH – Bad Brückenau, Bad Langensalza, Bonn
and Oberhausen Germany
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH & Co KG Radevormwald Germany
GKN Sinter Metals Filters GmbH Radevormwald Germany
GKN Sinter Metals SpA Italy
GKN Sinter Metals AB, Kolsva Sweden
GKN Sinter Metals Cape Town (Pty) Ltd South Africa
GKN Sinter Metals Ltd India
OffHighway Systems and AutoComponents
OffHighway Systems
GKN OffHighway Systems Ltd
GKN Wheels Nagbøl A/S Denmark
GKN Armstrong Wheels Inc USA
GKN FAD SpA Italy
GKN Geplasmetal SA Spain
GKN Walterscheid Belgium SPRL Belgium
GKN Walterscheid GmbH Germany
GKN Walterscheid Getriebe GmbH Germany
GKN Walterscheid Inc USA
GKN Walterscheid Canada Inc Canada
Matsui-Walterscheid Ltd (40%) Japan
Walterscheid Rohrverbindungstechnik GmbH Germany
AutoComponents
GKN AutoStructures Ltd
GKN Thompson Chassis Ltd
Chassis Systems Ltd (50%)
GKN Sheepbridge Stokes Ltd
Catalytic Converters
Emitec Gesellschaft für Emissionstechnologie mbH (50%) Germany
Emitec Produktion GmbH (50%) Germany
Emitec Inc (50%) USA
AEROSPACE
Aerospace Services
GKN Aerospace Services Ltd
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems (Kings Norton) Ltd
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems (Luton) Ltd
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems Inc USA
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems do Brasil Ltda Brazil
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems (Thailand) Ltd Thailand
GKN Aerospace GmbH Germany
ASTECH Engineered Products Inc USA
GKN Aerospace Chem-tronics Inc USA
GKN Aerospace North America Inc USA
GKN Westland Inc USA
GKN Westland Aerospace Inc USA
GKN CEDU Ltd 
GKN Aerospace Engineering Services Pty Ltd Australia
AgustaWestland
AgustaWestland NV (50%) Netherlands
and operations in UK and Italy
Other companies
GKN Westland Services Ltd
Aerosystems International Ltd (50%)
CORPORATE
GKN Holdings plc
GKN (United Kingdom) plc
GKN Industries Ltd
Westland Group plc
Ipsley Insurance Ltd Isle of Man
GKN Netherlands BV Netherlands
GKN America Corp USA
91 GKN plc 2003
The issued share capitals of the 
148 companies which at 31 December
2003 comprised the GKN Group are 
held indirectly by GKN plc through
intermediate holding companies which
are registered or incorporated in England,
Netherlands, USA and Germany. Certain
intermediate holding companies do not
prepare consolidated accounts.
The percentage of the share capital held
by GKN is indicated where companies are
not wholly-owned.
The country of incorporation or registration
and the principal country in which each
company operates is England unless
otherwise shown.
Of the Group subsidiary sales of
£3,334 million, 96% related to
subsidiaries whose accounts are 
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ,
auditors of the parent company. We have audited the accounts which comprise the profit and loss
account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement
of total recognised gains and losses, the Company’s balance sheet,
the segmental analysis and the related notes. We have also audited
the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies
Act 1985 contained in the report on Directors’ remuneration (the
‘auditable part’).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and
the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law 
and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors’
responsibilities on page 73. The Directors are also responsible for
preparing the report on Directors’ remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable 
part of the report on Directors’ remuneration in accordance 
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom
Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and 
the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority. This report,
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
Company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 
of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, 
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by
our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true
and fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable part of
the report on Directors’ remuneration have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you
if, in our opinion, the Directors’ reportis not consistent with the
accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if
we have not received all the information and explanations we require
for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules
regarding Directors’ remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
The other information comprises only the Directors’ report, the
unaudited part of the report on Directors’ remuneration, the
Chairman’s statement, the Chief Executive’s review, the operating
and financial review and the corporate governance statement. 
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the
Company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report
if it does not. We are not required to consider whether the Board’s
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to 
form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures. 
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards
issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts
and disclosures in the accounts and the auditable part of the report
on Directors’ remuneration. It also includes an assessment of the
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the
preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies
are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
assurance that the accounts and the auditable part of the report
on Directors’ remuneration are free from material misstatement,
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation
of information in the accounts.
Opinion
In our opinion:
> the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and the Group at 31 December 2003 and of the profit and
cash flows of the Group for the year then ended;
> the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985; and
> those parts of the report on Directors’ remuneration required 
by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Birmingham
27 February 2004
Notes:
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly,
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have
occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on 
the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.
92 GKN plc 2003
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC GKN website and share price information
Information on GKN, including this annual report, the latest interim
report and the GKN plc share price updated every 20 minutes, is
available on GKN’s website at www.gknplc.com. The latest share
price is also available on the Financial Times Cityline Service:
telephone 0906 843 2696. Calls are charged at 60p per minute. 
Shareholding enquiries and information
Administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should be
addressed to GKN’s Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars (see page 
95 for contact details). Correspondence should refer to GKN plc
and include the shareholder’s full name, address and, if available, 
8-digit reference number which can be found on GKN plc share
certificates. 
By visiting Lloyds TSB Registrars’ website at www.shareview.co.uk,
shareholders can view information on their shareholdings and
recent dividends, obtain guidance on transferring shares and
receiving shareholder documents electronically (see below), update
their personal details (including changing address details) and set
up a new dividend mandate or change their existing mandate. 
Electronic receipt of documents
Shareholders can elect via the GKN or shareview websites (see page
95) to receive certain shareholder documents (including annual and
interim reports and notices of shareholder meetings) electronically
rather than by post. If shareholders elect for the electronic option,
they will receive a notification by e-mail each time a document is
published advising them that it is available for viewing on GKN’s
website. The e-mail will contain a link to the relevant page on the
website, providing shareholders with easy access to the document
which can then be read or printed. By electing for this electronic
option, shareholders will receive documents more speedily, avoid
the possibility of delays in the postal system, save postage costs
and help conserve natural resources. When registering for this
service, shareholders will need to provide their 8-digit reference
number which can be found on GKN plc share certificates.
Financial calendar
Preliminary announcement of results for 2003 1 March 2004
Ordinary Shares quoted ex-dividend 28 April 2004
2003 final dividend record date 30 April 2004
Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms
(see below) 6 May 2004
Annual General Meeting 20 May 2004
2003 final dividend on Ordinary Shares payable 21 May 2004
DRIP share certificates and share purchase 
statements despatched 3 June 2004
CREST participant accounts credited with 
DRIP shares 4 June 2004
Announcement of half-year results for 2004 August 2004
2004 interim dividend on Ordinary Shares
payable September 2004
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting on Thursday 20 May 2004 will be held
at the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Savoy Place, London WC2,
commencing at 11.30 a.m. The Notice of Meeting, together with an
explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is
contained in the AGM circular enclosed with this annual report.
Dividend reinvestment plan
Under the dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP), shareholders can
mandate to reinvest cash dividends paid on their Ordinary Shares
in further GKN plc Ordinary Shares. Shareholders who would like to
receive details of the DRIP should contact the Share Dividend Team
at Lloyds TSB Registrars or visit the shareview website (see page 95).
New DRIP mandates and any withdrawals of existing mandates must
be received by Lloyds TSB Registrars by 6 May 2004 to be valid for
the 2003 final dividend. Other key dates are given in the financial
calendar above.
GKN single company ISA
Lloyds TSB Registrars operate a Single Company ISA in which
GKN plc Ordinary Shares can be held in a tax efficient manner. 
Full details and an application form can be obtained by calling
Lloyds TSB Registrars’ ISA helpline on 0870 24 24 244 or by
93 GKN plc 2003
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION visiting the shareview website (see page 95). Investors should note
that the value of any tax benefit will vary according to individual
circumstances and the tax rules relating to ISAs may change in the
future. If you are in any doubt you should seek professional advice.
Taxation
Market values of GKN plc Ordinary Shares, ‘B’ Shares (issued 
and redeemed under the return of capital in 2000) and Brambles
Industries plc Ordinary Shares (issued in connection with the
demerger of GKN’s Industrial Services businesses in 2001) for
Capital Gains Tax (CGT) purposes are as follows:
First day of trading market values
(a)
GKN Brambles
Ordinary Shares ‘B’ Shares Ordinary Shares
30 May 2000
(b)
914.5p 11.7p –
(98.736774%) (1.263226%)
7 August 2001
(c)
282.5p – 360.375p
(43.943224%) (56.056776%)
1965/1982 market values
GKN GKN GKN
Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary
Shares Shares Shares
unadjusted for adjusted for adjusted for Brambles
‘B’ Shares or ‘B’ Shares but ‘B’ Shares and Ordinary
demerger
(d)
not demerger
(e)
demerger
(e)
‘B’ Shares
(e)
Shares
(e)
6 April 1965 116.175p 114.707p 50.406p 1.468p 64.301p
31 March 1982 104.870p 103.545p 45.501p 1.325p 58.044p
GKN American Depositary Receipts
GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt (ADR)
programme for which The Bank of New York acts as Depositary. Each
ADR represents one GKN plc Ordinary Share. The ADRs trade in the
US over-the-counter (OTC) market under the symbol GKNLY. When
dividends are paid to shareholders, the Depositary converts such
dividends into US dollars, net of fees and expenses, and distributes
the net amount to ADR holders. For enquiries, The Bank of New York
can be contacted on +1-800-345-1612 or +1-888-BNY-ADRS (toll-free
for US residents only), via their website at www.adrbny.com or by
e-mail enquiry to shareowners@bankofny.com.
Unsolicited mail
GKN is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available
and as a consequence some shareholders may have received
unsolicited mail. If you wish to limit the amount of such mail you
should contact the Mailing Preference Service whose address is
DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS. Alternatively
they may be contacted by telephone on 020 7291 3310, via 
their website at www.mpsonline.org.uk or by e-mail enquiry to
mps@dma.org.uk.
Shareholder analysis
Holdings of Ordinary Shares at 31 December 2003:
Shareholders Shares
Number
Number % (million) %
Holdings
1–500 11,312 31.4 2.7 0.4
501–1,000 7,618 21.1 5.8 0.8
1,001–5,000 14,144 39.3 31.8 4.3
5,001–50,000 2,330 6.5 26.5 3.6
50,001–100,000 160 0.4 11.5 1.6
100,001–500,000 276 0.8 70.2 9.5
500,001–1,000,000 79 0.2 57.6 7.8
above 1,000,000 114 0.3 528.0 72.0
36,033 100 734.1 100
Shareholder type
Individuals 27,245 75.6 40.9 5.6
Institutions 5,602 15.6 678.0 92.3
Other corporates 3,186 8.8 15.2 2.1
36,033 100 734.1 100
94 GKN plc 2003
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED
(a) The stated market values are used to
allocate the base cost of GKN Ordinary
Shares, on the basis of the relative
percentages specified, between GKN
Ordinary Shares and ‘B’ Shares and
between GKN Ordinary Shares and
Brambles Ordinary Shares in calculating
any CGT liability under the ‘B’ Share
return of capital and the Industrial
Services businesses demerger
arrangements. Worked examples and
guides to the general tax position of
United Kingdom shareholders under
these arrangements are given in the
circulars dated 20 April 2000 and
22 June 2001 respectively, copies of
which are available on request from
GKN’s Corporate Centre (see page 95).
(b) Being the first day of trading of the 
‘B’ Shares.
(c) Being the first day of trading of the
Brambles Ordinary Shares. From this
date, the market price of GKN Ordinary
Shares reduced to reflect the value 
of the businesses demerged into the
Brambles Group.
(d) Adjusted for subsequent rights and
capitalisation issues (prior to the issue 
of ‘B’ Shares on 30 May 2000) and the
two for one GKN Ordinary Share split in
May 1998.
(e) If the GKN Ordinary Shares in respect
of which the ‘B’ Shares/Brambles
Ordinary Shares were issued were held
by you on 6 April 1965 or 31 March
1982, you will be deemed to have also
held the ‘B’ Shares/Brambles Ordinary
Shares on such date. In such cases, the
1965/1982 market values (adjusted as
described in note (d)) are apportioned
between GKN Ordinary Shares and 
‘B’ Shares and, if you also received
Brambles Ordinary Shares, between GKN
Ordinary Shares and Brambles Ordinary
Shares using the relative percentages
specified above in respect of the first day
of trading market values. The apportioned
market values are shown in the table. Corporate Centre
PO Box 55
Ipsley House
Ipsley Church Lane
Redditch
Worcestershire B98 0TL
Tel +44 (0)1527 517715
Fax +44 (0)1527 517700
London Office
7 Cleveland Row
London SW1A 1DB
Tel +44 (0)20 7930 2424
Fax +44 (0)20 7930 3255
e-mail: information@gknplc.com
Website: www.gknplc.com
Registered in England No. 4191106
Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Tel0870 600 3962
(+44 121 415 7039 from outside UK)
Fax0870 600 3980
(+44 1903 854031 from outside UK)
Websites: www.lloydstsb-registrars.co.uk
www.shareview.co.uk
This annual report is available on the GKN website.
95 GKN plc 2003
CONTACT DETAILS Accounting policies 29, 47-49
Accounting standards 6, 30, 31
Acquisitions 8, 10, 22, 26, 63-64
Aerospace 3, 8, 10, 14-15, 18, 24-27, 91
Aerospace Services 3, 8, 10, 14-15, 26-27, 91
AgustaWestland 3, 8, 10, 27, 68, 91
American depositary receipts 94
Annual general meeting 72, 75, 93
Auditors
– independence 77
– reappointment 73
– remuneration 50, 73
– report 92
AutoComponents 2, 10, 23, 91
Automotive 2, 8, 10, 12-13, 18, 20-23, 90-91
Balance sheets 43, 69
Board and committees 6-7, 16-17, 74-78
– Audit Committee 76-77, 78, 79
– Nominations Committee 77, 78
– Remuneration Committee 77, 78, 80
Borrowings 19, 44, 57, 58-59
Capital expenditure 19, 67
Cash flow 19, 45-46
Chairman’s statement 6-7
Chief Executive’s review 8-11
Commitments and contingent liabilities 67
Community involvement 9, 37, 38
Corporate governance 7, 34-35, 74-79
Corporate profile 1-3
Creditors 57, 58, 73
Debtors 57
Directors
– attendance record 78
– biographies 16-17
– changes to the Board 6-7, 72
– interests 87-89
– remuneration 80-89
– report 72-73
– responsibility for the accounts 73
– service agreements 83-84
Dividend 5, 6, 19, 53, 72
– reinvestment plan 93
Donations 38, 72
Driveline 2, 8, 9, 10-11, 12-13, 22-23, 90
Earnings per share 5, 19, 53
Emitec 2, 10, 23
Employees 9, 32, 35, 36-37, 54
Environment 6, 40-41
Ethical standards 34-35
Exceptional items 18, 51
Financial
– calendar 93
– five-year record 5, 71
– highlights 5, 20, 24
– instruments 29-30, 47, 59-60
– review (operating and financial review) 18-31
Foreign currencies 11, 30, 47, 59
Going concern 31
Goodwill 18, 19, 48, 54
Health and safety 6, 8-9, 38-39
Interest payable (net) 18, 51
Internal control 34, 78-79
Investments 56
ISA 93-94
Long-term incentives 80, 81-83, 87, 88
Markets 8, 10-11, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28
Mission statement 1
OffHighway Systems 2, 10, 23
Operating and financial review 18-31
Operating profit 5, 18, 22, 26, 50
Pensions/post-retirement benefits 6, 11, 18, 30-31, 61, 64-67
Policies
– competition 35
– data protection 35
– employee disclosure 35
– employment 35
– ethical standards 35
Powder metallurgy 2, 8, 10, 11, 23, 90-91
Profit and loss account 42
Provisions for liabilities and charges 61
Recognised gains and losses 44
Related party transactions 67
Remuneration report 80-89
Reserves 63
Risk management 29-30, 34, 78-79
Sales 5, 18, 20, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 47, 49
Segmental analysis 5, 70
Shareholder analysis 94
Shareholders’ equity 19, 44
Share option schemes 62, 82-83, 87
Shares
– issued capital 62, 72
– price information 93
Social responsibility 6, 9, 32-41
Stakeholders 37
Stocks 57
Subsidiary companies 90-91
Tangible assets 55
Taxation 18-19, 49, 52, 58, 94
Technology profiles 12-15
Treasury management 29
Website 93, 95
96 GKN plc 2003
SUBJECT INDEX Designed and produced by CGI BrandSense.
Photography by Homer Sykes, Philip Gatward and Simon Pugh.
Printed by royle corporate print on Galerie Art Silk which is an elemental chlorine-free
paper derived from fully sustainable forest sources and holds the Nordic Swan
environmental label. GKN
www.gknplc.com
