 Annual Report 2004
A time of transition 2 Highlights | 4 Business at a glance | 6 Chairman’s statement | 7 Chief Executive’s statement | 8 Our technology: 10 Driveline, 
14 Powder Metallurgy, 16 Aerospace | 21 Operating and financial review | 31 Social responsibility review | 39 Auditors’ report |
40 Board of Directors | 42 Financial statements | 72 Directors’ report | 74 Corporate governance | 79 Report on Directors’ remuneration |
88 Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures | 90 Shareholder information | 92 Subject index ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 1
What drives GKN
Technology and engineering from GKN are at the heart of the vehicles and aircraft
from the world’s leading automotive and aerospace manufacturers.
40,500 people work in GKN companies and joint ventures in more than 30 countries.
Every day we harness our considerable technology and manufacturing resources
to supply the highest-quality systems, structures, components and services.
When we fulfil the trust our customers place in us we can enrich our shareholders,
reward our people and support our communities.
And because we respect the environment and the dignity and human rights of
others we are building a business which can be sustained by future generations.
Everyone involved with a great company should expect nothing less. But those 
with a stake in the performance of GKN should expect more.
21st century global leadership in our major automotive and aerospace businesses,
when our history spans more than 240 years, speaks for standards of adaptability,
innovation and excellence which are difficult to surpass.
Expect more from GKN. 
In 2004 GKN achieved sales of £4.4 billion and profit* of £221 million.
*Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items. Statutory profit before tax £629 million (2003 – £173 million). 2 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
HIGHLIGHTS
2004: A time of transition for GKN
•A year of significant transition
– Disposal of 50% shareholding in AgustaWestland transforms
balance sheet
– Control of TFS secures leading torque technology position
– Driveline deployment to low-cost, high-growth regions begins
•Group profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items down 10% in line with expectations
– Impact of global raw material and energy cost increases
– Negative currency and pension impact; 
positive depreciation change
– Continuing operations operating profit level with 2003
before increase in charge for UK pension deficit
•Increased Automotive revenues despite flat major markets
• Good second half Aerospace recovery and margin improvement
•Technology-led wins on new US and European aerospace
programmes ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 3
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Increase/
2004 2003 (decrease)
Sales £4,447m £4,585m (3)%
Results before goodwill amortisation and 
exceptional items:
Operating profit £268m £302m (11)%
Profit before tax £221m £246m (10)%
Earnings per share 21.3p 22.8p (7)%
Operating exceptional items £(250)m £(91)m n/a
Operating (loss)/profit £(11)m £174m n/a
Exceptional profits on sale of businesses £687m £55m n/a
Profit before tax £629m £173m n/a
Earnings per share 78.8p 13.8p n/a
Net funds/(borrowings) £65m £(793)m £858m
Dividend per share 11.9p 11.6p 2.6%
Note: 2004 profit includes £11 million benefit from changing the method of charging depreciation from reducing balance to straight
line. Results before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items are presented in the above table to show the underlying performance 
of the Group.
Sales £m
04
03
02
01
00
Total
4,585
4,452
4,337
4,134
4,447
559 990
559 943
630 863
339
3,036
2,950
2,844
2,683 1,112
569 755 3,123
Aerospace Automotive Businesses discontinued in 2003-2004
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items £m
04
03
02
01
00
302
315
306
424
Total
268
195 (23)
(38)
201 (6)
187
308
23 107
25 95
19 100
9 107
35 87 184
Aerospace Businesses discontinued in 2003-2004 UK pension deficit charge Automotive 4 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
AUTOMOTIVE
GKN operates at the highest levels of the global automotive
supply chain providing a range of geared and mechanical systems
and devices – some with electronic control technologies – to
the world’s manufacturers of cars, light trucks and construction
and agricultural vehicles.
GKN’s position as one of the world’s leading Tier One suppliers
is supported by more than 50 engineering and manufacturing
facilities in the Americas, Europe, Africa, India, Asia Pacific
and Japan.
GKN is the world leader in constant velocity jointed (CVJ)
sideshafts – devices which transmit torque to a vehicle’s
wheels and which were fitted to approximately 50 million 
of all the light vehicles produced in the world in 2004. 
GKN has around 42% of the global market for CVJ sideshafts.
During 2004 GKN launched its third generation CVJs which 
can deliver more torque in a smaller, lighter package – a
critical benefit to vehicle designers.
In recent years GKN has developed an electronics expertise.
This has been fused with its long-standing engineering capability
to develop a new generation of torque management devices
which are becoming increasingly important as a means to
improve vehicle traction, stability and comfort.
GKN is also the world’s No. 1 supplier of powder metal
parts and the No. 1 producer of metal powder in the US. 
GKN’s capability in the technology and production of
powder metal parts and their raw material is unique 
among major companies.
GKN is a major European and North American supplier of
components and systems for construction and agricultural
vehicles and equipment and is also a leading supplier of
structural presswork and cylinder liners for automotive,
industrial and marine applications. Emitec, a 50:50 joint
venture with Siemens of Germany, is the world leader in
metallic substrates for catalytic converters. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 5
AEROSPACE
Virtually all of the latest Western military aircraft flying today and
many of the world’s most successful airliners embody technology
from GKN either in their airframes or engines or both. 
And in every important US and European military and civil
aircraft currently under development, GKN technology is making
an important contribution to the achievement of their ultimate
performance goals.
GKN Aerospace operates from engineering and production
facilities in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. Its mission
is to supply engineering design services and high-performance
composite and metallic alloy structures as well as a range of
specialist products such as engine nacelles and canopy systems
to prime contractors such as Airbus, Boeing, Lockheed Martin
and Sikorsky and the jet engine manufacturers General Electric,
Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney.
GKN supplies structures, propulsion systems and special
products to a wide range of military aircraft such as the 
F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, F/A-22 Raptor, F-15K Eagle, C-17
Globemaster 111, C-130J Hercules, Eurofighter Typhoon and
the Blackhawk, Merlin and Lynx helicopters. Within the civil
sector it is also a supplier on all Airbus programmes including
the A318/319/320 single aisle family, the A330 and A340
500/600 long-range aircraft and new A380 ‘Super Jumbo’.
GKN is also involved in developing and producing structures
and systems for the Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter,
Airbus A400M military airlifter and the Boeing 787 jetliner, 
all of which are currently under development and due to 
enter service by the end of the decade. 6 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Performance
GKN achieved a number of successes in 2004 – some of them in the face
of powerful headwinds. 
The successful disposal of our 50% stake in AgustaWestland realised
substantial value for the Group and its shareholders and will allow us
to increase and accelerate the level of investment in our wholly-owned
businesses. To provide a more immediate return to shareholders from
this transaction we initiated a buyback of shares into treasury of up to
£100 million.
During 2004 we increased our Automotive revenues in largely flat
markets. This hard won achievement was, however, frustrated by
an unprecedented rise in raw material prices, particularly steel.
Our continuing Aerospace businesses increased sales revenues over 
the previous year and built a strong pipeline of future business thanks
to new, competitive technologies.
Meanwhile, recognition of our pension obligations resulted in a charge
of £38 million (2003 – £23 million) to our profit and loss account in
respect of the UK pension fund deficit. We also used proceeds from 
the AgustaWestland transaction to make an additional £100 million
contribution towards this deficit.
However, as this annual report shows, GKN has taken robust operational
measures to alleviate the impact of these headwinds, as well as the effect
of adverse currency movements, and we have taken important steps in
the long-term strategic development of the Group.
Results
Pre-tax profits for the year before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items were £221 million (2003 – £246 million) and earnings per share on
the same basis were 21.3p (2003 – 22.8p). Net funds at the end of the year
were £65 million compared with debt of £793 million at the end of 2003.
Interest cover was 5.7 times (2003 – 5.4). On a statutory basis profit before
tax was £629 million (2003 – £173 million) reflecting the exceptional net
credit which arose largely from the divestment of the Group’s share of
AgustaWestland offset by restructuring and impairment charges.
Dividend
Subject to prevailing economic conditions the Board is committed to 
a progressive dividend policy and recommends that a final dividend 
of 8.0p be paid on 10 May 2005 bringing the total for the year to 11.9p
(2003 – 11.6p). The dividend of 11.9p is covered 1.8 times by earnings
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (2003 – 2.0 times).
The Board
I was honoured to become Chairman of GKN in May following the
retirement of Sir David Lees. During my nine years on the Board of GKN 
I have come to respect the Group’s inherent strength. This is due in no
small measure to David’s distinguished leadership over many years.
Our Board continues to evolve. Klaus Murmann retired in May as a 
non-executive Director, a position he had held since 1995. In June 
Dick Etches and Neal Keating left the service of the Group. Dick had 
been Human Resources Director and Neal, Managing Director Aerospace
Services. We thank each of them for their contribution. In December 
John Sheldrick, Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc, joined 
as a non-executive Director bringing considerable financial experience.
Corporate social responsibility
GKN has been active for more than 150 years in what is now commonly
termed ‘social responsibility’ but our best practice continues to develop.
This issue is reviewed regularly by the Board and in 2004 we established
an executive sub-committee on governance and risk which has completed
an unprecedented survey of our global social responsibility behaviour and
practice in more than 100 locations. The results will be used to refine and
improve the way we interact with our employees, customers, suppliers
and communities.
The future
The year 2004 was a difficult one for the Group and the outlook promises
another demanding year in 2005. However, we have considerable strengths
and market leadership positions and the Board is confident that GKN will
continue to deliver long-term shareholder value.
Roy Brown
23 February 2005
RoyBrown, Chairman (left) with Kevin Smith, Chief Executive ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 7
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
Transforming GKN
The strategic development of GKN gathered pace in 2004.
The disposal of our share of AgustaWestland transformed our balance
sheet, taking control of Tochigi Fuji Sangyo of Japan accelerated our
move into higher-value automotive systems, we set in train a global plan 
to deploy more production assets in high-growth, low-cost economies
and we won positions on the world’s major new aircraft programmes.
The AgustaWestland effect
When we announced the agreement to sell our 50% stake in
AgustaWestland to Finmeccanica, we described the £1.063 billion
consideration, which represents 1.2 times AgustaWestland’s 2003 
sales, as ‘the right price at the right time’. GKN secured a strong
contribution from helicopters over the 10 years since the acquisition 
of Westland Group plc and the price realised for our shareholding 
gave full recognition to the potential of that business.
The balance sheet strength we have secured will provide the resources
necessary for the next stages of development of our wholly-owned
Automotive and Aerospace businesses. 
High-growth, low-cost economies
GKN has an enviable record of penetrating new global markets. Economic
expansion in the emerging economies provides a major opportunity,
particularly as we are able to build on an existing presence – GKN has
been in China for 16 years, India for almost a century and Brazil for 
32 years. We are also established in Poland and Slovenia.
South America, Asia Pacific and Eastern Europe now account for 26% 
of global light vehicle production. These markets are forecast to grow at
almost four times the rate of those in North America, Western Europe and
Japan. They also offer a low cost base to enhance our competitiveness.
In 2004 we announced our intention to migrate a further 20% of our CVJ
production to these low-cost, high-growth economies so that by 2007
more than 50% of our production will take place there. We expect the
benefits to be substantial. We are also pursuing the restructuring of our
North American Powder Metallurgy operations to return the business to
an adequate level of profitability.
The creation of technology
Four years ago GKN identified the emerging demand for a new generation
of automotive driveline components to manage the efficient distribution
of power and torque in increasingly powerful vehicles. Since then we have
built a world-leading portfolio of mechanical and electronic products.
2004 saw new vehicles come to market with innovative GKN products
and systems including the Cadillac SRX/STS and Land Rover Discovery.
We also won positions on important new vehicles still under development.
There has also been a strong focus on aerospace technology, particularly
in composite structures which offer significant strength and weight benefits.
In 2004 we achieved a number of firsts. These included the first production
components from new composite manufacturing processes for the Airbus
A380 and the Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. We won the
order for the world’s first composite primary wing structures for a large
aircraft, the Airbus A400M military airlifter, and the Boeing 787 will fly
with the world’s first all-composite engine containment casing from GKN
on the General Electric GEnx turbofan.
Our ability to produce complex composite structures has attracted funding
from the UK Department of Trade & Industry and South East Development
Agency, who are helping establish GKN’s Advanced Composite Facility
in the UK. The facility will be operational this year and will accelerate our
progress in pioneering aerospace composite applications. We value the
Government’s support.
The operating and financial review on pages 21 to 30 details the
significant challenges we faced during the year from rising raw material
and energy costs. The creditable results we achieved in 2004 owe much
to the skill, commitment, dedication and innovation of GKN people
around the globe. My thanks go to them all.
Outlook
In Automotive the major European and North American markets are
forecast to remain relatively static in 2005. Growth in the developing
markets is expected to continue, although at a slightly lower level than
2004. Overall, global automotive demand is anticipated to maintain its
steady 2-3% annual growth. In Aerospace prospects are improving, with
rising civil aircraft production and a robust US military market. Our
OffHighway markets overall look set to show modest growth with steady
US demand and a slight increase in Europe.
Against this background we expect our Automotive businesses to
improve underlying sales and operating performance although high
worldwide raw material prices, particularly for steel, present a challenge
to 2005 Automotive profitability. Renegotiated annual supply contracts
will add some £30 million to costs in 2005. In addition we are exposed
to fluctuations in the scrap steel price which is surcharged in the
industry. In the first quarter this surcharge will have some impact on
costs, although if scrap were to stay at the current somewhat reduced
price levels, little further impact would be felt in the rest of the year.
We continue to negotiate for recovery of this cost increase with our
customers and are having some success, although the full quantum of
recovery will not be known for several months. Our focus on productivity
improvement will continue.
In Aerospace trading is expected to continue to improve in 2005 and
OffHighway’s performance should also show progress.
The benefits of our leading technology, new products and strong
presence in emerging markets, combined with the benefits of the
restructuring activities underway, leave the Group’s continuing
businesses well positioned for growth.
In addition, the transformation of the Group which started in 2004 will
continue in 2005. The £1 billion sale proceeds from AgustaWestland
have significantly strengthened the balance sheet and provide a solid
platform for accelerated growth in profits and earnings from their 
new, re-based levels. The Group is well placed to take advantage of
opportunities in all its markets and looks to the future with confidence.
Kevin Smith
23 February 2005 8 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OUR TECHNOLOGY
Technology is transforming GKN
Technology is advancing rapidly in GKN, transforming how the Group is perceived.
Technology has always been at the heart of the leading-edge products which have
won market leadership positions for GKN. Today, however, strategic importance
has been conferred on technology as an enabler of long-term growth through the
creation of new products, systems and production processes. 
It is GKN’s technology which has created a new generation of constant velocity joints
which are ahead of their competition on every important measure of performance
and the Group is using its knowledge of automotive driveline dynamics to create
devices and systems which deliver improved stability, traction and comfort.
In Powder Metallurgy the continuing advance of product, process and material
technology will open up new opportunities, particularly in the area of automotive
gears, power train components and hydraulic products.
In Aerospace GKN technology is taking the use of composites into demanding
areas of airframe and aero-engine structures which were previously the preserve 
of conventional metals. In opening up new applications for composites we are
enabling aerospace designers to achieve the higher efficiencies and thrust-to-
weight ratios which are critical to the new breed of civil and military aircraft.
Much of our technology development is taking place in partnership with automotive
and aerospace customers. As our capability broadens our customer relationships
deepen and become more productive.
Discover more about GKN’s technology – and expect more. Technology at GKN 10 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OUR TECHNOLOGY / AUTOMOTIVE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 11
Opposite page: Power transfer unit, Nissan X-Trail
This page: Detail of front sideshaft, Audi A6 12 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OUR TECHNOLOGY / AUTOMOTIVE
Land Rover Discovery 3, a
premium SUV launched in 2004,
features GKN’s most advanced
driveline products including an
electronic torque manager.
GKN’s GI Generation 3 constant
velocity plunge joint, launched in
the Renault Master, offers class-
leading advantages in terms of
size and ability to handle torque.
GKN was driveline system
integrator and overall programme
manager for the highly acclaimed
Cadillac SRX/STS all wheel drive
and rear wheel drive models.
Front sideshafts
Electronic torque manager (ETM2)
Rear sideshafts
Front premium propshaft
Rear premium two-part propshaft
Front sideshafts
Geared transfer case and final drive
(GKN design) 
Rear sideshafts
Front premium propshaft
Rear premium two-part propshaft
Significant downsizing 
compared with previous
generation technology 
Engineering emphasis
on trunnion design to
enhance durability
Land Rover Discovery driveline technology by GKN
General Motors’ Cadillac SRX/STS driveline system by GKN
GKN’s ‘third generation’ GI 3 tripod constant velocity joint ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 13
> Driveline – driveshaft and torque technology
GKN groups its automotive driveline activity into two distinct but complementary product technology
areas – Driveshafts which includes sideshafts and propshafts that use constant velocity joint
technology, and Torque Systems which includesgeared components such as power take off
units, transfer cases and final drive units as well as electronic torque control technologies.
The 2005 automotive model year was an important period for GKN. 
In the Driveshafts area a new third generation of constant velocity joints was launched into
production and began to see applications in 2005 model year vehicles. These joints have been
designed to meet a continuous requirement from vehicle designers for smaller joint sizes which
can handle higher torque outputs from more powerful engines aswell as increased steering
angles and new, more compact, suspension layouts. For certain premium and large four wheel
drive vehicles these requirements can be quite extreme. 
The 2005 automotive model year also demonstrated the results of GKN’s newly won capability
at the vehicle system level and there were three new drivelines in particular that excited the market
and that were engineered completely by GKN in a total systems approach.
The new Land Rover Discovery, which is designed as a sports utility vehicle (SUV) with outstanding
levels of off-road capability, is supported by 10 different GKN production facilities throughout
Europe. They supply two propshafts and four sideshafts incorporating 12 constant velocity
joints across the model range and on the advanced option vehicle GKN is also responsible for
the electronic torque manager software integration, electronic module production supply and
mechanical parts. A GKN plant also supplies the chassis frame for the vehicle.
GKN was also sourced as system integrator and overall programme manager for the Cadillac
SRX/STS saloon car and SUV all wheel drive and rear wheel drive vehicles. GKN was given 
a similar role by Fiat for the new all wheel drive Panda 4x4 which was also launched in 2004. 
In addition to its role as system integrator, GKN supplied all the driveshafts and was responsible
for the geared product design release on both the Cadillac and Fiat vehicles. 14 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OUR TECHNOLOGY / AUTOMOTIVE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 15
> GKN – the world leader in powder metallurgy
Powder metallurgy is making continuous progress in market growth. Its global spread is increasing
as new markets become available and the continuous introduction of new automotive and non-
automotive products broadens the range of applications of our materials and processes.
GKN is the only market participant which covers the full process from production and blending of
metal powder to production of finished products meeting demanding requirements for structural
strength and wear resistance.
The advantage of powder metallurgy is the ability to create net shaped products which offer
advantages over competing technologies in terms of performance, quality and cost.
Today’s global market for parts produced through the powder metallurgy process is worth more
than £4 billion per annum. GKN is at the forefront of new developments which could expand that
market by £2.5 billion per annum. Central to GKN’s ambitions is the ability to produce highly
complex shapes at levels of density and surface finish comparable to normal casting or forging
but while still retaining the cost advantages of the powder metallurgy process.
The prize which is coming within the business’ grasp is innovative products such as automotive
gears which have so far not been converted from conventional manufacturing. Aachen University
of Technology in Germany estimated recently that out of a total of 850 million gears for automotive
transmissions produced annually in the world today more than 50% will be addressable by
powder metallurgy. GKN estimates the market to be worth £2 billion per annum for transmission
parts and £500 million per annum for engine and hydraulic parts.
Diagram shows a locking
differential for a transfer case
used on a four wheel drive or 
all wheel drive light vehicle.
Components such as the carriers,
pinions, sun gears, lock-up collar
and drive sprockets are all typical
geared components which have
the potential to be produced by
the new sintering and forming
processes under development in
GKN’s new Global Research Centre
in Radevormwald in Germany.
Automotive transmission components
Lock-up collar
Sprockets
Sun gear
Carriers
Carriers
Pinions
Opposite page: Sprockets, pulley and oil pump rotor 16 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OUR TECHNOLOGY / AEROSPACE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 17
Opposite page: Wing for European autonomous air vehicle produced using GKN’s new resin transfer moulding process
This page: AE3100 jet engine casing produced by GKN in titanium and welded using the electron beam process 18 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OUR TECHNOLOGY / AEROSPACE
GKN is a significant supplier of
composite and metallic structures
on the Pratt & Whitney F135 engine
for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. 
In 2004 Airbus awarded GKN the
contract to design and build all-
composite primary wing structures
for the A400M military airlifter.
The new General Electric GEnx
engine will fly on the Boeing 787
with the world’s first all-composite
large turbofan containment case
from GKN.
Engine casing 
Turbine exhaust casing
Fan containment case (composite) 
Acoustically treated
 exhaust nozzle and plug
(not shown)
Fan blades (composite blades
under development)
Fan blade spacers
(composite)
Composite wing spar (13m) 
Composite wing spar (13m) 
Containment case
Nozzle static structure
(not shown)
Inlet guide vanes
Forward augmentor Forward fan case 
Fan inlet case (composite)
Forward compressor case 
GKN composite and metal alloy technology on the F135 military engine
GKN composite technology on the Airbus A400M wing
GKN composite and metal alloy technology on civil turbofan engines ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 19
> Transforming the role of composite materials in aerospace
Advances by GKN aerospace engineers are pioneering a new generation of composite materials
and production processes which are being applied to important new civil and military aircraft
under development in the US and Europe.
In previous decades, advances in aircraft design focused on propulsion systems and avionics
but there is now a greater emphasis on the contribution of aerostructures. 
This has brought about a revolution in the use of carbon fibre composite materials. Ten years
ago composites would be used to produce secondary structures accounting for less than 5% 
of an aircraft’s airframe. Today all that has changed. 
The Pratt & Whitney F135 powerplant on the F-35 fighter will depend on a major and all-composite
primary structure produced by GKN. 
When the Airbus A400M military airlifter flies in 2008, its wings, each of which carry two
turboprop engines, will depend on the world’s first all-composite large wing spars produced 
by GKN. No other large aircraft has used composites for such a critical part of the airframe. 
On both the A400M and the F-35, only GKN’s technology has allowed lightweight, high-strength
composites to replace complex metal fabrications for critical applications.
GKN is working with all three of the world’s largest jet engine manufacturers – General Electric,
Pratt & Whitney and Rolls-Royce – as part of an emerging trend to make greater use of
composite materials within aero-engines. GKN is at the leading edge of that trend. In addition to
its breakthrough work on the Pratt & Whitney F135 military engine, GKN has been selected by
General Electric to develop and supply the first large turbofan containment case to be produced
in composite for the new GEnx engine and is also working with Rolls-Royce on the development
of all-composite blades for large turbofan engines.
GKN’s new, world-class, Advanced Composite Facility, which combines materials research 
and development with advanced and highly automated production technology, is scheduled 
to become operational on the Isle of Wight in the UK during 2005. 
The world’s aircraft and aero-engine manufacturers have come to expect more from 
GKN’s technology. 20 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OUR TECHNOLOGY ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 21
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
GROUP ACTIVITIES
GKN is a global engineering business serving the automotive and
aerospace markets. 
Automotive activities comprise GKN Driveline, Powder Metallurgy,
AutoComponents, Emitec and OffHighway Systems.
Aerospace activities are concentrated on structural components,
propulsion systems and specialcomponents for both military and 
civil aerospace markets. 
For 11 months of the year the Group had a 50% shareholding in
AgustaWestland, the European helicopter manufacturer. This was
sold on 30 November 2004.
These activities are discussed in more detail on pages 24 to 28.
STRATEGY
GKN is committed to providing long-term shareholder value by supplying
outstanding products and services to our global automotive and aerospace
customers to produce growth in sales and sustained profitability. This will
be achieved largely through a combination of organic development of our
businesses and selective acquisitions which add to our technological
capabilities, geographical presence or are in support of customer
outsourcing programmes. More detail on the strategic development
of the Group in 2004 is contained in the Chief Executive’s statement
on page 7 and GKN core technologies are described on pages 8 to 19.
CHANGES IN THE COMPOSITION OF THE GROUP
With effect from 1 April 2004 the Group increased its shareholding 
in Tochigi Fuji Sangyo (TFS) from 33% to 84% with the result that it
is accounted for as a subsidiary, rather than an associated company,
from that date. Because TFS is a publicly quoted company with a March
year-end its results as an associate were included six months in arrears.
The 2004 accounts therefore include a 33% share of its results for the
six months 1 October 2003 to 31 March 2004 and 100% of its results
for the nine months 1 April to 31 December 2004, with appropriate
adjustment to earnings for the remaining 16% minority interest. The
company is being integrated into the Driveline division and forms the
nucleus of its Torque Systems Group.
For strategic reasons, the 50% shareholdings in AgustaWestland and
Aerosystems International were sold on 30 November and 13 August,
respectively. The results of these businesses have been incorporated 
in the consolidated results to the dates of disposal and are separately
shown as ‘discontinued operations’ in the profit and loss account.
Comparative figures for 2003 for discontinued activities comprise 
these two companies together with the Group’s share of Alvis plc which
was sold in September 2003. On 1 September 2004 the Group sold
Walterscheid Rohrverbindungstechnik GmbH, its German OffHighway
hydraulic fittings operation. 
CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY
There were no changes in accounting policy in the year. However, following
a review by the Directors and in order to bring the Group into line with
comparable engineering companies, the method of charging depreciation
on tangible fixed assets was changed with effect from 1 January 2004
from reducing balance to straight line and this increased the year’s profit
by £11 million compared with the previous basis.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
In this review and elsewhere in the annual report, in addition to the
statutory measures of earnings, we have included references to profit
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items since we believe 
this shows most clearly the underlying trend in performance. Where
appropriate, reference is made to results excluding the impact of both
2003 and 2004 acquisitions and divestments as well as the impact of
currency translation. As in 2003, in the segmental analysis the cost of
the UK pension deficit, which is material and cannot readily be attributed
to the current Automotive or Aerospace businesses, is shown separately. 
Group performance
Sales
Totalsales, including our share of joint ventures and associates, were
£4,447 million compared with £4,585 million in 2003, a decrease of
£138 million (3.0%), which was more than accounted for by the reduction
of £235 million in sales of discontinued businesses. 
In continuing businesses, sales increased by 2.7% from £3,595 million
in 2003 to £3,692 million in 2004. Excluding the impact of currency
translation, acquisitions and divestments, the underlying increase in
sales was similar at £131 million (3.8%).
Automotive sales of £3,123 million were £87 million (2.9%) above last year
with an underlying increase of £118 million. As described on page 24,
2004 was a year of relatively static market conditions in both Western
Europe and North America which were compensated to some extent by
continuing strong growth in emerging markets, albeit at somewhat lower
rates than in 2003.
Aerospace Services sales of £569 million were £10 million (1.8%) higher
than 2003. Excluding the impact of currency translation and acquisitions,
the increase was 2.5%.
Sales in discontinued businesses were £755 million compared with
£990 million in 2003. Most of this reduction reflected the absence of the
Group’s share of Alvis plc, which wassold in 2003, and the shorter period
for which results were included for AgustaWestland and Aerosystems
International. AgustaWestland, however, also experienced underlying
sales reductions following completion of major UK military contracts in
the first half of the year.
Opposite page:
Row 1, left to right: Sintered camshaft, Airbus A320 acoustic panel, electro-magnetic coupling, sintered planetary carrier
Row 2, left to right: Final drive unit, armoured glass windscreen, sintered sprockets, viscous coupling
Row 3, left to right: Sintered components, power take off unit, jet engine casing, con rod
Row 4, left to right: Composite primary wing structure, sintered transmission carrier, front sideshaft, air vehicle wing 22 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Operating profit (before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items)
TotalGroup operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items of £268 million was £34 million (11.3%) lower than 2003. 
Operating profit in continuing operations was £181 million, a reduction
of £14 million (7.2%) from the previousyear. Movements in currency
exchange rates had a negative impact on both translation of results and
transactions of £11 million and £14 million, respectively. The impact
of higher raw material costs, mainly on steel and steel-based products,
was significant and although some recovery was made from customers,
the net impact on the operating profit for the year is estimated at around
£40 million. Net acquisitions and divestments contributed £15 million.
Total operating profit was also impacted by an increase of £15 million 
in the charge for the UK pension deficit.
Automotive operating profit decreased by £11 million (5.6%) to 
£184 million. Excluding translational currency effects, acquisitions,
divestments and the benefit of the changed depreciation methodology
the decrease was £18 million (9.7%).
Aerospace Services profits improved from £23 million to £35 million.
Adjusting for translational currency impacts, acquisitions, divestments
and the benefit of the changed depreciation methodology, underlying
profit increased by £4 million (20.0%).
Profits in discontinued operations fell by £20 million to £87 million
reflecting the lower sales noted above.
As noted previously, the charge to operating profit in respect of the UK
pension scheme deficit rose to £38 million from £23 million in 2003 and
this is shown separately in the segmental analysis. The increase was due
to the higher annual charge commencing midway through 2003.
Operating exceptional items (including goodwill impairment)
There was a charge in the period of £250 million (2003 – £91 million)
which comprised two elements:
• £99 million in respect of the restructuring measures announced in
March 2004 to move some 20% of Driveline production capacity from
high-cost, low-growth economies to the low-cost emerging markets of
Eastern Europe, South America and Asia Pacific, together with costs
associated with the recovery programme in US Powder Metallurgy
and overhead cost reductions elsewhere in the Group; and
• £151 million from a review of asset carrying values relating to the
accelerated write-down of goodwill and tangible assets in Powder
Metallurgy where planned recovery in the US has been delayed by
higher raw material prices and weak markets for the business’ major
customers. The 2003 total goodwill impairment of £91 million arose in
Powder Metallurgy (£83 million) and Aerospace Services (£8 million).
The £99 million charged in respect of restructuring measures was
somewhat lower than had been estimated earlier in the year as
discussions about plant closures with customers and employees
identified some potential alternative, cost-effective actions. It comprised
£62 million in respect of asset write-downs in specific plants where
definitive plans and intent existed or actions had been taken, and 
£37 million in respect of redundancy and other reorganisation costs
where external announcements or commitments had been made by the
end of the year, mainly in Driveline and Powder Metallurgy. Cash outflow
in the year in respect of these totalled £16 million.
Looking forward, the original estimates of total charges of approximately
£210 million, cash costs of £140 million and full year benefits of £60 million 
by 2007 remain valid.
Goodwill amortisation 
Amortisation of goodwill was £29 million (2003 – £37 million). In continuing
operations the charge was £24 million compared with £31 million in 2003.
Statutory operating loss/profit
There was an £11 million loss after goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items (2003 – profit £174 million). 
Exceptional items arising on sale of businesses
Exceptional profits arising on the sale of businesses totalled £687 million
(2003 – £55 million). £652 million related to profit on the disposal of
the Group’s 50% shareholding in AgustaWestland, together with related
property, for a cash consideration received in the year of £1,028.5 million
and was after charging £100 million of goodwill previously charged
directly to reserves on the original acquisition of Westland Group plc. 
No account has yet been taken of a further £35 million of consideration
which remains in escrow pending the award by the UK Ministry of Defence
of certain contracts relating to its fleet of Lynx helicopters. The balance of
the exceptional profit of £35 million related mainly to the disposal of the
Group’s 50% shareholding in Aerosystems International and the wholly-
owned subsidiary Walterscheid Rohrverbindungstechnik. 
Interest
Net interest payable by subsidiaries was £46 million (2003 – £56 million).
The reduction was due mainly to a combination of lower average borrowings
in the first 11 months of the year and interest for one month on the
proceeds of sale of AgustaWestland and the effect of interest rate
movements in our US dollar and euro balance sheet hedges. The 
Group’s share of net interest payable by joint ventures was £1 million
(2003 – nil), all of which was in discontinued businesses.
Interest costs were covered 5.7 times (2003 – 5.4 times) by operating
profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Looking ahead to 2005, in the light of the Group’s strategic intent to
pursue selective business acquisitions, it is currently intended to leave
the Group’s long-term fixed borrowings in place. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 23
Cash flow
Operating cash flow, which GKN defines as cash inflow from operating
activities (£179 million) adjusted for capital expenditure (£184 million)
and proceeds from the disposal of fixed assets (£8 million), was £3 million
compared with £138 million in 2003 but was after a £100 million advance
payment into the UK pension scheme and £21 million (2003 – £13 million)
expenditure on exceptional items of both current and prior years.
Excluding the advance pension payment and the impact of exceptional
provisions there was a £22 million outflow on working capital, largely
reflecting higher stocks resulting from the increase in raw material prices
and the increase in underlying sales.
Capital expenditure was £184 million (2003 – £162 million). This
represented 115% of depreciation and is in line with our previous
expectations that capital expenditure is likely to be in a range of 110-120%
of depreciation in a normal year. Net interest paid was £46 million
compared with £53 million in 2003. 
Dividends from joint ventures and associates were £10 million (2003 –
£68 million), most of the reduction reflecting the absence of a dividend
from AgustaWestland.
Taxpaid totalled £47 million compared with £63 million in 2003, the
latter figure including the settlement of certain prior year tax issues. 
The figure for 2005 is expected to be broadly similar to 2004.
The net impact of acquisitions and divestments was an inflow of
£1,045 million (2003 – £29 million) leaving a net cash inflow for the
year, before dividend payments, of £963 million (2003 – £118 million).
Proceeds from divestments in the year totalled £1,068 million in respect
of the 50% stakes in AgustaWestland and Aerosystems International
and the wholly-owned hydraulic fittings business, Walterscheid
Rohrverbindungstechnik. Acquisitions mainly comprised an additional
51% of TFS for £34 million together with an additional 10% of Shanghai
GKN Drive Shaft for £8 million. In addition, there were cash and bank
balances on acquisition of £17 million.
Capital expenditure 
and depreciation
£m
240
200
160
120
80
40
0 02 03 04
Depreciation
Capital expenditure
Profit before tax
Totalprofit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was
£221 million compared with £246 million in 2003, a decrease of 10.2%.
Statutory profit before tax was £629 million compared with the 2003
figure of £173 million.
Taxation
The total tax charge decreased to £49 million from £70 million in 2003. 
The tax rate, expressed as a percentage of profit before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, for the year was 28.1% compared
with a 2003 figure of 31.3%. The 3.2 percentage point decrease is
largely attributable to an increase in credits arising from the settlement
of prior year tax liabilities, this benefit being partially offset by an
increased deferred tax charge resulting from the non-recognition of
deferred tax assets in respect of current year tax losses and the revision
of prior year capital allowance claims in the UK.
The tax rate for 2005 is expected to show a modest reduction following
the disposal of the AgustaWestland business. In addition, there may be
a favourable impact from the future resolution of outstanding tax issues.
The tax credit on exceptional items was £13 million (2003 – £7 million).
The total effective tax rate based on profits after goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items was 7.8% (2003 – 40.5%).
Earnings
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items
were 21.3p compared with 22.8p in 2003, a reduction of 6.6%. After these
items the figure was 78.8p (2003 – 13.8p). The effect of the 13.3 million
shares bought into treasury in the final quarter of the year was negligible. 
Dividend
As noted in the Chairman’s statement on page 6, a final dividend of 8.0p
per share is proposed. Together with the interim dividend of 3.9p, the total
dividend for the year will be 11.9p, an increase of 2.6% over the equivalent
figure for last year. The total dividend is covered 1.8 times by earnings
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (2003 – 2.0 times).
Dividend per share
pence
12
10
8
6
4
2
0 02 03 04
Interim
Final 24 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Share buyback
In October 2004 the Company announced its intention to commence 
a share buyback programme up to a value of £100 million. By the end 
of November, the start of the ‘close period’, 13.3 million shares had 
been purchased into treasury at a cost of £30 million. It is intended 
to recommence the programme in 2005.
Net funds/borrowings
At the end of the year the Group had net funds of £65 million (2003 – net
borrowings £793 million). These included the benefit of customer advances
of £53 million in the Aerospace businesses (2003 – £48 million), which
are shown in short-term creditors in the balance sheet. There were net
borrowings in joint ventures of £2 million.
Goodwill
At the year-end the balance sheet showed goodwill of £197 million
(2003 – £340 million) in relation to subsidiaries and a further £7 million
(2003 – £114 million) within the equity value of joint ventures and
associates. The significant decrease in value of goodwill in subsidiaries
reflects the £100 million impairment charge made in the year. The
reduction in joint ventures and associates follows the divestment of
AgustaWestland and the reclassification of TFS as a subsidiary.
Shareholders’ equity
Shareholders’ equity was £1,460 million at the end of the year compared
with £926 million at the end of 2003. Retained profit for the year was
£491 million after charging £100 million of goodwill previously written
off to reserves. The shares purchased into treasury reduced shareholders’
funds by £30 million while there was a small (£2 million) increase from
shares issued. The currency impact arising on translation was £31 million
negative and there were other positive movements of £2 million.
DIVISIONAL DEVELOPMENTS AND PERFORMANCE
Automotive
Management
During the course of 2004 a smallmanagement team was created, led 
by Ian Griffiths, to take overall responsibility for the management of our
Automotive businesses. The structure recognises the global nature of the
automotive market and the requirements of our global customers. The
objective is to create additional and accelerated value from the portfolio
through a cohesive integrated strategy and to ensure the adoption of
best-in-class practices and processes across the portfolio.
Markets
By comparison with 2003, car and light vehicle production was relatively
stable in both North America, which was down 0.6%, and Western Europe,
which was level with last year. There was, however, continued growth in
the emerging markets of Asia Pacific where production in China and India
rose by some 14% to 5.7 million units. 
Notwithstanding these generally static markets, sales revenue of
£3,123 million was £87 million higher than 2003. The impact of currency
translation was £136 million negative while the full year impact of 2003
and 2004 acquisitions and changes in status added £114 million. The
impact of divestments was small at £9 million so that on a like-for-like
basis sales were £118 million (4.1%) higher than in 2003.
Operating profit was £184 million, £11 million (5.6%) below 2003. 
The impact of currency translation was £8 million adverse which was
exactly offset by the benefit arising from the change in depreciation
methodology. The net effect of acquisitions and divestments added 
£7 million and excluding all these factors profits fell by £18 million
(9.7%). The major factor behind this reduction was significantly higher
raw material costs, mainly steel and steel-based products. Some but
not all of this cost was passed on to customers and the net effect is
estimated to have reduced profits by some £40 million by comparison
with 2003. The adverse transactional impact of currency was some 
£14 million, mainly on sales out of continental Europe. 
GKN Driveline
Products and markets
GKN Driveline specialises in the manufacture of components for light
vehicle drivelines (defined as the components that transfer torque
between a vehicle’s transmission and its driven wheels). These include
geared components (transfer cases, power transfer units and final drive
units), torque management devices and driveshafts (propshafts for
longitudinal power transmission and sideshafts for lateral transmission).
Since the acquisition of the majority shareholding in TFS, the division
comprises GKN Driveline Driveshafts (GKN Driveshafts) and GKN
Driveline Torque Systems Group. 
GKN Driveshafts is the global leader in the production of constant velocity
jointed (CVJ) products for use in light vehicle drivelines. The majority of
CVJs are used in sideshafts for front wheel drive, rear wheel drive and
four wheel drive vehicles; CVJ sideshafts are required for every driven axle
with independent suspension. Some, but not all, longitudinal propshafts
are also fitted with CVJs. 
North American light
vehicle production
2003 & 2004 actual 
2005 forecast 
million units
5
4
3
2
1
0 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr Source: Global Insight
2004 actual
2003 actual
2005 forecast ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 25
In 2004, based on internal estimates, GKN Driveshafts’ businesses,
including its joint ventures, produced around 42% of CVJs for the global
light vehicle market. The market share of the next largest producer 
is estimated at 16%. Nearly 25% of CVJs are produced by vehicle
manufacturers (VMs) for their own use through ‘in-house’ operations.
Orders won during the year confirm that there is unlikely to be any major
change in the division’s market share in the period up to 2006-2007, 
the latest date for which reliable data is available. 
GKN Driveshafts manufactures CVJs and related products in 21 countries
across all major vehicle producing regions of the world and has enjoyed
considerable success in developing markets, with strong market shares of
some 84% in South America and 51% in the Asia Pacific region (excluding
Japan and South Korea).
GKN Driveshafts is also one of the largest suppliers of premium propshafts,
which we define as those propshafts with sophisticated joints, materials or
other features. We estimate that in 2004 premium propshafts represented
approximately 33% of global light vehicle propshaft demand, or some
10 million propshaft assemblies. GKN Driveshafts’ share of this segment
was in the region of 19%.
GKN Driveline Torque Systems Group comprises Torque Technology
Group (TTG), Industrial and Distribution Services and Speciality Vehicles.
TTG produces a wide range of driveline components aimed at actively
managing the flow of torque to the driven wheels based on road conditions,
vehicle situation and driver intent. Torque management devices (TMDs)
are mechanical or electro-mechanical devices that improve vehicle
performance and handling by controlling the flow of torque throughout
the driveline.
GKN offers the most complete range of TMD solutions as both stand-alone
and integrated devices to VMs and to certain Tier One suppliers. In 2004,
we estimate that on an annualised basis, GKN supplied approximately
18% of TMDs for light vehicle applications on a global basis. We expect
to increase this share based on market acceptance of our electronically
controlled coupling, ETM, during 2005.
Geared component sales by TTG are currently approximately £100 million
per annum, realised through installation on many successful all wheel
drive/four wheel drive vehicles. Increasingly, we are also involved in
many active development projects on future vehicle programmes. We
expect above market growth in power transfer units and final drive units
as VMscontinue to introduce new ‘crossover’ vehicles that combine four
wheel drive with car-like dynamics and comfort, and our products are
well positioned for success in these areas. 
Industrial and Distribution Services operates an aftermarket business,
primarily in Western Europe, that servesdistributors and service outlets
with a range of new and remanufactured driveline and other components
while Speciality Vehicles services non-automotive markets, such as
marine and all-terrain, with driveline components. 
The GKN Driveline business is managed globally to ensure effective use of
resources and capital. Customers are served by global account teams that
are structured to reflect customer organisations, and all manufacturing
and sourcing decisions are reviewed from the perspective of global
capacity and strategy.
2004 highlights
Sales in 2004 were £2,057 million (2003 – £1,938 million). The change
in status of TFS from associate to subsidiary, the additional 10% stake 
in our joint venture Shanghai GKN Drive Shaft and the impact of prior
year acquisitions accounted for £111 million of the increase. The effect
of translational currency was £82 million adverse, leaving the underlying
increase at £90 million (4.8%). This overall increase was encouraging 
as it was achieved in the face of static vehicle production and continued
pricing pressure in major markets. 
Productivity gains were made from continuous improvement which offset
some of the annual selling price reductions. However, the adverse effect
of higher raw material prices, which in most cases could not be fully
recovered from customers, was significant and overall there was a slight
reduction in operating margins from 2003. There were also some
productivity improvements from the restructuring announced in March
but, as expected, these did not provide significant benefits in the year.
Western European light
vehicle production
2003 & 2004 actual 
2005 forecast 
million units
5
4
3
2
1
0 1st Qtr 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr Source: Global Insight
2004 actual
2003 actual
2005 forecast
Global light vehicle 
production
1990-2004 actual
2005-2010 forecast
million units
75
70
65
60
55
50
45
40 96 94 92 90 98 00 02 04 06 08 10 Source: Global Insight
Trend line showing  
average compound  
annual growth rate  
from 1990 to 2010  
of 2.5%
Actual/forecast 26 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
As part of the division’s global strategy of increasing its manufacturing
footprint in low-cost regions, agreement was reached during the year 
for the acquisition of the remaining 51% of the shares not currently
owned in Velcon, a Mexican manufacturer of CVJs. Completion took
place on 1 February 2005 for a cash consideration of US$83 million 
(£44 million).
There continued to be a high degree of focus on research and development,
and during the year the division invested some £74 million including
expenditures for product and process improvement, cost reduction and
innovation. All these costs were charged to operating profit during the year.
Powder Metallurgy
Products and markets
GKN’s Powder Metallurgy division produces metal powder and sintered
products which are largely iron-based, although growth is currently
seen in the use of aluminium and other alloys. GKN estimates that
it has in the region of 16% global market share, with sales to major
automotive and industrial original equipment manufacturers and 
first tier players. 
At four times the size of the nearest competitor our advantage lies
in technical development, manufacturing capability and global reach. 
Work continues to ensure that this advantage is fully leveraged.
GKN’s sintered component production takes place in North America,
Western Europe and the emerging markets (Asia Pacific and South
America) with the percentages of sales in those regions being 52%, 
42% and 6% respectively.
Hoeganaes is the largest producer of powder in North America with a
greater than 50% market share and has also continued its development
outside the US, particularly through growth in Europe due to increased
usage by GKN’s own sintering companies in this region. Hoeganaes’
sales to external customers accounted for some 50% of its shipments
and just over 10% of the Powder Metallurgy division’s sales. Growth of
the Romanian powder producer, which was acquired in 2003, continued
as planned. 
Powder technology was historically seen as essentially substitutional
for cast or forged components but an increasing trend towards parts
designed to take advantage of powder metal differentiation potential
can be seen.
2004 highlights
2004 sales of £589 million were £19 million (3.1%) lower than 2003 
due to the translational impact of currency. On a like-for-like basis
there was an increase of £21 million (3.7%), with higher sales in 
Europe and strong growth in the emerging markets of India and Brazil
offsetting the impact of reduced production by General Motors, Ford 
and DaimlerChrysler in North America. 
2004 was also marked by a Letter of Intent with Shanghai Automotive
Industry Corporation to review the feasibility of forming a joint venture in
China to position GKN Powder Metallurgy in this rapidly developing market.
The division was particularly badly affected by the substantial increase
in the cost of scrap steel, its primary raw material, which rose from an
average of US$158 per ton in 2003 to US$302 per ton in 2004 and
resulted in a significant reversal of profitability, leading to a small loss
in the year and delaying the planned return to acceptable margins. As
noted in the financial section of this review, as a result of this and further
reductions in the market share of major customers it was considered
appropriate to make an impairment charge of £151 million in respect
of capitalised goodwill and fixed assets of the division.
Operational improvements continued as the manufacturing footprint
wasprogressively restructured and rationalised. This ongoing achievement
is underpinned by the launch of the GKN Group Lean Enterprise
programme providing the tools to drive operational excellence in 
a robust, disciplined fashion. 
During the year new business intake continued positively, with an
annualised peak sales value of approximately £100 million won in 
all three operating regions including strong growth in new customers
and applications. These programme wins, which comprise both 
new and replacement business, will largely phase into production 
in 2006-2007. Further impetus for future growth is expected to be
provided by developments at the new European Technical Centre which
was officially opened in the summer. Customer relationships continued
to strengthen, marked notably by a supplier of the year award from
General Motors amongst others.
AutoComponents, Emitec and OffHighway Systems
Products and markets
AutoComponents, which is predominantly UK-based, manufactures
structural components and engine cylinder liners for passenger car, 
light vehicle and heavy commercial vehicle markets in Western Europe
and the US. Early in 2005 the division entered into an agreement to
establish a 59% owned subsidiary in China with a view to establishing 
a new low-cost production base to serve existing and emerging markets.
Emitec, our 50:50 joint venture with Siemens, produces metal substrates
for catalytic converters used in cars and light vehicles. 
OffHighway Systems (OHS) designs and manufactures steel wheels and
driveline systems for the global agricultural and construction industries.
Approximately 80% of its sales are to the agricultural market. 
The European agricultural machinerymarket declined by 3% compared
with 2003, but this was less than expected. By contrast, US agricultural
machinery sales increased by 23% as a result of record net farming income
in 2003. Overall, US production increased by 28% as field inventories
were also rebuilt from historically low levels. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 27
Led by China and the recovering US economy, globally the construction
market enjoyed a record year. Production and sales were up by 24% in
both of these markets. Europe also returned to growth after the stagnation
of the previous two years with production up 13% over 2003.
2004 also saw production of both agricultural and construction
machinery increase in other regions and China, India, Japan and Brazil
now account for approximately 33% of global production. OHS sales in
these areas will increase in 2005 as new local facilities come on stream.
2004 highlights
AutoComponents sales were £143 million compared with £157 million
in 2003. Despite this reduction, driven largely by customer platform
changes, operating profit was broadly flat inclusive of new programme
start up costs and the net impact of the significant contract and platform
changes on the major programmes. Underlying operating conditions
remain difficult within this business.
Emitec suffered from the cessation of US contracts at the end of 2003.
The Group’s share of sales fell from £55 million in 2003 to £42 million,
reflecting an underlying decrease of 20.8%. Profit on the same basis
fell by more than 50%.
OffHighway Systems sales rose from £278 million to £292 million.
Excluding the impact of currency and divestments the increase was
£31 million (11.9%) reflecting both the strength of demand, noted
above, and the full recovery of steel price increases. Profits also
improved significantly from a combination of volume increases and
productivity gains.
Aerospace Services
Products and markets
GKN Aerospace Services operates in two main product sectors,
Aerostructures and Propulsion Systems & Special Products. We also
have an Engineering Design Services business.
As a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced composites,
transparencies and complex metal structures at the component and
assembly level we serve all the major airframe and engine OEMs.
Products and services are provided to both fixed wing and rotary wing
manufacturers, with 60% of sales in the US. Current annual sales are
approximately 65% to military and 35% to civil customers. 
The overall aerospace market improved in 2004, with initial signs of
recovery in the civil sector expected to continue into 2005. Airbus and
Boeing are anticipating an increase in the number of aircraft deliveries
from 605 in 2004 (up from 586 in 2003) to around 670 in 2005 and
industry forecasts of the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for the
civil sector are around 6% for the rest of the decade. In the military
market a CAGR of 4% from 2004 to 2010 is forecast, with the US being
the dominant force. Although we are cautiously optimistic about the
recovery in the aerospace sector it does remain fragile with some major
airlines in the US in difficulty and the defence sector having to balance
conflicting priorities.
Beyond these market trends we also see significant growth opportunities
for GKN driven by increased use of composite materials on new 
platforms and engines, focused acquisitions which arise from outsourcing
opportunities or provide access to complementary technologies or products,
and further industry consolidation.
2004 highlights
Sales of £569 million compared with £559 million in 2003. The effect of
currency on translation of sales revenue was £37 million negative, while
2003 acquisitions and disposals added a net £34 million. Eliminating
these factors, underlying sales were £13 million (2.5%) higher than 2003.
Profits for the year of £35 million compared with £23 million in 2003. 
£3 million of the improvement came from the change in depreciation
methodology but this was entirely offset by £3 million from currency
translation as the US dollar showed further weakness in the year. The 
full year impact of the aerospace business acquired from Pilkington 
in October 2003 was £8 million so that the underlying increase in the
year was £4 million (20%). This reflected a marked improvement in the
second half of the year, following a first half which had been impacted 
by tooling and other asset write-downs and US programme delays which
have now been rectified. 
Civil aircraft 
market 2003-2010
2003 & 2004 actual 
2005-2010 forecast 
by aircraft type US$ billion
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Source: Teal
Rotorcraft
Regional aircraft
Commercial jetliners
Business jets
Military aircraft 
market 2003-2010
2003 & 2004 actual 
2005-2010 forecast 
by aircraft type US$ billion
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Source: Teal
Trainers/light attack
Special purpose
Rotorcraft
Fighters
Military transports 28 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
The military side of the business continued to perform steadily and there
was also some improvement in civil in the second half as a consequence
of uplift in demand which is expected to continue into 2005. 
Discontinued operations
AgustaWestland
The Group completed the sale of its 50% shareholding in AgustaWestland
on 30 November 2004. Figures for 2004 therefore reflect our share for the
11 months ended on that date and are based on accounts which reflect
the contract margin and provision reviews which normally take place as
part of the year-end procedures.
GKN’s share of sales revenue in 2004 of £740 million was £136 million
below the 2003 figure, reflecting the loss of one month’s revenue,
together with lower underlying sales largely as a consequence of the
completion of the EH101 contract for the UK Ministry of Defence during
the early part of 2003 and delivery of the final six Apaches for the British
Army in 2004.
As a consequence, GKN’s share of operating profit of £86 million was
£16 million below last year.
As noted earlier, the Group also booked an exceptional profit of
£652 million on disposal of the business.
Other discontinued operations
During the year the Group also sold its 50% shareholding in Aerosystems
International to its joint venture partner BAE Systems plc. This business
contributed £15 million (2003 – £26 million) to Group sales and £1 million
(2003 – £1 million) to operating profit in the year.
OTHER FINANCIAL MATTERS
Treasury management
GKN co-ordinates all treasury activities through a central function whose
purpose is to manage the financialrisks of the Group as described below
and to secure short and long-term funding at the minimum cost to the
Group. The central treasury function operates within a framework of clearly
defined Board-approved policies and procedures, including permissible
funding and hedging instruments, exposure limits and a system of
authorities for the approval and execution of transactions. It operates
on a cost centre basis and is not permitted to make use of financial
instruments or other derivatives other than to hedge identified
exposures of the Group. Speculative use of such instruments or
derivatives is not permitted, and none has occurred during the year.
The central treasury function prepares a formal twice yearly report to 
the Board, and prepares formal monthly reports for the Finance Director
and other senior executives of the Group. In addition, the gross and 
net indebtedness of the Group is reported on a weekly basis to the 
Chief Executive and the Finance Director, whilst liquidity, interest rate,
currency and other financial risk exposures are monitored daily. The
central treasury function is subject to an annual internal and external
review of controls.
Funding and liquidity
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of retained earnings
and borrowing facilities, including bank and capital markets borrowings
and leasing. The relative proportions of equity and borrowings are
governed by specific Board-approved parameters. These are designed 
to preserve prudent financial ratios, including interest, dividend and
cash flow cover, whilst also minimising the overall weighted average 
cost of capital to the Group.
All the Group’s borrowing facilities are arranged by the central treasury
function and the funds raised are then lent to operating subsidiaries on
commercial arm’s-length terms. In some cases operating subsidiaries
have external borrowings, but these are supervised and controlled centrally.
The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of
funding and flexibility through borrowing at a range of maturities from
both capital markets and bank sources.
Bank borrowings are principally in the form of three-year committed multi-
currency bilateral revolving credit facilities with a group of relationship banks.
There were no borrowings against these facilities as at 31 December 2004.
Capital markets borrowing of £705 million includes unsecured issues
of £350 million 6.75% bonds maturing in 2019 and £325 million 
7% bonds maturing in 2012, together with £30 million debenture stock
of Westland Group plc, which is secured on assets of that company and 
certain of its subsidiaries. 
At the year-end the Group had committed borrowing facilities of
£1,319 million, of which £737 million was drawn. The weighted average
maturity profile of the Group’s committed borrowings was 10.8 years.
This leaves the Group well placed to fund its strategic growth plans and
to withstand any sudden changes in liquidity in the financial markets.
The Group also has access to significant lines of uncommitted funds
which are used principally to manage day-to-day liquidity. Wherever
practicable, pooling, netting or concentration techniques are employed
to minimise gross debt.
At the year-end the Group had £752 million on deposit as a result of the
receipt of the AgustaWestland sales proceeds at the end of November.
The deposits were mainly held in money market funds or with banks at
maturities of three months or less. 
Risk management
The Group is exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects
of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In the
normal course of business, the Group also faces risks that are either
non-financial or non-quantifiable, including country and credit risk. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 29
The Group uses interest rate swaps, swaptions, forward rate agreements,
netting techniques and forward exchange contracts to manage the primary
market exposures associated with its underlying assets, liabilities and
anticipated transactions.
Counterparty credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-
performance by counterparties to financial instruments. Credit risk is
mitigated by the Group’s policy of only selecting counterparties with a
strong investment graded long-term credit rating, normally at least AA–
or equivalent, and assigning financial limits to individual counterparties.
Interest rate risk
The Group operates an interest rate policy designed to optimise interest
cost and reduce volatility in reported earnings. This policy is achieved by
maintaining a target range of fixed and floating rate debt for discrete annual
periods, over a defined time horizon. This is achieved partly through the
fixed rate character of the underlying debt instrument, and partly through
the use of straightforward derivatives (forward rate agreements, interest
rate swaps and swaptions). The Group’s normal policy is to require
interest rates to be fixed for 30% to 70% of the level of underlying
borrowings forecast to arise over a 12-month horizon. However, this
policy was suspended in December as it was deemed inappropriate
given the absence of floating rate bank debt following the receipt of the
sale proceeds of GKN’s share in AgustaWestland. Consequently, as at
31 December 2004, 89% of the Group’s gross financial liabilities were 
at fixed rates of interest, whilst the weighted average period in respect
of which interest has been fixed was 10.9 years.
Currency risk
The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from sales
or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the
subsidiaries’ functional currency. Under the Group’s foreign exchange
policy, such transaction exposures are hedged once they are known,
mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts. The level
of hedges may be varied from time to time as the volume of underlying
trading also varies. Differences arising on such variations are taken to
the profit and loss account either as a credit or a charge.
The Group has a significant investment in overseas operations, particularly
in continental Europe and the Americas. As a result, the sterling value of
the Group’s balance sheet can be affected by movements in exchange
rates. The Group therefore seeks to mitigate the effect of these translational
currency exposures by matching the net investment in overseas operations
with borrowings denominated in their functional currencies, except
where significant adverse interest differentials or other factors would
render the cost of such hedging activity uneconomic. This is achieved 
by borrowing either directly (in either the local domestic or euro-currency
markets), or indirectly through the use of rolling annual forward foreign
exchange contracts. Borrowings created through the use of such
contracts amounted to £775 million at 31 December 2004 and were
denominated in US dollars (44%), euro (46%) and Japanese yen (10%). 
Pensions and post-retirement benefits
Pension costs in these accounts have been accounted for on an SSAP 24
basis. The total charge to Group operating profit before goodwill and
exceptional items was £90 million (2003 – £74 million). 
The increase, which was predicted in lastyear’s annual report, arose
largely as a consequence of the triennial valuation of the UK scheme
which took place during the course of 2003 and which is discussed in
more detail below and in note 26 to the accounts on page 64. Because
the valuation applied for only part of that year there was a consequent
additional increase in 2004 of £15 million. 
Pending the move to International Financial Reporting Standards in
2005, the Group has not adopted FRS 17 in the 2004 accounts, but is
disclosing fully the effects had it done so. These are shown in note 26 
to the accounts on pages 65 to 67 which covers both the balance sheet
and profit and loss account impacts.
UK pensions
Much of the external focus is on the Group’s UK pension scheme which
hasapproximately 58,000 members of whom only 10% are currently in
service with the remainder either deferred or current pensioners. As a UK
defined benefit scheme, this is run on a funded basis with funds set aside
in trust to cover future liabilities to members. An actuarial valuation of the
scheme was carried out in 2003 which showed that the aggregate funding
on an ongoing basis was 69%. As a consequence, the Group raised its
regular annual cash payment to the fund to £54 million in both 2003 and
2004. This figure is expected to apply at least until the next valuation.
Employees have also increased their contributions to reflect the higher
cost of providing future benefits. In addition, a £100 million advance
payment to the scheme was made by the Company in December 2004.
Under SSAP 24 the charge to profit for the UK scheme was £48 million
(2003 – £33 million), analysed as £9 million in respect of current
service, £38 million in respect of the deficit and £1 million in respect of
other costs. Because of the materiality of the deficit and since it relates
in large part to employees of companies which are no longer part of the
Group, as in 2003 it is shown separately in the segmental analysis to
enable underlying performance to be understood better. 
Overseas pensions
The charge for overseas post-retirement benefits under SSAP 24 was
£42 million (2003 – £39 million), including an additional £1 million 
in companies acquired. 30 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
FRS 17 also values post-retirement benefits outside the UK, including
those countries where schemes are unfunded and it is already the
practice to provide for the liability in the balance sheet. The principal
regions involved are the Americas, continental Europe and the Rest of
the World. The detailed assumptions underlying the FRS 17 additional
net liabilities in those territories of £36 million, £35 million and an 
asset of £17 million respectively, are explained further in note 26 to 
the accounts.
Summary
In total, at 31 December 2004 on the FRS 17 basis, there was a net
additional liability on all pension/post-retirement obligations of
£580 million (2003 – £563 million) in addition to the net £68 million
(2003 – £138 million) already included in long-term liabilities/prepayments
on the balance sheet. This net liability arises after a deferred tax credit of
£181 million (2003 – £203 million) which, it should be noted, is restricted
by the forecast availability of UK taxable profits.
Joint ventures
Following the divestments made in 2004 there would be no significant
impact on the equity of joint ventures from the application of FRS 17.
International Financial Reporting Standards
The European Union requires all listed companies to report under
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for accounting periods
commencing on or after 1 January 2005 with prior year comparatives on
the same basis.
We gave details in our 2003 annual report of the programme of work the
Group had established to enable it to report under IFRS for the first time
when it announces its 2005 interim results. That work continued during
the year and, in December 2004, we advised that in addition to generally
introducing more volatility, the keyareas of impact on the profit and loss
account and balance sheet will be in accounting for financial instruments,
post-retirement benefits, development expenditure and share-based
payments. There will also be other changes of less significance. 
It is our intention to restate the 2004 results on an IFRS basis at the end
of April, prior to the publication of the interim results, to allow the impact
to be interpreted and understood.
Financial resources and going concern
At 31 December 2004 the Group had net funds of £65 million. In addition
it had available, but undrawn, committed borrowing facilities totalling
£582 million.
Having assessed the future funding requirements of the Group, the
Directors are of the opinion that it is appropriate for the accounts to 
be prepared on a going concern basis.
Cautionary statement
The operating and financial review and certain other sections of this
annual report contain forward looking statements that are subject to 
risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and
business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and
sectors in which the Group operates. It is believed that the expectations
reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected 
by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ
materially from those currently anticipated. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 31
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW
COMBINING THE GOALS OF COMMERCE AND CONSCIENCE
When the foundations of today’s GKN were established in 18th century
Britain the sole purpose of a manufacturing company was to produce
wealth for its owners.
Today, almost 250 years later, wealth creation still endures as the principal
concern for the directors and managers of a business but there are many
more stakeholders who can now legitimately claim an influence on GKN’s
commerce and conscience.
If we achieve success with our customers we generate value for our
shareholders, rewardsfor our employees and the ability to make a
meaningful contribution to the communities of which we are part.
And in seeking to create highly efficient manufacturing processes to
meet our customers’ demands for quality and cost effectiveness, we
experience no conflict in also working to minimise the impact of our
operations on the environment and to making a contribution towards
sustainable development goals within society as well as in creating 
an ever safer workplace for our employees.
SCOPE OF THE REVIEW
In this year’s social responsibility review GKN has again used, as
a framework to present the information, the Sustainability Reporting
Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an international multi-
stakeholder group. The GRI Guidelines, lastpublished in June 2002, are
based on the ‘triple bottom line’ reporting concept covering economic,
social and environmental performance. The financial aspects of the
economic performance of the Group in 2004 are reported on elsewhere
in this annual report.
GKN supports the terms of the UniversalDeclaration of Human Rights
and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and continues
to work towards ensuring that there is no breach of these within its
businesses. Our ultimate aim is to ensure that similar standards operate
throughout our supply chains.
The Group operates globally and it is therefore appropriate that our
approach to social responsibility is global. Accordingly, the review covers
all of our subsidiary companies worldwide. It also embraces our joint
venture companies through an open exchange of information and ideas;
where practicable performance data is collected from those companies.
Joint ventures may also participate in our global Safety Award and Green
Scheme Award programmes.
The performance data presented in this review has been the subject of
self-certification by Group companies together with some independent
verification of data or data collection processes as described below.
We have again reported our performance against key environmental
indicators (energy, waste, water) by measuring volume consumed or
generated relative to sales. However, in line with our objective of
continuously improving the reporting of data and particularly in the 
light of the disparate nature of the production processes in our different
divisions, we have decided this year to present the environmental data on
a divisional basis. As referred to in last year’s review, the use of ‘sales’
as a metric has a number of disadvantages, including distortions caused
by price reductions, intra-Group trading and widely varying consumption
levels in differing manufacturing processes. The development of alternative
metrics continues. Within our Automotive businesses we are now
progressively measuring energy, waste and water relative to weight
of products shipped as an alternative metric, on a divisional basis. 
We continue to use sales within our Aerospace businesses where the
widely differing range of products manufactured and the drive towards
ever lighter components means thatweight is not an appropriate
measure of production. Divisional environmental performance data
using this alternative metric will be placed on our website at
www.gkn.com when available.
GOVERNANCE
Management systems
The principles of good corporate social responsibility are embedded
within GKN’s values which are embraced throughout the Group. They
can be viewed on our website. 
The Board views very seriously its responsibility for ensuring that all the
Group’s businesses act as good corporate citizens. During the latter part
of 2004, the Executive Committee of the Board established a Governance
and Risk Sub-Committee, chaired by Grey Denham, Company Secretary,
with responsibility for monitoring and reviewing matters relating to
governance and compliance, risk management and corporate social
responsibility. The Group Risk Management Council (GRMC), which
replaced the Group Loss Prevention Council in 2004 and is under the
overallsupervision of the Sub-Committee, is the policy advisory and
steering group on accidental risk and sustainable development. 
Its responsibilities include providing oversight and direction on the
management of accidental risk across GKN; acting as a focus for guidance
on, the development of strategy for, and reporting on the progress of, 
keyelements of sustainable development within GKN; being a primary
source of information for effective communication with all stakeholders;
recognising outstanding achievement in risk management and promoting
the sharing of best practice. The GRMC is supported in its role by
Divisional Risk Management Councils (formerly Divisional Loss Prevention
Councils), the purpose of which is to ensure that best practice processes
are embedded within the Group’s operations. 
Maureen Constantine, Group Human Resources Director, has responsibility
for ensuring implementation of and compliance with health, safety and
environment programmes. Grey Denham, together with the internal
audit department and the Audit Committee, oversees compliance with
Group policies. 32 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
The management of social responsibility issues is an integral part of
the Group’s overall corporate governance procedures and therefore this
review should be read in conjunction with the corporate governance
section on pages 74 to 78. In particular the management of social,
environmental and ethical risks is encompassed within the internal
control procedures described in that section.
The most significant risks that we have identified in relation to social
responsibility issues are loss of reputation resulting from the manner 
of operation of our businesses and safety issues arising from quality or
design of our products. Both of these could, potentially, impact shareholder
value significantly as well as our employees and the communities in
which we operate. In environmental terms, our manufacturing processes
are not inherently high risk, however greatcare is taken to prevent any
adverse impact arising.
Corporate social responsibility issues are reported to the Executive
Committee and the Board twice yearly, and health, safety and environmental
performance is also reported separately to the Executive Committee on a
quarterly basis. Significant incidents are reported to executive Directors
within 24 hours and to the next meeting of the Executive Committee.
The Business Excellence Programme is the overarching strategic business
tool we use throughout GKN in all aspects of managing the business,
including our corporate social responsibilities. The programme, using
the Business Excellence model (developed by the European Foundation
for Quality Management) and Lean Enterprise, forms an integrated approach
to performance improvement towards best-in-class standards across
a wide range of activities. These include leadership, empowerment,
organisational processes, customer relationship management and
community contributions. All divisions have carried out at least one
strategic business excellence assessment at regional level and all the
major businesses have at least one trained ‘excellence champion’. The
total number of trained assessors within the Group at the end of 2004
was 155.
Group governance policies
A series of governance policies, which are applied throughout the Group,
underpin GKN’s values. Our internal control procedures (described in 
the corporate governance section on pages 77 and 78) are designed to
confirm proper implementation and identify material breaches of these
policies. No such breaches have been identified in respect of 2004.
The newly formed Governance and Risk Sub-Committee is charged with
bringing together, within a new code on corporate social responsibility,
existing governance policies and policies on health and safety, the
environment, the community, business continuity and risk financing. 
It will also be considering the development of new policies in areas
such as supply chain management and product and process design. 
GKN’s current governance policiesare summarised as follows:
Ethical standards policy
The Ethical Standards policy sets high standards of integrity, honesty and
fair dealing for all employees. As part of the overall Group Ethical Standards
policy, individual divisional and company policies require that all
business should be conducted with respect to human dignity and rights,
and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and that
corrupt practices and the acceptance or making of bribes be prohibited.
All commercial transactions must be properly recorded, and assets and
confidential information must be fully protected and used only for the
purpose for which they were provided.
Employees are also required to avoid conflicts of interest between their
business relationships and personal activities. All employees have
access to appropriate nominated executives or groups of executives for
the purposes of advice and assistance and, where necessary, rulings on
ethical issues which may arise.
GKN also has a separate policy on the appointment of agents and
consultants which governs the terms of appointment of, and the conduct
of the ongoing relationship with, agents and consultants to ensure that
all business is carried out lawfully and ethically.
Competition policy
To ensure that Group companies comply with the laws relating to
competition and fair trading, the Group has a policy that relevant
employees are trained in competition laws applicable to their day-to-day
activities. Employees are trained by wayof attendance at courses or by
use of interactive CD-ROM training packages developed by the Group. 
Data protection policy
The Group’s Data Protection policy is designed to ensure that personal
information held throughout the Group is treated with due respect for
the privacy of the individual and in a manner compliant with local data
protection regulations. The policy is applied worldwide even where it is
more exacting than local legislation.
Employment policies
The Group’s Employment Law and Practices policy requires every
business in the Group to adopt employment policies and procedures
ensuring that employees and prospective employees are afforded equal
opportunities irrespective of gender, race, sexual orientation, disability,
religion or ethnic origin. Wherever it operates, the Group complies with
local employment law and practices.
All businesses are required to ensure that employment decisions
are based on qualifications and merit. The working environment must
respect employees’ human dignity and rights and be free from all forms
of discrimination and from any form of conduct, physical or verbal, which
could be considered to be harassing (including sexual harassment),
coercive or disruptive. Working conditions must be safe and healthy ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 33
and there are specific requirements in relation to substance abuse and
dangerous weapons.
Policies are designed to encourage employees to report and discuss
problems on a confidential basis and to provide expeditious and
confidential grievance procedures.
Employee disclosure procedures policy
Group companies are required to establish appropriate procedures
to enable employees to disclose in good faith, at local company or 
if appropriate at divisional level, instances of wrongdoing by other
employees at any level, including anysubstantial breach of the Group’s
policies. Employees must be able to do so in the knowledge that their
concerns will be investigated and dealt with properly and sensitively
and without fear of reprisal or disciplinary action. The process must
also provide for employees, should they so wish, to make disclosures
in writing directly to the Company Secretary or the head of the internal
audit department at the Corporate Centre.
In support of its governance procedures, our Aerospace business, which
operates in the highly regulated world of government contracting, has
established an external Ethics Hotline. This provides employees with 
a means of voicing concerns on compliance and regulatory issues to 
a third party provider, if they wish on an anonymous basis.
TOWARDS PEOPLE EXCELLENCE
2004 has seen a continuing focus on employee development and
progression in support of our core GKN values. During the year we have
continued our work to create a culture where continuous improvement is
an integral part of our business processes, recognising that the contribution
of our employees is critical to operational excellence. Objectives around
employee development focus on realising the full potential of our people
at individual, team and organisational level. We aim to promote fairness
and equality, to involve and empower our employees and to build
commitment to GKN as an employer through recognising the value of
individual skills and knowledge.
At the International Leadership Conference in November, corporate
social responsibility was a major topic on the agenda. Some 200 senior
GKN managers from around the world considered how best to identify and
implement best practice in terms of ethical behaviour and contribution
to the local economy, as well as promoting the health and welfare of
employees, their families and the communities in which we operate.
Whilst there are many examples within the Group of which we can be
proud, the challenge is to develop an integrated, global approach to
corporate social responsibility, including social responsibility reporting,
which will become embedded in all our operations.
Diversity and inclusion
One of GKN’s values is to act with integrity at all times, and in so doing
we aim to be regarded as an ‘employer of choice’. As a global company
operating across more than 30 countries, with different national cultures,
different customers with varying expectations in a rapidly changing business
environment, the commitment of GKN employees and the continuity and
consistency they bring to the business is a differentiating factor in our
competitive environment. Making sure that employees are involved 
in and informed about business objectives and can contribute from a
wealth of ideas, backgrounds and perspectives is part of developing an
inclusive culture where diversity is valued and individuals are respected.
During the year GKN Driveline North America has taken the lead in
examining, with the help of an external facilitator, perceptions of diversity
and attitudes towards difference amongst GKN employees. As a result of
this survey, an awareness workshop for managers looking at issues of
diversity and inclusion was developed, and the pilot programme involving
20 managers from all levels within the region was well received. A similar
programme will be rolled out across all the divisions during 2005. The
objective of this increased awareness of the value of diversity is to broaden
our perspectives in terms of new recruits to the organisation, to look
beyond the perceptions of the immediate knowledge base and to grow
the organisation through the potential of our employees. 
Training and development
GKN offers a wide range of experiences and careers not limited to
engineering. Training and development activities across the Group
continue in order to ensure that employees are well equipped to perform
the duties of current jobs as well as to develop skills and knowledge for the
Employees – by business
as at 31 December 2004
Automotive
Subsidiaries 31,000
Joint ventures 3,700
Aerospace
Subsidiaries 5,800
Employees – by region
as at 31 December 2004
UK 5,600
Continental Europe 15,200
Americas 12,100
Rest of the World 7,600
(including subsidiaries and joint ventures) 34 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
future requirements of the business. Technical skills are a prerequisite
for day-to-day operations, particularly in engineering and manufacturing,
and GKN is active with external organisations such as schools, colleges,
universities and industry groups to promote engineering and manufacturing
as a rewarding and meaningful career path for young people. 
In 2004, GKN was awarded BEST partner status by the Royal Academy
of Engineering in the UK for our work with the Engineering Development
Trust programmes. Only two other UK companies have achieved this
recognition. GKN sponsored the 2004 award for the best mechanical
engineering student, part of the Science, Engineering and Technology
(SET) Student of the Year Awards launched in 1998 to raise the status of
technology education in the UK. The Awards have since become known
as the ‘Oscars’ of British technological education with entries from all
of Britain’s leading universities. The winner of the award was Graham
McShane, an undergraduate at Cambridge University. Additionally,
GKN’s International Leadership Development Programme for graduates
was highly commended as an example of ‘best in class’ in a recently
published research project by Lancaster University.
In addition to technical capability, leadership attributes and personal
behavioural competences are also important to the continuing development
of the business. Each year a detailed review of the management
competence of the Group is undertaken across all business units, the
results of which are then reported to both the Executive Committee and
the Board. Career progression and succession programmes are also
monitored in this way. Personal development planning is encouraged for
all staff, and personal objectives and performance levels are assessed
on a regular basis. Training is tailored to individual development needs
rather than set programmes, and is made available through a variety
of channels: on-line, through external providers, and through in-house
providers such as our International College of Engineering. Mentoring
and coaching structures are also in place to support executives in their
development through the experience of more senior managers often
from a different function or division and a different background. 
The GKN Board has mandated that all divisions must conduct an employee
survey at least once every two years. Recent surveys, carried out in the
various divisions in local languages, produced interesting results with
common areas for improvement such as communication, personal
development, concern for employees as individuals and the need for
more widespread coaching and mentoring. On the positive side, results
indicated agreement that GKN provides a healthy and safe working
environment, shows concern for its customers and shareholders and 
is focused on results. A key stage in the process is the development of
action plans to address those areas where the response scores were less
acceptable and where immediate improvement is required. Subsequent
tracking of performance against action plans is critical to ensure that the
desired improvements are implemented. In many instances this aspect
is incorporated in regular business reviews. 80% of all employees have
been surveyed in the last two years.
WORKING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We define stakeholder as any person or organisation who is affected by, or
whose actions impact upon, our business. These include local communities,
shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, business partners, local
authorities, government agencies and non-governmental organisations
(NGOs). We engage with these stakeholders in a variety of ways.
As part of our aim to contribute positively to the communities in which we
operate, wherever possible we employ local labour in our businesses. We
invest in local community projects both by way of financial donations and
through the volunteer work of our employees, particularly in less developed
countries. Examples of local initiatives are given on page 35.
Over the last few years, a number of meetings have been held with major
shareholders and NGOs to discuss the Group’s performance with regard
to corporate social responsibility and it is our intention to continue to
seek dialogue with major stakeholders.
We are aware that there are some investment organisations and
individuals who are concerned by companies’ involvement in the
defence industry. Following the sale of our helicopter joint venture,
AgustaWestland, GKN’s primary interest in defence equipment is through
GKN Aerospace which is a first tier supplier of aerospace structures,
propulsion systems and special products for US and European military
aircraft programmes. All sales outside domestic markets are strictly in
accordance with the relevant government export approval procedures.
In addition to the impact of our own activities, the impact of our supply
partners and the products we manufacture both during their life and in
their end of life phase are of increasing importance. We continue to seek
to identify ways in which we can support our key suppliers in this regard
to our mutual benefit. As a component supplier, the impact of our products
hasto be addressed also in partnership with our customers as well as
our suppliers. This continues to be an important focus of attention.
GKN plays a substantive role in a number of key industrial organisations.
We are founder members of the Industry and Parliament Trust, the UK Per
Cent Club and the UK Emission Trading Scheme. We are active members
of the Engineering Employers’ Federation and Confederation of British
Industry in the UK and the German Employers’ Federation. We are also
active members of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders
(SMMT) in the UK, the Society of British Aerospace Companies, the US
Organisation for International Investment and the British Occupational
Health Foundation. In addition, we are represented on the boards of the
Automotive Academy, Skills4Auto and on the Engineering Training Board.
GKN Driveline was one of 11 founding signatories to the SMMT’s
sustainability strategy ‘Towards Sustainability’ which outlines the
automotive industry’s commitment to balance economic progress with
environmental care and social responsibility. The fifth Annual Sustainability
Report published towards the end of the year demonstrated the increasingly
prudent use of resources within the automotive industry. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 35
OUR COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY
GKN is committed to enhancing the welfare of the communities in 
which it operates. In 2004, charity and community contributions by
Group companies amounted to some £794,000. Those organisations
to which cash contributions were made are listed on GKN’s website 
at www.gkn.com. Community support is widespread across GKN’s
worldwide operations. The following are just a few examples:
Asia Pacific – GKN Driveline India has teamed up with a local NGO,
Pranab Kanya, to provide informal education to underprivileged children 
of migrant workers at nearby brick kilns. At local facilities provided 
by Pranab Kanya, GKN Driveline India is funding the cost of teaching 
and assistance, refreshments and stationery. Currently 50 children
receive teaching in English, Hindi, elementary mathematics and general
knowledge. GKN employees also help out at the facility and in the future
GKN will assist with the provision of better classrooms, uniforms and
basic exposure to computers.
The Americas – Employees at GKN Aerospace, St Louis have formed 
one of only two corporate community emergency response teams
(CERTs) in the St Louis area to provide search and rescue assistance 
in the event of an emergency. The team completed a training exercise 
in July which simulated a real life mass casualty disaster and later 
in the year participated in another drill to prepare for an earthquake. 
The CERT team was on standby to assist with the disaster relief following
the Florida hurricanes in September.
GKN Driveline Brazil continues to be very active in its local community, 
a more recent initiative being involvement in a Food Bank programme
through which the company donates 40kg of food every day to a day
care centre in the local community benefiting over 100 young children
from poor families.
Europe – GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems (Kings Norton) in the 
UK supports secondary schools in its local area through a number of
initiatives aimed at promoting a better understanding of the world of work.
In 2004, these included events at a girlsschool on the manufacturing
environment and succeeding in an engineering role, and at a local school
on a project concerned with running a business. During 2005 this will
be extended to conducting mock interviews with school leavers and an
environmental awareness programme.
GKN Driveline Polska (Poland) plays an active part in the life of
the Ole´ snica community and region in which it is located including
involvement with an orphanage in Bierutowa the children from which
attend company events with employees’ children, support for a local
school with opportunities for pupils to gain experience in a production
plant environment, and support over a number of years for the Technical
University of Wroclaw.
5,000 GKN people make a difference in the wake of the Tsunami
On the morning of 26 December 2004 more than 5,000 GKN
employees across the Asia Pacific region were among the millions
worldwide who were shocked by the first news bulletins telling of
the Indian Ocean Tsunami.
Thierry Ehrhardt, Plant Director of GKN’splant in Rayong in Thailand,
said: “All we knew at first was that a big wave had hit six provinces
in the south – it was only the following day that we heard that many
people had died. Then we heard that many more thousands had lost
everything – they had no clothes, no shelter and nothing to eat.”
More than 200 people work for GKN in Thailand and their response
was immediate. Food, clothes, cooking utensils and money were
raised and a GKN team was despatched to Suratthanee, one of the
affected areas, more than 900 kilometres away. Then they learned
that a small fishing village in the region of Ranong, which was a
further 200 kilometres away, had not received any assistance and
more aid was despatched from Rayong.
The experience for the GKN aid workers was harrowing and they
found themselves distributing aid for the living and helping to buy
coffins for the dead.
In Malaysia the families of several employees lost everything when
the tsunami hit their homes in the coastal area of Kuala Muda and a
donation drive among employees was matched by GKN. Funds were
prioritised for the families of GKN staff.
Across the Asia Pacific region there were other spontaneous responses.
In India all employees contributed one day’s salary and GKN made a
matching contribution. In China donations from employees and their
company made a large contribution to relief efforts and in Australia
employees decided to forego their annual Christmas bonus. On
behalf of the Group GKN plc made a donation of £100,000 to the
Disasters Emergency Committee, and many Group companies and
their employees around the world have raised money for tsunami
relief funds.
Walter Rohregger, Managing Director of GKN’s operations in Asia
Pacific and Japan said: “We are thankful that the GKN family across
this region suffered no direct loss. While our employees have
mourned for those who died and have prayed for the missing the
priority for all of us has been to help the survivors trying to rebuild
their lives.
“Of all the countries in which we operate Thailand has been the
hardest hit. After the immediate assistance which we rendered in the
aftermath of the disaster we focused our efforts on a small fishing
village in Kampoun where we are helping to build new houses and 
for fishermen who have lost their livelihood we are helping purchase
new boats and equipment. We believe that such practical help is the
best way we can make a difference.” 36 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
Targets
Objectives and targets continue to be applied primarily at plant level
where they can best reflect a plant’s specific needs, risks, priorities
and opportunities for improvement. Performance targets are applied 
in two ways. Every part of GKN has to achieve an overall, clear and
positive improvement trend leading to and maintaining a best-in-class
performance. Where considerable improvement is needed, plants have
specific, often aggressive, targets. In 2004, 74% of plants improved or
maintained their excellent AFR performance and 71% of plants achieved
their AFR targets. For ASR 62% of plants maintained or improved their
performance and 54% met their targets. 
In addition to performance targets for AFR, ASR and SIR we also apply
targets to and measure performance against key enablers including
health and safety training and the publication of health and safety
objectives and plans. These enablers and associated targets are 
subject to change as part of a dynamic approach which addresses
developing needs and priorities, and drive continuous improvement.
They consistently operate at an achievement level of 75% or above.
Benchmarking results place our accident rates well below industry
averages in the UK, Germany and the US. Against those of our peer
companies in the UK and the US where comparative data is available,
our performance compares very favourably. 
Verification
We recognise the importance placed by stakeholders on verification to
ensure that the data which is reported on in this review is robust. We
reported last year that an external review of processes and procedures
used in the collection and reporting of health and safety data had 
been carried out at a sample of 10 sites which revealed no significant
deficiencies. We are currently reviewing how best to develop this process
in 2005. Verification and assurance of the effectiveness of data collection
systems is demonstrated through the achievement of certification to
international standards.
Accident frequency 
rate (AFR)
lost time accidents 
per 1,000 employees
00 01 02 03 04
21.4
19.7
13.4
8.3
6.2
Accident severity
rate (ASR)
lost days/shifts due 
to accidents and 
occupational ill health 
per 1,000 employees
00 01 02 03 04
359
350
297
181 176
MANAGING HEALTH AND SAFETY IN GKN
Health and safety are well established as an integral part of a strong
company culture based on shared values which are reflected in the
behaviour of employees at all levels of the organisation. We continue to
focus on strong, committed, visible and supportive leadership, together
with appropriate behaviours as the main drivers of health and safety
improvement towards a goal of zero preventable accidents. The element
of executive bonus based on safety performance introduced in 2003
continued in 2004.
The deployment of Business Excellence within GKN continues to provide
a framework for achieving excellence in safety. A key part of our strategy
is to encourage every employee to take ownership of their own health
and safety and that of their immediate colleagues. Developing people
excellence, team working and continuous improvement throughout the
organisation forms a major part of our improvement aims including
those for health and safety.
Many GKN businesses now incorporate in their operations features from
the health and safety management system OHSAS 18001 and 11 GKN
companies have now achieved certification to this standard.
Performance
Our performance in 2004 again shows an improvement against the key
performance indicators of accident frequency rate (AFR) and of accident
severity rate (ASR) (which also includes lost time due to occupational ill
health). Group results are shown in the charts below.
Over the last five years AFR performance has improved by 71% and 
ASR by 51%. Our serious injury rate (SIR) remained relatively flat in 
2004 but nevertheless showed a 63% reduction over the last five years.
Further improvements have been made to processes and systems for 
the management of serious accident risk. During 2004 four enforcement
actions with fines totalling £13,416 occurred in plants in the UK, Italy,
US and Australia. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 37
Occupational health
GKN adopts an overarching approach to risk in all aspects of its
business. In conjunction with our management of safety, there is a
parallel set of provisions for safeguarding employees’ health with the
focus clearly on the avoidance of work-related ill health through the
completion of workplace-based risk assessments, occupational health
management intervention, the promotion of wellness programmes and
active data collection and monitoring.
Safety award scheme
The GKN Safety Award scheme, which has been a key contributor 
in transferring best practice in health and safety across the Group, 
has been run annually since 1997 and attracted 37 entries in 2004,
equalling the previous record number and demonstrating the high level
of interest, involvement and commitment to safety throughout GKN.
Leadership, employee involvement and team working together with
excellent progress were key attributes recognised by the judges. Five
teams received awards from Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, at an awards
ceremony attended by over 200 people. The overall winner was GKN
Aerospace Chem-tronics for commitment to continuous improvement,
developing a safety system with many best practice features and in
recognition of major performance improvement. The other winners were
GKN Driveline Brazil, GKN Driveline North America, GKN AutoStructures
Telford, UK, and GKN Sinter Metals Wisconsin, USA.
Special awards were also presented to GKN Sinter Metals Emporium,
USA, for continuing to demonstrate many best practice features and
achieving five million hours without a lost time accident, and to GKN
North America Services which since 2001 has had an informal network of
health, safety and environment advisors in three divisions of the Group
which provide shared resources and solutions and share best practice.
ENVIRONMENT
Environmental management continuesto form an important element of
the Group’s integrated approach to loss prevention. GKN’s environmental
management system (EMS) is part of this approach and is broadly based
on the international management standard, ISO 14001. Both of these
impose a requirement for continuous improvement in environmental
performance and, in the case of ISO 14001, a requirement to demonstrate
that improvement to an independent certifying body.
Targets
GKN is committed to achieving accreditation to ISO 14001 at all
its manufacturing sites throughout the world. 80 plants are currently
accredited and a further 13 are planning to achieve accreditation 
in 2005. Three of our European companies continue to maintain
certification to the ECO Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS).
GKN maintains its commitment to reducing carbon dioxide (CO 2)
emissions relative to sales by 2005 starting from a 1999 baseline. 
The target, if achieved, will bring GKN’s reduction in emissions broadly
in line with the targets set in the Kyoto Protocol. 
Performance
As referred to earlier in this review, thisyear we are reporting environmental
performance on a divisional basis. Our business processes across the
Group are diverse and thisisreflected in the range of environmental
performance by division. For example, as can be seen from the charts
below, Hoeganaes consumes energy and water and generates waste 
at a much higher rate relative to reported sales than the other divisions
within the Group. This business is engaged in the production of metal
powders and, by definition, has processes which are more energy
intensive, result in higher water usage due to its cooling processes, 
and produce a higher level of waste principally in the form of slag. 
In 2004, Hoeganaes’ reported sales, which account for 4% of Group
sales, increased by 10%.
Also referred to earlier in this review, the use of sales as a metric has a
distorting effect on the resultant data. In particular GKN Driveline’s level
of sales is impacted significantly by annual price reductions required by
customers and intra-group trading which have a negative impact on the
performance when compared with the respective prior year. 
Each year, we continue to improve our environmental reporting processes
and as a result this can have a distorting effect on prior years’ comparisons.
Such effects, where significant, are noted below.
Energy consumption
With the exception of Hoeganaes, all divisions continued at relatively
low levels of energy consumption relative to sales. We recognise that
there remains room for improvement, however, and efficient energy
management is receiving a high level of focus across all our plants.
We continue to beat the targets we have set ourselves under the UK
Emission Trading Scheme, the overall target being a 10% reduction in
our absolute CO 2 emission over a five-year period to 2006. The incentive
payments we have received as a result are being invested in energy
saving schemes in the UK to reduce further our CO 2 emissions.
Divisional performance: 
Energy
relative to sales 
kWh/£1,000
Aerospace Auto- 
Components
Driveline Hoeganaes OHS Sinter
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
2001
2000
2002
2003
2004 38 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED
Waste generation
Performance was mixed across the divisions. The increase in reported
waste generation by the OffHighway Systems (OHS) and AutoComponents
divisions was due to the inclusion this year of scrap metal as waste in
the 2003 and 2004 figures (this is in line with other reporting divisions).
The volatile nature of Hoeganaes’ performance is due to the timing of
the removal of slag from its sites (which is when it is recorded as scrap).
Much of the waste generated is of value and is sold, often at a premium
rate. Steelmaking slag produced at Hoeganaes is typically used for infill
in major construction projects.
Water consumption
Most divisions are showing a flat or reducing trend over the five years with
the exception of Aerospace. The increase in water consumption within that
division is principally due to the acquisition of the St Louis business (which
has been reported on since 2002) and also the inclusion by St Louis of
data on steam for the first time in 2004 (this data was previously not
available due to the terms of a supply agreement with the previous owner).
The improved performance by OffHighway Systems is particularly pleasing.
Hoeganaes’ figures are impacted by sales price increases in 2004.
During the year, seven enforcement actions against GKN companies, 
all in the US, resulted in fines totalling US$57,200. The largest of these
(US$40,000) was levied against Hoeganaes, Milton in Massachusetts for
exceeding its air permit limit. In addition there was a further enforcement
action against the Sinter Metals plant in DuBois, Pennsylvania, in respect
of an air permit violation for which the fine has yet to be determined.
Verification
As part of the certification to ISO 14001, the suitability of systems in
place to gather and report data is assessed by external independent
certifying bodies. In addition, Group companies are required to certify
the accuracy of the data that they report centrally, and most companies
have developed their own internal auditing systems. The energy data
relating to UK companies has been successfully audited as part of the 
UK Emission Trading Scheme for the base years (1998-2000) and on 
an annual basis for the life of the Scheme.
The GKN Green Scheme continues to recognise and reward Group
companies which have developed innovative ways of reducing their
environmental impact. The Green Scheme overall winner in 2004 was
GKN Aerospace Services, St Louis in the US which launched a multiple
attack on historically inefficient practices. The business improved its
chemicals data management, its oilreclamation and oil consumption,
and minimised raw material consumption resulting in less hazardous
waste and a significant saving. Other winners were GKN Driveline Arnage,
France, GKN Wheels at Telford in the UK, our Sinter Metals facility at
Radevormwald in Germany and GKN Driveline Slovenija. 
CONCLUSION
We continue to make progress as a Group in enhancing our role as
a good corporate citizen. Recognising that we have scope for further
improvement, towards the end of 2004 the newly formed Governance
and Risk Sub-Committee commissioned a comprehensive survey of
all our operating facilities around the world to determine the extent
to which CSR practices and procedures are embedded within their 
day-to-day operations. The results of this survey, which are at present
being analysed, will help us to identify the key areas of focus for 2005.
We look forward to reporting on our progress in the 2005 review.
Divisional performance: 
Waste
relative to sales 
kg/£1,000
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Aerospace Auto- 
Components
Driveline Hoeganaes OHS Sinter
2001
2000
2002
2003
2004
Divisional performance: 
Water
relative to sales 
m
3
/£1,000
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Aerospace Auto- 
Components
Driveline Hoeganaes OHS Sinter
2001
2000
2002
2003
2004 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 39
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GKN PLC
We have audited the accounts which comprise the profit and loss account,
the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, the statement of total
recognised gains and losses, the Company’s balance sheet, the segmental
analysis and the related notes. We have also audited the disclosures
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained
in the report on Directors’ remuneration (the ‘auditable part’).
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the
accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting
standards are set out in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities on
page 73. The Directors are also responsible for preparing the report on
Directors’ remuneration. 
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable part of the
report on Directors’ remuneration in accordance with relevant legal and
regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued 
by the Auditing Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority. This report, including the opinion, has been prepared
for and only for the Company’s membersasa body in accordance with
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We 
do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or
into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our 
prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and
fair view and whether the accounts and the auditable part of the report
on Directors’ remuneration have been properly prepared in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you if, in our opinion,
the Directors’ report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company
has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
specified by law or the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority
regarding Directors’ remuneration and transactions is not disclosed. 
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts. The other
information comprises only the Directors’ report, the unaudited part of
the report on Directors’ remuneration, the Chairman’s statement, the
Chief Executive’s statement, the operating and financial review and 
the corporate governance statement. 
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services
Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider
whether the Board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and
controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued 
by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit includes examination, on a 
test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the
accounts and the auditable part of the report on Directors’ remuneration.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed. 
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts
and the auditable part of the report on Directors’ remuneration are 
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the 
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and the Group at 31 December 2004 and of the profit
and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended;
• the accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 1985; and
• those parts of the report on Directors’ remuneration required 
by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
Birmingham
23 February 2005
Notes:
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the
responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors
accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the
accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 40 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
01 02 03 04
05 06 07 08
09 10 11 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 41
01 Roy Brown (Age 58) ●● ★★ Chairman. Appointed a non-executive
Director in 1996 becoming Chairman on
20 May 2004. Non-executive Deputy
Chairman of HMV Group plc and 
non-executive Director of Brambles
Industries plc, Brambles Industries
Limited (Australia), British United
Provident Association Ltd (BUPA) 
and the Franchise Board of Lloyd’s of
London. Former executive Director of
Unilever plc and Unilever NV. Member
of the CBI International Advisory Board.
Chartered Engineer, Fellow of the
Institution of Mechanical Engineers and
Fellow of the Institution of Electrical
Engineers. Degree (BSc) in Mechanical
Engineering from University College
London and MBA from Harvard.
02 Baroness Hogg (Age 58) ●● ▲▲ ◆◆ ★★ Deputy Chairman and Senior
Independent Director. Joined the
Board as a non-executive Director in
1996 and appointed Deputy Chairman
and Senior Independent Director on 
1 December 2003. Chairman of 3i
Group plc and Frontier Economics Ltd.
Non-executive Director of BG Group plc,
Carnival plc and Carnival Corporation
(Panama). Member of the Financial
Reporting Council and former Head of
the Prime Minister’s Policy Unit.
Degree (MA) in Politics, Philosophy
and Economics from Oxford University.
03 Kevin Smith, CBE (Age 50) ■■ ●● ★★ Chief Executive. Joined GKN in 1999
as Managing Director Aerospace and
appointed Chief Executive on 1 January
2003. Prior to GKN, held various
positions in BAE Systems over a 20 year
period latterly as Group Managing
Director – New Business. President
of The Society of British Aerospace
Companies Ltd, Vice President of The
Society of Motor Manufacturers and
Traders Ltd and Co-Chairman of the
Government’s Manufacturing Forum.
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical
Society and Companion of the
Chartered Management Institute. 
Non-executive Director of Scottish 
and Southern Energy plc. Degree 
(BA) in Business Studies from the
University of Central Lancashire.
04 Richard Clowes (Age 54) ■■ Group Managing Director Corporate
Development. Joined GKN in 1991 and
appointed Chief Executive OffHighway
Systems and AutoComponents in 1993.
Appointed to the Board in 2001 as
Managing Director Powder Metallurgy,
OffHighway and AutoComponents, and
to his current position in October 2004.
Prior to GKN, held various positions
with TI Group plc. Chartered Engineer
and Member of the Institution of
Mechanical Engineers. Degree (BSc) 
in Mechanical Engineering from
Birmingham University.
05 Sir Ian Gibson, CBE (Age 58) ●● ▲▲ ◆◆ ★★ Non-executive Director. Appointed in
2002. Chairman of BPB plc and non-
executive Director of Northern Rock
plc and Chelys Ltd. Former President
of Nissan Europe and corporate officer 
of Nissan Motor Co Ltd (Japan), and
former Deputy Chairman of ASDA
Group plc. Fellow of the Institute 
of Physics. Degree (BSc) in Applied
Physics from Manchester University.
06 Ian Griffiths (Age 54) ■■ Group Managing Director GKN
Automotive. Joined GKN in 1975.
Appointed Chief Executive GKN
Driveline in 2000 and to the Board 
in 2001 as Managing Director GKN
Driveline. Since October 2004 
he has been responsible for the
Group’s worldwide Driveline, Powder
Metallurgy and AutoComponents
operations. Has been a member of
the senior driveline management
team since 1990 during which time
has been responsible for operations
in the US and for global marketing and
engineering. Non-executive Director 
of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Degree (BSc) in Mechanical, Electrical
and Production Engineering from
Coventry University.
07 Helmut Mamsch (Age 60) ●● ▲▲ ◆◆ ★★ Non-executive Director. Appointed 
1 December 2003. Non-executive
Deputy Chairman of LogicaCMG plc
and non-executive Director of Sappi
Limited (South Africa). Member 
of Supervisory Board of K+S
Aktiëngesellschaft and Readymix AG.
Formerly Management Board member
of VEBA AG (now E.ON AG). Degree 
in Economics.
08 Sir Christopher Meyer 
(Age 61) ●● ▲▲ ◆◆ ★★ Non-executive Director. Appointed 
1 August 2003. Chairman of the 
Press Complaints Commission 
and non-executive Director of The
Sanctuary Group plc. Former British
Ambassador to the United States
and Germany, and also served in the
British Diplomatic Service in Russia,
Spain and the UK representative office
to the European Community, Brussels.
Former Prime Minister’s Chief Press
Secretary. Degree (MA) in History from
Cambridge University.
09 John Sheldrick (Age 55) ●● ▲▲ ◆◆ ★★ Non-executive Director. Appointed 
on 20 December 2004. Group Finance
Director of Johnson Matthey plc since
1990 prior to which was Group
Treasurer of The BOC Group plc.
Former non-executive Director of API
Group plc. Fellow of the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers and Fellow of
the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants. Degrees in Natural
Sciences (MA) from Cambridge
University and Management
Sciences (MSc) from the University
of Manchester Institute of Science 
and Technology.
10 Nigel Stein (Age 49) ■■ Finance Director. Joined GKN in 1994
and appointed to the Board as Finance
Director in 2001. Also responsible 
for the Group’s OffHighway Systems
business. Has held a range of
commercial, general management
and finance roles within the Group,
most recently Senior Vice President,
Finance and Chief Financial Officer of
GKN Sinter Metals. Prior to GKN, had
extensive experience in the commercial
vehicle and manufacturing sector.
Non-executive Director of Wolseley
plc. Member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Degree (BSc) in Engineering Science
from Edinburgh University.
11 Sir Peter Williams (Age 59) ●● ▲▲ ◆◆ ★★ Non-executive Director. Appointed 
in 2001. Chairman of the Engineering
and Technology Board and the Japan
Business Network of Trade Partners
UK. Formerly Master of St Catherine’s
College Oxford, prior to which
Chairman and previously Chief
Executive of Oxford Instruments plc.
Non-executive Chairman of NPL
Management Ltd and non-executive
Director of W S Atkins plc. Fellow of
the Royal Society and of the Royal
Academy of Engineering, and Past
President of the British Association 
for the Advancement of Science.
Degree (MA) in Natural Sciences
and PhD from Cambridge University.
12 Grey Denham (Age 56)
Company Secretary. Joined GKN in
1980 and was head of the Group
Legalfunction for nine years before
being appointed Company Secretary
in 1996. Non-executive Director of
Charter plc. Holds various positions
on Industry and City bodies and
currently Vice Chairman of the CBI in
the West Midlands. Member of the
Business Leadership Council of Young
Enterprise. Formerly Chairman of the
Primary Markets Group of the London
Stock Exchange. Law Degree (LLB) from
London University and a barrister.
■■ Member of Executive Committee
●● Member of Chairman’s Committee
▲▲ Member of Audit Committee
◆◆ Member of Remuneration Committee
★★ Member of Nominations Committee
The Company Secretary is secretary
to these Board Committees. The
responsibilities of the Committees
are described on pages 75 to 77. 42 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004
2004 2003
Before Before
goodwill Goodwill goodwill Goodwill
amortisation amortisation amortisation amortisation
and and and and
exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional
items items Total items items Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sales
Continuing operations
Subsidiaries 2 3,484 – 3,484 3,334 – 3,334
Share of joint ventures 161 – 161 162 – 162
Share of associate 47 – 47 99 – 99
3,692 – 3,692 3,595 – 3,595
Discontinued operations
Share of joint ventures 755 – 755 902 – 902
Share of associate ––– 88 – 88
2 4,447 – 4,447 4,585 – 4,585
Operating profit/(loss)
Subsidiaries:
Continuing operations
Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 162 – 162 168 – 168
Goodwill amortisation – (23) (23) – (31) (31)
Exceptional items including goodwill impairment 4 – (250) (250) – (91) (91)
Totalsubsidiaries 3 162 (273) (111) 168 (122) 46
Share of joint ventures:
Continuing operations
Before goodwill amortisation 18 – 18 26 – 26
Goodwill amortisation – (1) (1) –––
18 (1) 17 26 – 26
Discontinued operations
Before goodwill amortisation 87 – 87 103 – 103
Goodwill amortisation – (5) (5) – (6) (6)
87 (5) 82 103 (6) 97
Totalshare of joint ventures 105 (6) 99 129 (6) 123
Share of associates:
Continuing operations 1– 1 1– 1
Discontinued operations ––– 4– 4
Total share of associates 1– 1 5– 5
Total operating profit/(loss) – continuing operations 181 (274) (93) 195 (122) 73
Total operating profit – discontinued operations 87 (5) 82 107 (6) 101
Total operating profit/(loss) 268 (279) (11) 302 (128) 174
Exceptional items
Profits less losses on sale or closure of businesses:
Subsidiaries (continuing operations) 4 –2424 – (4) (4)
Joint ventures and associate (discontinued operations) 4 – 663 663 –5959
Profit before interest and taxation 268 408 676 302 (73) 229
Net interest payable:
Subsidiaries 5 (46) – (46) (56) – (56)
Share of joint ventures 5 (1) – (1) –––
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 221 408 629 246 (73) 173
Taxation 6 (62) 13 (49) (77) 7 (70)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 159 421 580 169 (66) 103
Minority interests – equity (3) – (3) (2) – (2)
Earnings of the year 156 421 577 167 (66) 101
Dividends 7 (86) – (86) (85) – (85)
Transfer to reserves 24 70 421 491 82 (66) 16
Earnings per share – p 8 21.3 57.5 78.8 22.8 (9.0) 13.8
Diluted earnings per share – p 8 21.2 57.2 78.4 22.7 (9.0) 13.7 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 43
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
AT 31 DECEMBER 2004
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Intangible assets – goodwill 10 197 340
Tangible assets 11 1,278 1,329
1,475 1,669
Investments
Joint ventures:
Share of gross assets 157 1,201
Share of gross liabilities (62) (944)
95 257
Associate – 29
Other investments 7 6
12 102 292
Total fixed assets 1,577 1,961
Current assets
Stocks 13 507 487
Debtors: 
Due within one year 14 577 510
Due in more than one year 14 214 120
Cash at bank and in hand 15 860 131
2,158 1,248
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Short-term borrowings 16 (51) (36)
Creditors 17 (837) (760)
Taxation payable 18 (128) (166)
Dividend payable (58) (57)
(1,074) (1,019)
Net current assets 1,084 229
Total assets less current liabilities 2,661 2,190
Creditors: amounts falling due beyond one year
Term loans and obligations under finance leases 19 (741) (887)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 (430) (361)
Net assets 1,490 942
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 368 367
Share premium account 24 15 14
Revaluation reserve 24 41 40
Other reserves 24 (85) (96)
Profit and loss account 24 1,121 601
Equity interest 1,460 926
Minority interest – equity 30 16
1,490 942
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2005 and were signed by:
RoyBrown, Kevin Smith, Nigel Stein, Directors 44 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004
2004 2003
£m £m
Earnings of the year
Subsidiaries 505 5
Share of joint ventures 71 92
Share of associates 1 4
577 101
Currency variations (31) (41)
Unrealised gain arising on change in status of associate (note 25) 2 –
Other reserve movements – (1)
Total recognised gains and losses of the year 548 59
Earnings of the year on an historical cost basis are not materially different from those reported above.
RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004
2004 2003
£m £m
Totalrecognised gains and losses of the year 548 59
Dividends (86) (85)
Issue of Ordinary Shares net of costs 2 2
Purchase of own shares into treasury (note 24) (30) –
Goodwill previously written off to reserves 100 –
Total increase/(decrease) 534 (24)
Shareholders’ equity at 1 January 926 950
Shareholders’ equity at 31 December 1,460 926
MOVEMENT IN NET FUNDS/(DEBT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004
2004 2003
£m £m
Increase in cash 8 28
Increase in liquid resources and financing 869 6
Cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 877 34
Currency variations 24 13
Net proceeds of Ordinary Share issues 2 2
Purchase of own shares into treasury (30) –
New finance leases (1) (1)
Subsidiaries acquired and sold (14) (7)
Total increase 858 41
Net borrowings at 1 January (793) (834)
Net funds/(borrowings) at 31 December 65 (793) ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 45
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities (note i) a 179 287
Dividends from joint ventures and associates 10 68
Returns on investments and servicing of finance
Interest received 21 17
Interest paid (67) (70)
Dividends paid to minority interests (1) (1)
(47) (54)
Taxation
United Kingdom 2 –
Overseas (49) (63)
(47) (63)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (184) (162)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 8 13
Investment loans and capital contributions (1) (4)
Other financial investments – 4
(177) (149)
Acquisitions and disposals
Purchase of subsidiaries b (15) (45)
Purchase of joint ventures (8) (1)
Sale of subsidiaries b 29 2
Sale of joint ventures and associated company (note ii) 1,039 73
1,045 29
Equity dividends paid (86) (84)
Cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 877 34
Management of liquid resources (note iii)
Increase in short-term loans and deposits (812) (32)
Decrease in short-term loans and deposits 99 28
c (713) (4)
Financing
Net proceeds of Ordinary Share issues 2 2
Purchase of own shares into treasury (30) –
Proceeds of other term borrowings 471 497
Repayment of other term borrowings (598) (498)
Finance leases (1) (3)
c (156) (2)
Increase in cash (note iv) c 8 28
Notes:
i Included in cash inflow from operating activities is expenditure of £21 million (2003 – £13 million) in respect of operating exceptional items.
ii 2004 includes £62 million of cash received for land and buildings sold as part of the divestment of AgustaWestland NV.
iii Liquid resources consist of short-term investments, loans and deposits excluding cash.
iv Cash consists of cash in hand and bank balances and overdrafts repayable on demand as defined by FRS 1 (revised). 46 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004
2004 2003
£m £m
a) Net cash inflow from operating activities
Operating (loss)/profit (111) 46
Depreciation 160 182
Goodwill amortisation 23 31
Impairment of goodwill 100 91
Impairment of tangible fixed assets 104 2
Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets – (5)
(Increase)/decrease in stocks (20) 4
Decrease/(increase) in debtors 6 (43)
Additional advance UK pension scheme funding (100) –
Increase/(decrease) in creditors 17 (18)
Non-operating exceptional items – (3)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 179 287
Purchases Sales
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
b) Purchase and sale of subsidiaries
Tangible fixed assets (100) (17) 4 3
Working capital and provisions 28 (10) 1 3
Taxation payable – 1 – –
Cash (17) – – –
Loans and finance leases 14 7 – –
Minority interests 14 – – –
(61) (19) 5 6
Change from associate status 28 – – –
Profit/(loss) on sales – – 23 (4)
Goodwill (1) (24) – 1
Totalconsideration (34) (43) 28 3
Deferred consideration 2 (2) 1 (1)
Consideration (paid)/received (32) (45) 29 2
Less: cash 17 – – –
Net cash (outflow)/inflow (15) (45) 29 2
Net funds/(borrowings) Change in 2004
at end of year
Liquid
2004 2003 Cash resources Financing
£m £m £m £m £m
c) Analysis of movements in net funds/(debt)
Bank balances and cash 108 91 17––
Short-term loans and deposits 752 40 – 712 –
Bank overdrafts (33) (22) (11) – –
Other short-term borrowings (18) (14) –– (4)
Term loans (727) (872) –– 145
Finance leases:
Due within one year (3) (1) –– (2)
Due in more than one year (14) (15) –– 1
65 (793) 6 712 140
Net proceeds of Ordinary Share issues –– (2)
Purchase of own shares into treasury –– 30
Subsidiaries acquired and sold –– 14
New finance leases –– 1
Currency variations 21 (27)
Net cash inflow 8 713 156 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 47
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basisofaccounting
These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings, in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards except as regards the specific provisionsof the Act relating to the accounting for the
increase in shareholding of Tochigi Fuji Sangyo KK as explained in note 25. The Directorshave conducted a review of the Group’s accounting policies
and have confirmed that they are the most appropriate for the purposes of giving a true and fair view of the Group’s results and that there have been
no changes from last year. However, the method of providing depreciation of tangible fixed assets has been changed from reducing balance to straight
line, following a review by the Directors and to bring the Group into line with comparable companies. The new method resulted in an £11 million lower
charge than would have been the case under the previous basis.
Basisofconsolidation
The group accounts consolidate the accounts for the year to 31 December 2004 of the Company and its subsidiaries unless those subsidiaries are
subject to severe long-term restrictions on the ability of the Group to control them.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss accountfrom the date ofacquisition or 
to the date of disposal. In the case of acquisitions during the year the acquisition method of accounting is used.
Where material, profits or losses are analysed as discontinued operations where businesses are sold or closed by the date on which the accounts
are approved. Where businesses are treated as sold or closed in the current year, the prior year’s analyses are restated to reflect those businesses
as discontinued.
Foreign currencies
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated to sterling at average exchange rates. Profit and loss
transactions are translated at average exchange rates except in the case of material transactions where actual spot rate may be used if it more accurately
reflects the underlying substance of the transaction. Where practicable, transactions involving foreign currenciesare protected by forward contracts.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the appropriate forward contract rate or, if not covered, at the exchange rate ruling at the
balance sheet date. Differences on revenue transactionsare dealt with through the profit and loss account.
The exchange rates used for the currencies most important to the Group’s operations are:
£1=euro £1=US$
2004 average 1.47 1.83
2003 average 1.45 1.64
2004 year-end 1.41 1.92
2003 year-end 1.42 1.79
Financial instruments
The Group’s accounting policy for derivatives is to recognise in the group profit and loss account gains and losses on hedges of revenues or operating
payments only as they crystallise.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risks and hedge a proportion of its investment in
overseas subsidiaries and investments denominated in foreign currencies, where such hedging can be carried out on an economically acceptable
basis. Such financial instruments are treated as hedges against the underlying assets or liabilities, with matching accounting treatments and cash
flows. All gains or losses are taken to the statement of total recognised gains and losses until the instrument and the underlying hedged investment
are sold, when the profit or loss arising is recognised in the profit and loss account. Interest differentials resulting from the use of financial
instruments to hedge these exposures are dealt with in the group profit and loss account.
Any instruments no longer designated as hedges are restated at market value and any gains or losses are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
The book values of short-term debtors and creditors are deemed to be the same as their fair values and have been excluded from the financial
instrument disclosures other than those on currency exposures.
Sales
Sales shown in the profit and loss account exclude value added taxes and generally represent the invoiced value of goods and services charged to
customers. Invoices are raised when goods are despatched or when the risks and rewards of ownership otherwise irrevocably passes to the customer.
In Aerospace, on long-term development and/or supply contracts, revenues are recognised based on the value of work done at the achievement of
predetermined contractual or other milestones. 48 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED
Research and development costs
Except as noted below, revenue expenditure on research and development is written off as incurred.
On major aerospace contracts that demonstrablyhave a life of more than ten years, net non-recurring initial costs (consisting of design, development
and tooling) are categorised as stocks and are charged to the profit and loss account over a maximum period of ten years from the startof serial
production. On other contracts, design and development costs are written off as incurred and tooling over three years.
Reorganisation costs
Costs of reorganisation and redundancy, which are not part of a fundamental restructuring, are charged against operating profit in the period when 
the announcement is made.
Intangible assets – goodwill
Goodwill arising on consolidation consists of the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill
arising on acquisitions completed prior to 31 December 1997 has been eliminated against reserves. Goodwill arising on acquisitions after that date 
is capitalised as a fixed asset and amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life up to a maximum of 20 years. To the extent that the
carrying value exceeds the value in use, determined from estimated discounted future net cash flows, goodwill is written down to the value in use and
an impairment charge is recognised in the profit and loss account. Where an acquired business is sold and goodwill has been previously deducted
from reserves, the goodwill is taken into accountin calculating the profit or loss on sale.
Tangible fixed assets
Cost
Tangible fixed assets are valued at cost or valuation less accumulated depreciation. Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred 
in bringing the asset into use but excludes interest.
Where freehold and long leasehold properties were carried at a valuation at 23 March 2000, the date of implementation of FRS 15, these values
have been retained as book values in accordance with the transitional arrangements of that standard.
Where assets are in the course of construction at the balance sheet date they are classified as capital work in progress. Transfers are made to other
asset categories when they are available for use.
Depreciation
During the year the Group changed from providing depreciation on plant and machinery on a reducing balance basis to a straight line basis.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction. In the case of all other categories of asset, depreciation is
provided on a straight line basis over the course of the financial year.
Depreciation is applied to specific classes of asset so as to reduce them to their residual values over their estimated useful lives.
The range of main rates of depreciation used are:
Straight line
years
Freehold buildings Up to 50
Steel powder production plant 18
General plant, machinery, fixtures, fittings and equipment 6 to 15
Computers and major software 3 to 5
Commercial vehicles and cars 4 to 5
Leasehold properties are amortised by equal annual instalments over the period of the lease or 50 years, whichever is the shorter.
Leased assets
Where fixed assets are financed by leasing arrangements which give rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if theyhad been
purchased and the capital element of the leasing commitment is shown as obligations under finance leases. The rentals payable are apportioned
between interest, which is charged to the profit and loss account, and capital which reduces the outstanding obligation. Operating lease rentals
are charged to the profit and loss accountas incurred over the lease term.
Impairments
Fixed assets are subject to review for impairment in accordance with FRS 11. Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises
and is reported in operating profit.
Joint ventures and associated companies
Joint ventures, although not subsidiaries, are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and is able to exercise joint control with 
its partners under a contractual arrangement. Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and is able to exercise
significant influence through its representation on the board of directors. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 49
Joint ventures and associates are accounted for in accordance with FRS 9 whereby the profit and loss account includes, at the appropriate line, the
Group’s share of their sales, operating profit, exceptional items, interest and tax. They are stated in the balance sheet at the Group’s share of their
equity. Where the size criteria of FRS 9 are met additional information is given by wayof note to the accounts.
Stocks
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, due allowance being made for obsolete or slow-moving items. Cost includes
the relevant proportion of works overheads assuming normal levels of activity.
Taxation
Provision is made for deferred tax in so far as a liability or asset arises as a result of transactions that have occurred by the balance sheet date and
give rise to an obligation to pay more tax in future, or a right to pay less tax in future. A deferred tax asset is only recognised to the extent that it may
be regarded as recoverable. Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised are not discounted.
No provision is made for any additional tax which might arise on remittance of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
except where distribution of such profits is planned.
Pensions and post-retirement benefits
The Group’s pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes throughout the world.
In the UK and in certain overseas companies pension arrangements are made through externally funded defined benefit schemes, the contributions
to which are based on the advice of independent actuaries or in accordance with the rules of the schemes. In other overseas companies funds are
retained within the business to provide for retirement obligations.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account is calculated, in accordance with SSAP 24, by independent actuaries as being the expected cost of
providing pensions on a systematic and rational basis over the period during which the Group expects to derive benefit from the employees’ services.
Additionally, certain amounts are charged in accordance with the rules of defined contribution pension plans.
The impact on the balance sheet, profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses of the adoption of FRS 17, together with
the assumptions made in computing that impact, are shown by way of note.
2 SALES
The geographical markets supplied by subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are as follows:
Geographical markets supplied
United Continental Rest of
Kingdom Europe Americas the World Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Sales by subsidiaries
By business:
Automotive 292 1,166 945 512 2,915
Aerospace 114 46 400 9 569
Total 2004 406 1,212 1,345 521 3,484
By region of origin:
United Kingdom 319 80 93 9 501
Continental Europe 69 1,117 56 61 1,303
Americas 18 13 1,176 11 1,218
Rest of the World –2 20 440 462
Total 2004 406 1,212 1,345 521 3,484
Total 2003 368 1,258 1,337 371 3,334
Group share of sales by joint ventures and associates
Continuing operations 10 30 37 131 208
Discontinued operations 274 294 57 130 755
Total 2004 284 324 94 261 963
Continuing operations 33449 175 261
Discontinued operations 492 366 43 89 990
Total 2003 495 400 92 264 1,251
Analyses of sales, operating profit and net operating assets of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates by business and by region of origin are
shown on page 70. 50 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
3 OPERATING PROFIT
Continuing operations
2004 2003
£m £m
Sales by subsidiaries 3,484 3,334
Operating costs
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress – (7)
Raw materials and consumables (1,211) (1,045)
Staff costs (note 9) (1,142) (1,108)
Redundancy and reorganisation costs:
Exceptional (note 4) (37) –
Non-exceptional (5) (12)
Depreciation written off tangible fixed assets (including £3 million 
in respect of assets under finance leases, 2003 – £2 million) (160) (182)
Exceptional charge for impairment of tangible fixed assets (note 4) (104) (2)
Goodwill amortisation (23) (31)
Exceptional charge for impairment of goodwill (note 4) (100) (91)
Exceptional charge for other asset write-downs (note 4) (9) –
Other external charges (804) (810)
(3,595) (3,288)
Operating (loss)/profit of subsidiaries (111) 46
Details of companies acquired are given in the operating and financial review on pages 21 to 30 and note 25. There were no discontinued subsidiary
activities in either 2004 or 2003.
Other external charges include rental for hire of equipment £17 million (2003 – £19 million) and rental for leased property £16 million (2003 – £16 million).
Auditors’ remuneration, including expenses, was £3.2 million (2003 – £2.9 million). Non-audit fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers are subject
to review by the Audit Committee and the policy for using auditors for non-audit work is set out in the corporate governance report on page 76. The
total payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers worldwide in respect of such fees is analysed below:
2004 2003
£m £m
Tax compliance 0.3 0.4
Tax advice 0.6 0.6
IFRS and other advice 0.7 0.1
1.6 1.1
In accordance with the provisions of UITF 17 (revised 2003), no charge to profit has been made in respect of employee share options issued under
Inland Revenue approved share save schemes.
Research and development costs charged by subsidiaries totalled £91 million (2003 – £80 million) including £2 million (2003 – £3 million) of
expenditure refunded by customers and other parties for development work carried out on their behalf. In addition, GKN’s share of research and
development in AgustaWestland NV for the 11 months to November totalled £138 million (full year 2003 – £154 million) including £132 million 
(full year 2003 – £148 million) of expenditure refunded by customers and other parties for development work carried out on their behalf. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 51
4 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
a) Operating exceptional items
2004
2003
Other 
Restructuring impairments Total Impairments
£m £m £m £m
Goodwill impairment (9) (91) (100) (91)
Tangible fixed asset impairment (47) (57) (104) –
Other asset write-downs (6) (3) (9) –
(62) (151) (213) (91)
Redundancy costs (23) – (23) –
Other reorganisation costs (14) – (14) –
(99) (151) (250) (91)
In March 2004 the Group announced a three year restructuring and reorganisation plan to:
(i) migrate about 20% of Driveline global production from high cost, low growth economies in Western Europe and North America to the low cost
emerging markets of South America, Asia and Eastern Europe;
(ii) support recovery and underpin the cost base of the Sinter Metals operation by further reducing costs and focusing activities on our areas of
technological advantage; and
(iii) re-align overhead expenditure across the Group as a whole to better reflect the future shape of the business and reduce costs.
The costs detailed in the table above relate to the first nine months of that plan and predominantly reflect asset write-downs where clear definitive
plans and intent exist or actions have been taken in relation to specific plants. Other restructuring costs reflect charges incurred in the year, primarily
in relation to employee redundancies, together with provisions for such costs where external announcements and commitments had been made by
31 December 2004. Cash outflow in the year in respect of these costs was £16 million. The cash outflow in the year in respect of 2002 and earlier
restructuring activities was £5 million.
Notwithstanding the restructuring measures noted above, further deterioration in the market share of its major customers and significantly higher 
raw material costs have adversely impacted the US Powder Metallurgy business so that, as part of a review of carrying values of fixed assetsin
accordance with FRS 11, it has been necessary to make further impairment charges as shown above. The charges have been calculated based on 
a value in use assessment. The discount rate applied to pre-tax cash flows was 11%.
The 2003 exceptional charge relates to asset write-downs arising in Powder Metallurgy (£83 million) and Aerospace Services (£8 million).
b) Non-operating exceptional items – Profits less losses on sale or closure of businesses
2004 2003
£m £m
i) Subsidiaries
Sale of Walterscheid Rohrverbindungstechnik GmbH 23 –
Other 1 (4)
24 (4)
ii) Joint ventures
Sale of AgustaWestland NV 652 –
Sale of Aerosystems International Limited 11 –
663 –
iii) Sale of shares in associated company – Alvis plc – 59
The profit arising on the sale of the Group’s 50% interest in AgustaWestland NV to Finmeccanica SpA included a profit of £20 million arising on the
sale of properties to AgustaWestland NV, which formed an integral part of the deal, and is after charging £100 million in respect of goodwill previously
written off to reserves.
There was no goodwill previously written off to reserves in respect of the other businesses sold during the year (2003 – nil). 52 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
5 NET INTEREST PAYABLE
2004 2003
£m £m
Subsidiaries
Loans to joint ventures and associates – 1
Short-term investments, loans and deposits 23 16
Interest receivable 23 17
Loans from joint ventures – (2)
Short-term borrowings (including bank interest of £12 million, 2003 – £13 million) (15) (16)
Loans repayable within five years (including bank interest nil, 2003 – nil) (4) (5)
Loans repayable after five years (48) (48)
Finance leases (2) (2)
Interest payable (69) (73)
(46) (56)
Share of joint ventures and associates
Interest receivable 4 8
Interest payable (5) (8)
(1) –
6 TAXATION
Taxcharge for the year
2004 2003
£m £m
Current tax
United Kingdom:
Corporation Tax at 30% 5 89
Double tax relief (1) (87)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (37) (1)
Share of joint ventures and associates 9 13
(24) 14
Overseas:
Corporation taxes 45 53
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 (5)
Share of joint ventures and associates 21 27
67 75
Total current tax 43 89
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences – (10)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 9 –
Share of joint ventures and associates (3) (9)
Total deferred tax 6 (19)
Representing:
United Kingdom 23 (2)
Overseas tax (17) (17)
6 (19)
Total taxcharge for the year 49 70
The charge for the year reflects credits arising from the settlement of prior year tax liabilities, partially offset by an increased deferred tax charge
resulting from the non-recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of current year tax losses and the revision of prior year capital allowance claims
in the UK. Tax on exceptional items, included in the above, is: UK – nil (2003 – £2 million), Overseas – £13 million credit (2003 – £9 million credit). ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 53
Taxreconciliation
2004 2003
£m £m
Profit before tax 629 173
Goodwill amortisation and exceptional items (408) 73
Profit before tax (pre-goodwill amortisation and exceptional items) 221 246
Taxcalculated at 30% standard UK Corporation Tax rate 66 74
Differences between UK and non-UK corporate tax rates 13 17
Non-deductible and non-taxable items 2 (10)
Deferred tax – origination and reversal of timing differences (1) 12
Differences attributable to joint ventures and associate (1) –
Current year corporate tax charge on ordinary activities 79 93
Adjustments in respect of prior years (36) (6)
Current tax in respect of exceptional items – 2
Total current tax 43 89
Factors affecting the future tax charge are discussed in the operating and financial review on page 23.
7 DIVIDENDS
2004 2003
£m £m
Equity dividends
Interim (paid 30 September 2004) 3.9p per share (2003 – 3.8p per share) 28 28
Final 8.0p per share (2003 – 7.8p per share) 58 57
86 85
8 EARNINGS PER SHARE
Earnings per share for 2004 are based on earnings of the year of £577 million (2003 – £101 million) and calculated on the weighted average number
of 732.6 million shares in issue and ranking for dividend (2003 – 733.0 million shares). Diluted earnings per share, which takes into account options
over GKN plc shares, is calculated on the weighted average number of 736.3 million (2003 – 736.1 million) shares.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, which the Directors consider gives a useful additional indication of underlying
performance, is calculated on the earnings of the year adjusted as follows:
Earnings Earnings per share
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m p p
Earnings of the year 577 101 78.8 13.8
Included in operating profit:
Goodwill amortisation 29 37 4.0 5.0
Exceptional items including goodwill impairment 250 91 34.1 12.4
Non-operating exceptional items (687) (55) (93.8) (7.5)
Tax attributable to exceptional items including goodwill impairment (13) (7) (1.8) (0.9)
Earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 156 167 21.3 22.8 54 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
9 STAFF COSTS AND DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
2004 2003
£m £m
Wages and salaries 901 886
Social security costs 151 148
Other pension costs 90 74
1,142 1,108
The average numbers employed by subsidiaries during the year were:
2004 2003
United Kingdom 5,562 6,001
Continental Europe 14,715 15,155
Americas 11,611 11,603
Rest of the World 4,715 2,725
36,603 35,484
Full details of the Directors’ remuneration, which form part of these accounts, are contained in the auditable part of the report on directors’ remuneration
on pages 84 to 87.
10 GOODWILL
Joint Associated
Subsidiaries ventures company Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 January 2004 556 124 9 689
Joint ventures sold – (113) – (113)
Change in status –– (9) (9)
Additions (4) 2 – (2)
Currency variations (29) (4) – (33)
At 31 December 2004 523 9 – 532
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2004 216 19 – 235
Joint ventures sold – (22) – (22)
Charge for the year 23 6 – 29
Exceptional impairment 100 – – 100
Currency variations (13) (1) – (14)
At 31 December 2004 326 2 – 328
Net book value at 31 December 2004 197 7 – 204
Net book value at 31 December 2003 340 105 9 454
The impairment charge has been calculated based on a value in use assessment in accordance with FRS 11. The discount rate applied to pre-tax cash
flows was 11%.
Joint venture and associated company goodwill in the above table is included in the Group’s share of net assets of joint ventures and associate shown
in note 12.
Additions in respect of subsidiaries in the year include a £5 million reduction in goodwillin respect of a 2003 acquisition resulting from an adjustment
to the consideration and finalisation of provisional fair values. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 55
11 TANGIBLE ASSETS
Other Capital
Land and tangible work in
buildings fixed assets progress Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2004 482 2,242 66 2,790
Subsidiaries acquired and sold 52 159 1 212
Capital expenditure 68599 190
Disposals (58) (74) – (132)
Transfers 881 (89) –
Currency variations (8) (44) (1) (53)
At 31 December 2004 482 2,449 76 3,007
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2004 79 1,382 – 1,461
Subsidiaries acquired and sold (1) 113 – 112
Charge for the year 13 147 – 160
Disposals (14) (68) – (82)
Exceptional impairment 599 – 104
Currency variations (2) (24) – (26)
At 31 December 2004 80 1,649 – 1,729
Net book value at 31 December 2004 402 800 76 1,278
Owned assets 394 795 76 1,265
Assets under finance leases 85 – 13
402 800 76 1,278
Net book value at 31 December 2003 403 860 66 1,329
Net book value
Cost or Accumulated
valuation depreciation 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Analysis of land and buildings:
Freehold land 95 – 95 81
Freehold buildings 356 (69) 287 287
Long leases 4 (2) 2 1
Short leases (expiring on or before 31 December 2054) 27 (9) 18 34
482 (80) 402 403
£m
Cost or valuation of land and buildings at 31 December 2004 includes:
1996 valuation 123
Earlier years’ valuations 4
At cost or fair value on acquisition 355
482
Major freehold and long leasehold properties in the UK, US, Germany and France were valued at 31 December 1996 by DTZ Debenham Thorpe and
King Sturge & Co, chartered surveyors. Properties were valued, in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Manual of the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors, on the basis of open market value and existing use value except for specialised properties which were valued on a depreciated
replacement cost basis. In accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 15 these values have been retained as book values.
The original cost of land and buildings at 31 December 2004 was £453 million; the notional net book value on the original cost basis would have
been £351 million. 56 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
12 INVESTMENTS
2004 2003
£m £m
Joint ventures:
Goodwill (note 10) 7 105
Other fixed assets 73 157
Current assets 77 939
Liabilities due within one year (47) (543)
Liabilities due beyond one year (15) (401)
Group’s share of net assets 95 257
Associate – 29
Loans to joint ventures 7 6
Other investments – –
102 292
The movement in the carrying value of investments is as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
At 1 January 292 282
Profit retained by joint ventures and associates 63 28
Additions 12 6
Disposals and changes in status:
Sale of AgustaWestland NV (220) –
Tochigi Fuji Sangyo KK (26) –
Other (3) (14)
Loan repayment (2) –
Loan to Alvis plc reclassified as long-term debtor – (15)
Currency variations (14) 5
At 31 December 102 292
The Group’s share of net assets of joint ventures includes net debt of £2 million (2003 – net fundsof £28 million). Further details of the contribution 
to Group results by AgustaWestland NV are shown at note 29.
In 2003 other investments included: 289,238 shares of 5p each in Brambles Industries plc owned directly by the Group and 397,456 shares of
5p each in Brambles Industries plc issued to the GKN Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust (QUEST) as a consequence of the demerger of the
Industrial Services businesses in August 2001. At 31 December 2003 these shares had a market value of £1.4 million. These shares were sold during
2004; 1,219,238 50p Ordinary Shares acquired by the GKN Employees’ Share Ownership Plan Trust in connection with the GKN long-term incentive
arrangements. At 31 December 2003 the shares, which have been written down to nil, had a market value of £3.3 million.
At 31 December 2003 the market value of the Group’s 33% shareholding in Tochigi Fuji Sangyo KK (TFS) was £18 million.
In 2003 a new wholly owned subsidiary, GKN Aerospace Services Structures Corp., was formed. This US corporation operates under a proxy agreement
with the United States Department of Defense developing high technology, classified products for the Joint Strike Fighter. The agreement currently
places significant restrictions on the Group’s management of the business for the life of the contract so that, in accordance with FRS 2, it has been
excluded from the consolidation and treated as an investment. The amount of the investment has been fully provided so that the carrying value is nil.
At 31 December 2004, the excluded net liabilitieswere £2 million (2003 – £1 million) and the operating loss was £1 million (2003 – £2 million). During
the year, the Group provided engineering and design services to GKN Aerospace Services Structures Corp. amounting to £1 million (2003 – £1 million).
13 STOCKS
2004 2003
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 199 193
Work in progress 199 190
Finished goods and goods for resale 109 104
507 487
Work in progress includes £63 million (2003 – £56 million) in respect of non-recurring costs (consisting of design, development and tooling) on major
aerospace contracts.
The replacement cost of stocks is not materially different from the historical cost value. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 57
14 DEBTORS
2004 2003
£m £m
Due within one year:
Trade debtors 489 424
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 9 19
Advance corporation tax recoverable 1 1
Other debtors 53 40
Prepayments and accrued income 25 26
577 510
Due in more than one year:
SSAP 24 prepayment (note 26) 198 93
Deferred tax asset (note 22) 6 6
Other debtors 10 21
214 120
791 630
The SSAP 24 prepayment includes £100 million of additional advance funding of the UK pension scheme.
15 CASH AT BANK AND IN HAND
2004 2003
£m £m
Bank balances and cash 108 91
Short-term loans and deposits 752 40
860 131
16 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
2004 2003
£m £m
Bank overdrafts (note 20) 33 22
Short-term loans (note 20):
AgustaWestland NV – 6
Other 18 8
51 36
17 CREDITORS
2004 2003
£m £m
Trade creditors 391 334
Bills payable – 8
Customer advances 53 48
Amounts owed to joint ventures and associates 7 14
Indirect and payroll taxes 29 29
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 3 1
Other creditors 132 120
Accruals and deferred income 222 206
837 760
18 TAXATION PAYABLE
2004 2003
£m £m
United Kingdom tax 14 46
Overseas tax 114 120
128 166 58 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
19 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE BEYOND ONE YEAR
2004 2003
£m £m
Term loans (note 20) 727 872
Obligations under finance leases (note 20) 14 15
741 887
Term loans include:
• Bank borrowings.
• Unsecured £350 million (2003 – £350 million) 6.75% bonds maturing in 2019 less issue costs of £4 million and £325 million (2003 – £325 million)
7% bonds maturing in 2012 less net issue costs of £1 million.
• Secured term loans of £43 million (2003 – £46 million). These include £30 million (2003 – £30 million) debenture stocks of Westland Group plc, which
are secured by a floating charge on the undertaking and assets of that company and certain of its subsidiaries, and £12 million (2003 – £14 million)
secured by way of a fixed and floating charge on certain Aerospace assets.
20 ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
The disclosures made in notes 20 and 21 should be read in conjunction with the discussion of the Group’s objectives, policies and strategies with
regard to financial instruments in the operating and financial review on page 29. Short-term debtors and creditors arising directly from the Group’s
operations are excluded from the following disclosures other than those on currency exposures.
After taking into account the various interest rate and forward foreign exchange contracts entered into by the Group, the effective currency and 
interest rate exposure of the Group’s borrowings were as follows:
Fixed rate borrowings
Weighted
Weighted average time
Floating rate Fixed rate Total average for which rate
borrowings borrowings borrowings interest rate is fixed
£m £m £m % Years
At 31 December 2004
Sterling 6 702 708 7.0 10.9
US dollar 42 – 42 4.3 9.5
Euro 12 1 13 0.3 5.7
Other 30 2 32 – 3.5
90 705 795 6.9 10.9
At 31 December 2003
Sterling 9 702 711 7.0 11.9
US dollar 28 – 28 4.3 10.5
Euro 90 1 91 0.3 6.7
Other 92 2 94 – 4.5
219 705 924 6.9 11.9
The interest rates on floating rate borrowings are determined by reference to applicable LIBORs. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 59
The maturity of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December 2004 was as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Bank loans, overdrafts and other borrowings repayable as follows:
Within one year 51 36
One to two years 12 12
Two to five years 38 175
After five years 677 685
778 908
Finance leases repayable as follows:
Within one year 3 1
One to two years 1 2
Two to five years 2 1
After five years 11 12
17 16
Total borrowings 795 924
At 31 December 2004 the Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities:
2004 2003
£m £m
Expiring within one year – 32
Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years – –
Expiring in more than two years 582 614
582 646
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
a) Financial assets
Bank and cash balances Short-term loans and deposits
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Sterling 8 30 736 21
US dollar 13 8 – –
Euro 35 19 9 2
Other 52 34 7 17
108 91 752 40
The bank and cash balances comprise £69 million (2003 – £20 million) in respect of short-term balances earning interest and £39 million (2003 –
£71 million) in respect of balances which are non-interest earning. The weighted average interest rate at year-end on the interest earning cash balances,
which was all floating and set by reference to relevant LIBORs, was 1.3% (2003 – 2.6%). Surplus cash is deposited for short-term periods typically with a
maturity of less than three months or in money market funds. The weighted average interest rate on the deposit account balances is 4.7% (2003 – 3.2%).
b) Currency exposures
As explained in the operating and financial review on page 29, the Group’s objective in managing the translational currency exposures arising from its
overseas investments is to ensure that changes in the sterling equivalent of assets and liabilities caused by currency movements do not have a
material impact on the sterling value of shareholders’ equity. At 31 December 2004, there were £775 million of notional borrowings created through
the use of forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge such exposures denominated in euro (46%), US dollars (44%) and yen (10%) mirrored by
indirectly created sterling deposits. Net gains and losses arising from these translational currency exposures are recognised in the statement of total
recognised gains and losses. Interest differentials resulting from the use of financial instruments to hedge those exposures are dealt with through the
profit and loss account.
After taking into account the effects of forward foreign exchange contracts, at 31 December 2004 there were no material currency exposures that give
rise to gains or losses recognised in the profit and loss account. 60 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED
c) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The comparison of book and fair values of all the Group’s financialassets and liabilities at 31 December 2004 is set out below:
2004 2003
Book value Fair value Book value Fair value
£m £m £m £m
Financial instruments held or issued to finance the Group’s operations
Bank and cash balances 108 108 91 91
Short-term loans and deposits 752 752 40 40
Short-term borrowings and current portion of long-term borrowings (51) (51) (36) (36)
Long-term borrowings (727) (777) (872) (933)
Finance leases (17) (17) (16) (16)
Financial instruments held to manage interest rate and currency exposures
Interest rate swaps and similar instruments –1 –1
Forward foreign exchange contracts (5) (5) 88
Financial instruments held to hedge currency exposures on expected future trading transactions
Forward foreign exchange contracts –29 –6
At 31 December 60 40 (785) (839)
In addition to the above, the Group has a loan to another company, shown within short-term debtors, with a book value of £15 million and fair 
value of £15 million.
The following methods and assumptionswere used in estimating fair values for financial instruments:
• Short-term borrowings, cash and deposits approximate to book value due to their short maturities.
• Long-term borrowings: Bank and other loans carrying fixed rates of interest – the repayments which the Group is committed to make have been
discounted at the relevant interest rates applicable at 31 December 2004. Bonds – quoted closing market value.
• Interest rate instruments – discounted cash flow analysisbased on interest rates derived from market yield curves.
• Forward exchange contracts and currency swaps – marked-to-market.
d) Hedges
As explained in the operating and financial review on page 29, the Group’s policy is to hedge the exposures summarised below. Translational currency
exposures are hedged where the costs and results of such hedging are economically acceptable.
• Interest rate risk – using interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
• Transactional and translational currency exposures – using forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
Gains or losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised. Unrecognised gains
or losses on instruments used for hedging both transactional and translational currency exposures and the movements therein, are as follows:
Net
Gains Losses gains/(losses)
£m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2003 43 (36) 7
Gains and losses from previousyears recognised in 2004 (36) 24 (12)
Gains and losses arising before 1 January 2004 that were not recognised in 2004 7 (12) (5)
Gains and losses arising in 2004 that were not recognised in that year 51 (16) 35
Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2004 58 (28) 30
Expected to be recognised in 2005 37 (18) 19
Expected to be recognised after 2005 21 (10) 11
58 (28) 30
In 2004 net translational gains and losses arising on forward foreign exchange contracts have been recognised through reserves and matched with
offsetting movements on translational foreign exchange variances.  ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 61
22 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES
Deferred Post-
taxation retirement Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2004 50 233 78 361
Subsidiaries acquired and sold 1222649
Charge for the year 9411868
Paid or accrued during the year – (28) (16) (44)
Currency variations – (2) (2) (4)
At 31 December 2004 60 266 104 430
Deferred taxation
2004 2003
£m £m
Accelerated tax allowances on fixed assets 137 120
Other timing differences (50) (38)
Tax losses (33) (38)
Net deferred tax liability 54 44
Deferred tax liability 60 50
Deferred tax asset (6) (6)
Net deferred tax liability 54 44
The movements in the net deferred tax liability were:
2004 2003
£m £m
At 1 January 44 55
Subsidiaries acquired and sold 1 –
Charge/(credit) for the year 9 (10)
Currency variations – (1)
At 31 December 54 44
There are other deferred tax assets in relation to tax lossestotalling £106 million (2003 – £73 million) and fixed asset and other timing differences
totalling £22 million (2003 – nil) that have not been recognised on the basis that their future economic benefit is uncertain.
No provision has been made for deferred tax in relation to gainsrecognised on revaluing assets to their market value or on the sale of assets where
potentially taxable gains have been rolled over into the cost of replacement assets. Such tax would only become payable if assets were sold without
it being possible to roll over any resultant gains. The total amount unprovided for is £15 million (2003 – £15 million). It is not anticipated that any
such tax will become payable in the foreseeable future.
No provision has been made for deferred tax which might arise on the remittance of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures except
where the distribution of such profits is planned.
Post-retirement
Post-retirement includes provisions relating to pension benefits of £206 million (2003 – £176 million) and provisions for other post-retirement
benefits of £60 million (2003 – £57 million).
Other
Other provisions comprise mainly provisions for loss making contracts together with legal and other claims, self insurance, environmental and
warranty provisions, the timing of which is inherently uncertain. They are established based on historical information or professionalassessment. 62 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
23 SHARE CAPITAL
Authorised Allotted, called up and fully paid
2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Ordinary Shares of 50p each 450 450 368 367
Number Number Number Number
(’000) (’000) (’000) (’000)
Ordinary Shares of 50p each 900,000 900,000 735,672 734,113
At the last Annual General Meeting, shareholder authority was obtained for the Company to purchase a maximum of approximately 73.4 million of its
own Ordinary Shares (representing 10% of the number of shares in issue on 31 December 2003) during the period ending on the earlier of the next
Annual General Meeting or 20 August 2005, provided that certain conditions (relating to the purchase price) are met. The Notice of Annual General
Meeting proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating and renewing this authority. Shares in the Company may also be purchased by
the GKN Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trust.
The allotted, called up and fully paid share capital at 31 December 2004 included 13,325,000 Ordinary Shares of 50p each (nominal value £6.7 million)
held as treasury shares following their purchase by the Company in the open market during the year at a cost of £29.6 million. These shares, which
represented 1.8% of the called up share capital at the end of the year, are held in a treasury shares reserve within the profit and loss account reserve
and represent a deduction from shareholders’ funds.
The options held by Group employees over GKN plc shares were as follows:
UK and overseas
SAYE scheme executive schemes
Number Number
(’000) (’000)
At 1 January 2004 19,759 15,876
Granted – 5,550
Exercised (961) (598)
Lapsed (3,614) (706)
At 31 December 2004 15,184 20,122
Option price per share 164.58p–330.83p 132.29p–320p
Exercisable at dates extending to 2010 2014
All options granted in 2004 were over GKN plc Ordinary Shares under the GKN Executive Share Option Scheme 2004 at 219p, 221.5p and 221.6p 
per share exercisable between 2007 and 2014. No options were granted under the GKN SAYE Share Option Scheme in 2004.
The consideration received by GKN plc in 2004, all from employees, in connection with the exercise of options was £2 million.
At 31 December 2004 the ESOP Trust held 706,924 GKN Ordinary Shares of 50p each which had originally been purchased in the market prior to the
end of 1999. The cost of these shares had been fully written off by the end of 2001. No market purchases have been made since the end of 1999. The
market value of the shares at 31 December 2004 was £1.7 million. During the year the Trust used 512,314 shares in respect of awards (in the form of
forfeiture shares) made by the Company to employees under GKN’s share incentive schemes. 
The remaining shares in the trust will be used for the benefit of participants in GKN’s share incentive schemes. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 63
24 RESERVES
Share Profit
premium Revaluation Other and loss
account reserve reserves account Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Group
At 1 January 2004 14 40 (96) 601 559
Arising from Ordinary Share issues 1 – – – 1
Purchase of own shares into treasury (note 23) – – – (30) (30)
Transfer from profit and loss account – – – 491 491
Currency variations:
Overseas net assets –– 1 (56) (55)
Foreign currency borrowings – – – 24 24
Goodwill recycled on sale of AgustaWestland NV – – – 100 100
Transfers between reserves – (1) 10 (9) –
Unrealised gain arising on change in status of associate (note 25) – 2 – – 2
At 31 December 2004 15 41 (85) 1,121 1,092
Parent company and subsidiaries 15 41 (98) 998 956
Joint ventures and associated company – – 13 123 136
15 41 (85) 1,121 1,092
Company
At 1 January 2004 14 – – 672 686
Arising from Ordinary Share issues 1 – – – 1
Purchase of own shares into treasury (note 23) – – – (30) (30)
Transfer from profit and loss account – – – (75) (75)
At 31 December 2004 15 – – 567 582
Cumulative goodwill eliminated directly against Group reserves amounted to £516 million (2003 – £639 million). 64 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
25 ACQUISITIONS
Group
shareholding
Additional at
direct 31 December
Date shareholding 2004
%%
Subsidiaries
Tochigi Fuji Sangyo KK April 51 84
Joint ventures
Shanghai GKN Drive Shaft Company Limited January 10 50
The book and fair value of net assets acquired and total consideration payable for Tochigi Fuji Sangyo KK (TFS) are analysed below:
Book value Accounting Fair value
prior to policy to the
acquisition Revaluations alignment Group
£m £m £m £m
Tangible fixed assets 101 4 (5) 100
Stocks 18 (1) – 17
Debtors 90 (12) – 78
Creditors (64) (6) – (70)
Provisions (16) (34) (3) (53)
Cash 17 – – 17
Loans and finance leases (12) (1) (1) (14)
Net assets acquired 134 (50) (9) 75
Less already owned as an associate (28)
Minority interests (14)
Goodwill 1
Consideration including costs 34
The principal fair value adjustments, which remain provisional, are the write-off of deferred tax assets amounting to £11 million and provisions in
respect of loss making contracts (£16 million) and pension obligations (£16 million). Prior to becoming a subsidiary, TFS was accounted for as an
associated undertaking. In accordance with FRS 2 and in order to give a true and fair view, goodwill has been calculated as the sum of the goodwill
arising on each purchase of the identifiable assets and liabilitiesof the interest purchased. This is a departure from the method specified in the
Companies Act, under which goodwill is calculated as the difference between cost and fair value at the date that TFS became a subsidiary. The statutory
method would not give a true and fair view as it would result in the Group’s share of TFS retained reserves, during the period that it was an associate,
being characterised as goodwill. The effect of this departure is to increase revaluation reserves by £2 million and to increase goodwill by £2 million. 
During the year, TFS contributed sales of £173 million and operating profit of £6 million as a subsidiary. The contribution to group cash flow was a net
cash inflow of £22 million from operating activities, payments of nil in respect of interest, payments of nil in respect of tax and paymentsof £9 million
in respect of capital expenditure and financial investment.
26 POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS
SSAP 24
The Group’s pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes throughout the world.
In the UK, pension arrangements are made through an externally funded defined benefit scheme. An independent actuarial valuation of the scheme
wascarried out as at April 2003 using the projected unit method. The market value related basis assumed a yield pre-retirement of 7.5% per annum,
which exceeded the annual rate of increases in pensionable salaries by 3.4% (2.65% in respect of future service) with a yield post-retirement of 5%
per annum (4.75% in respect of future service), which exceeded pension increases by 2.4% (2.15% in respect of future service). The aggregate market
value of the assets at the valuation date was £1,297 million and the aggregate funding level on an ongoing basis was 69%.
Company contributions in the year to the UK scheme totalled £154 million (2003 – £54 million) compared with the regular cost in accordance with the
application of SSAP 24 of £9 million (2003 – £10 million) and included a special advance payment of £100 million. The total charge to operating profit
before exceptional items was £48 million (2003 – £33 million). A further charge of £3 million (2003 – nil) was made against operating exceptional items
relating to the restructuring programme. A cumulative advance payment of £198 million (2003 – £93 million) is included in long-term debtors.
In certain overseas companies funds are retained within the business to provide for retirement obligations. The annual charge to provide for these
obligations, which is determined in accordance with actuarial advice or local statutory requirements, amounted to £39 million (2003 – £35 million).
The Group operates a number of retirement plans which provide certain employees with post-retirement healthcare benefits. The liability for providing
these benefits is recognised on an actuarial basis and included in post-retirement and other provisions disclosed in note 22. The principal actuarial
assumptions for the US plans as at 31 December 2004, the date of the lastreview, are shown below within the FRS 17 disclosures. The principal actuarial
assumptions for the valuation of the main UK plan at 31 December 2003, the last date on which a valuation was carried out, were that the discount rate
would be 6.25% per annum and that medical costs would initially increase by 9.5% per annum for three years falling to 4.3% over the next five years.
The Group operates a number of small defined contribution schemes outside the United Kingdom. The charge to the profit and loss account in the
year was £3 million (2003 – £4 million). There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at the balance sheet date. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 65
FRS 17
Actuarial assessments of all the principal defined benefit post-retirement plans were carried out as at 31 December 2004.
The major assumptions used were:
2004 2003 2002
UK Americas Europe ROW UK Americas Europe UK Americas Europe
%%%% %%%%%%
Rate of increase in salaries 4.3 3.5 3.0 2.0 4.3 3.5 3.0 3.9 3.5 3.0
Rate of increase in pensions
in payment 2.9 2.5 1.5 n/a 2.8 2.5 1.5 2.4 2.5 2.0
Discount rate 5.3 5.8 4.9 2.3 5.4 6.0 5.5 5.5 6.5 5.5
Inflation assumption 2.8 2.5 1.5 1.0 2.8 2.4 1.5 2.4 2.4 2.0
Rate of increases in medical
costs:
initial/long-term 9.5/4.3 10.0/5.0 n/a n/a 9.5/4.3 8.5/5.0 n/a 8.0/3.9 8.5/5.0 n/a
In the UK the rate of increase in medical costs is assumed to be fixed for the next three years and thereafter tapers down over a further five years to 
the long-term rate. In the US the rate is assumed to reduce by 1 percentage point per annum over a five year period.
The fair value of the assets in the schemes and the expected rates of return were:
UK Americas Europe ROW
Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term
rate of return rate of return rate of return rate of return
expected Value expected Value expected Value expected Value
%£m % £m %£m % £m
At 31 December 2004
Equities 7.5 1,010 8.5 91 – – 5.5 7
Bonds 4.9 451 5.0 36 4.9 8 2.5 4
Property 6.8 83––––––
Cash/short-term mandate 5.0 121 3.7 1 – – 0.8 6
Other assets 5.2 39 – – 5.2 11 – –
1,704 128 19 17
At 31 December 2003
Equities 7.5 941 8.5 84––––
Bonds 4.8 417 5.0 33 4.5 9 – –
Property 7.0 70––––––
Cash 4.0 18 3.5 1––––
Other assets 5.4 42 – – 5.5 11 – –
1,488 118 20 –
At 31 December 2002
Equities 7.5 794 8.5 67––––
Bonds 4.6 414 5.0 32––––
Property 7.0 59––––––
Cash 4.0 37 3.5 4––––
Other assets 5.4 33 – – 6.0 7 – –
1,337 103 7 –
The overall position in respect of funded defined benefit pension schemes, unfunded pension obligations and other post-retirement provisions
disclosed in note 22 is:
31 December 2004 31 December
2003
UK Americas Europe ROW Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Totalmarket value of assets 1,704 128 19 17 1,868 1,626
Present value of post-retirement liabilities (2,152) (262) (259) (24) (2,697) (2,530)
Gross deficit (448) (134) (240) (7) (829) (904)
Related deferred tax credit 107 48 26 – 181 203
Net post-retirement liability (341) (86) (214) (7) (648) (701)
Post-retirement liability already included in balance sheet 13 50 179 24 266 231
SSAP 24 prepayment (198) – – – (198) (93)
Additional (liability)/asset (526) (36) (35) 17 (580) (563) 66 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
26 POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED
If the net post-retirement liability of £580 million set out above were to be recognised in the financial statements, together with deferred tax, net
assets and the profit and loss reserve would be as follows:
31 December 31 December
2004 2003
£m £m
Net assets per balance sheet 1,490 942
Net post-retirement liability already included in balance sheet 68 138
Net assets excluding net post-retirement liability 1,558 1,080
Net post-retirement liability under FRS 17 (648) (701)
Net assets including net post-retirement liability 910 379
Profit and loss reserve 1,121 601
Additional net post-retirement liability (580) (563)
Profit and loss reserve including net post-retirement liability 541 38
Analysis of the amounts that would be charged to operating profit of subsidiaries
2004 2003
£m £m
Current service cost (32) (30)
Past service cost (1) (1)
Total operating charge (33) (31)
Analysis of the amounts that would be (charged)/credited to other finance income of subsidiaries
2004 2003
£m £m
Expected return on pension scheme assets 107 92
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (135) (129)
Net charge (28) (37)
The net charge to profit before tax for pensions and post-retirement benefits under FRS 17 would have been £26 million lower (2003 – £2 million
lower) than that required for the accounts under SSAP 24.
History of experience gains and losses that would be recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses
2004 UK Americas Europe ROW
Difference between the expected and the actual return on scheme assets:
Amount – £m 67 3 (1) –
Percentage of scheme assets 4.0% 2.2% (5.7%) (1.8%)
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount – £m (8) 1 12 –
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (0.4%) 0.4% 4.8% –
Effect of changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities:
Amount – £m (87) (7) (15) –
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (4.1%) (2.5%) (5.9%) –
Total amount which would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount – £m (28) (3) (4) –
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (1.3%) (1.1%) (1.5%) (1.2%) ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 67
2003 UK Americas Europe
Difference between the expected and the actual return on scheme assets:
Amount – £m 116 13 –
Percentage of scheme assets 7.8% 11.4% –
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount – £m 13 (7) (3)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 0.6% (2.7%) (1.3%)
Effect of changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities:
Amount – £m (149) (18) (1)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (7.3%) (7.4%) –
Total amount which would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount – £m (20) (12) (4)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (1.0%) (4.7%) (1.5%)
2002 UK Americas Europe
Difference between the expected and the actual return on scheme assets:
Amount – £m (251) (28) –
Percentage of scheme assets (18.8%) (27.2%) –
Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities:
Amount – £m (89) (8) –
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (4.7%) (3.4%) –
Effect of changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities:
Amount – £m (80) (24) (5)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (4.2%) (10.2%) (2.4%)
Total amount which would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses:
Amount – £m (420) (60) (5)
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities (22.2%) (25.5%) (2.4%)
Movement in scheme gross deficits during year
2004 2003 
UK Americas Europe ROW Total Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m 
Gross deficit at 1 January (549) (134) (221) – (904) (886)
Companies acquired ––– (8) (8) –
Current service cost (14) (10) (7) (1) (32) (30)
Settlements/curtailments –– 6 – 6 –
Contributions 154 11 – 2 167 87 
Other net expenses (11) (7) (12) – (30) (39)
Actuarial loss (28) (3) (4) – (35) (36)
Currency variations –9 (2) –7 –
Gross deficit at 31 December (448) (134) (240) (7) (829) (904)
An overseas subsidiary participates in a multi-employer defined benefit scheme. Details have been excluded from the tables above since it is not possible
to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities. At 31 March 2004 the scheme reported a deficit equivalent to £261 million, based on local
actuarial assumptions including an underlying discount rate of 5.5% per annum. The company’s estimated share of the net deficit at 31 December
2004, based on the company’s proportion of scheme pensionable payroll, was approximately £14 million. Company contributions in 2004 were
£1 million and no significant increase to this in respect of the deficit is considered likely. 68 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
NOTES ON THE ACCOUNTS CONTINUED
27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2004 the Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees amounting to £5 million (2003 – £6 million). 
In the case of certain businesses engaged in long-term contracts, performance bonds and customer finance obligations have been entered into 
in the normal course of business.
Capital expenditure
Contracts placed against capital expenditure sanctioned at 31 December 2004 so far as not provided for by subsidiaries amounted to £56 million
(2003 – £40 million) and the Group’s share not provided for by joint ventures and associates amounted to nil (2003 – £7 million).
Operating leases
The minimum payments which the Group is committed to make in 2005 under operating leases are as follows:
2004 2003
Land and Land and
buildings Equipment buildings Equipment
£m £m £m £m
Leases which expire:
Within one year 23 15
Two to five years 97 10 5
After five years 73 71
18 13 18 11
28 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
In the ordinary course of business, sales and purchases of goods and services take place between subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
priced on an ‘arm’s length’ basis. These transactions are not significant except for amounts charged to AgustaWestland NV totalling £4 million 
(2003 – £5 million) in respect of property rentals and £37 million (2003 – £35 million) for production materials supplied.
In addition, interest of nil (2003 – £2 million), accruing at a daily rate of base rate less 0.5 percentage points, was charged to the Group in respect
of a current account with AgustaWestland NV.
There are no other related party transactions requiring disclosure under FRS 8 ‘Related Party Disclosures’.
29 AGUSTAWESTLAND NV
The Group’s share of AgustaWestland NV was sold on 30 November 2004 (see note 4). The Group’s share of AgustaWestland NV’s results and net
assets was as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Sales 740 876
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation 86 102
Goodwill amortisation (5) (6)
Operating profit 81 96
Net interest (1) –
Profit before taxation 80 96
Taxation (23) (24)
Profit after taxation 57 72
Fixed assets – 183
Current assets – 860
– 1,043
Liabilities due within one year – (489)
Liabilities due beyond one year – (385)
– 169 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 69
BALANCE SHEET OF GKN PLC
AT 31 DECEMBER 2004
2004 2003
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments in subsidiaries at cost 3,550 3,550
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts due from subsidiaries 120 –
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Amounts owed to subsidiaries (2,662) (2,440)
Dividend payable (58) (57)
(2,720) (2,497)
Net current liabilities (2,600) (2,497)
Total assets less current liabilities 950 1,053
Net assets 950 1,053
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 368 367
Share premium account 24 15 14
Profit and loss account 24 567 672
Equity interest 950 1,053
The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2005 and were signed by:
RoyBrown, Kevin Smith, Nigel Stein, Directors
As permitted by the Companies Act 1985 a separate profit and loss account for the parent company has not been presented.
Information on the principal subsidiaries and joint ventures is shown on pages 88 and 89. 70 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS
Sales Operating profit Net operating assets
2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m £m
By business
Automotive:
Subsidiaries 2,915 2,775 165 168 1,395 1,333
Joint ventures 161 162 18 26 96 83
Associate 47 99 1 1 – 45
3,123 3,036 184 195 1,491 1,461
Aerospace:
Subsidiaries 569 559 35 23 340 347
UK pension deficit – – (38) (23) – –
Total continuing operations 3,692 3,595 181 195 1,831 1,808
Goodwill amortisation – – (24) (31) – –
Exceptional items including goodwill impairment – – (250) (91) – –
3,692 3,595 (93) 73 1,831 1,808
Discontinued activities – Aerospace
Joint ventures 755 902 87 103 – 383
Associate – 88 – 4 – –
755 990 87 107 – 383
Goodwill amortisation – – (5) (6) – –
Total discontinued operations 755 990 82 101 – 383
Group total 4,447 4,585 (11) 174 1,831 2,191
Total continuing operations by region of origin
Europe:
Subsidiaries 1,804 1,801 136 133 967 902
Joint ventures 43 45 – 5 28 27
1,847 1,846 136 138 995 929
Americas:
Subsidiaries 1,218 1,244 34 42 556 681
Joint ventures 38 46 6 8 26 27
1,256 1,290 40 50 582 708
Rest of the World:
Subsidiaries 462 289 30 16 212 97
Joint ventures 80 71 12 13 42 29
Associate 47 99 1 1 – 45
589 459 43 30 254 171
UK pension deficit – – (38) (23) – –
3,692 3,595 181 195 1,831 1,808
Notes:
1 The analyses of operating profit by business and by region of origin include an allocation of costs incurred in the United Kingdom other than the pension deficit noted above.
2 Intra-group sales between businesses and regions are not significant.
3 Operating (loss)/profit of continuing businesses after charging goodwill amortisation and exceptional items is analysed by business as follows: Automotive £(72) million (2003 – £89 million),
Aerospace £17 million (2003 – £7 million) and UK pension deficit £(38) million (2003 – £(23) million) and by region of origin as follows: Europe £46 million (2003 – £111 million), Americas
£(179) million (2003 – £(66) million) and Rest of the World £40 million (2003 – £28 million).
4 The impact of the depreciation change on the first half segmental analysis was to increase operating profit as follows: Automotive £4 million, Aerospace £2 million; Europe £2 million, Americas
£3 million, Rest of the World £1 million.
5 Net operating assets are analysed as follows:
2004 2003
£m £m
Tangible fixed assets 1,278 1,329
Stocks 507 487
Debtors 784 623
Creditors – short-term (834) (759)
Totalsubsidiaries 1,735 1,680
Net operating assets of joint ventures and associate 96 511
1,831 2,191 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 71
GROUP FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL RECORD
As reported (including 
Industrial Services)
Pro forma Pro forma
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 2001 2000
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Consolidated profit and loss accounts
Sales
Subsidiaries 3,484 3,334 3,305 3,317 3,892 3,432 4,124
Share of joint ventures and associates 963 1,251 1,147 1,020 242 1,520 972
4,447 4,585 4,452 4,337 4,134 4,952 5,096
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items
Subsidiaries 162 168 196 193 389 203 421
Share of joint ventures and associates 106 134 119 113 35 183 172
268 302 315 306 424 386 593
Net interest payable:
Subsidiaries (46) (56) (47) (59) (34) (59) (31)
Share of joint ventures and associates (1) – (1) (2) (4) (21) (34)
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items 221 246 267 245 386 306 528
Goodwill amortisation (29) (37) (37) (43) (28) (49) (35)
Exceptional items including goodwill impairment (250) (91) (11) ––––
Exceptional profits/(losses):
Subsidiaries 687 55 (39) (100) (18) (127) (18)
Share of joint ventures and associates – –– 5656
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 629 173 180 107 346 135 481
Taxation (49) (70) (77) (64) (125) (110) (157)
Minority interests (3) (2) (3) (5) (5) (5) (5)
Earnings of the year 577 101 100 38 216 20 319
Earnings per share – p 78.8 13.8 13.7 5.3 30.2 2.8 44.6
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items – p 21.3 22.8 25.2 24.0 39.1 28.9 54.5
Dividend per share – p 11.9 11.6 11.3 11.0 n/a 14.9 19.8
Consolidated balance sheets
Tangible fixed assets 1,278 1,329 1,374 1,399 1,341 1,399 1,391
Stocks 507 487 488 503 595 503 602
Creditors less debtors (50) (136) (219) (182) (341) (182) (346)
Net operating assets 1,735 1,680 1,643 1,720 1,595 1,720 1,647
Net funds/(borrowings) 65 (793) (834) (885) (601) (885) (601)
Intangible assets – goodwill 197 340 470 525 535 525 579
Fixed asset investments 102 292 282 226 128 236 437
Taxation and dividend payable (185) (222) (237) (242) (295) (242) (295)
Provisions for liabilities and charges (424) (355) (364) (352) (291) (352) (291)
Net assets 1,490 942 960 992 1,071 1,002 1,476 72 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Business review
The principal businesses of the Group are described on pages 4 and 5
and in the operating and financial review on pages 21 to 30. A review of
the development of those businesses in 2004, events affecting the Group
since the end of the year and likely future developments are referred to
in the Chief Executive’s statement on page 7 and in the operating and
financial review.
Share capital
During 2004, 1,558,492 GKN plc Ordinary Shares of 50p each were issued
in connection with the exercise of options under SAYE and Executive share
option schemes.
At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2004, shareholders
authorised the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 73,411,339 
of its own Ordinary Shares, representing 10% of the issued share 
capital of the Company as at 31 December 2003. In October 2004 the
Directors announced that they intended to implement a share buyback
programme of up to a market value of £100 million in the light of the
sale of the Group’s interest in AgustaWestland NV. A total of 13,325,000
shares (representing 1.8% of the Company’s called up share capital at
31 December 2004) were purchased during the year for an aggregate
consideration of £29.4 million (excluding expenses). Authority to
purchase up to 60,086,339 shares remained in place at 31 December
2004. All of the shares purchased in 2004 are being held by the Company
as treasury shares.
The issued share capital of the Company at the end of the year was
735,671,888 Ordinary Shares of 50p each including 13,325,000 
shares held in treasury.
The Company has been informed of the following notifiable interests
in the issued capital of the Company at 23 February 2005:
% of issued capital
Franklin Resources Inc 12.8%
Legal& General Group plc 3.4%
Deutsche Bank AG 3.1%
Annual General Meeting
The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00 a.m. on
Thursday 5 May 2005 at the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Savoy
Place, London WC2, together with an explanation of the resolutions to 
be considered at the meeting, is contained in the AGM circular enclosed
with this annual report.
Dividend
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 8.0p per 50p Ordinary
Share for the year ended 31 December 2004 payable on 10 May 2005 
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 April 2005.
This, together with the interim dividend of 3.9p paid in September 2004,
brings the total dividend for the year to 11.9p per share.
Keydates for the dividend reinvestment plan as it will operate in respect
of the proposed 2004 final dividend are given on page 90.
Directors
The constitution of the Board and of its Committees, together with
biographical notes on the Directors, are shown on pages 40 and 41.
As noted in last year’s Directors’ report, Sir David Lees retired as
Chairman and from the Board at the conclusion of the 2004 Annual
General Meeting and was succeeded as Chairman by Roy Brown. 
Klaus Murmann, non-executive Director, also retired at the conclusion 
of the AGM. Dick Etches and Neal Keating left the Group on 30 June 2004
and full details of their termination arrangements are given on page 84.
The Directors wish to record their appreciation of the contribution each
hasmade to the Group over the years.
John Sheldrick was appointed a non-executive Director on 20 December
2004. As a Director appointed during the year, he retires at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
In accordance with the provisions for retirement by rotation in the
articles of association, Richard Clowes, Group Managing Director
Corporate Development, Nigel Stein, Finance Director, and Sir Peter
Williams, non-executive Director, also retire at the AGM and, being
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Directors’ interests in GKN shares are shown on pages 85 to 87.
Honours
The Directors record their great pleasure at the award of Honorary OBE
to Peter Tanaka, former President of GKN Japan, and at the awards in 
the 2005 New Year Honours of CBE to Graham Cole, former Director
Government Affairs, of OBE to Malcolm Bird, Director of Quality and
Sustainable Development, GKN Driveline, and of GBE to Sir Bryan
Nicholson, former non-executive Director.
Donations
Contributions to good causes made by Group companies around 
the world amounted to some £794,000 in 2004. This included cash
donations to UK registered charities of £177,000 for educational
purposes and £139,000 for community activities. Further details of
contributions made by the Group worldwide are given in the social
responsibility review on page 35 and on the Company’s website.
It is the policy of the Group not to make political donations. During 
2004, no donations were made to EU political organisations, no EU
political expenditure was incurred and no contributions to political
parties outside the EU were made within the meaning of the Political
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The Group’s US aerospace business hasa Political Action Committee
(PAC) which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses. No funds
are provided to the PAC by GKN and any administrative services provided
to the PAC by the US aerospace business are fully charged to and paid 
for by the PAC, and the Company does not therefore consider these to 
be political donations. Employee contributions are entirely voluntary
and no pressure is placed on employees to participate. Under US law, an
employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
Payments to suppliers
It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers,
provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the contract.
Given the nature and diversity of the Group’s international purchasing
arrangements and contracts, it is not Group policy to follow any code or
standard in relation to payment practice.
GKN plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to trade
creditors at 31 December 2004.
Corporate governance
The Board’s statement on corporate governance matters is given on
pages 74 to 78, and its report on Directors’ remuneration is set out on
pages 79 to 87. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 73
Directors’ responsibility for the accounts
At the end of each financial year the Directors are required by the
Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts which give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit
or loss of the Group for that year. In preparing the accounts for the year
ended 31 December 2004, the most appropriate accounting policies,
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have
been used consistently and UK applicable accounting standards have
been followed. The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the 
Group keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and which
enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies
Act 1985. In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that
an appropriate system of internal control is in operation to provide them
with reasonable assurance that the assets of the Group are properly
safeguarded and to ensure that reasonable steps are taken to prevent
or detect fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors
Resolutions to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of the
Company and to authorise the Directorsto fix their remuneration will be
proposed at the AGM.
On behalf of the Board
Grey Denham
Secretary
23 February 2005 74 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
A new Combined Code on Corporate Governance came into effect for UK
listed companies for reporting yearsbeginning on or after 1 November
2003. Following publication of the new Code, the Board reviewed its
procedures with a view to complying with its detailed provisions during
2004. The following paragraphs, together with the report on Directors’
remuneration on pages 79 to 87, provide a description of how the main
and supporting principles of the Combined Code have been applied within
GKN. The Directors’ statement of compliance with the Code is given on
page 78.
The Board of Directors
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company. 
Its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within 
a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be
assessed and managed; to set the Company’s strategic aims, ensure
that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the
Company to meet its objectives, and review management performance; to
set the Company’s values and standards and ensure that its obligations
to its shareholders (including reporting to shareholders on the Board’s
stewardship) and others are understood and met. Specific responsibilities
reserved to the Board include:
• setting Group strategy and approving an annual budget and medium-
term projections;
• reviewing operational and financial performance;
• approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure;
• reviewing the Group’s systems of financial control and risk management;
• ensuring that appropriate management development and succession
plans are in place;
• reviewing the health and safety and environmental performance of
the Group;
• approving appointments to the Board and to the position of Company
Secretary, and approving policiesrelating to Directors’ remuneration
and the severance of Directors’ contracts; and
• ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takesplace with shareholders.
The Directors’ responsibility for the preparation of accounts is explained
on page 73 (their confirmation that they consider it appropriate to prepare
the accounts for 2004 on a going concern basis is given on page 30).
A description of the role of the Board, together with that of the Chairman,
Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary, 
is available on the GKN website at www.gkn.com and further details
of the Board’s role in relation to the Group’s systems of internal control
and risk management are given on pages 77 and 78. Descriptions of
the specific responsibilities which have been delegated to the principal
Board Committees are given on pages 75 to 77.
The Board currently comprises four executive and seven non-executive
Directors including the Chairman. Biographical details of the Directors are
given on page 41. With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed
under the Combined Code not to be independent, all the non-executive
Directors are regarded by the Board as independent and the Board does
not consider that there exist any relationships or circumstances likely
to affect the judgement of any Director.
The Board normally meets 11 times a year, including at least one
meeting at a Group operating company. Comprehensive briefing papers
are provided to all Directors one week before Board meetings. During the
year there are sufficient opportunitiesfor the Chairman to meet with the
non-executive Directorswithout the executive Directors being present
should this be deemed appropriate.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
In addition, Directors may, in furtherance of their duties, take independent
professional advice, if necessary, at the Company’s expense.
Chairman and Chief Executive
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been split since 1997.
Whilst collectively they are responsible for the leadership of the Company,
the Chairman’s primary responsibility is for leading the Board and ensuring
its effectiveness and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the
Company’s business.
The other significant current commitments of Roy Brown, Chairman, are
listed in his biography on page 41. Mr Brown retired as non-executive
Chairman of Thus plc in September 2004 and the Board is satisfied that
his remaining commitments do not unduly restrict his availability to GKN
and, in particular, would not do so in the event of GKN being involved in
a major corporate transaction or other action.
Induction and professional development
On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction pack
which includes background information about GKN and its Directors, and
details of Board meeting procedures, Directors’ responsibilities, procedures
for dealing in GKN shares and a number of other governance-related
issues. This is supplemented by a briefing with the Company Secretary.
The Director meets with the Chief Executive to be briefed on the general
Group strategy and with the executive Directors in relation to each
individual business portfolio. Plant visits are organised as necessary for
new Directors. External training, particularly on matters relating to the
role of a Director and the role and responsibilities of Board Committees,
is arranged as appropriate.
Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary and may be
identified in annual performance reviews (see below) or on an ad 
hoc basis. The suitability of external courses is kept under review by
the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the induction 
of new Directors both into the business and as to their roles and
responsibilities as Directors, as well as with assisting in the ongoing
training and development of Directors.
Training and development of Directors in 2004 took various forms,
including visits to GKN plants (both with the Board as a whole and on an
individual basis), one-to-one briefings by GKN executives and external
consultants, attendance by certain Directors at courses for non-executive
Directors run by executive educational establishments, professional
bodies and City solicitors, attendance at external training sessions and
seminars on matters relevant to members of remuneration committees,
an internal briefing on UK and EU regulatory developments, seminars
facilitated by external audit firms on the forthcoming implementation 
of International Financial Reporting Standards and workshops run by
external bodies on various commercial and regulatory matters.
Performance evaluation
The effectiveness of the Board and of the principal Board Committees
wasevaluated during 2004, building on the in-house process first
developed in 2002. The process involved each Director, as well as
other attendees at relevant Board Committee meetings, completing 
a detailed questionnaire covering, inter alia, Board and Committee
composition, arrangements for and content of meetings, Board
objectives and Committee terms of reference, corporate governance ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 75
issues, visits to operating sites, access to information, and administrative
procedures. The results of the evaluation and recommendations for
improvements were reported to the relevant Committees before the
Board as a whole agreed appropriate changes.
A number of improvements were identified for implementation as a
result of the evaluations. These included:
• the formation of three sub-committees of the Executive Committee,
covering operational excellence, technology excellence and governance
and risk management, which involve senior management below
Executive Committee level in these critical areas of the Committee’s
responsibilities (the terms of reference of these sub-committees are
available on the GKN website);
• changing the arrangements for the review of Group and Divisional
strategy by the Board;
• changing the procedures for updating the Board on major restructuring
projects in the Group; and
• increasing the emphasis on corporate social responsibility issues at
Board meetings and during Board visits to operating sites (the Group’s
social responsibility review is on pages 31 to 38).
The Chairman has conducted performance evaluations of the non-
executive Directors (assessing in particular their contribution and
commitment) and of the Chief Executive (taking into account the views of
the other executive Directors and the non-executive Directors). To assist
this process, a number of assessment areas were identified in advance
and used as a framework for conducting the appraisal interviews. In the
case of Sir Peter Williams, who completed his initial three-year term as a
non-executive Director during the year, the evaluation provides the basis
for the recommendation to shareholders set out in the Annual General
Meeting circular enclosed with this annual report that he be re-elected 
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Baroness Hogg, as Senior
Independent Director, led the evaluation by the non-executive Directors
of the performance of the Chairman, Roy Brown, taking into account the
views of the executive Directors. No actions were considered necessary
as a result of any of the evaluations.
Director re-election
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first
Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board. 
Under the articles of association of the Company, each of the Directors
is required to retire by rotation at least once every three years. Details
of the Directors retiring and seeking re-election at an Annual General
Meeting are given to shareholders in the Notice of Meeting circular.
Communicating with shareholders
Meetings between Directors, senior management and major institutional
shareholders are held during the year in accordance with GKN’s investor
relations programme and when required in relation to particular issues.
The Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive Directors
are encouraged to attend presentations to analysts and shareholders, 
in particular the annual and interim results presentations.
The Chairman offers annually to major investors in GKN the opportunity
to meet with him should they so wish to discuss matters relating to
governance, including Directors’ remuneration, and strategy. Feedback
to the Board is provided by the Chairman on any issues raised with him.
The Finance Director reports twice yearly to the Board on meetings with
investors. These reports include summaries prepared by the Company’s
brokers on the market’s reaction to results announcements and the
subsequent meetings between management and investors. External
brokers’ reports on GKN are circulated to all Directors and the Board 
is briefed periodically by external financial consultants on investor
perceptions of GKN.
All Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders
are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors
after the formal proceedings have ended. Shareholders at the meeting are
advised as to the level of proxy votes received, including the percentage
for and against each resolution together with the level of abstentions,
following each vote on a show of hands.
In its annual and interim reports, trading statements, results presentations
and City announcements generally, GKN endeavours to present an accurate,
objective and balanced picture in a style and format which is appropriate
to the intended audience. The GKN website provides information about
the Group including copies of annual and interim reports and presentations
made to institutional investors.
Board Committees
The full terms of reference of the following Board Committeesare available
upon request and on the GKN website.
Executive Committee
The Executive Committee consists of the executive Directors together
with the Group Human Resources Director under the chairmanship of the
Chief Executive. The Committee is tasked with overseeing and directing
the activities of the Group, reviewing Group strategy and deciding how
the various risks facing the Group are to be managed. It also reviews
acquisitions and divestments and approves major human resource
policy issues including management development and training. It
normally meets monthly.
As referred to above, during 2004 the Executive Committee established
three sub-committees consisting of members of senior management:
• the Operational Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Ian
Griffiths, Group Managing Director GKN Automotive, is responsible 
for monitoring and reviewing keyelements that contribute directly to
operational performance and the improvement of ‘business health’;
• the Technology Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Richard
Clowes, Group Managing Director Corporate Development, is responsible
for setting policy and providing guidance and direction in relation to
technologies employed across all business areas, and provides input
to the Executive Committee to contribute to the formulation of the
Group’s business strategy; and
• the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of
the Company Secretary, Grey Denham, is responsible for monitoring
and reviewing matters relating to governance and compliance, risk
management and corporate social responsibility.
Chairman’s Committee
The Chairman’s Committee consists of the non-executive Directors
together with the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Chairman.
The Committee is a forum for the Chairman and Chief Executive to brief
and obtain the views of the non-executive Directors on particular issues.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee consists of the independent non-executive Directors.
Sir Peter Williams assumed the chairmanship of the Committee from 
RoyBrown at the conclusion of the Company’s 2004 Annual General
Meeting following Mr Brown’s appointment as Chairman of the Board. 76 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
John Sheldrick, Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc, who
joined the Board in December 2004 and was appointed a member 
of the Audit Committee, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Company’s financial
statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process. It is
responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between GKN
and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit
services and fees, and makes recommendations to the Board on the
appointment, reappointment or dismissal of the external auditors. It
also reviews bi-annually the Group’s systems of internal control and the
processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group. The
Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function (see
page 78) and is responsible for approving, upon the recommendation 
of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head of
that function. It also reviews periodically the Group’s employee disclosure
procedures policy which provides for employees to disclose, in confidence,
instances of wrongdoing by other employees.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and its effectiveness
and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such
review. Following the review in 2004, the Committee’s terms of reference
were amended to provide for a Committee member to contact the external
auditors direct in circumstances where he or she considers it necessary.
The Audit Committee meets at least five times a year, including meetings
before the annual and interim results announcements and at the planning
stage of the annual external audit process. Members’ attendance record
at meetings of the Committee in 2004 is given on page 77.
The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its terms
of reference, to access resources, to call for information and to obtain
external professional advice at the cost of the Company. Should there 
be any disagreement between the Committee and the Board which
cannot be resolved, the Committee has the right to report the issue 
to shareholders within the Company’s next annual report.
No person other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be
present at meetings but others may be invited to attend by the Committee.
The head of the internal audit function and the external auditors usually
attend meetings of the Committee. At each meeting there is an opportunity
for the external auditors, and annually an opportunity for the head of
internal audit, to discuss matters with the Committee without any executive
management being present. The Committee has independent access
to the internal audit function and to the external auditors and both the
head of internal audit and the external auditors have direct access to 
the Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings. 
The Chairman of the Committee has quarterly meetings and regular
intervening contact with the head of internal audit and twice yearly
formal meetings as well as ad hoc contact with the external auditors
on specific matters.
The Audit Committee has the specific task of keeping under review the
nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors
in order to ensure that objectivity and independence are maintained. As
a matter of policy, the auditors are excluded from invitations to undertake
assignments of a purely consultancy nature. For other non-audit work,
the policy is that GKN does not use the external auditor unless there 
are compelling reasons to do so, i.e. they can provide a unique skill or 
a service not readily available from any other source. Under the policy,
agreed by the Board, any proposal to use the auditors for non-audit work
must be submitted to the Group Finance Director who will, depending on
the nature of the service, seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of
the Audit Committee. The external auditors have in place processes to
ensure their independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure
that, where they do provide non-audit services, their independence is
not threatened. They have written to the Audit Committee confirming
that, in their opinion, they are independent.
In 2004, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by:
• reviewing the Group’s draft 2003 preliminary annual results
announcement and financial statements and 2004 interim results
statement prior to Board approval (including consideration of the
significant accounting judgements contained therein) and reviewing
the external auditors’ detailed reports thereon;
• reviewing the Group’s trading update announcement prior to release 
at the Annual General Meeting;
• reviewing the appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies
including changes necessary in the light of the proposed transition 
to International Financial Reporting Standards;
• reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Group’s financial
statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset
values and International FinancialReporting Standards;
• reviewing the effectiveness of the 2003 external audit process and
recommending to the Board, after due consideration, the reappointment
of the incumbent external auditorsat the Annual General Meeting;
• reviewing the application of the Board’s policy on non-audit work
performed by the Group’s external auditors together with the non-audit
fees payable to the external auditors in 2003;
• reviewing compliance with the Group’s policy on the employment
of former employees of the external auditors;
• reviewing the external auditors’ plan for the audit of the Group’s 2004
accounts, which included key areas of focus, key risks on the accounts,
confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee,
and approving the terms of engagement for the audit;
• reviewing reports from the internal audit function and the external
auditors on the Group’s systems of internal control in advance of the
announcement of the Group’s results for 2003 (the internal report
included a summary of and commentary on the annual detailed divisional
reports on their business risks and internal control processes) and
reporting to the Board on the results of this review, and reviewing
interim updates prior to the half-year results;
• receiving regular updates from management on key financial control
matters arising in the Group;
• reviewing a post-acquisition report on the integration and performance
of a significant recent acquisition;
• reviewing the risks associated with a major business programme;
• reviewing the terms of reference, resources, performance and
effectiveness of the internal audit function, its work programme 
for 2004 and quarterly reports on its work and findings during 
the year, and monitoring compliance by Group companies with 
its recommendations; and
• reviewing the results of the performance evaluation questionnaire 
(see page 74) as it related to the Committee and approving certain
consequential changes to the Committee’s procedures. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 77
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee consists of the independent non-executive
Directors under the chairmanship of Baroness Hogg. The Committee is
responsible for approving the terms of service and setting the remuneration
of the executive Directors and the Company Secretary in accordance with
a remuneration policy which is approved annually by the Board. It is also
responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman and the terms upon
which the service of executive Directorsisterminated having regard to a
severance policy adopted by the Board, and for monitoring the remuneration
of senior managers just below Board level. It also prepares for approval
by the Board the annual report on Directors’ remuneration (set out on
pages 79 to 87).
The Committee meets periodically when required. Members’ attendance
record at meetings of the Committee in 2004 is given opposite. No person
other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at
meetings but others may be invited by the Committee to attend. No
Director nor the Company Secretary is present when the Committee
considers, or acts in, matters relating to himself.
The Committee has access to such information and advice both from
within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems
necessary. It is responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of
executive Directors’ remuneration.
Nominations Committee
The Nominations Committee consists of the non-executive Directors
and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Chairman of
the Board (except when the Committee is dealing with the appointment
of a successor as Chairman of the Board when the Senior Independent
Director chairs the Committee).
The Committee leads the process for identifying and makes recommendations
to the Board on candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company
and as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning
and the leadership needs of the Group. It also makes recommendations
to the Board on the composition of the Chairman’s and Nominations
Committees and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and
Remuneration Committees. It keeps under review the structure, size and
composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience and the independence of the non-executive Directors, 
and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Committee meets periodically when required. Members’ attendance
record at meetings of the Committee in 2004 is given opposite. No person
other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at
meetings but others may be invited by the Committee to attend.
The Board has agreed the procedures to be followed by the Nominations
Committee in making appointments to the various positions on the
Board and as Company Secretary. These procedures, under which the
Committee agrees a description of the role, experience and capabilities
for a Director, are available on GKN’s website. The Committee has access
to such information and advice both from within the Group and externally,
at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary. This may include the
appointment of external executive search consultants, where appropriate.
The procedures referred to above were used in the appointment during
2004 of John Sheldrick as a non-executive Director. This included 
an assessment of the time commitment expected from the Director.
Independent executive search consultants were used in connection 
with the appointment.
Directors’ attendance record
The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2004
was asfollows:
Audit Remuneration Nominations
Board Committee Committee Committee
Director (12 meetings) (7 meetings) (8 meetings) (7 meetings)
RoyBrown 12 3/3* 4/4* 7
Chairman (from 20 May 2004)
Sir David Lees 5/5* – – 4/4*
Chairman (until 20 May 2004)
Baroness Hogg 12787
Deputy Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director
Executive Directors
Kevin Smith 12 – – 7
Chief Executive
Richard Clowes 12 – – –
Ian Griffiths 12 – – –
Nigel Stein 12 – – –
Dick Etches
(a)
6/6* – – –
Neal Keating
(b)
4/6* – – –
Other independent non-executive Directors
Sir Ian Gibson 11/12* 6/7* 6/8* 5/7*
Helmut Mamsch 9/12* 5/7* 5/8* 4/7*
Sir Christopher Meyer 10/12* 4/7* 7/8* 6/7*
Sir Peter Williams 12787
Dr Klaus Murmann
(c)
4/5* – 3/4* 3/4*
* Actual attendance/maximum number of meetings Director could attend as a member.
(a) Retired 30 June 2004.
(b) Left service 30 June 2004.
(c) Retired from the Board 20 May 2004.
(d) Mr J N Sheldrick was appointed a non-executive Director on 20 December 2004. No Board or
Committee meetings were held in 2004 following his appointment.
Internal control
The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges
its responsibility for, the Group’s systems of internal control and risk
management and receives regular reports on such matters.
The Board’s policy is to have systems in place which optimise the
Group’s ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility for
identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group and 
for deciding how these are to be managed. To assist with this process
the Executive Committee established during 2004 a Governance and
Risk Sub-Committee. There is a standing agenda item at every Executive
Committee meeting to enable its membersto advise if any material
internal control issues, serious accidents or events having a major
commercial impact have arisen or any significant new risks have been
identified, with subsequent reporting to the next Board meeting and/or
Audit Committee if appropriate.
Continuing processes under the oversight of the Governance and Risk
Sub-Committee are in place for all parts of the Group to assess the major
risks to which their operations are exposed and the way in which such
risks are monitored, managed and controlled. The risks covered by these
processes include those relating to strategy, operational performance,
finance (including risk financing and fraud), product engineering, business
reputation, human resources, health and safety, and the environment.
These processes are summarised in a ‘risk map’ which is reviewed at
least annually by the Audit Committee. 78 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their
business risks and to report on whether there has been any material
breakdown in their internal controls. Companies also have to confirm
annually whether they have complied with statutory and regulatory
obligations as well as with internal policies on matters such as competition
law, employment, ethics, document management, data protection and
employee disclosure. Risk profiling is undertaken across all subsidiaries to
identify accidental risks and highlight action required to mitigate such risks.
The objective of the Group’s risk management processes is to ensure the
sustainable development of GKN through the conduct of its business in a
way which:
• satisfies its customers;
• develops environmentally friendly products and processes;
• provides a safe and healthy workplace;
• protects against losses from unforeseen causes;
• minimises the cost and consumption of increasingly scarce resources;
• prevents pollution and waste;
• maintains proper relationships with our suppliers and contractors; and
• maintains a positive relationship with the communities in which it
does business.
The Group Risk Management Council (which replaced the Group Loss
Prevention Council during 2004) acts as a steering group for loss prevention
and certain sustainable development activities across Group operations.
The Council is under the overall supervision of the Governance and Risk
Sub-Committee referred to above.
The Group’s interest in its major 50:50 joint venture, AgustaWestland,
formed in 2001 when GKN and Finmeccanica merged their respective
helicopter manufacturing businesses, was sold on 30 November 2004.
Until the disposal, the Finance Director of GKN plc was a member of the
AgustaWestland Audit Committee responsible for the overview of the
corporate governance procedures adopted by AgustaWestland which
were appropriate to the business and complied with the requirements
of both shareholders.
The Group’s systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage and,
where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of failure 
to achieve business objectives. They are not designed to eliminate such
risk, recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The review process
The Board reviews the Group’s systems of internal control and risk
management on an ongoing basis by:
• setting the strategy of the Group at both Group and divisional level
and, within the framework of this, approving an annual budget and
medium-term projections. Central to this exercise is a review of the
risks and opportunities facing each business and the steps being 
taken to manage these;
• reviewing on a regular basis operational performance and updated
forecasts for the current year. Comparisons are made with budget and
the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to optimise
operational and financial performance;
• retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment policy,
and the approval of major capital expenditure, major contracts and
financing arrangements. Below Board level there are clearly defined
management authorities for the approval of capital expenditure, 
major contracts, acquisitions, investments and divestments, together
with an established framework for their appraisal, which includes a 
risk analysis and post-implementation plan, and where appropriate, 
a post-acquisition review;
• receiving regular reports on the Group’s treasury activities, having
approved the operating policies and controls for this function;
• performing at least annually a review of the Group’s pension fund
arrangements and insurance and risk management programmes;
• receiving two reports each year, following their review by the Executive
Committee, on environmental, health and safety performance of the
Group’s operations. From 2005, the reports will be extended to cover
all corporate social responsibility matters; and
• reviewing at least annually management development and succession
plans. The Executive Committee also reviews management development
issues twice a year.
The Board receives an annual reportfrom the Audit Committee concerning
the operation of the systems of internal control and risk management.
This report, together with the reviews by the Board during the year of the
matters described above, enables the Board to form its own view on the
effectiveness of the systems.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control
processes and the actions undertaken by the Committee during 2004 
to discharge this responsibility are described on page 76. To assist it in
this role the Committee liaises closely with the internal audit department.
This department has a risk-based work programme and its purpose is
to review and test the systems, controls, processes, procedures and
practices across the Group. The head of internal audit reports directly
to the Group Chief Executive and the department’s reports are seen 
by the relevant members of the Executive Committee. The resolution 
of any control issues raised by Board members or in reports reviewed 
by the Audit Committee are discussed in Committee with management.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal
control and risk management during the period covered by this annual
report. It confirms that the processes described above, which accord
with the guidance on internal control appended to the Combined Code
on Corporate Governance (the Turnbull Guidance), have been in place
throughout that period and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
Compliance with the Combined Code
Throughout 2004, GKN was in compliance with the relevant provisions
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, except with regard to
the following aspects:
Audit Committee membership
The Audit Committee did not have a member with ‘recent and relevant
financial experience’ as required by the Code until the appointment of
John Sheldrick, Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc, who
joined the Board as a non-executive Director and became a member of
the Audit Committee on 20 December. Sir David Lees, who was a former
Finance Director of GKN, acted as an adviser to the Committee until his
retirement as Chairman of the Board in May 2004.
Board balance
As a consequence of the changes to the Board described in the Directors’
report on page 72, for a period of approximately six weeks following the
Company’s Annual General Meeting in May less than half the Directors
were independent non-executive Directors. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 79
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The Board’s Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating the
Group’s policy for the remuneration of the executive Directors of GKN plc.
The Committee reviews the policy annually and recommends any changes
to the Board as a whole for formal approval.
Within the framework of the agreed policy, the Committee determines the
detailed terms of service of the executive Directors, including basic salary,
incentives and benefits, and the terms upon which their service may be
terminated. The Committee also determines the fees of the Chairman and
is responsible for recommending to the Chief Executive and monitoring
the level and structure of remuneration for the most senior managers
below Board level. The Committee’s full terms of reference are available
on GKN’s website at www.gkn.com.
The Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
Baroness Hogg has chaired the Committee since May 2002. The other
current members of the Committee are Sir Ian Gibson, Helmut Mamsch,
Sir Christopher Meyer and Sir Peter Williams, all of whom served on the
Committee throughout 2004, together with John Sheldrick who became a
member of the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 20 December
2004. Roy Brown and Dr Klaus Murmann were members of the Committee
until 20 May 2004. Mr Brown stood down from the Committee on being
appointed Chairman of the Board and Dr Murmann on his retirement
from the Board. Members’ attendance at meetings of the Committee in
2004 is summarised on page 77.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for appointing external
independent consultants to advise on executive remuneration matters
and has adopted a policy under which an individual external consultant
appointed by it to advise on the determination of Board level remuneration
shall not also act as consultant to any company in the GKN Group. The
Committee has appointed and received advice during 2004 from Towers
Perrin in relation to executive Director salary levels and from Kepler
Associates in relation to incentive plan structures. During 2004 Towers
Perrin consultants (different from the consultant who provided advice 
to the Remuneration Committee) were also appointed by the Group 
to provide advice to GKN subsidiaries in Japan and the US in relation,
respectively, to retirement plans and software implementation. Towers
Perrin did not provide any other services direct to the Group during the
year (although from time to time, GKN’s management inputs data into 
a senior executive salary survey administered by Towers Perrin). Kepler
Associates did not provide any services direct to the Group during the year.
The Committee also receives input from the Group’s Chief Executive
when considering the remuneration of the other executive Directors.
The Committee’s terms of reference and procedures, which are reviewed
annually under the Board’s performance evaluation procedures described
on pages 74 and 75, comply with the best practice provisions of the
Combined Code on Corporate Governance. (The Board’s statement of
compliance with the Combined Code generally is given on page 78.)
Remuneration policy
This section describes GKN’s policy for the remuneration of its executive
and non-executive Directorsasat the date of this report and for the
foreseeable future.
GKN’s remuneration policy for executive Directors is designed to attract,
retain and motivate executives of the high calibre required to ensure 
that the Group is managed successfully to the benefit of shareholders. 
To achieve this, an internationally competitive package of incentives
and rewards linked to performance is provided.
In setting remuneration levels the Remuneration Committee takes
into consideration the remuneration practices found in other UK
multinational companies of similar size and also ensures that the
remuneration arrangements for executive Directors are compatible 
with those for executives throughout the Group. It also considers the
most recent pay awards in the Group generally when reviewing the 
basic salaries of the executive Directors.
The remuneration of the executive Directors comprises basic salary and
benefits in kind set at competitive levels, short-term variable remuneration
dependent upon the achievement of performance targets, and longer-term
rewards including retirement benefits and performance-related long-term
incentives. Further details of each of these elements are given in the
following paragraphs. On the basisof the expected value of long-term
incentives and achievement of on-target performance for the purposes of
the short-term variable remuneration scheme, the total annual remuneration
(excluding pension benefits) of an executive Director under the Group’s
remuneration policy is weighted approximately 50% performance-related
and 50% non performance-related, valued as at the time of award of
long-term incentives, with flexibility to change the balance between the
performance-related and non performance-related elements when the
Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate. The Remuneration
Committee believes that these proportionsrepresent an appropriate
balance between certainty of income and incentive-based remuneration
linked to the achievement of GKN’s operational and strategic objectives.
The fees of the non-executive Directors are set at a level that the Board
believes will attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability
to make a substantial contribution to the Group’s affairs. The fees paid
are commensurate with those paid by other leading UK listed companies.
Basic salary
This is based on a number of factors including market rates together with
the individual Director’s experience, responsibilities and performance.
The Remuneration Committee’s objective is to maintain salaries at around
the median level of the relevant employment market and in this connection
it reviews annually data drawn from an analysis of senior executive salary
levels in approximately 100 major UK companies.
Individual salaries of Directors are reviewed annually by the Committee
with any increase usually being effective from 1 July.
Benefits
These comprise principally car and healthcare benefits and premiums
paid on additional life assurance policies in connection with pension
arrangements. The level of benefits provided to executive Directors is
consistent with that provided by other major companies. These benefits
do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Performance-related short-term variable remuneration
Payments may be made annually under arrangements which link
remuneration to the achievement of short-term operational targets
relevant to GKN’s long-term strategic objectives. These targets, 
which may include some key personal strategic objectives, will
typically relate to a combination of corporate and, where appropriate,
individual portfolio profit and cash flow performance. Achievement
of on-target performance will result in payments of approximately
50% of an executive Director’s salary and payments are normally
capped at around 100 to 110% of salary.
Details of the targets and cap for 2004 are given below in the section
‘Directors’ remuneration 2004’. 80 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
The Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to alter targets to
reflect changed circumstances such as material changes in accounting
standards or changes in the structure of the Group. It may also make
discretionary payments in respect of exceptional performance. Payments
to Directors are based upon a percentage of basic salary received during
the year and do not form part of pensionable earnings under Directors’
pension arrangements.
Long-term incentive arrangements
The Remuneration Committee believes that performance-related long-
term incentives which closely align executive rewards with shareholders’
interests are an important component of overall executive remuneration
arrangements. In 2004 shareholders approved revisions to both elements
of GKN’s current long-term incentive arrangements for executive Directors
and other senior executives – the GKN Long Term Incentive Plan and 
the GKN Executive Share Option Scheme. The substantive differences
between the revised arrangements and those approved previously by
shareholders in 2001 (under which awards remain outstanding but no
further awards will be made) are referred to below.
Award levels under each of the Long Term Incentive Plan and the 
Executive Share Option Scheme are set such that the combined 
rewards available to an individual Director, assuming full vesting, 
are no greater than they would have been had the Group’s long-term
incentive arrangements comprised only a single element. The combined
maximum potential annual award under both elements of the long-term
incentive arrangements is 250% of basic salary, or such higher overall
percentage which may be applied where necessary specifically to 
recruit or retain an individual.
There are no provisions under the rules of either the Long Term Incentive
Plan or the Executive Share Option Scheme for the automatic release of
unvested awards on a change of control of GKN plc.
GKN Long Term Incentive Plan (the ‘L TIP’)
In summary, under the LTIP introduced in 2004, each executive Director may
be awarded annually a conditional right to receive a number of GKN plc
Ordinary Shares equal to a value of up to a maximum of 150% of basic
salary (100% of basic salary for awards made prior to 2004). The value 
of shares for this purpose is calculated by reference to the average of the
daily closing prices of GKN plc Ordinary Shares during the preceding year.
The number of shares that the Director will ultimately receive will depend
on the Group’s performance during the three years commencing on
1 January in the year of award and on satisfaction of a personal shareholding
requirement (see page 82).
Performance is measured by comparing the total shareholder return 
(i.e. the internal rate of return from the cash flows arising from buying,
owning and selling a company’s shares), or ‘TSR’, from GKN shares with
the return on shares of other companies chosen by the Remuneration
Committee as an appropriate comparator group. The Committee considers
relative TSR to be an appropriate performance criterion as it represents
the investment return received by GKN’sshareholders over the measurement
period compared to the return investors could have received by investing
in alternative stocks over the same period. This incentive arrangement is
therefore less affected by changes in economic conditions and short-term
stock market sentiment than plans based on certain other measures. 
For awards made from 2004 onwards, the comparator group will
comprise a tailored peer group representing GKN’s major competitors
and customers worldwide.
The companies making up the comparator group for the award granted
in 2004 are as follows:
Automotive companies
Magna International Inc Canada Tomkins plc UK
Torch Investment Co Ltd China Wagon plc UK
Faurecia SA France American Axle & 
Valeo SA France Manufacturing Inc USA
DaimlerChrysler AG Germany ArvinMeritor Inc USA
Volkswagen AG Germany Borg Warner Inc USA
Fiat SpA Italy Dana Corporation USA
Denso Corporation Japan Delphi Corporation USA
NGK Spark Plug Co Ltd Japan Ford Motor Company USA
Toyota Motor Corporation Japan General Motors Corporation USA
Scania AB Sweden Johnson Controls Inc USA
Mayflower Corporation plc UK Visteon Corporation USA
Aerospace companies
Bombardier Inc Canada Boeing Company/The USA
Zodia SA France General Dynamics
Finmeccanica SpA Italy Corporation USA
BAE Systems plc UK Goodrich Corporation USA
Cobham plc UK Lockheed Martin Corporation USA
Meggitt plc UK Raytheon Company USA
Rolls-Royce plc UK United Technologies
Smiths Group plc UK Corporation USA
The comparator group for awards granted under the LTIP arrangements
approved by shareholders in 2001 (the ‘pre-2004 awards’) consists
of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index at the start of the
measurement period excluding companies in the telecommunications,
media, technology and financial services sectors. It was thought
appropriate to exclude certain non-manufacturing sectors, some of
which have in recent years contributed significantly to the volatility of the
FTSE 100 Index. The Remuneration Committee is of the view, however,
that a tailored peer group such as that being used in 2004 will provide 
a more meaningful comparator group.
For awards granted from 2004 onwards, if GKN’s TSR ranks in the upper
quartile of the comparator group at the end of the three-year measurement
period, the conditional award is converted into a deferred right to receive
all of the shares which will not be released to the Director for at least one
further year other than in the specific circumstances set out in the rules
of the LTIP . (For pre-2004 awards, this deferment period is two years.) 
If the ranking is at the median level, 30% (50% for pre-2004 awards) 
of the shares will be received at the end of the deferment period, with 
no shares being received for below median. For intermediate rankings
between upper quartile and median, the executive Director will receive 
GKN LTIP vesting scale
award vesting level %
100
80
60
40
20
0 GKN TSR percentile045 505560657075 100
pre-2004 award
2004 award ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 81
a proportionate number of shares reducing on a straight-line basis. For
2004 awards onwards, dividends will be treated as having accrued from
the beginning of the third year of the measurement period on any shares
that vest and the equivalent cash amount will be paid to the Director on
release of such shares (no dividendsaccrue on either vested or unvested
shares under pre-2004 awards).
GKN obtains the required TSR data and ranking information from an
external consultant to ensure that the comparative performance is
independently verified. However, irrespective of GKN’s TSR, before any
shares become eligible for release the Remuneration Committee must
be satisfied that this is justified by the underlying financial performance
of the Group over the measurement period.
GKN Executive Share Option Scheme (the ‘ESOS’)
In summary, under the ESOS each executive Director may be awarded
annually an option to subscribe for a number of GKN plc Ordinary
Shares. The Remuneration Committee decides the level of awards in
each year. For awards from 2004 onwards, annual award levels are not
specifically capped under the ESOS, but when combined with awards
under the LTIP (which are capped at 150% of basic salary) they cannot
exceed 250% of basic salary, except where necessary specifically to
recruit or retain an individual.
The number of shares that a Director can ultimately acquire upon exercise
of the option is dependent upon satisfaction of a performance condition
and a personal shareholding requirement (see page 82), set by the
Remuneration Committee before an option is granted. Performance for
awards granted from 2004 onwards will be measured by comparing the
TSR from GKN shares to the TSR from shares of companies in a comparator
group comprising the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index at the start of
a three-year measurement period commencing on 1 January in the year
of award. The Remuneration Committee believes the FTSE 350 Index
to be appropriate as it is a broadly based index which contains more
manufacturing and engineering companies than the FTSE 100 Index.
50% of the shares under option can be acquired by the Director if GKN
ranks at the median level in the comparator group with no shares being
receivable for below median TSR performance. 100% of the shares can
only be acquired if GKN ranks in the upper quartile of the comparator
group, with a straight-line sliding scale for rankings between upper
quartile and median. No retesting of the performance condition after 
the end of the measurement period is permitted.
The TSR information is obtained from an external consultant to ensure
that the performance is independently verified. In addition, notwithstanding
GKN’s TSR, the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the vesting
of an option is justified by the underlying financial performance of the
Group over the measurement period.
For options granted from 2001 to 2003 inclusive, the performance
condition is linked to the increase in GKN’s earnings per share, or ‘EPS’,
(calculated in accordance with UK Financial Reporting Standard 14,
adjusted to exclude goodwill amortisation and impairment together with
any exceptional items as disclosed in the Group’s financial statements
and the tax thereon) over the three years commencing on 1 January in
the year of grant. 50% of the shares can be acquired if the increase over
this period is not less than the increase in the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’)
plus 9%. The remaining 50% can only be acquired in full if such increase
is RPI plus 15% (with a straight-line sliding scale for increases between
RPI plus 9% and RPI plus 15%). If the performance condition is not
satisfied in full after the first three-year period, so that less than 100% of
the shares under option can be acquired, the performance condition will
be reassessed each year up to six years from the date of grant (the RPI
plus 9% will be increased by 3% for each year beyond the third year, and
the RPI plus 15% will be increased by 5% for each year beyond the third
year). At the end of the six-year period, any unvested options will lapse.
As stated above, there will be no such retesting of awards made from
2004 onwards.
Historically, EPS has been regarded as a true measure of the underlying
profitability of a company and the Committee therefore considered it
an appropriate means of linking executive rewards with shareholders’
interests. The Remuneration Committee believes that real growth in 
EPS of between 9% and 15% is a stretching target of direct relevance to
shareholders. The RPI data used to assess the extent to which an option
is capable of being exercised is obtained from public sources and GKN’s
EPS amount is extracted from the Group’s audited financial statements.
However, the requirement for all publicly quoted companies in the EU to
report under International Financial Reporting Standards from 2005 is
likely to introduce a far greater levelofvolatility into reported earnings
figures making short-term comparison difficult. Although it may be possible
to make a series of adjustments to reported EPS figures to remove volatility,
this is likely to detract from transparency. The Remuneration Committee
therefore believes that EPS will prove unsuitable for use as a performance
measure in long-term incentive schemes and it is for this reason that
ESOS awards from 2004 onwards use a relative total shareholder return
criterion rather than an EPS based criterion.
Options granted under the ESOS are normally exercisable between the
third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant. The exercise price is fixed
at the market price of GKN’s shares at the time of grant.
Retirement benefits
For executive Directors subject to the UK restrictions on pensionable
earnings in the Finance Act 1989 (the ‘earnings cap’), retirement provision
is secured by the Company by a combination of amounts paid to individual
‘money-purchase’ schemes and supplementary allowances paid to each
Director. In certain cases, dependent in part upon the individual’s salary
level at commencement of employment, retirement benefits are also
provided through membership of the Executive section of the GKN Group
Pension Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme. The retirement
provisions are made in order to assist each Director towards securing
overall retirement benefits comparable in value with those available under
the pension scheme had it not been for the operation of the earnings cap.
GKN’s pension scheme provides Directorswith a pension of up to two-
thirds of basic annual salary (up to the earnings cap) on retirement at age
60 after 20 or more years’ service and proportionately less for shorter
service or for retirement before pension age. A standard employee
contribution of 5% of gross salary is required under the scheme, except in
GKN ESOS vesting scale
award vesting level %
100
80
60
40
20
0 GKN TSR percentile045 505560657075 100
2004 award 82 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
the case of members who joined it prior to 1991 when such contributions
were introduced. In addition, from 1 April 2004 members have been
required to pay a further 2%.
The arrangements for providing retirement benefits to executive Directors
and other senior executives are being reviewed in the light of changes
in the taxation of pensions being introduced by the Government. The
Remuneration Committee will disclose full details of the Company’s
response to the changes in its remuneration report to be published 
in 2006 in advance of the new regulations coming into force.
Service agreements
The service agreements of executive Directors employed in the UK are
with GKN Holdings plc, the parent company of the GKN Group prior to the
Industrial Services demerger in 2001 and now a wholly-owned subsidiary
of GKN plc. The non-executive Directors do not have service agreements,
their terms of service being contained in letters of appointment.
The Board’s current policy is that, unless local employment practice
requires otherwise, the service agreements of its executive Directors
will be terminable by the employing company on one year’s notice. The
agreements terminate in anyevent at the end of the year in which the
Director attains the age of 60.
Other than in the event of early termination following a change of
control of GKN plc, there is no contractual provision for predetermined
compensation payable upon early termination of an executive Director’s
service agreement. In the event of such a severance (other than on a change
of control) the Remuneration Committee would apply the principles of
the severance policy adopted by the Board. Under this policy, which 
may be varied in individual cases, an immediate lump sum severance
payment will be made to the Director equivalent to one year’s basic
salary plus one year’s pension contributions. Consideration would be
given to the inclusion in the severance payment of additional elements
relating to short-term variable remuneration and major benefits in kind.
However, such additional elements will not normally be included where
the severance is as a result of underperformance. Consideration would
also be given to paying the severance payment in 12 equal instalments
which will only be paid to the extent that the Director has not been able
to mitigate his or her loss by the date of the relevant payment.
In the event of the service agreement coming to an end by mutual consent,
the Remuneration Committee will approve such termination arrangements
as are appropriate in the particular circumstances.
As permitted by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, if termination
of a Director’s service agreement occurs on less than due notice within
12 months following a change in control of GKN plc, a predetermined
amount is payable to the Director equivalent to one year’s basic salary,
pension contributions, benefits in kind and loss of entitlements under
short-term performance-related remuneration arrangements.
An enhancement to the pension rights of an executive Director upon
early retirement will only be considered in exceptional cases and a full
costing would be provided to the Remuneration Committee at the time 
of its deliberations. In any event, such enhancement would not be
considered unless objectives set for the Director had been met or it
was otherwise merited in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee.
It is also the Board’s policy that, at the time of consideration of a
proposed appointment of an executive Director, the Remuneration
Committee will take into account the likely cost of severance in determining
the appropriateness of the proposed terms of appointment.
External appointments
The Board recognises the benefit which GKN can obtain if executive
Directors of GKN serve as non-executive Directors of other companies.
Subject to review in each case, the Board’s general policy is that each
executive Director may accept one non-executive directorship with
another company (but not the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company)
from which the Director may retain the fees.
Ian Griffiths is a non-executive Director of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Nigel Stein is a non-executive Director of Wolseley plc. Since June 2004
Kevin Smith has been a non-executive Director of Scottish and Southern
Energy plc. They each retain the fees payable in respect of these
appointments (currently £38,000, £27,000 and £33,300 per annum
respectively).
Terms of appointment of Chairman and non-executive Directors
RoyBrown became Chairman in May 2004 following Sir David Lees’
retirement. His appointment is for an initial period of three years terminable
at any time upon 12 months’ notice by either party. He receives a fee,
determined by the Remuneration Committee, of £240,000 per annum.
He does not participate in the Group’s short-term variable remuneration
or long-term incentive arrangements or in its pension scheme.
The fees received by each of the remaining non-executive Directors,
including the Deputy Chairman, are determined by the Board upon the
recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive. The Deputy
Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Baroness Hogg, receives an
annual fee of £55,000. The basic fee received by the other non-executive
Directors is £40,000 per annum. In addition, the chairmen of the Audit
Committee (Sir Peter Williams) and Remuneration Committee (Baroness
Hogg) receive £7,000 and £5,000 respectively to reflect the significant
extra responsibilities attached to these positions. The non-executive
Directors do not participate in the Group’s short-term variable remuneration
or long-term incentive arrangements or in its pension scheme, nor do
they receive benefits in kind. The current policy is for non-executive
Directors to serve on the Board for a total of nine years with interim
renewals after three and six years, subject to mutual agreement and
annual performance reviews.
Shareholding requirement
In order to reinforce the alignment of their interests with those of
shareholders generally, all Directors are subject to a shareholding
requirement.
Under a policy adopted by the Remuneration Committee, executive
Directors are required to establish and maintain an investment in 
GKN plc Ordinary Shares equivalent to at least 100% of their basic
salary. The receipt of any shares by a Director from an award made under 
the LTIP and ESOS is conditional upon the shareholding requirement
being met on the third anniversary of the grant of the award. For these
purposes any deferred rights under the LTIP will be counted as shares.
In respect of the awards made in 2002, if insufficient shares vest from 
the award to enable an executive Director to satisfy the shareholding
requirement, the requirement is deemed to be satisfied for the purpose of
that award. However, once the requirement is met in respect of the award the
Director is expected to retain sufficient of the shares ultimately received
from it towards the satisfaction of the requirement for future awards.
For awards made since 2003, each executive Director must acquire the
minimum required shareholding by adding to any existing shareholding
using performance-related rewards which may be received under the ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 83
GKN short-term variable remuneration and long-term incentive
arrangements. Until the required shareholding level is reached, an
executive Director must apply, in the purchase of GKN shares, 30% of
that amount of the gross (i.e. before tax) payment under the short-term
(annual) variable remuneration scheme which exceeds 50% of the
Director’s gross basic salary at that time, and must retain such number
of shares received under the LTIP and ESOS as represents at least 30% 
of the gross gain which the Director would have realised on the exercise
of such an award had the shares been sold on the day of exercise.
It is the Board’s policy that non-executive Directors will normally
be expected to acquire a holding of GKN plc Ordinary Shares of a 
value equivalent to 30% of one year’s basic fee within three years
of appointment.
Total shareholder return performance
The Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (the ‘disclosure
regulations’) require GKN’s TSR performance to be displayed in chart
form against the TSR of a readily available broad equity market index.
The Committee considers that it is appropriate and consistent to
continue to show the FTSE 100 Indexto fulfil this requirement.
The chart below (left) therefore illustrates the TSR performance 
(based on an initial investment of £100) of GKN plc Ordinary Shares
over the period from the Industrial Services demerger in 2001 until
the end of 2004 compared to the TSR that would have been obtained
over the same period from a hypothetical investment in the companies
constituting the FTSE 100 Index. The interim points show the cumulative
TSR at each calendar half year-end date. (As GKN plc was incorporated
during the course of 2001, the disclosure regulations only require the
comparative TSR performance of the Company’s shares to be shown
since 1 August 2001 when the Company became the listed parent
company of the GKN Group just prior to the demerger.)
However, for the purposes of the LTIP and ESOS different comparator
companies are used (see pages 80 and 81). In addition, the TSR calculation
methodology required by the LTIP and ESOS is different from that required
by the regulations for the broad equity market index graph. We therefore
show in the table above (right) GKN’s TSR and rank against the TSR of the
relevant comparator group, together with the percentage of the conditional
award converted into a deferred award, for the five most recently completed
measurement periods as computed under the terms of the LTIP . The chart
below (right) illustrates GKN’s TSR compared to the average TSR of the
relevant comparator group under the LTIP for such periods.
Percentile
ranking in
comparator Deferred
group award
Period TSR % (rank no.1 = 100) (a) conversion %
Jan 1998–Dec 2000 16.48 68 86
Jan 1999–Dec 2001
(b)
0.67 46 0
Jan 2000–Dec 2002
(b)
(14.97) 23 0
Jan 2001–Dec 2003 (13.26) 25 0
Jan 2002–Dec 2004 (6.45) 24 0
(a) For measurement periods ending before or on 31 December 2002, the comparator group
was based on the entire FTSE 100 Index. For the subsequent measurement periods it was
based on the FTSE 100 Index less the telecommunications, media, technology and financial
services sectors and comprised 57 and 63 companies (including GKN) respectively.
(b) Comparative TSR performance for these awards post the Industrial Services demerger in
2001 was based on a bundle of GKN plc and Brambles Industries plc Ordinary Shares.
Total shareholder return – %
GKN and average for 
comparator group for 
completed three-year
measurement periods
under the LTIP
99-01 98-00 00-02 01-03 02-04
0
3.42
(6.45)
(3.15)
(13.26)
(14.97)
(7.51)
0.67
3.58
16.48
10.74
LTIP Comparator Group TSR
GKN TSR
Total shareholder return
GKN and FTSE 100 Index
1 Aug 2001-31 Dec 2004
£ sterling
120
110
100
90
80
70
60
50 01 02 03 04
FTSE 100 Index TSR
GKN TSR 84 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Directors’ remuneration 2004
With the exception of the dates of the executive Directors’ service agreements shown in the table below, note (a) to the table below, note (j) to the
tables on page 86 and the section headed ‘Share interests’ on page 87, the information set out on pages 84 to 87 represents the auditable disclosures
required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The remuneration of the executive Directors in 2004, excluding pension benefits and long-term incentives, was as follows:
Date of Performance- Car Other Termination Total Total
service Salary (a) related allowance benefits costs 2004 2003
agreement £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
K Smith 24.1.03 622 292 9 11 – 934
(b)
816
R J Clowes 14.11.01 348 38 9 6 – 401
(b)
428
R W Etches
(c)
24.1.03 138 11 7 4 234 394
(b)
372
I R Griffiths 24.1.03 420 250 7 5 – 682
(b)
678
CJ Keating
(d)
19.8.02 129 10 5 4 283 431 398
N M Stein 22.8.01 357 171 6 5 – 539
(b)
462
2,014 772 43 35 517 3,381 3,154
(a) The executive Directors’ basicsalaries at 31 December 2004 were: Mr K Smith £633,882; Mr R J Clowes £353,496; Mr I R Griffiths £450,000; Mr N M Stein £363,792. The average year-end basic
salary of those senior executives below Board level whose remuneration is monitored by the Remuneration Committee (being executives who have a significant influence over GKN’s ability
to meet its strategic objectives) was £191,074 (all non-sterling amounts have been translated into sterling at the 31 December 2004 exchange rate for this purpose).
(b) Payments of supplementary allowances to certain executive Directors to assist them towards securing retirement benefits are included in the money-purchase contributions and allowances for
pension benefit purposes disclosed in the first table on page 87. The allowances, detailed below, have therefore been excluded from the total remuneration shown in the table above although they
are part of the Directors’ aggregate emoluments for the purpose of disclosure under the Companies Act 1985: Mr K Smith £133,000 (2003 – £135,000); Mr R J Clowes £99,000 (2003 – £95,000);
Mr R W Etches £26,000 (2003 – £74,000); Mr I R Griffiths £128,000 (2003 – £118,000); Mr N M Stein £103,000 (2003 – £97,000).
(c) Retired 30 June 2004.
(d) Left service 30 June 2004. Mr Keating was paid in US$ – for the purpose of this report his in-service emoluments have been translated at US$1.82/£1 and his termination costs at US$1.84/£1
being respectively the average exchange rates for the first and second halves of 2004.
The 2004 performance-related payments were triggered by the achievement of a number of individual strategic objectives and operational targets. For
all executive Directors, a proportion of such payments was dependent upon the achieved levelofGKN’s 2004 earnings before tax, goodwill amortisation
and exceptional items (including goodwill impairment) against budget. For those Directors with responsibility for business operations, payments were
also dependent upon the achieved level of operating profit of their respective portfolio in 2004. Profit performance equal to target would have
resulted in payments of 30% of salary. The maximum amount that an individual could receive under the profit element was 90% of salary. In addition,
cash flow targets were set for the Group as a whole or, where appropriate, the cash flow performance of the Director’s portfolio for each half of the
year. A total of 10% of salary was payable on achievement of all cash flow targets. In addition, for 2004 strategic objectives were set for each Director
which would have resulted in payment of 10% of salary for full achievement; however, this element wasonly payable if 90% of the Group or portfolio
profit target (as appropriate) for the Director was met. Actual total payments to current executive Directors under the 2004 short-term variable
remuneration scheme varied between 11% and 59.5% of salary.
The service agreements of Dick Etches and Neal Keating came to an end on 1 July 2004. Under Mr Etches’ early retirement arrangements, a payment
equivalent to six months’ basic salary (£138,000) and six months’ pension contributions (equal to 40% of basic salary, or £55,000), totalling £193,000,
was payable in six equal monthly instalments, subject to mitigation. Other related costs were comprised principally of settlement of car leasing
arrangements (£28,000) and repatriation expenses (£13,000). Upon cessation of employment, one year’s basic salary (US$468,000) payable in 
24 twice-monthly payments, together with one year’s family healthcare cover (US$10,000), was receivable by Mr Keating. GKN also paid for outplacement
services to assist him in obtaining suitable alternative employment (US$42,000).
Under the Group’s performance-related short-term variable remuneration scheme, Mr Etches and Mr Keating are each entitled to receive 4% of basic
salary being the amount payable in relation to the achievement of the Group’s and GKN Aerospace Services’ respective cash flow targets for the first
half of 2004. Under the rules of the ESOS and LTIP they will also be entitled in due course to exercise their outstanding awards and options disclosed
on pages 85 and 86 (subject to the usual performance conditionsdescribed elsewhere in this report). Under these rules, no retesting of any ESOS
options which do not vest at the first potential vesting date will be permitted, and the number of any shares which vest under the LTIP would be pro
rated according to their length of service during the relevant three-year measurement period. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 85
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors in 2004 was as follows:
Fees Benefits Total 2004 Total 2003
£000 £000 £000 £000
R D Brown
(a)
159 – 159 39
Sir David Lees
(b)
117 8
(c)
125 298
Baroness Hogg
(d)
60 – 60 41
Sir Ian Gibson 40 – 40 35
H C-J Mamsch
(e)
40 – 40 3
Sir Christopher Meyer
(f)
40 – 40 15
Dr K H Murmann
(g)
17 – 17 35
J N Sheldrick
(h)
2– 2 –
Sir Peter Williams 44 – 44 35
519 8 527 501
(a) Appointed Chairman 20 May 2004.
(b) Retired 20 May 2004.
(c) Comprises principally car benefits. As Chairman, Sir David Lees had the use of a car, the running and associated costs of which were borne partially by GKN.
(d) Appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 1 December 2003.
(e) Appointed 1 December 2003.
(f) Appointed 1 August 2003.
(g) Retired 20 May 2004.
(h) Appointed 20 December 2004.
Directors’ aggregate emoluments for 2004 amounted to £4.4 million (2003 – £4.2 million).
Conditional and deferred rights to GKN plc Ordinary Shares under the LTIP held by the executive Directorsat 31 December 2004 (or, if earlier, on cessation)
and 1 January 2004, together with awards made and lapsed during the year, were as follows:
Awards held Awards held
31 December 2004 Conditional Conditional 1 January 2004
awards awards
Conditional Deferred made (a) lapsed (b) Conditional Deferred
K Smith 535,120 – 223,970 86,960 398,110 –
R J Clowes 327,200 – 124,900 72,890 275,190 –
R W Etches
(c)
112,068 – – 64,960 237,960 –
I R Griffiths 401,500 – 159,000 81,840 324,340 –
CJ Keating
(c)
124,814 – –– 190,659 –
N M Stein 338,990 – 128,540 70,330 280,780 –
(a) The closing mid-market price on the date of award of the shares comprising the conditional awards made during the year was 218.75p per share. The measurement period relating to these
awards ends on 31 December 2006.
(b) Following the Industrial Services demerger in 2001, these awards were converted into rights to acquire equal numbers of GKN plc and Brambles Industries plc Ordinary Shares.
(c) Mr Etches retired and Mr Keating left the service of the Group on 30 June 2004. Under the rules of the LTIP , the shares that are the subject of their conditional awards are eligible for release at the
end of the relevant measurement period. The number of shares the subject of their 2002 and 2003 awards has been reduced pursuant to the rules to reflect their cessation of employment during
the course of the relevant measurement period.
(d) Since 31 December 2004, the following conditional rights to GKN Ordinary Shares in respect of awards granted in relation to the measurement period 2002 to 2004 have lapsed: Mr K Smith
103,400 shares; Mr R J Clowes 86,700 shares; Mr R W Etches 64,281 shares; Mr I R Griffiths 103,400 shares; Mr C J Keating 74,107 shares; Mr N M Stein 91,250 shares.
(e) During both 2004 and 2003, no conditional rights were converted into deferred awards, no awards vested and no shares were released to Directors. 86 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
REPORT ON DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CONTINUED
Options over GKN plc Ordinary Shares granted under the ESOS and the Save As You Earn (SAYE) share option scheme and held by the executive
Directors at 31 December 2004 (or, if earlier, on cessation) and 1 January 2004 were as follows:
Shares Shares
Exercisable (a) under option 2004 under option
31 December Exercise 1 January
Scheme From To 2004 price Granted Exercised Lapsed 2004
K Smith ESOS 21.9.04 20.9.11 210,093 242.75p – – – 210,093
ESOS 15.3.05 14.3.12 165,584 308p––– 165,584
ESOS 19.3.06 18.3.13 793,468 163.05p – – – 793,468
ESOS 16.9.07 15.9.14 347,332 219p 347,332 – – –
SAYE – – – –––––
R J Clowes ESOS 8.4.97 8.4.04 – 120p – 120,000 – 120,000
ESOS 6.4.00 6.4.05 – 132.29p – 33,600 – 33,600
ESOS 21.9.04 20.9.11 169,928 242.75p – – – 169,928
ESOS 15.3.05 14.3.12 138,798 308p––– 138,798
ESOS 19.3.06 18.3.13 294,388 163.05p – – – 294,388
ESOS 16.9.07 15.9.14 274,403 219p 274,403 – – –
SAYE 1.2.09 31.7.09 8,283 217p––– 8,283
R W Etches
(b)
ESOS 21.9.04 23.8.05 156,952 242.75p – – – 156,952
ESOS 24.2.05 23.8.05 123,701 308p––– 123,701
ESOS 28.2.06 27.8.06 204,576 163.05p – – – 204,576
ESOS
(c)
28.2.06 27.8.06 36,693 174.25p – – – 36,693
SAYE 1.7.04 31.12.04 4,377 217p––– 4,377
I R Griffiths ESOS 21.9.04 20.9.11 197,734 242.75p – – – 197,734
ESOS 15.3.05 14.3.12 165,584 308p––– 165,584
ESOS 19.3.06 18.3.13 354,185 163.05p – – – 354,185
ESOS 16.9.07 15.9.14 349,315 219p 349,315 – – –
SAYE 1.7.05 31.12.05 1,468 275.41p – – – 1,468
CJ Keating
(b)
ESOS 28.2.06 27.8.06 225,481 163.05p – – – 225,481
ESOS
(c)
28.2.06 27.8.06 36,693 174.25p – – – 36,693
SAYE – – – –––––
N M Stein ESOS 6.4.00 6.4.05 – 132.29p – 67,200 – 67,200
ESOS 21.9.04 20.9.11 169,928 242.75p – – – 169,928
ESOS 15.3.05 14.3.12 146,103 308p––– 146,103
ESOS 19.3.06 18.3.13 303,587 163.05p – – – 303,587
ESOS 16.9.07 15.9.14 282,395 219p 282,395 – – –
SAYE 1.12.06 31.5.07 4,028 229p––– 4,028
Details of the options over GKN plc Ordinary Shares exercised by Directors during 2004 are shown below.
Shares Exercise Price on Shares
issued on Date of price date of retained on
exercise grant per share exercise (d) exercise
R J Clowes 120,000
(e)
28.9.01 120p 242p 120,000
33,600
(f)
28.9.01 132.29p 235p 33,600
N M Stein 67,200
(f)
8.10.01 132.29p 231.75p 67,200
(a) Represents the earliest exercise date (assuming satisfaction of relevant performance criteria and personal shareholding requirements) and latest expiry date of options held by the Director
during the year.
(b) Mr Etches retired and Mr Keating left the service of the Group on 30 June 2004. Under the rules of the ESOS, any options which vestunder their awards will be exercisable for a period 
of six months following vesting. Mr Etches’ SAYE option became exercisable immediately upon his retirement.
(c) This element of the Director’s award for the year was granted as a US Incentive Stock Option.
(d) The closing mid-market price per share on date of exercise.
(e) Non performance-related share option originally granted under the GKN Executive Share Option Scheme 1988 on 8 April 1994 and subsequently adjusted (and regranted on the date shown
above) in respect of the Industrial Services demerger in 2001.
(f) Non performance-related share option originally granted under the GKN Executive Share Option Scheme 1988 on 6 April 1995 and subsequently adjusted (and regranted on the date shown
above) in respect of the Industrial Services demerger in 2001.
(g) The SAYE share option scheme is open to all UK subsidiary employees with six months’ service or more. Participants save a regular monthly sum of up to £250 for three years (or five years
for options granted prior to 2003) and can use these savings and any bonus payable under the scheme to exercise the options. For options granted prior to 2003, the exercise price was set at
the maximum discount permitted by the Finance Act 1989 of 20% below the market price before the start of the savings period. For optionsgranted in 2003 this discount was reduced to 10% 
(no SAYE share options were granted in 2004).
(h) The closing mid-market price of GKN plc Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December 2004 was 236.5p and the price range during the year was 202p to 279.25p.
(i) The aggregate of the total theoretical gains on options exercised by Directors during 2004 amounted to £248,000 (2003 – £8,000). This is calculated by reference to the difference between the
closing mid-market price of the shares on the date of exercise and the exercise price of the options, disregarding whether such shares were sold or retained on exercise, and is stated before tax.
(j) At 31 December 2004, the total number of GKN plc Ordinary Shares which had been issued on the exercise of options granted by the Company or were the subject of such options remaining
outstanding under the ESOS and the SAYE share option scheme was 19.7 million and 12.5 million respectively. This represents approximately 2.7% of the issued share capital of the Company
at that date in respect of discretionary (i.e. executive) schemes and 4.4% of the issued share capital of the Company at that date in respect of all (i.e. both executive and all-employee) schemes. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 87
The first table below shows the amount paid as money-purchase contributions (paid only in respect of those Directors who are not members of GKN’s
defined benefit pension scheme) and supplementary allowances to executive Directors under the Group’s pension arrangements. The second table
below shows pension amounts for those Directors whose pension arrangements are either wholly or partly of the defined benefit type.
Money-purchase 
contributions and allowances
for pension benefit purposes
2004 2003
£000 £000
K Smith
(a)
249 237
R J Clowes 99 95
R W Etches
(a)(b)
55 108
I R Griffiths 128 119
CJ Keating
(c)
24 38
N M Stein 103 97
(a) The difference between the Director’s pension cost shown in this table and the supplementary allowance amount disclosed in note (b) on page 84 represents GKN’s contribution to the Director’s
money-purchase pension arrangement.
(b) Retired 30 June 2004.
(c) Left service 30 June 2004. In accordance with standard practice in the US, GKN contributed an amount equivalent to 11% of Mr Keating’s basic salary and annual performance-related short-term
variable remuneration to his defined contribution pension arrangement during his employment in the Group.
Transfer
Transfer Transfer value at
value of value of 31 December
Accrued Accrued accrued accrued 2004 of
annual annual annual annual Change Increase increase
pension at pension at pension at pension at in transfer in annual in annual
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December value in pension in pension in
2004 (a) 2003 (a) 2004 2003 2004 (b) 2004 (c) 2004
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
R J Clowes 45 40 687 556 124 3 49
I R Griffiths 49 44 749 612 135 3 47
N M Stein 34 30 409 321 81 3 36
(a) The accrued annual pension includes entitlements earned as an employee prior to becoming a Director as well as for qualifying services after becoming a Director.
(b) Change in transfer value over the year less any contributions made by the Director.
(c) Increase over the year in accrued pension in excess of inflation to which the Director would have been entitled on leaving service.
(d) A transfer value represents the present value of accrued benefits. It does not represent an amount of money which the individual is entitled to receive. The change in transfer value over the year
reflects the additional pension earned and the effect of changes in stock market conditions during the year. Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with paragraph 1.5 of version 9.0 of
Guidance Note 11 prepared by the Institute/Faculty of Actuaries.
Share interests
The beneficial interests of the Directors, including family interests, in GKN plc Ordinary Shares at 31 December 2004 and 1 January 2004 (or, if later,
on appointment to the Board) were as follows:
31 December 1 January
2004 2004
R D Brown 24,264 2,018
Baroness Hogg 9,893 5,893
K Smith 203,273 88,273
R J Clowes 224,284 61,299
Sir Ian Gibson 10,000 10,000
I R Griffiths 118,034 103,832
H C-J Mamsch 2,500 –
Sir Christopher Meyer 2,500 –
J N Sheldrick
(a)
– –
N M Stein 121,244 54,044
Sir Peter Williams 10,000 10,000
(a) Appointed 20 December 2004.
The executive Directors, as potential beneficiaries, are deemed to have an interest in the GKN plc Ordinary Shares held from time to time by the
discretionary trust established to facilitate the operation of the GKN long-term incentive arrangements. At 31 December 2004 and 23 February 2005
this trust held 706,924 GKN plc Ordinary Shares (2003 – 1,219,238 shares).
There were no changes in the Directors’ interests in shares or options between 31 December 2004 and 23 February 2005 other than in respect of
the lapses of conditional rights to GKN plc Ordinary Shares under the LTIP disclosed on page 85.
The Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which contains full details of the Directors’ shareholdings, long-term incentive plan awards and
options to subscribe for shares in GKN plc, is available for inspection by shareholders upon request.
On behalf of the Board
Baroness Hogg
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
23 February 2005 88 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES
AT 31 DECEMBER 2004
AUTOMOTIVE
Driveline
GKN Driveline Headquarters Ltd
Driveshafts
Europe
GKN Driveline Birmingham Ltd
GKN Driveline Walsall Ltd
GKN Driveline SA France
GKN Driveline Florange SARL France
GKN Driveline Deutschland GmbH Germany
GKN Gelenkwellenwerk Kaiserslautern GmbH Germany
GKN Driveline Trier GmbH Germany
GKN Automotive Umformtechnik GmbH Germany
GKN Driveline Bruneck AG Italy
GKN Driveline Firenze SpA Italy
GKN Driveline Polska Sp. z o.o. Poland
GKN Driveline Slovenija d.o.o. Slovenia
GKN Driveline España SA Spain
GKN Driveline Zumaia SA Spain
GKN Driveline Vigo SA Spain
GKN Driveline Legazpi SA Spain
GKN Driveline Lazpiur SL (51%) Spain
Americas
GKN Driveline North America Inc USA
GKN do Brasil Ltda Brazil
GKN Driveline Uruguay SA Uruguay
Transejes Transmisiones Homocinéticas de 
Colombia SA (49%) Colombia
Velcon SA de CV (49%) Mexico
Asia Pacific
GKN Driveline Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore
Unidrive Pty Ltd (60%) Australia
Shanghai GKN Drive Shaft Company Ltd (50%) China
Jilin GKN Norinco Drive Shaft Company Ltd (50%) China
GKN Driveline (India) Ltd (97%) India
GKN Driveline Utsunomiya Ltd Japan
GKN Toyoda Driveshafts Ltd (49%) Japan
GKN Driveline Malaysia Sdn Bhd (68.4%) Malaysia
Univel Transmissions (Pty) Ltd (50%) South Africa
GKN Driveline Korea Ltd South Korea
Taiway Ltd (36.25%) Taiwan
GKN Driveline (Thailand) Ltd Thailand
GKN TOYODA (Thailand) Ltd (49%) Thailand
GKN Driveline TOYODA Manufacturing Ltd (51%) Thailand
Torque Systems
GKN Driveline Bruneck AG Italy
Viscodrive Japan KK (92.3%) Japan
Tochigi Fuji Sangyo KK (84.3%) Japan
Industrial and distribution services
Companies in Europe
Other companies
GKN Driveline International GmbH Germany
GKN Japan Ltd Japan
GKN Freight Services Ltd
Research and Product Development centres in Germany, 
USA and Japan
Export and representation companies in Europe and USA
Powder Metallurgy
Hoeganaes
Hoeganaes Corporation USA
Ancorsteel Powders GmbH Germany
Hoeganaes Corporation Europe SA Romania
Sinter Metals
GKN Sinter Metals Ltd
GKN Sinter Metals Inc USA
GKN Sinter Metals-St Thomas Ltd Canada
GKN Sinter Metals de Argentina SA Argentina
GKN Sinter Metals Ltda Brazil
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH Germany
GKN Sinter Metals Service GmbH Germany
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH – Bad Brückenau, Bad Langensalza, 
Bonn and Oberhausen Germany
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH & Co KG Radevormwald Germany
GKN Sinter Metals Filters GmbH Radevormwald Germany
GKN Sinter Metals SpA Italy
GKN Sinter Metals AB, Kolsva Sweden
GKN Sinter Metals Cape Town (Pty) Ltd South Africa
GKN Sinter Metals Ltd India ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 89
AutoComponents
GKN AutoStructures Ltd
GKN Thompson Chassis Ltd
Chassis Systems Ltd (50%)
GKN Sheepbridge Stokes Ltd
Catalytic Converters
Emitec Gesellschaft für Emissionstechnologie mbH (50%) Germany
Emitec Produktion GmbH (50%) Germany
Emitec Inc (50%) USA
OffHighway Systems
GKN OffHighway Systems Ltd
GKN Wheels Nagbøl A/S Denmark
GKN Armstrong Wheels Inc USA
GKN FAD SpA Italy
GKN Geplasmetal SA Spain
GKN Walterscheid Belgium Sprl Belgium
GKN Walterscheid GmbH Germany
GKN Walterscheid Getriebe GmbH Germany
GKN Walterscheid Inc USA
GKN Walterscheid Canada Inc Canada
Matsui-Walterscheid Ltd (40%) Japan
AEROSPACE
Aerospace Structures
GKN Aerospace GmbH Germany
GKN Aerospace North America Inc USA
GKN Westland Aerospace Inc USA
GKN CEDU Ltd
GKN Aerospace Engineering Services Pty Ltd Australia
Propulsion Systems and Special Products
GKN Aerospace Services Ltd
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems (Kings Norton) Ltd
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems (Luton) Ltd
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems Inc USA
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems do Brasil Ltda Brazil
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems (Thailand) Ltd Thailand
ASTECH Engineered Products Inc USA
GKN Aerospace Chem-tronics Inc USA
Other companies
GKN Westland Services Ltd
GKN Westland Inc USA
CORPORATE
GKN Holdings plc
GKN (United Kingdom) plc
GKN Industries Ltd
GKN America Corp USA
Westland Group plc
Ipsley Insurance Ltd Isle of Man
GKN UK Holdings BV*
The issued share capitals of the 155 companies which at 31 December 2004 comprised the
GKN Group are held indirectly by GKN plc through intermediate holding companies which are
registered or incorporated in England, Netherlands, USA and Germany. Certain intermediate
holding companies do not prepare consolidated accounts.
The percentage of the share capital held by GKN is indicated where companies are not wholly-
owned.
The country of incorporation or registration and the principal country in which each company
operates is England unless otherwise shown.
Of the Group subsidiary sales of £3,484 million, 99.8% related to subsidiaries whose accounts
are audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , auditors of the parent company.
*incorporated in the Netherlands with, from 1 January 2005, central place of management and
control in the UK. 90 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
GKN website and share price information
Information on GKN, including this annual report, the latest interim report
and the GKN plc share price updated every 20 minutes, is available on GKN’s
website at www.gkn.com. The latest GKN share price is also available
within the UK from the Financial Times’ Cityline service by telephoning
0906 843 2696. Calls are charged at 60p per minute. 
Shareholding enquiries and information
Administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed
to GKN’s registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars (see inside back cover for
contact details). Correspondence should refer to GKN plc and include 
the shareholder’s full name, address and, if available, 8-digit reference
number which can be found on GKN plc share certificates. 
By visiting Lloyds TSB Registrars’ Shareview website at
www.shareview.co.uk, shareholders can view information on their
shareholdings and recent dividends, obtain guidance on transferring
shares and receiving shareholder documents electronically (see below),
update their personal details (including changing address details) and
set up a new dividend mandate or change their existing mandate. 
Share dealing service
A telephone dealing service has been arranged with Stocktrade which
provides a simple way of buying or selling GKN plc Ordinary Shares. Full
details can be obtained by telephoning 0845 601 0995 (+44 131 240 0414
from outside the UK) and quoting reference Low Co139.
Electronic receipt of documents
Shareholders can elect via the GKN or Shareview websites (see inside
back cover) to receive certain shareholder documents (including annual
and interim reports and notices of shareholder meetings) electronically
rather than by post. If shareholders elect for the electronic option, they
will receive a notification by e-mail each time a document is published
advising them that it is available for viewing on GKN’s website. The
e-mail will contain a link to the relevant page on the website, providing
shareholders with easy access to the document which can then be read
or printed. By electing for this electronic option, shareholders will receive
documents more speedily, avoid the possibility of delays in the postal
system, save postage costs and help conserve natural resources. When
registering for this service, shareholders will need to provide their 8-digit
reference number which can be found on GKN plc share certificates.
Financial calendar
Preliminary announcement of results for 2004 24 February 2005
Ordinary Shares quoted ex-dividend 13 April 2005
2004 final dividend record date 15 April 2005
Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms
(see above right) 25 April 2005
Annual General Meeting 5 May 2005
2004 final dividend on Ordinary Shares payable 10 May 2005
DRIP share certificates and share purchase 
statements despatched 23 May 2005
CREST participant accounts credited with DRIP shares 24 May 2005
Announcement of half-year results for 2005 August 2005
2005 interim dividend on Ordinary Shares payable September 2005
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting on Thursday 5 May 2005 will be held 
at the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Savoy Place, London WC2,
commencing at 11.00 a.m. The Notice of Meeting, together with an
explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is
contained in the AGM circular enclosed with this annual report.
Dividend reinvestment plan
Under the dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP), shareholders can mandate
to reinvest cash dividends paid on their Ordinary Shares in further GKN plc
Ordinary Shares. Shareholders who would like to receive details of the
DRIP should contact the Share Dividend Team at Lloyds TSB Registrars or
visit the Shareview website (see inside back cover). New DRIP mandates
and any withdrawals of existing mandates must be received by Lloyds
TSB Registrars by 25 April 2005 to be valid for the 2004 final dividend.
Other key dates are given in the financial calendar (below left).
GKN single company ISA
Lloyds TSB Registrars operate a Single Company ISA in which GKN plc
Ordinary Shares can be held in a tax efficient manner. Full details and an
application form can be obtained by telephoning Lloyds TSB Registrars’
ISA Helpline on 0870 24 24 244 or by visiting the Shareview website
(see inside back cover). Investors should note that the value of any tax
benefit will vary according to individual circumstances and the tax rules
relating to ISAs may change in the future. If you are in any doubt you
should seek professional advice.
Taxation
Market values of GKN plc Ordinary Shares, ‘B’ Shares (issued and redeemed
under the return of capital in 2000) and Brambles Industries plc Ordinary
Shares (issued in connection with the demerger of GKN’s Industrial Services
businesses in 2001) for Capital Gains Tax (CGT) purposes are as follows:
First day of trading market values
(a)
GKN Brambles
Ordinary Shares ‘B’ Shares Ordinary Shares
30 May 2000
(b)
914.5p 11.7p –
(98.736774%) (1.263226%)
7 August 2001
(c)
282.5p – 360.375p
(43.943224%) (56.056776%)
(a) The stated market values are used to allocate the base cost of GKN Ordinary Shares, on the
basis of the relative percentages specified, between GKN Ordinary Shares and ‘B’ Shares and
between GKN Ordinary Shares and Brambles OrdinaryShares in calculating any CGT liability
under the ‘B’ Share return of capital and the Industrial Services businesses demerger
arrangements. Worked examples and guides to the general tax position of UK shareholders
under these arrangements are available on request from GKN’s Corporate Centre (see inside
back cover) and on GKN’s website at www.gkn.com.
(b) Being the first day of trading of the ‘B’ Shares.
(c) Being the first day of trading of the BramblesOrdinary Shares. From this date, the market
price of GKN Ordinary Shares reduced to reflect the value of the businesses demerged into 
the Brambles Group. ANNUAL REPORT 2004 : GKN plc 91
1965/1982 market values
GKN GKN GKN
Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary
Shares Shares Shares
unadjusted for adjusted for adjusted for Brambles
‘B’ Shares or ‘B’ Shares but ‘B’ Shares and Ordinary
demerger
(a)
not demerger
(b)
demerger
(b)
‘B’ Shares
(b)
Shares
(b)
6 April 1965 116.175p 114.707p 50.406p 1.468p 64.301p
31 March 1982 104.870p 103.545p 45.501p 1.325p 58.044p
(a) Adjusted for subsequent rights and capitalisation issues (prior to the issue of the ‘B’ Shares
on 30 May 2000) and the two for one GKN Ordinary Share split in May 1998.
(b) If the GKN Ordinary Shares in respect of which the ‘B’ Shares/Brambles Ordinary Shares
were issued were held by you on 6 April 1965 or 31 March 1982, you will be deemed to 
have also held the ‘B’ Shares/Brambles OrdinaryShares on such date. In such cases, the
1965/1982 market values (adjusted as described in note (a) above) are apportioned between
GKN Ordinary Shares and ‘B’ Shares and, if you also received Brambles Ordinary Shares,
between GKN Ordinary Shares and Brambles Ordinary Shares using the relative percentages
specified above in respect of the first day of trading market values. The apportioned market
values are shown in the table.
GKN American Depositary Receipts
GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt (ADR)
programme for which The Bank of New York acts as Depositary. Each 
ADR represents one GKN plc Ordinary Share. The ADRs trade in the US
over-the-counter (OTC) market under the symbol GKNLY. When dividends
are paid to shareholders, the Depositary converts such dividends into 
US dollars, net of fees and expenses, and distributes the net amount to
ADR holders. For enquiries, The Bank of New York can be contacted by
telephone on +1-800-345-1612 or +1-888-BNY-ADRS (toll-free for US
residents only), via their website at www.adrbny.com or by e-mail
enquiry to shareowners@bankofny.com.
Unsolicited mail
GKN is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available and as
a consequence some shareholders may have received unsolicited mail.
Shareholders in the UK wishing to limit the amount of such mail should
contact the Mailing Preference Service whose address is DMA House,
70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS. Alternatively they may be contacted
by telephone on 020 7291 3310, via their website at www.mpsonline.org.uk
or by e-mail enquiry to mps@dma.org.uk.
Shareholder analysis
Holdings of Ordinary Shares at 31 December 2004:
Shareholders Shares
Number
Number % (million) %
Holdings
1–500 10,748 30.0 2.6 0.4
501–1,000 7,249 20.2 5.5 0.8
1,001–5,000 14,596 40.8 33.5 4.6
5,001–50,000 2,634 7.4 29.8 4.1
50,001–100,000 148 0.4 10.5 1.5
100,001–500,000 259 0.7 62.1 8.6
500,001–1,000,000 68 0.2 47.9 6.6
above 1,000,000 97 0.3 530.4 73.4
35,799 100 722.3 100
Shareholder type
Individuals 29,288 81.8 46.3 6.4
Institutions 5,940 16.6 668.0 92.5
Other corporates 571 1.6 8.0 1.1
35,799 100 722.3 100
In addition, GKN plc held 13.3 million of its own Ordinary Shares in
treasury as at 31 December 2004. 92 GKN plc : ANNUAL REPORT 2004
SUBJECT INDEX
Accounting policies 21, 47-49
Accounting standards 29, 30
Acquisitions 21, 23, 64
Aerospace 5, 6, 7, 8, 16-19, 21, 22, 27-28, 89
AgustaWestland 6, 7, 21, 28, 68
American depositary receipts 91
Annual general meeting 72, 75, 90
Auditors
– independence 76
– reappointment 73
– remuneration 50, 73
– report 39
AutoComponents 4, 26-27, 89
Automotive 4, 6, 7, 8, 10-15, 21, 22, 24-27, 88-89
Balance sheets 43, 69
Board and committees 6, 40-41, 74-77, 78
– Audit Committee 75-76, 77, 78
– Executive Committee 75, 77
– Nominations Committee 77
– Remuneration Committee 77, 79
Borrowings 24, 44, 57, 58-59
Capital expenditure 23, 68
Cash flow 23, 45-46
Chairman’s statement 6
Chief Executive’s statement 7
Commitments and contingent liabilities 68
Community involvement 6, 34, 35, 72
Corporate governance 31-32, 74-78
Corporate profile 1, 4-5
Creditors 57, 58, 72
Debtors 57
Directors
– attendance record 77
– biographies 41
– changes to the Board 6, 72
– interests 85-87
– remuneration 79-87
– report 72-73
– responsibility for the accounts 73
– service agreements 82
Disposals 21, 23, 28
Dividend 3, 6, 23, 53, 72
– reinvestment plan 90
Driveline 4, 7, 10-13, 21, 24-26, 88
Earnings per share 3, 23, 53
Emitec 4, 26-27, 89
Employees 7, 33-34, 54
Environment 31, 37-38
Ethical standards 32
Exceptional items 22, 51
Financial
– calendar 90
– five-year record 71
– highlights 3
– instruments 29, 47, 59-60
– review (operating and financial review) 21-30
Foreign currencies 29, 47, 59
Going concern 30
Goodwill 22, 24, 48, 54
Health and safety 36-37
Interest payable (net) 22, 52
Internal control 76, 77-78
International Financial Reporting Standards 29, 30, 65-67, 81
Investments 56
ISA 90
Long-term incentives 79, 80-81, 85, 86
Markets 7, 15, 24-25, 26-27
Mission statement 1
OffHighway Systems 4, 26-27, 89
Operating and financial review 21-30
Operating profit 3, 22, 24, 27, 28, 50
Pensions/post-retirement benefits 6, 22, 29-30, 61, 64-67
Policies
– competition 32
– data protection 32
– employee disclosure 33
– employment 32-33
– ethical standards 32
Powder metallurgy 4, 7, 8, 14-15, 26, 88
Profit and loss account 42
Provisions for liabilities and charges 61
Recognised gains and losses 44
Related party transactions 68
Remuneration report 79-87
Reserves 63
Risk management 28-29, 31-32, 77-78
Sales 3, 21, 25, 26, 27, 28, 47, 49
Segmental analysis 3, 70
Shareholder analysis 91
Shareholders’ equity 24, 44
Share option schemes 62, 81, 86
Shares
– buyback programme 6, 24, 62, 72
– issued capital 62, 72
– price information 90
Social responsibility 6, 31-38
Stakeholders 34
Stocks 56
Subsidiary companies 88-89
Tangible assets 55
Taxation 23, 49, 52-53, 57, 61, 90-91
Technology 7, 8-20
Treasury management 28
Website 90, inside back cover CONTACT DETAILS
Designed and produced by CGI BrandSense.
Photography: directors by Carolyn Djanogly and Homer Sykes; products by Pete Gardner;
imagery supplied on pages 12 and 18 courtesy of Land Rover, Renault, General Motors,
Lockheed Martin, Airbus, Boeing.
Illustrations: Lawrence Templeman.
Printed by Butler and Tanner on Galerie Art Gloss which is an elemental chlorine-free paper
derived from fully sustainable forest sources and holds the Nordic Swan environmental
label and Naturalis Arctic White Smooth which is an elemental chlorine-free paper that
is sourced from sustainably managed commercial forests.
Corporate Centre
PO Box 55
Ipsley House
Ipsley Church Lane
Redditch
Worcestershire B98 0TL
Tel +44 (0)1527 517715
Fax +44 (0)1527 517700
London Office
7 Cleveland Row
London SW1A 1DB
Tel +44 (0)20 7930 2424
Fax +44 (0)20 7930 3255
e-mail: information@gkn.com
Website: www.gkn.com
Registered in England No. 4191106
Registrar
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
Worthing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Tel 0870 600 3962
(+44 121 415 7039 from outside UK)
Fax0870 600 3980
(+44 1903 854031 from outside UK)
Websites: www.lloydstsb-registrars.co.uk
www.shareview.co.uk
This annual report is available on the GKN website. www.gkn.com
GKN
