 that moves the world
Engineering
Annual Report and Accounts 
Also available online…
www.gkn  .com
GKN Annual Report and Accounts 
GKN Every day at GKN we drive the wheels
of hundreds of millions of cars, we help
thousands of aircraft to fly, we deliver the
power to move earth and harvest crops,
and we make essential components for
industries that touch lives across the globe.
Four divisions
48,000 people
Three markets
32 countries
Engineering
that moves the world
Automotive
Aerospace
Land systems
GKN Driveline
GKN Powder Metallurgy
GKN Land Systems
GKN Aerospace .01
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Directors’ report – business review
IFC   GKN at a glance
02    2012 performance
03    2012 milestones
04   Chairman’s statement
06   Chief Executive’s review
08   Our markets
10    Our divisions
12    Our strategy
13    Business model
14    Strategy in action
22    Key performance indicators
24    Review of performance
36    Principal risks and uncertainties
38    Sustainability report
Directors’ report – governance
46   The Board
48   Corporate governance
55    Nominations Committee report
56    Audit Committee report
58    Remuneration report
73    Other statutory information
76    Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Financial statements
77    Independent auditors’ report (Group)
78    Group financial statements
127  Independent auditors’ report (Company)
128  Company financial statements
131   Group financial record
Other information
132  Key subsidiaries and joint ventures
134  Shareholder information
136  Subject index
137  Contact details
Key
IFC – Inside Front Cover
        Leading in chosen markets
        see p 14-15
        Leveraging a strong global presence
        see p 16-17
        Differentiating ourselves through technology
        see p 18-19
        Driving operational excellence
        see p 20-21
1
2
3
4
Strategy in action
Contents 2012 performance .02
Financial highlights (12 months ended 31 December 2012)
Statutory basis
Sales
£6,510m
2011: £5,746m
Profit before tax
£588m
2011: £351m
Earnings per share
30.2p
2011: 18.0p
Management basis*
Sales
£6,904m
2011: £6,112m
Profit before tax
£497m
2011: £417m
Earnings per share
26.5p
2011: 22.6p
* See page 24 for details of measurement and reporting of performance on a management basis.
n
Group results reflect the continued strong organic growth and the contribution from acquisitions.
n
Record profits achieved in all four divisions.
n
Sales increased 13%, up 6% on an organic basis.
n
Management trading (operating) profit up 19%.
n
Trading margin improved to 8.1%.
n
Profit before tax up 19%.
n
Return on average invested capital of 18.1% (excluding Volvo Aero).
n
Earnings per share up 17%.
n
Final dividend of 4.8 pence per share, giving a total for 2012 of 7.2 pence per share, a 20% increase.
n
Positive free cash flow of £213 million (2011: £147 million), excluding Volvo Aero.
n
Net debt of £871 million (2011: £538 million), reflecting the acquisition of Volvo Aero. .03
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
2012 milestones
January
CTAL, a joint venture between GKN Aerospace and Rolls-Royce,
opened a £15 million facility to develop new composite aero
engine components.
April 
UK Chancellor of the Exchequer, Rt Hon George Osborne MP , 
officially opened GKN Aerospace’s Western Approach carbon 
fibre wing components facility in the UK. 
July
GKN announced agreement to acquire Volvo Aero, the aero
engines division of AB Volvo, creating a new global leader in
aero engine components.
GKN Driveline unveiled an automated flowline producing
precision forgings with an investment of over £16 million in its
facility in Trier, Germany.
GKN plc completed a £140 million equity placing to part fund the
acquisition of Volvo Aero.
A new composite aerostructures manufacturing facility
established by GKN Aerospace in Mexico.
November
Work began on the ground breaking for a new manufacturing
facility for GKN Powder Metallurgy in China as it continued to
expand its global footprint.
General Motors awarded GKN Powder Metallurgy its Supplier
Quality Excellence Award, placing it within the top 5% of all
GM’s European suppliers.
GKN won the British Company of the Year Award 2012 at the
British Business Awards in Shanghai.
September
£450 million ten-year bond issued by GKN Holdings plc.
March
Over 65% of mainstream vehicle launches at the 
Geneva 2012 motor show featured the latest GKN Driveline
technology as manufacturers seek greater sophistication in
driveline performance.
June
GKN Driveline opened its third precision forge in Mexico
with an investment of over $11 million.
GKN Aerospace won a contract to supply complex machined
metallic parts and assemblies for the horizontal stabiliser
of the Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner. 
GKN Powder Metallurgy received Design Excellence Awards
from the Metal Powder Industries Federation for its variable
valve timing rotor adapter assembly and a unitised one-way
clutch module.
August
Triumph Aerostructures awarded GKN Aerospace 
a contract to design, build and supply composite
winglets and ailerons for the Bombardier Global 7000
and Global 8000 ultra long-range business jets.
October
GKN completed the acquisition of Volvo Aero,
the aero engines division of AB Volvo.
GKN Land Systems invested in its mining wheel
production facility in Liuzhou, Southern China.
These key operational and strategic milestones achieved during 2012 helped support the delivery of GKN’s strategy, as detailed on page 12. “GKN’s excellent position
in global markets across
its businesses, a strong
focus on technology, together
with a culture of operational
excellence, provide a solid
platform from which to continue
our strategic progress.”
Chairman’s statement ."#
A year of
strong progress
In my first Chairman’s statement, I am pleased to report that 2012
was a year of strong progress for GKN from both an operational
and a strategic perspective.
Results 
We delivered an excellent set of results with management sales
increasing to £6.9 billion, reflecting organic sales growth of 6%.
This was a very pleasing achievement in a year which saw
uncertainty in many of our markets. Management profit before tax
for the year increased 19% to £497 million and we continued to
make progress on improving the Group trading margin which
increased to 8.1%. Management earnings per share were 26.5p,
an increase of 17% over the prior year. In light of this strong
performance and our confidence in the Group’s prospects, the
Board is recommending to shareholders an increased final
dividend of 4.8p per share which will bring the dividend for the
year to 7 .2p.  .0N
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Our people
Such a strong financial performance would not have been
possible without the hard work and commitment of our
48,000 employees worldwide. On behalf of the Board, I would
like to thank them all for their contribution during 2012.
The Board
The Board’s commitment to high standards of corporate
governance is unwavering and our procedures are described
in some detail in the corporate governance report on pages
48 to 54. A key governance issue is ensuring that the Board
comprises a diverse group of strong individuals who
collectively bring a mix of skills, experience and knowledge
to the boardroom. I believe that these criteria are clearly
reflected in the composition of the GKN Board which we
strengthened further at the beginning of 2013 with the
appointment of Angus Cockburn, Finance Director of Aggreko
plc, as a non-executive Director. Angus’ experience of
international business and his financial background will
provide significant expertise both to the Board and to the
Audit Committee.
John Sheldrick, who has been a non-executive Director of the
Company since December 2004 and Chairman of the Audit
Committee since January 2006, is retiring from the Board at
the annual general meeting on 2 May 2013. On behalf of the
Board I would like to take this opportunity to thank John for
his contribution to the Board since 2004 and in particular his
exemplary chairmanship of the Audit Committee. We were
pleased to announce the appointment of Shonaid Jemmett-
Page as Chairman of the Audit Committee to succeed John.
Shonaid has been a non-executive Director since June 2010
and her strong financial experience and knowledge of the
Group make her ideally suited for the role.
With a strong executive team and a good balance of executive
and non-executive knowledge and experience on the Board,
I am firmly of the view that we will continue to build on the
success of the Company and make further progress on our
strategic objectives to the advantage of all our stakeholders.
Finally on Board matters, Roy Brown retired at the AGM in
May after 16 years as a non-executive Director, eight of those
as Chairman of the Company. I would like to take this
opportunity to thank him formally for both his commitment
and his contribution to the Group over that period. I was
delighted to succeed Roy as Chairman at such an exciting
time in the Group’s development. 
Strategic progress
During the year we made significant progress towards our
strategic objectives. On 1 October we completed the acquisition
of Volvo Aero, the aero engine division of AB Volvo, a leading
designer and producer of aero engine components.
Combining the lightweight metallic technologies of this new
business with GKN’s existing expertise in composites has
created an aerospace business which is more balanced
between structures and engine products and which is well
positioned to benefit from the expected long term growth in
the civil aerospace market.
In GKN Driveline, following the acquisition in 2011 of Getrag
Driveline Products, our all-wheel drive (AWD) business is now
fully integrated into our global driveline systems platform; our
objective is to exploit our technology and leadership position
to drive further growth in AWD.
Our Powder Metallurgy business has also made good progress
in expanding Design for PM applications with significant
potential for future growth.
Building on the 2011 acquisition of Stromag, GKN Land
Systems has broadened its capability in power management
applications.
The future
GKN’s excellent position in global markets across its
businesses, a strong focus on technology, together with a
culture of operational excellence, provide a solid platform
from which to continue our strategic progress and deliver long
term shareholder value. I look forward to the future with
confidence. 
Mike Turner CBE
Chairman Chief Executive’s review .0O
A strong platform
for the future
Our position as a key supplier to the aerospace sector was further
enhanced by the acquisition of Volvo Aero, on 1 October 2012.
This business, now renamed GKN Aerospace Engine Systems,
brings technology and engineering that complements GKN’s greater
operational expertise, creating a strong force in the market,
augmenting our position as a leading Tier 1 aerostructures supplier.
The reaction to the acquisition from customers and employees
has been very positive and integration is proceeding well.
Although the Group’s 2012 results have been negatively impacted
by some one-time costs and charges associated with the
acquisition, we expect to see Engine Systems make a good
contribution to Group profits in 2013.
In GKN, our drive for operational excellence extends beyond just
our financial results. A major focus of the year was driving further
improvement in Group health and safety performance by rolling
out our thinkSAFE! programme to all locations in the Group. It was
pleasing to see the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)
improving, although a fatal injury to a subcontractor at one of our
sites in China reminds us that there is still more to do.
GKN Lean manufacturing was also an area of focus in 2012, and
improved customer lead times and increased stock turns came
from the many value stream activities implemented in the year. 
Technology was a third area I highlighted as a priority last year
and, as outlined in this report, GKN continues to introduce new
technology that helps customers meet their challenges. Whether it
is electro-mechanical disconnects for AWD, advanced powder
metallurgy components, high performance composite structures
or innovative clutches, we are differentiating ourselves from
competitors and helping our customers reduce weight, improve
fuel efficiency and electrify their products.
2012 was a good year for GKN. We showed strong growth in sales,
improved trading margins and a 19% rise in profit before tax. All
four businesses reported record profits reflecting not only the
effectiveness of our strategy, but the hard work of the GKN team
around the world to deliver it. I thank them for their efforts.
The growth in Group sales came both from good organic growth
in all divisions, at rates ahead of their respective markets, and
the successful integration of the acquisitions made in the second
half of 2011, Stromag and Getrag Driveline Products. These both
performed well and helped take Group sales in total to £6.9 billion.
But equally encouraging is the strong platform we have built for
GKN’s future. Our strategy of being leaders in our chosen markets,
with the broadest global footprint, best technology and a
sustained level of operational excellence, has positioned us well
to take advantage of the continued growth in our large, global
markets. The GKN brand name is not always widely known to end
consumers, but as a Tier 1 supplier to the world’s leading vehicle,
aircraft and machinery manufacturers, GKN products drive
millions of the world’s cars, help most of the world’s aircraft to fly
and power vital off-road and industrial machinery. GKN engineering
can indeed be said to “Move the world”.
“Our strategy of being leaders
in our chosen markets, with
the broadest global footprint,
best technology and a sustained
level of operational excellence,
has positioned us well to take
advantage of the continued
growth in our large, global
markets.” .0P
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Markets and divisional performance
Global automotive markets in the year were mixed, with
strong growth in North and South America, steady growth in
China and some weakness in Europe. However, within Europe,
premium car production, largely in Germany and the UK,
remained robust, helped by strong demand from export
markets, in particular China. Overall global vehicle production
grew by 6% to 81.5 million units, with GKN Driveline and GKN
Powder Metallurgy both increasing their sales.
GKN Driveline trading profit increased by £40 million, of
which around half came from the full year effects of the Getrag
acquisition and half from organic growth. In GKN Powder
Metallurgy, there was a £15 million increase in profits, and its
trading margin reached double-digits.
Aerospace markets also showed a mixed picture. Civil aircraft
demand was strong with both Airbus and Boeing increasing
their production rates as well as increasing their backlog.
In contrast, military demand softened as US defence
expenditure began to be impacted by budget constraints. GKN
Aerospace now derives more than 60% of its business from
the civil aircraft market and this percentage will rise to more
than 70% with a full year contribution from Volvo Aero,
leaving us well placed to benefit from the strong civil demand.
In 2012 GKN Aerospace’s sales increased by 20%, due to
increased output of A330, A320 and B787 aircraft, offsetting
a decline of 2% in our military sales.
GKN Aerospace showed good organic growth, with trading
profit up £4 million. Margin was maintained at 11.2%
excluding the quarter four impact of Volvo Aero.
For GKN Land Systems, agricultural markets remained steady
whilst construction markets declined and industrial markets
were depressed during the year. Construction demand was
particularly impacted by cutbacks in China, whilst the
industrial decline was largely seen in Europe, still the largest
geographic market for our GKN Land Systems business.
Trading profit in GKN Land Systems showed a good
improvement, rising £21 million on sales that were only
slightly higher than in 2011.
Overall Group sales and trading profit showed an encouraging
increase with Group sales up £792 million, 13% over 2011,
and Group trading profit up £89 million, representing a 19%
increase over 2011 (14% excluding the £19 million one-off
impact on 2011 of Gallatin).
Building the future
The benefits of our strategic positioning are now being seen.
Good organic growth over the last few years has, in the past
18 months, been supplemented by three acquisitions –
Stromag, Getrag Driveline Products and Volvo Aero. On a full
year pro-forma basis, this would take the Group sales to
approximately £7 .4 billion and nearly double that of only six
years ago.
In setting out our strategy last year, I referred to the need to
take a balanced approach between growth, margins and
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC). Whilst our short term focus
will be on generating cash, paying down debt and driving our
ROIC up to the 20% pre-tax long-term goal, we still see
opportunities for further development in all our businesses.
GKN Aerospace remains a priority, although GKN Powder
Metallurgy will also be considered as it is now performing well
and there are several interesting technological advances
taking place in that sector.
The Group’s balance sheet remains strong and we continue
to target returning to investment grade rating with all three
rating agencies. Having funded the previous two acquisitions
entirely with debt, to fund the Volvo Aero acquisition we
raised £140 million of equity through a share placing,
receiving very strong support from our shareholders – for
which I thank them. There was also a very high subscription
level for our £450 million 2022 bond issued in September.
With our long term financing in place, we have an excellent
base for the future.
Whilst today’s low interest rates are a help in the bond
market, the corresponding discount rates are a burden to
defined benefit pension schemes. GKN is no exception in this
respect. The Group currently pays in the UK, US and Europe
some £60 million by way of legacy pension payments into
underfunded, or unfunded schemes. Whilst the options for
de-risking or ‘buying out’ these schemes are kept under
constant scrutiny, it remains our view that better returns for
shareholders’ funds can be earned by investing in our own
businesses.
GKN is a global company yet all our people are bound by a
shared set of values and common ways of working – the GKN
Way. These values may be seen in a variety of ways, from
involvement in improving our workplaces to activity in the
communities in which we operate. In closing this report,
I would like to record my thanks to all the GKN people who
have worked so hard and so effectively to bring 2012 to a
successful conclusion. I know that together we will be working
to do even better in 2013.
Outlook
Overall, the Group’s broad exposure to global markets, strong
customer positions and healthy order books mean that GKN
should make good progress in 2013, benefiting from the full
year contribution from Volvo Aero.
Nigel Stein
Chief Executive
All sales and trading profit figures in this statement are presented on a
management basis. See page 24 for details. GKN operates in the global
automotive, aerospace and
land systems markets (including
agricultural, construction and
mining). GKN aims to maintain
its leading positions in these
markets and deliver above
market growth.
Our markets .0Q
Automotive
Key market drivers
n Macroeconomic trends, such as consumer income and confidence. 
n Fuel efficiency and emissions.
n Demand for smaller vehicles.
n Electric/hybrid applications.
n Increasing vehicle driveline content.
n Progressive electrification of the drivetrain.
n Demand for personal mobility in emerging markets.
n Lower weight and a focus on new materials.
n Customer preference for quality and safety.
Trends
n Overall, global light vehicle production increased 6% in 2012
to 81.5 million vehicles (2011: 76.8 million), whilst sales of light
vehicles increased by 5% to 79.5 million vehicles.
n North America, Japan and the ASEAN saw the largest production
growth in 2012 due to their recovery from, respectively, recession,
earthquake and tsunami, and floods. In contrast, growth in Europe
and some of the BRIC countries slowed as the year progressed. 
n In Europe, demand for larger (premium) vehicles remained strong
but demand for smaller vehicles was depressed as a result of
economic uncertainties.
n Overall vehicle production in Europe benefited from strong export
demand while in North America there has been a shift towards
more fuel-efficient vehicles.
n Increasing prevalence of single global design (platforms) for
vehicles.
Outlook
n External forecasts indicate that global vehicle production in 2013 
will increase by approximately 1.6% to 82.8 million vehicles.
n Most major markets are forecast to show only small growth, with
the fastest growth expected in China (9%) and India (8%).
n The European market is forecast to contract by 3% as a result of
the current economic climate, and after a relatively slow first-half
North America is forecast to grow by 3%.
Ä
ÅÇ
Ç
Ç
Ä
ÉÇ
ÉÄ
ÇÉÉ
ÇÉ
Source: IHS Automotive
Europe North 
America
Brazil, India
and China
Light vehicle production
million units
Ä Å Ç É Ñ ÑÄ ÑÅ ÑÇ ÑÉ
ÑÄ
É
Ñ
Ç
Å
Ä

Source: IHS Automotive
Ä-ÄÑÄ actual
ÄÑ!-ÄÑ" forecast

Global light vehicle production
million units .0R
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Aerospace Land Systems
Key market drivers
n Backlog of aircraft orders for key customers.
n Introduction of and production rate increases of new aerospace
programmes.
n Levels of passenger air traffic.
n US defence budget.
n Crude oil/jet fuel prices.
n Drive to improve aircraft and engine efficiency.
n Environmental impact reduction programmes.
Trends
n The overall aerospace market in 2012 was strong, driven by
increasing rates of civil aircraft production and a generally stable
defence sector.
n In the civil aerospace market, Airbus and Boeing reported
delivery, in aggregate, of a record 1,189 aircraft in 2012 and new
orders totalling 2,252 aircraft.
n Large commercial aircraft backlog is at a new high, as is the firm
engine order book.
n Worldwide defence spending remains subject to budget cutbacks.
GKN has a stable and long term position on key multi-year
programmes which provide a secure production base for the
business despite this projected defence budget pressure.
Outlook
n Passenger air traffic rose around 5% in 2012 and is projected to
grow at a similar pace throughout 2013. Longer term, worldwide
passenger market demand is projected to grow at around 5% per
annum with worldwide cargo traffic market growth at around 6%
per annum.
n Boeing and Airbus forecast that between 28,000 and 34,000 new
single-aisle and wide-bodied aircraft will be required globally over
the next 20 years, with around 40% to support fleet replacement
and approximately 60% to support market growth.
Key market drivers
n Population growth and consumer income.
n Urbanisation leading to infrastructure development and increased
mass transit.
n Raw material demand.
n Resource scarcity.
n Regulatory drive to cut emissions and increase energy efficiency,
leading to alternative fuel and power management technologies.
n Need for significant increased safety, operational efficiency and
reliability.
Trends
n Recovery in European and US agricultural sectors continued
throughout 2012.
n Construction and mining equipment sectors showed further
recovery during the first half of 2012, which slowed from mid-year
due to weaker underlying demand exacerbated by inventory
adjustments through the supply chain.
n Core European industrial markets did not strengthen in 2012,
with PMI indices indicating contraction in manufacturing activity
in most regions.
Outlook
n The global agricultural production required will be 70% higher
than current levels in order to meet demand in 2050
(1)
.
n The global agricultural equipment market is estimated to be worth
around US$125bn and this is expected to grow at an annual rate
of approximately 6% through to 2021.
n The world population is likely to increase by two billion people
from current levels, reaching over nine billion by 2050, driving
increased infrastructure spending and a requirement for higher
natural resource extraction.
n Mass urbanisation around the world continues, with the OECD
estimating that in China alone, a further 300 million people will
move from rural locations into urban areas by 2030.
(1)
According to projections from the UN Food & Agriculture Organisation
Civil aircraft market 2012–201Q
by aircraft type US$ billion
Military aircraft market 2012–201Q
by aircraft type US$ billion
Global agricultural
equipment demand
US$ billion
ÄÅ ÄÅÇ ÄÅÉ ÄÅÑ ÄÅÖ ÄÅÜ ÄÅá
ÅÑÄ
ÅÄ
 Ä
ÖÄ
ÇÄ
Ä
Regional aircra"
Commercial jetliners
Business aircra" Source: Teal
ÄÅ actual
ÄÅÇ-ÄÅá forecast
ÄÅÄ ÄÄ ÄÅÇ ÄÇ ÄÉÄ ÄÉÇ ÄÑÄ ÄÑÇ ÄÇÄ
 
Ç
!
Ñ
É

Ä
Å
Urban
Rural
Source: UN World Urbanisation Prospects: The ÄÅÅ Revision
ÄÅ ÄÅÇ ÄÅÉ ÄÅÑ ÄÅÖ ÄÅÜ ÄÅá
ÑÄ
ÉÑ
ÉÄ
ÇÑ
ÇÄ
Ñ
Ä
ÅÑ
Ñ
ÅÄ
Ä
Trainers/light attack
Military transports
Rotorcra!
Fighters
Source: Teal
ÄÅ actual
ÄÅÇ-ÄÅá forecast
ÄÄÅ ÄÅÇE ÄÅÅ ÄÄÇ ÄÅE
 Ä
ÄÄ
Ä
 Ä
Å Ä
ÅÄÄ
Source: Baird M&A Market Analysis, Agricultural
Equipment Sector, Fall ÄÅ
World population
billion Our divisions .10
GKN Driveline
a world leading supplier of automotive driveline systems and solutions
more about... p  / 26
As a global business serving the world’s leading vehicle manufacturers,
GKN Driveline develops, builds and supplies an extensive range of
automotive driveline products and systems – for use in the most
sophisticated premium vehicles, that demand complex driving
dynamics, to the smallest ultra low-cost cars.
Products
n Constant velocity jointed systems including CV joints and sideshafts.
n All-wheel drive (AWD) systems including propshafts, couplings and
final drive units. 
n Trans-axle solutions including open, limited slip and locking
differentials and electronic torque vectoring products.
n eDrive systems including electric rear axles and transmissions.
Strategy
Our strategy is to leverage our market leading presence and superior
technology to:
n provide innovative driveline systems and solutions, supporting
developing market trends for more fuel efficient vehicles;
n increase our business in high growth regions; and
n serve the needs of strategic customers through a market leading
global footprint.
Number of employees 
22,350
56 locations in
22 countries
Rear drive unit TWINSTER
®
GKN Powder Metallurgy
the world’s largest manufacturer of sintered components
more about... p  / 27
GKN Powder Metallurgy comprises Hoeganaes and GKN Sinter Metals.
Hoeganaes is one of the world’s largest metal powder manufacturers
and produces the metal powder that GKN Sinter Metals and others use
to manufacture precision automotive components for engines,
transmissions, and body and chassis applications. GKN Sinter Metals
also produces a range of components for industrial and consumer
applications.
Products
n Metal powders.
n Sintered components for engines and transmissions, as well as
pumps, bodies and chassis, and compressors.
n Sintered bearings and filters.
n Metal injection moulded components. 
n Soft magnetic components for use in electric motors.
n Sintered components for numerous industrial applications.
Strategy
Our strategy is to exploit powder metal technology, working closely with
our customers to develop ‘design for powder metal’ applications to:
n meet the rapidly developing requirements for high efficiency
engines, advanced transmission applications, weight reduction and
evolving emissions standards; and
n expand the business in high-growth markets, supporting customers
globally.
Number of employees
6,600
34 locations in
14 countries
Variable valve
timing assembly .11
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
GKN Aerospace
a first tier supplier to the global aviation industry
more about... p  / 28
GKN Aerospace is a world leading global first tier supplier of airframe
and engine structures, components, assemblies and transparencies to
a wide range of aircraft and engine prime contractors and other first tier
suppliers. It operates in three main product areas: aerostructures,
engine components and sub-systems, and special products.
Products
n Integrated aerostructures, including wing/empennage and flight
control surface assemblies and fuselage structures.
n Fixed and rotating propulsion products for aircraft engines, fan cases,
engine components, exhaust systems and nacelles.
n Transparencies including specially coated cockpit and cabin windows. 
n Niche products such as ice protection, fuel systems and flotation
devices.
Strategy
Our strategy is to focus investment in core market technology
development and application to:
n exploit our strong positions on existing programmes for new aircraft
platforms, and pursue long-term contracts on selective high-growth
and long-running platforms;
n deploy new technologies for future commercial and defence aircraft,
to improve fuel efficiency, reduce emissions and minimise the
environmental impact of aviation; 
n expand into adjacent markets with similar product technologies and
manufacturing capabilities; and
n expand our global footprint.
Number of employees
11,300
35 locations in
R countries
GKN Land Systems
a leading supplier of power management solutions and services
more about... p  / 30
GKN Land Systems is a leading supplier of technology differentiated
power management solutions and services. It designs, manufactures
and supplies products and services for the agricultural, construction,
mining and utility vehicle markets and key industrial segments,
offering integrated powertrain solutions.
Products
n Electro-mechanical power management devices such as electro-
magnetic brakes, engineered flexible couplings, clutches,
driveshafts and gear technology.
n Sensors, actuators and controls.
n Single and multi-piece steel and aluminium wheels.
n Structures and chassis systems.
n Aftermarket parts and remanufacturing for passenger cars,
commercial trucks, agricultural and construction vehicles, and
industry applications.
Strategy
Our strategy is to be a global leader in high technology power
management solutions to the world’s original equipment manufacturers
on a platform of integrated powertrain systems and services, including:
n developing capability in integrated electro-mechanical systems;
n expanding the business for existing products into new markets
through increased intelligent engineering; and
n improving customer performance by offering safe, efficient and
reliable power management, together with increased electrification
and use of lightweight structures.
Number of employees
5,650
39 locations in
1O countries
Dual clutch
for industrial
transmissions
Turbine exhaust case What we do and how we create value
GKN is a global engineering business.
We aim to create long-term and sustainable
shareholder value in the form of steadily
growing earnings and dividends through
the delivery of sustained growth in sales,
profitability and cash generation.
Strategy and business model .12
We have excellent positions in long-term global growth markets: automotive, aerospace and land systems,
and we build strong relationships with global original equipment manufacturers and prime contractors.
We aim to create value and achieve growth that is greater than the growth of the markets in which we
operate, through four strategic priorities:
Leadership
Leading in our chosen markets
We aim to lead in our chosen markets through innovation, enhanced
customer service and delivery, and scale to create a strong business
with significant opportunities for growth, both organically and
through value-enhancing strategic acquisitions.
see pages… p / 14-15
Technology
Differentiating ourselves through technology
GKN delivers innovative technologies that help our customers stay
ahead in their markets and help us maintain our competitive edge,
ensuring we can remain in higher value markets. We work with our
customers to develop new technology, driven by global trends such
as the low-carbon agenda, electrification, urbanisation and
population growth.
see pages… p / 18-19
Global footprint
Leveraging a strong global presence
GKN is an international business with a global footprint from which we
serve our customer base. By continually developing our geographic
spread we aim to expand into growing markets and build long-lasting
and mutually beneficial customer relationships that increase our
market share.
see pages… p / 16-17
Sustainability
Driving operational excellence 
We aim to operate in a sustainable, ethical, efficient and safe manner.
We have a strong culture of operational excellence, based on innovative
engineering and Lean manufacturing skills. Through continuous
improvement processes, we focus on delivering exceptional quality and
customer service. At the same time, we aim to be an employer of choice
with a high-performance culture, motivated people and outstanding
leaders. Our goal is to have a positive impact on the environment and
communities in which we operate.
see pages… p / 20-21
Our strategy Delivering high-quality products
We deliver high-quality products
to the right place, at the right
time, strengthening customer
relationships and creating
strong financial returns.
Designing new products and solutions
Investment in technology, together with
an understanding of market trends and
customer needs, results in innovative,
high-quality products that are efficient,
sustainable and cost effective for
our customers.
Winning new business
The combination of innovative 
solutions, GKN’s manufacturing 
footprint and engineering
capability, enables us to win new
business by offering solutions
for our customers.
Sourcing raw materials
Sustainably-sourced raw materials
from long-standing suppliers,
together with supply management
expertise, are crucial to GKN.
Our business model is driven by, and supports the achievement of, our strategy to create long-term
value for our shareholders and enables us to achieve our strategic objectives.
.13
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Business model
Shareholder
return
Long-term shareholder
value is provided in the
form of steadily growing 
earnings and dividends.
improvement
Continuous
Outstanding
employees
Superior
technology
responsibility
Corporate
footprint
Global
Values
Our
Applying Lean manufacturing
A safe working environment and
continuous improvements in our
production processes, with minimised 
use of resources and environmental
impact, are a key focus in our
facilities around the world. Strategy in action .14
1
Leading in chosen markets
Focusing on innovation and delivering exceptional customer
service ensures we are able to lead in our markets, creating a
strong business with significant opportunities for growth.
All-wheel drive (AWD)
GKN Driveline is a world leader 
in all-wheel drive (AWD) systems
offering its customers a range of
products spanning all aspects of
AWD technology. Following the
acquisition of Getrag Driveline
Products in 2011, GKN Driveline
has expanded its footprint in
major geographic markets and
continues to win business with
vehicle manufacturers across
the world.
This strong leadership platform, together with an increase in the
production of AWD vehicles, means there are significant further 
growth opportunities ahead.
Assembling AWD products for testing in Lohmar, Germany
GKN Driveline’s AWD product range
ECO
²
Booster
Power Transfer Unit
Viscous Coupling
Propshaft solutions
ECO
²
TWINSTER
®
Final Drive Unit
Electro Magnetic 
Control Device (EMCD
®
) .1N
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Using lasers to assist in the manufacture of a composite A400M rear outer spar at GKN Aerospace, Western Approach, UK
A GP7000 with engine parts manufactured by
GKN Aerospace Engine Systems
Unitised one-way clutch
Creating a new world leader
A new global leader in aero engine components, GKN
Aerospace Engine Systems, has been created with
GKN’s acquisition of Volvo Aero, the aero engine
division of AB Volvo.
GKN’s composite leadership and Volvo Aero’s strong
metallic technology together provide a unique
offering to customers who are focused on lightweight,
high performance engine solutions. The newly formed
GKN Aerospace Engine Systems designs, engineers
and manufactures components and sub-assemblies
for aircraft engine turbines and supplies all the major
aero engine manufacturers.
Positions on existing platforms and new programmes,
together with a strong technology pipeline, offer a
long-term platform for growth in this market.
Design excellence
Proving itself a leader in its sector, GKN Powder Metallurgy
received two Design Excellence Awards in 2012.
GKN was awarded the top prize for its variable valve timing
(VVT) rotor adapter assembly, which facilitates a reduction
in machining, minimised waste and higher strength, and
the highest prize in the automotive transmission category
for a unitised one-way clutch (OWC) module made for
Chrysler, in which production costs were reduced by 20%
and the volume rate increased by 50%.
The Metal Powder Industries Federation’s awards recognise
designs with engineering benefits such as net shape,
precision, innovative fabrication methods, production
efficiency, energy and materials savings, and cost reduction.
Composite leadership
GKN Aerospace is at the heart of developing
advanced composite technologies that revolutionise
the way aircraft structures are produced,
dramatically improving performance and reducing
environmental impact.
It is participating in a number of UK research
programmes looking at advanced wing and engine
structures for the aircraft of the future, ensuring GKN
Aerospace remains at the forefront of composite
technology development. 
VVT rotor adapter assembly Strategy in action .1O
2
Leveraging a strong
global presence
Our strong global presence positions us well to serve our
international customer base and creates a platform from 
which we can access fast growing markets.
China
China is a key growth market for GKN.
It is expected to become the world’s largest
economy within the next 20 years. It is now
the biggest car market in the world and
production growth is forecast to continue
at a rate of 6.5% per annum until 2020.
Testing at Shanghai GKN’s Changchun plant
GKN Driveline
GKN Driveline expanded two of its production
facilities in China during 2012.
The plants in Chongqing and Wuhan, both of
which predominantly supply CVJ Systems to
customers across China, had production
capacity expanded.
The extension of the Wuhan plant, which
originally opened in 2009, covers over 80,000
square feet and involves the installation of two
precision forging lines. It is expected to start
production during 2013 and will have an annual
capacity of 11 million precision forged parts.
GKN Driveline currently has seven plants in
China which employ nearly 4,000 people, with
a total production capacity of 12 million
sideshafts.
Liuzhou
Shanghai
Danyang
Wuhan
China
Mengzhou
Taicang
Changchun
Chongqing
Key
GKN Driveline
GKN Powder Metallurgy
GKN Land Systems
Future development of
GKN Powder Metallurgy
Other businesses
(Production facilities)
Yizheng .1P
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
GKN Land Systems
GKN Wheels, part of the GKN Land Systems division, invested in its mining wheel production
facility in Liuzhou, Southern China.
Production capacity and process capability at the facility have been optimised to meet the needs
of its customers as the global mining industry continues to grow, offering improved efficiency,
product performance and quality. This improved capability, combined with newly launched Swift
Wheel technology and a recently signed five year distribution agreement with Rimtec Pty Ltd in the
Asia Pacific region, presents significant opportunities for growth in mining wheel sales.
With vehicle production in North America growing rapidly, Mexico has become
a significant growth market for GKN and the expansion of facilities in the
country is allowing GKN to strengthen further its North American customer base.
GKN Driveline opened a new precision forge in Celaya in June 2012. With an
investment of US$11.5 million, the 28,300 square metre facility will produce
annually over 15 million forgings, the basic building block of a CVJ System. It is
the third forge the division has built in Celaya since 1979. Today, GKN Driveline
employs 1,700 people at three facilities in Mexico and plans further significant
investment over the next three years.
GKN Aerospace also extended its production activities in Mexico during the
year, establishing a new facility manufacturing composite airframe structures.
Sintered VVT stator being visually checked by an employee of GKN Powder Metallurgy, Danyang
GKN Powder Metallurgy
The ground breaking for a new
US$26 million plant in Yizheng
signalled GKN Powder Metallurgy’s
commitment to future development
in China.
The manufacturing facility will cover
an area of 30,000 square metres
when construction is complete in
2013. It will produce small precision
parts for automotive applications in
engine, transmission, body and
chassis, as well as a range of
components for other industrial and
consumer applications. Production
is expected to start by Q4 2013 and,
upon completion, the plant will
have the capacity for 100 million
components per year.
Quality engineering department at
Shanghai GKN’s Changchun plant
Mexico
Mexicali
Mexico
Mexico City
Villagrán
Celaya
San Luis Potosi
Key
GKN Driveline
GKN Aerospace Strategy in action .1Q
3
Differentiating ourselves 
through technology
Delivering innovative technology that helps our customers stay
ahead in their markets and helps us to remain ahead of our
competitors, ensures we can remain in higher value markets.
Design for
powder metallurgy
Designing components and systems from powder
metal allows engineers to work outside the
restrictions normally associated with traditional
metal working technologies.
The result is increased product performance,
with reduced weight and reduced complexity of
manufacture, all made possible by applying
inventive processes to custom designed materials.
To exploit the opportunities associated with
powder metallurgy, components and systems are
designed with the process in mind, moving away
from the “build to print” approach often applied
with classic manufacturing techniques. As
engineers become conversant with the extensive
material, geometry and process options now
available, they are able to optimise product design.
Final automated quality check at GKN Powder Metallurgy, Bonn Integrated carrier housing and one way clutch assembly for Ford
Motor Company
Future wing
technologies
Future wing technologies are now
focusing on achieving a step
change in performance, cost and
manufacturing rate for the next
generation of aircraft.
GKN is taking part in a number of
large scale technology projects for
most major wing development
programmes. One of which is
laminar flow wings, a completely
new wing concept, being
developed as part of the EU Clean
Sky Programme, which changes
the way air flows over the wing
thus reducing aerodynamic drag
and fuel burn.
GKN Aerospace is also involved in
wing technology programmes that
are developing composite wing
structures for low-cost, high-rate
manufacture and advanced
metallic wing components using
additive manufacture.
With these technologies all
reaching maturity for application
over the coming decade, GKN is
well placed to take a leading
position on the next generation
of wing development.
An award-winning component
A design for powder metallurgy approach was
applied on a project for the Ford Motor Company
and resulted in weight savings, improved
transmission through the ability to handle higher
torque loads, and reduced complexity by using
fewer components.
Producing an automatic planetary transmission
carrier for the Ford F250 Super Duty truck six-speed
transmission, GKN Powder Metallurgy manufactured
an integrated carrier housing and one way clutch
assembly consisting of five powder metal parts.
This award-winning part was one of the largest, most
complex powder metal components ever created. .1R
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
PTU (power transfer unit) disconnect All-wheel drive testing rig at GKN Driveline in Lohmar, Germany
Heavy duty synchroniser unit
Disconnecting for fuel
efficiency
Technology developed by GKN Driveline
more efficiently disconnects virtually all the
all-wheel drive (AWD) components from the
drivetrain on a vehicle when they are not
required. Unlike permanent AWD systems,
which distribute torque to all four wheels on
a vehicle, this technology automatically
recognises if AWD is required and, if it is, the
seamless connection occurs in a fraction of a
second. This gives our customers the benefit
of AWD with the efficiency of two wheel drive.
With the key driver for new AWD technology
being the need to reduce both fuel
consumption and CO
2
emissions, GKN Driveline
is able to help manufacturers eliminate the
traditional fuel economic penalty of an AWD
vehicle through disconnect technology.
A new milestone in
transmission technology
The oil and gas industry’s first double clutch
technology for industrial gearboxes has
been developed by GKN Land Systems.
Created by GKN Stromag to meet the needs
and requirements of a major engine
manufacturer, it transfers high torque in a
compact design, handling up to 1200Nm
input torque and up to 2mw of power. Used
in the oil and gas industry, between the
diesel engine and oil fracturing pump, it is
the first of its kind.
The synchroniser multiplate design is much
stronger than the more traditional model.
Additional features were built into the design
to improve shift performance and reduce
noise and wear, thus increasing product life.
GKN developed the system and verification
tests, provided prototypes and has been
awarded its first order through its total
solution approach to product design and
manufacture.
GKN Aerospace Engine Systems has
developed and will manufacture the
Intermediate Compressor Case (ICC) for
the Trent XWB 84K engine. The ICC is a
lightweight design provided by GKN
fabrication technologies, introducing new
welding methods and featuring advanced
additive manufacturing technology. Strategy in action .20
4
Driving operational excellence
At the heart of GKN is a strong culture of operational excellence. Based
on innovative engineering and Lean manufacturing skills, this enables
us to produce high quality components and systems that are efficient,
sustainable and cost effective for our customers.
Operating the cold-forming press at GKN Driveline,
Trier, Germany
Operating the computer-controlled press to produce the forgings at
GKN Driveline, Trier, Germany
A thinkSAFE! briefing taking place at GKN Aerospace’s Western
Approach facility in the UK
Automated flowline offers new efficiencies
GKN Driveline has created a new high-speed flowline that automates the production of precision
forgings used in the manufacture of CVJ Systems, with an investment of over £16 million in its facility
in Trier, Germany.
This investment helps minimise energy consumption and inventory levels, improve safety and efficiency
by removing transportation needs, and allows GKN Driveline to be more responsive to its customers.
The automated flowline takes steel bars and transforms them into completed forgings ready to dispatch to
customers. The steel bars are heated to 950°c and then passed into a new press where the actual forging
takes place. The flow then continues with controlled cooling and shotblasting processes, followed by a
cold-forming press, cleaning and quality control.
Increasing the focus on safety
A programme known as thinkSAFE! was rolled out
across GKN in 2012 to support the delivery of the
highest standards of safety, a key priority for the
Group. Previously implemented in GKN Driveline,
it played an important role in helping to reduce
accidents, improving employee behaviour towards
safety and engaging employees to create a safe
working environment.
thinkSAFE! is focused on establishing a safety
process and culture in all of our locations. It helps
employees identify hazards using various tools such
as safety briefings, accident video animations and
sharing of lessons learned. .21
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
In the quest to increase value for customers,
GKN Land Systems Rockford has deployed
Lean principles throughout its operation
involving all employees. Continuous flow
production has replaced batch processing,
with positive effects on quality and delivery.
Employee involvement encourages continuous communication, involvement and feedback.
Improvements are easier to see in manufacturing areas but cross functional teams continue
to play a pivotal role in office process improvements, resulting in exceptional performance on
key metrics, such as a 30% increase in inventory turnover and positive customer feedback.
During 2012 the Rockford plant reached over 100 days with 100% on-time delivery.
Probing the A400M spar to check material condition
prior to machining 
Continuous flow production at GKN Land Systems, Rockford, USA
Meeting extreme tolerances
At its Western Approach site near Bristol, UK, GKN
Aerospace produces composite wings spars using
state of the art carbon fibre fabrication techniques.
These spars are 27 metres long with a tolerance of
approximately the depth of two sheets of paper.
Constant Velocity Joints manufactured by GKN Driveline
Managing an extensive supply chain
Every day, GKN Driveline buys around 10 million parts
from over 1,000 suppliers in more than 40 countries.
It makes over two million components at 45 manufacturing
sites globally, with a default rate of less than 0.001%, and
ships more than 300,000 parts to some 200 different
customer locations.
Parts for shock absorbers following the sintering process at
GKN Powder Metallurgy, Bonn 
Delivering billions of products
GKN Powder Metallurgy manufactures around six
billion parts per year for more than 3,000 customers
at over 30 manufacturing locations on five continents.
Lean manufacturing adds value Method of calculation
Management sales
(c)
measured both in absolute terms and 
on an underlying basis (i.e. excluding the effects of currency
translation, acquisitions and divestments) relative to the 
prior year.
Target
To achieve growth rates at both a Group and divisional level 
(in absolute terms and on an underlying basis) in excess of 
the growth in our major automotive, aerospace and land 
systems markets.
2012 performance
Group management sales
(c)
grew by 13% on an absolute basis 
and 6% on an underlying basis. The corresponding figures 
for GKN Driveline were increases of 16% and 7% respectively, 
for GKN Powder Metallurgy 3% and 7% respectively, for 
GKN Aerospace 20% and 8% respectively, and for GKN Land
Systems 5% and 1% respectively.
Method of calculation
Management earnings for the Group (as set out in note 3
(a)
to the financial statements) divided by the weighted average
number of ordinary shares in issue (excluding treasury shares).
Target
To achieve absolute growth in EPS each year and in the longer
term, recognising the nature and cyclicality of our major markets,
to achieve average annual compound growth of at least 6%.
2012 performance
Management EPS in 2012 was 26.5p compared with 22.6p in 2011,
an increase of 17%.
Method of calculation
Management trading profit
(c)
as a percentage of management
sales
(c)
.
Target
To achieve medium-term trading margins of between 8% and 10%
for GKN Driveline, 9% and 11% for GKN Powder Metallurgy, 11%
and 13% for GKN Aerospace and 8% and 11% for GKN Land
Systems, giving an overall Group trading margin of between 8%
and 10%.
2012 performance
The Group trading margin in 2012 of 8.1% reflects good
performance in all four divisions. 
Excluding the effect of current year acquisitions, the divisional
trading margins were: GKN Driveline – 7 .3%, GKN Powder
Metallurgy – 10.0%, GKN Aerospace – 11.2% and GKN Land
Systems – 9.4%.
Method of calculation
Cash flows from operating activities (excluding special pension
payments and before working capital refinancing for Volvo Aero)
after capital expenditure and including fixed asset disposal
proceeds, receipts of government capital grants and refundable
advances and non-controlling interest dividends.
Target
To generate positive free cash flow sufficient to cover dividend
payments and provide funding resources to support organic and
acquisitive earnings growth.
2012 performance
Free cash flow amounted to £225 million, following a continued
focus on operating cash generation throughout 2012 offset by
an increase in capital expenditure.
Key performance indicators .22
Financial KPIs
Sales growth
(a)
Earnings per share (EPS)
(b)
Trading margins
(a)
Free cash flow
ÄÅ ÇÉ,ÑÄÖm
ÄÅÅ
ÄÅÄ
ÄÄÇ
ÄÄÉ ÑÖ,ÜÅám
ÑÖ,ÖàÖm
Ñà,ÖÇm
ÑÜ,ÅÅm
ÄÅ Ç.Ép
ÄÅÅ
ÄÅÄ
ÄÄÇ
ÄÄÉ   ÅÑ.Äp
Ö.Üp
Ä.Üp
.Ñp
ÄÅ Ç.Å%
ÄÅÅ
ÄÅÄ
ÄÄÇ
ÄÄÉ Ñ.É%
Ö.Ü%
á.à%
á.á%
ÄÅ ÇÉm
ÄÅÅ
ÄÅÄ
ÄÄÇ
ÄÄÉ ÑÖÇm
ÑÅÜám
ÑÅÉÉm
ÑÅàâm Method of calculation
Ratio of management trading profit
(c)
to average total net assets
including the appropriate share of joint ventures but excluding
current and deferred tax, cash, borrowings, post-employment
obligations and derivative financial instruments.
Target
To achieve ROIC at both a Group and divisional level which
exceeds the weighted cost of capital of the Group (12% as a 
pre-tax threshold and between 9% and 10% on a post-tax basis).
The Group target is to achieve ROIC of 20% or above (pre-tax).
2012 performance
Group ROIC remained stable at approximately 18%* in 2012 as a
result of improved profitability against a relatively stable asset
base, including the first time impact of the acquisitions in 2011.
Divisional ROIC performance was as follows:
GKN Driveline – 16.0%, GKN Powder Metallurgy – 19.8%,
GKN Aerospace – 23.0% and GKN Land Systems – 21.3%.
* excluding 2012 acquisition
Method of calculation
Amount declared as payable by way of dividend divided by the
number of ordinary shares in issue (excluding treasury shares).
Target
A progressive dividend policy aligning dividends with the long
term trend in management earnings and reflecting growth in
earnings per share and free cash flow generation, including the
pension deficit funding.
2012 performance
2012 saw progress in the dividend payment, reflecting strong
earnings and cash performance. The dividend for the year, at 7 .2p,
is covered 3.7 times by management earnings.
.23
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Non-financial KPIs
Return on average invested capital (ROIC)
(a)
Dividend per share
(b)
ÄÅ ÅÇ.Å%
ÄÅÅ
ÄÅÄ
ÄÄÇ
ÄÄÉ Ç.Å%
Ñ.%
ÅÖ.Ä%
ÅÉ.Ü%
ÄÅ Ç.p
ÄÅÅ
ÄÅÄ
ÄÄÇ
ÄÄÉ Ñ.Äp
Äp
Ö.Äp
Ü.Äp
(a) 2009 was previously restated following the decision to exit the Axles business of the former OffHighway segment.
(b) As restated in 2008 for the bonus issue inherent in the July 2009 rights issue.
(c) Management sales and management trading profit are defined on page 24.
Health and safety
performance
Method of calculation
Accident frequency rate (AFR) measured as
the number of lost time accidents per 1,000
employees and accident severity rate (ASR)
measured as the number of days/shifts lost
due to accidents and occupational ill
health per 1,000 employees.
Target
Zero preventable accidents.
2012 performance
AFR and ASR both showed a reduction in
2012, to 2.1 (2011: 2.3) and 51 (2011: 59)
respectively. More detail can be found in
the health and safety section of the
sustainability report.
Environmental
performance
Method of calculation
Energy consumption and associated CO
2
emissions, waste generation, waste
recycled and water consumption measured
on a divisional basis per unit of production
and against sales in GKN Aerospace.
Target
Improved year-on-year performance across
all KPIs.
2012 performance
Environmental performance in 2012 was
mixed, with GKN Aerospace and GKN
Powder Metallurgy performing strongly,
while GKN Land Systems and GKN Driveline
improved in some measures but worsened
slightly in others. See the sustainability
report for further information.
Employee turnover
Employee turnover is a measure of success
in retaining our people and achieving our
goal of being an employer of choice.
Voluntary turnover is calculated as a
percentage of total permanent employees. 
In 2012, voluntary turnover, which excludes
compulsory redundancies and
terminations, was 3.84% (2011: 3.97%). Review of performance .24
In this section
Group performance page 25
Divisional performance page 25
Other financial information page 31
Another strong year for GKN
with record profits in all
four divisions
Definitions
In this review, financial information, unless otherwise stated, is presented on a
management basis which aggregates the sales and trading profit of subsidiaries
(excluding certain subsidiary businesses sold and closed) with the Group’s share of the
sales and trading profit of joint ventures. References to trading margins are to trading
profit expressed as a percentage of sales. Management profit or loss before tax is
management trading profit less net subsidiary interest payable and receivable and the
Group’s share of net interest payable and receivable and taxation of joint ventures. These
figures better reflect performance of continuing businesses. Where appropriate, reference
is made to organic results which exclude the impact of acquisitions/divestments as well
as currency translation on the results of overseas operations. Operating cash flow is cash
generated from operations adjusted for capital expenditure, government capital grants,
proceeds from disposal of fixed assets and government refundable advances. Free cash
flow is operating cash flow including interest, tax, joint venture dividends, own shares
purchased and amounts paid to non-controlling interests, but excluding dividends paid
to GKN shareholders. Return on average invested capital (ROIC) is management trading
profit as a percentage of average total net assets of continuing subsidiaries and joint
ventures excluding current and deferred tax, net debt, post-employment obligations and
derivative financial instruments.
Exchange rates
Exchange rates used for currencies most relevant to the Group’s operations are:
Average Year End
2012 2011 2012 2011
Euro 1.23 1.15 1.23 1.20
US dollar 1.58 1.60 1.63 1.55
The approximate impact on 2012 trading profit of subsidiaries and joint ventures of a 1%
movement in the average rate would be euro – £1 million, US dollar – £2 million. .2N
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Group performance
Results
2012 2011 Change
GKN Volvo Headline Organic
base Aero Total £m % £m %
Sales (£m) 6,713 191 6,904 6,112 792 13 345 6
Trading Profit (£m) 564 (7) 557 468 89 19 78 17
Trading Margin 8.4% 8.1% 7.7%
ROIC 18.1% 18.3%
Management sales increased 13% in the year ended 31 December 2012 to £6,904 million
(2011: £6,112 million). The effect of currency translation was £133 million adverse and there
was a £602 million benefit from acquisitions which was partly offset by the £22 million
reduction due to disposals. Excluding these items, the organic increase was £345 million
(6%). Within this figure, GKN Driveline was £187 million higher, GKN Powder Metallurgy
increased by £57 million, GKN Aerospace was £111 million higher, GKN Land Systems was up
£6 million while Other Businesses were £16 million lower.
Management trading profit increased £89 million to £557 million (2011: £468 million). After
adjusting for the adverse currency translational impact of £12 million, the £19 million 2011
impact from the Gallatin incident and the profit from acquisitions of £23 million, the organic
increase was £54 million (12%). Within this figure, GKN Driveline was £23 million higher,
GKN Powder Metallurgy increased by £18 million, GKN Aerospace (excluding Volvo Aero)
was £10 million higher, GKN Land Systems increased £10 million and Other Businesses was
£7 million lower. The initial contribution from Volvo Aero was an underlying trading profit of
£15 million, which, after incurring £22 million of acquisition and restructuring related charges,
became a trading loss of £7 million.
Group trading margin increased to 8.1% (2011: 7 .7%). Return on average invested capital (ROIC),
was 18.1%, excluding Volvo Aero (2011: 18.3%; or 16.2% including the pro forma impact of
acquisitions).
Divisional performance
As shown in the table below, the major automotive markets of Japan, North America, China
and India experienced increased production relative to 2011, while Brazil was flat and Europe
declined. Overall, global production volumes increased 6.1% in 2012 to 81.5 million vehicles
(2011: 76.8 million).
Car and light vehicle production 2012 2011 Growth
(millions of units) (%)
Europe 19.2 20.2 -5.0
North America 15.4 13.1 17.6
Brazil 3.2 3.2 0.0
Japan 9.4 7.9 19.0
China 18.3 17.3 5.8
India 3.8 3.6 5.6
Others 12.2 11.5 6.1
Total – global 81.5 76.8 6.1
Source: IHS Automotive
Demand for premium vehicles continued to grow with production in Europe benefiting from
continued strength in export demand, while in North America the recovery continued.
Japanese production rebounded from the impact of the 2011 earthquake and sales were
supported by government incentives. Demand for smaller vehicles in Europe continued to
decline, particularly in the weaker economies of Southern Europe.
External forecasts indicate that global production in 2013 will increase by approximately 1.6%
to 82.8 million vehicles. The major markets where production is expected to grow fastest
include China (9%), India (8%), Brazil (3%) and North America (3%). Production in Europe is
expected to contract by 3% and to decline by 12% in Japan.
Ä,ÅÄÇm
GKN Driveline 
 !"m
GKN Powder Metallurgy
#,!!$m
GKN Aerospace
%ÄÄm
GKN Land Systems
 Çm
Other businesses
Management sales
ÄÅÇm
GKN Driveline 
 !m
GKN Powder Metallurgy
Total (including corporate costs and other businesses) ÇÇ!m
"!#m
GKN Aerospace
  m
GKN Land Systems
Management trading profit Review of performance .2O
GKN Driveline
GKN Driveline is a world leading supplier of automotive driveline
systems and solutions. As a global business serving the world’s
leading vehicle manufacturers, it develops, builds and supplies an
extensive range of automotive driveline products and systems –
for use in the most sophisticated premium vehicles, that demand
complex driving dynamics, to the smallest ultra low-cost cars.
The key financial results for the year are as follows:
2012 2011* Change
Headline Organic
£m % £m %
Sales (£m) 3,236 2,795 441 16 187 7
Trading Profit (£m) 235 195 40 21 26 14
Trading Margin 7.3% 7.0%
ROIC 16.0% 17.0%
* Getrag Driveline Products was acquired on 30 September 2011 and trading profit in 2011 included acquisition
related charges of £3 million. 
GKN Driveline’s sales increased 16% to £3,236 million (2011: £2,795 million). The adverse
impact of currency translation was £78 million. The additional period of ownership of Getrag
Driveline Products, which was acquired on 30 September 2011, added £339 million of sales
which was partly offset by £7 million lower sales resulting from the sale of GKN Driveline’s
49% share of the Japanese driveshaft sales and distribution joint venture GKN JTEKT Ltd (GTK),
in March 2011. Organic sales increased by £187 million (7%), including Constant Velocity
Jointed (CVJ) Systems which grew 6% and non-CVJ sales which increased by 8%, compared
with global vehicle production which was up 6%.
The Division’s sales are across diverse geographies and platforms. Its market outperformance
was broad based across North America, Europe and China reflecting recent market share gains,
a stronger position in premium vehicles, demand for which continued to be good, and GKN
Driveline’s broadening product mix, particularly with all-wheel drive (AWD) systems. In Japan,
GKN Driveline was affected less than the market generally by the earthquake in 2011 and
therefore did not benefit from the significant bounce back in production volumes in 2012.
Furthermore, many of GKN Driveline’s sales in Japan are AWD products for cars that are exported,
including many to China where a political dispute affected sales of Japanese cars in that country.
Trading profit increased to £235 million (2011: £195 million). The impact of currency translation
was £7 million adverse while the additional period of ownership of Getrag Driveline Products
contributed £21 million. The organic increase in trading profit was £26 million (14%), held back
by slower demand in Japan and Europe, operating inefficiencies in India, increased engineering
costs to support new programmes and helped by the absence of £3 million of one-off Getrag
Driveline Products acquisition charges that reduced profits in 2011. GKN Driveline’s trading
margin was 7 .3% (2011: 7 .0%).
Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets was £159 million (2011: £113 million), 1.3 times
(2011: 1.0 times) depreciation. Return on average invested capital was 16.0% (2011: 17 .0%;
or 14.7% including the pro forma impact of Getrag Driveline Products).
During the year, new business wins continued across GKN Driveline’s product groups,
including the CVJ Systems business, significant customer wins in AWD systems, strong gains
in electronic differential lockers (which is part of Transaxle Solutions) and eAxle wins for
hybrid vehicles (which is part of eDrive).
GKN Driveline’s expansion plans also continued with the addition of its third precision forge
in Celaya, Mexico with an annual capacity of more than 15 million forgings, the expansion
of two of its plant in China and the opening of a new plant in Pune, India. A new innovative
manufacturing flow line was also opened at Trier, Germany which automates the production
of precision forgings. This process increases safety and efficiency and reduces inventory and
energy consumption.
Ä,ÄÅÇm
Europe
 Å m
North America
!Ä m
Japan
"Ä#m
South America
"Å#m
China
#Åm
India
Ä$Äm
Other
GKN Driveline sales by region of origin
Ä,ÅÇÉm
CVJ Systems
Ä m
eDrive Systems
ÅÇ!m
AWD Systems
"#Äm
Transaxle Solutions
Ç#m
Other
GKN Driveline sales by product group
Testing an eDrive gearbox at GKN Driveline .2P
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
ÄÅÇm
GKN
Sinter Metals
 – Americas
Ä !m
GKN
Sinter Metals 
– Europe
"#m
GKN Sinter Metals 
– Rest of world
#Å$m
Hoeganaes
GKN Powder Metallurgy sales*
* GKN Sinter Metals sales by region of origin
ÄÅÇm
Sintered
components
 – automotive
  m
Sintered
components
– industrial
!"#m
Hoeganaes 
– metal powder
GKN Powder Metallurgy sales
by product type
The key financial results for the year are as follows:
2012 2011 Change
Headline Organic
£m % £m %
Sales (£m) 874 845 29 3 57 7
Trading profit (£m) 87 72 15 21 18 26
Trading margin 10.0% 8.5%
ROIC 19.8% 16.7%
GKN Powder Metallurgy sales were £874 million (2011: £845 million), an increase of 3%. The
negative impact of currency translation was £28 million. Organic sales increased by £57 million
(7%). Hoeganaes increased the number of tons of powder shipped by 9% driven by strong
automotive markets in North America. Organic sales for GKN Sinter Metals increased 10% in
North America, due to strong automotive production, and 1% in Europe, where automotive
production fell 5%. Strong growth was achieved in China and modest growth achieved in
India and Brazil where vehicle markets were more volatile.
Overall, GKN Powder Metallurgy reported a trading profit of £87 million (2011: £72 million).
The divisional trading margin was 10.0% (2011: 8.5%).
Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets was £47 million (2011: £44 million). The ratio of
capital expenditure to depreciation was 1.5 times (2011: 1.4 times). Return on average invested
capital was 19.8% (2011: 16.7%), reflecting the improvement in profitability.
During the year GKN Powder Metallurgy continued its strong product development and was
awarded £120 million of annualised sales in new business.
Its technology and quality was also recognised externally, receiving Design Excellence
Awards for its variable valve timing rotor adapter assembly and a unitised one-way clutch
module. In addition, four supplier quality excellence awards from General Motors (GM)
Powertrain were received, placing GKN Sinter Metals within the top 2% of all GM Powertrain
suppliers and in Europe it was awarded “Supplier of the year 2012” by INA Schaeffler.
Work began on a new manufacturing facility in Yizheng, China, as GKN Powder Metallurgy
continues to build its global footprint.
GKN Powder Metallurgy is the world’s largest manufacturer
of sintered components. GKN Powder Metallurgy comprises
Hoeganaes and GKN Sinter Metals. Hoeganaes is one of the world’s
largest metal powder manufacturers and produces the metal
powder that GKN Sinter Metals and others use to manufacture
precision automotive components for engines, transmissions, and
body and chassis applications. GKN Sinter Metals also produces
a range of components for industrial and consumer applications.
GKN Powder Metallurgy
3D machine for measuring electrodes at GKN Sinter Metals ÄÄÅm
Aerostructures
 !"m
Engine
components and 
sub-systems
#"!m
Special products
GKN Aerospace sales by product
Review of performance .2Q
GKN Aerospace
GKN Aerospace is a world leading global first tier supplier of
airframe and engine structures, components, assemblies and
transparencies to a wide range of aircraft and engine prime
contractors and other first tier suppliers. It operates in three
main product areas: aerostructures, engine components and
sub-systems, and special products.
The overall aerospace market remained positive in 2012 driven by a growing commercial
aircraft market partly offset by a more subdued military market. The division has increased
its sales for commercial air transport to 64%, with military representing 36%.
In the commercial aerospace market, preliminary data indicate that passenger air traffic rose
around 5% in 2012 and is projected to continue to grow at a similar pace throughout 2013.
Longer term worldwide passenger market demand is projected to grow at around 5% with
worldwide cargo traffic market growth at around 6%.
Commercial aircraft production is expected to grow strongly with Airbus and Boeing continuing
to project the procurement of new single aisle and wide-bodied aircraft at between 28,000
and 34,000 by 2030. Both companies continue to benefit from increasing deliveries and
record order backlog. This sustained order growth led both Airbus and Boeing to increase
production levels for single aisle and wide-bodied aircraft. The business jet market is also
showing some signs of recovery.
Worldwide military spending remains under pressure, largely driven by cutbacks throughout
Europe and likely reductions in the US Defense Budget. GKN’s position on key multi-year
programmes such as the UH-60 Blackhawk helicopter, F/A-18 Super Hornet, F-15 Eagle and
C-130J Super Hercules provide a stable production base despite potential budget pressure
and delay in the F-35 programme ramp-up.
The key financial results for the year are as follows:
2012 2011 Change
GKN Volvo Headline Organic
Aerospace Aero Total £m % £m %
Sales (£m) 1,584 191 1,775 1,481 294 20 111 8
Trading Profit* (£m) 177 (7) 170 166 42 10 6
Trading Margin 11.2% 9.6% 11.2%
ROIC 23.0% 22.7%
* Volvo Aero trading profit includes restructuring and acquisition related charges of £22 million.
GKN Aerospace sales of £1,775 million were £294 million higher than the prior year (2011:
£1,481 million). The impact from currency on translation of sales was £7 million positive.
The first time contribution of Volvo Aero acquired on 1 October 2012 was £191 million and sales
from disposals was £15 million negative, representing sales from the Engineering Services
division, which was sold in November 2011. The organic increase in sales of £111 million
represented an 8% increase. This level of increase reflects 2% lower production rates on
military programmes, such as the C-17 , F-15 and F-18, being more than offset by 15% higher
commercial sales, particularly for the Airbus A320, A330 and the Boeing 787 .
Integration of inner, mid and outer spars for an A350 fixed
trailing edge wing Ä%
Civil
 %
Military
GKN Aerospace sales by market
.2R
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
As previously reported with the 2012 half year results, as part of the finalisation of commercial
contracts relating to the Filton acquisition, it has been agreed that GKN Aerospace would
cease managing a supply chain contract on behalf of Airbus from the end of 2012, which
has an annual sales value of around £100 million. However, its trading profit will only
reduce slightly and its trading margin will improve, due to the lower margin earned on this
pass-through business.
Trading profit in 2012 increased by £4 million to £170 million (2011: £166 million). The impact
from currency on translation of results was £1 million positive and the lower than anticipated
volumes through the new A350 facility reduced profit by around £11 million. Volvo Aero
generated a trading profit of £15 million before incurring £22 million of one-off restructuring
and transaction costs. The inventory fair-value adjustment and pension scheme curtailment
credit in relation to Volvo Aero are taken outside of management figures and details can be
found on page 31 and page 34, respectively. The trading margin was unchanged at 11.2%,
excluding Volvo Aero.
Capital expenditure on tangible assets in 2012 amounted to £42 million (2011: £59 million)
which represents 1.0 times depreciation (2011: 1.7 times). Expenditure on intangible assets,
mainly initial non-recurring programme costs, was £50 million (2011: £35 million). £21 million
of the capital expenditure and non-recurring programme costs, including £3 million of
capitalised borrowing costs, relate to the A350 wing assembly and trailing edge programme.
A total of £153 million had been invested on this programme by 31 December 2012, excluding
£16 million of capitalised borrowing costs. Spending is likely to reduce to around £25 million
in 2013. 
Customer advances in the GKN Aerospace businesses, which are shown in trade and other
payables in the balance sheet, amounted to £66 million (2011: £63 million). Return on
average invested capital was 23.0% (2011: 22.7%), excluding Volvo Aero.
During the year a number of important new contracts worth around $1.4 billion and other
milestones were achieved, including:
n
Establishing a new composite aerostructures manufacturing facility in Mexico to
manufacture composite airframe structures, initially for the Sikorsky UH-60 Blackhawk
helicopter.
n
Winning new contracts to provide key metal and composite structures and fuel systems
for the new 525 Relentless Bell helicopter.
n
A new contract for the design, development and production of transparencies (cockpit
and passenger cabin windows), winglets and ailerons for the Bombardier Global 7000
and Global 8000 business jets.
n
Further work packages for the Boeing 787 relating to floor sections, wing ribs and seat
tracks.
n
A multi-year contract extension for the UH-60 Blackhawk helicopter. Review of performance .30
ÄÅÅm
Agriculture
 !"m
Automotive
 #"m
Industrial
!"$m
Construction and Mining
ÄÅÇm
Power
Management
Devices
 Ç!m
Powertrain Systems
and Services
ÄÄÄm
Wheels and
Structures
GKN Land Systems sales by business
GKN Land Systems sales by market
GKN Land Systems
GKN Land Systems is a leading supplier of technology
differentiated power management solutions and services.
It designs, manufactures and supplies products and services
for the agricultural, construction, mining and utility vehicle
markets and key industrial segments, offering integrated
powertrain solutions.
Sales in GKN Land Systems were ahead of the prior year although its markets were very
mixed. The agricultural equipment market continued to enjoy good growth whereas construction,
mining, industrial and automotive markets became more challenging as the year progressed,
particularly in Europe. Industrial markets were particularly volatile in certain segments,
including wind, with weakness particularly acute in certain regions, such as Europe. Automotive
structures activity declined slightly due to some planned programme cessations with further
reductions anticipated in 2013.
The key financial results for the year are as follows:
2012 2011* Change
Headline Organic
£m % £m %
Sales (£m) 933 885 48 56 1
Trading Profit (£m) 88 67 21 31 15 23
Trading Margin 9.4% 7.6%
ROIC 21.3% 29.5%
* Stromag was acquired on 5 September 2011 and trading profit in 2011 included acquisition related charges of
£5 million. 
Against this background, sales in the period were £933 million, 5% higher than the prior year
(2011: £885 million). The negative impact of currency translation was £30 million. Excluding
the £72 million of sales attributable to the additional period of ownership of Stromag, which
was acquired on 5 September 2011, the organic increase in sales was £6 million (1%).
GKN Land Systems reported a 31% increase in trading profit to £88 million (2011: £67 million).
Organic trading profit increased within GKN Land Systems, principally driven by pricing
actions and productivity improvements. The additional period of ownership of Stromag
contributed £9 million. The trading margin was 9.4% compared with 7 .6% in 2011, reflecting
the strong increase in profitability of the division and the absence of £5 million of one-off
Stromag acquisition charges that reduced profits in 2011.
Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets was £20 million (2011: £18 million), 1.2 times
(2011: 1.3 times) depreciation. Return on average invested capital was 21.3% (2011: 29.5%;
or 17 .9% including the pro forma impact of Stromag).
Good progress was made in winning new business and progressing the GKN Land Systems
strategy through broadening its product offering and geographic footprint. Specific areas of
success included:
n
Creating a specialist centre for mining wheels in Liuzhou, China, and signing a five year
distribution agreement for mining wheels with Rimtec Pty Ltd in the Asia Pacific region.
n
Developing the industry’s first double clutch technology for industrial gearboxes.
n
Creating a prototype overload clutch for Atlas Copco/Carraro in a mining application.
n
Design and manufacture of the drivetrain for a combine header for a Claas harvester.
Inspecting lead angle of a fan hub at GKN Land Systems .31
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Other Businesses
GKN’s Other Businesses comprise Cylinder Liners, which is mainly a 59% owned venture in
China, manufacturing engine liners for the truck market in the US, Europe and China and a
50% share in Emitec, which manufactures metallic substrates for catalytic converters in
Germany, the US, China and India.
Sales in the year were £86 million (2011: £106 million), reflecting the slowing sales in the
commercial vehicle market. GKN’s Other Businesses reported a trading loss of £4 million
(2011: trading profit of £3 million).
Impact on prior year comparatives
In 2011, there was a net £19 million cost due to the temporary closure of the Hoeganaes
Gallatin plant in the US, following a hydrogen explosion.
Corporate costs
Corporate costs, which comprise the costs of stewardship of the Group and operating charges
and credits associated with the Group’s legacy businesses, were £21 million (2011: £16 million).
Change in value of derivative and other financial instruments
The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts to hedge much of its transactional exposure.
At 31 December 2012, the net fair value of such instruments was an asset of £33 million
(2011: net liability of £84 million). Where hedge accounting has not been applied, the change
in fair value is reflected in the income statement as a component of operating profit and
resulted in a credit of £117 million (2011: £29 million charge). There was a £1 million charge
arising from the change in the fair value of embedded derivatives in the year (2011: £3 million
charge) and a net gain of £9 million attributable to the currency impact on Group funding
balances (2011: £2 million net gain). There was a £1 million gain due to the change in the fair
value of GKN Powder Metallurgy commodity contracts (2011: £1 million loss).
Amortisation of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations
The charge for the amortisation of non-operating intangible assets arising on business
combinations (for example customer contracts, order backlog, technology and intellectual
property rights) was £37 million (2011: £22 million). The increase relates to the impact of the
Getrag Driveline Products and Stromag acquisitions in September 2011 and the Volvo Aero
acquisition on 1 October 2012.
Gains and losses on changes in Group structure
During the year the Group sold GKN Geplasmetal S.A. for cash consideration of £3 million
realising a profit of £1 million and its 49% share in a joint venture company, GKN JTEKT
(Thailand) Limited for cash consideration of £1 million, realising neither a profit nor loss. In
addition a gain of £4 million was realised after final settlement of contingent consideration
relating to a previous transaction.
Reversal of inventory fair value adjustment arising on business combinations
The inventory fair value adjustment of £37 million arising on acquisition of Volvo Aero reversed
in full before the year end.
Post-tax earnings of joint ventures
In management figures, the sales and trading profits of joint ventures are included pro-rata
in the individual divisions to which they relate, although shown separately post-tax in the
statutory income statement. The Group’s share of post-tax earnings of joint ventures in the
year was £38 million (2011: £38 million). Post-tax earnings on a management basis were 
£41 million (2011: £40 million), with trading profit of £49 million (2011: £49 million). The
Group’s share of the tax charge amounted to £7 million (2011: £8 million) with an interest
charge of £1 million (2011: £1 million). Underlying trading profit decreased £1 million
reflecting a slow-down in sales to the commercial vehicle market within Other Businesses.
Other financial information Review of performance .32
ÄÄÅ ÄÄÇ ÄÉÄ ÄÉÉ ÄÅ
É Ä
Å 
!"!
#É 
 !"
$ÄÄ
!ÄÄ
#ÄÄ
ÄÄ
ÉÄÄ
Ä
ÄÄÅ ÄÄÇ ÄÉÄ ÄÉÉ ÄÅ
É 
!."
Ä."
. 
 .!
#Ä.Ä
!.Ä
Ä.Ä
É!.Ä
ÉÄ.Ä
!.Ä
Ä.Ä
Management profit before tax
of continuing operations £m
Net financing costs
Net financing costs totalled £78 million (2011: £61 million) and include the non-cash charge
on post-employment benefits of £20 million (2011: £17 million) and unwind of discounts of
£6 million (2011: £2 million). Interest payable was £60 million (2011: £47 million), whilst
interest receivable was £8 million (2011: £5 million) resulting in net interest payable of 
£52 million (2011: £42 million). Capitalised interest costs attributable to the Group’s A350
investment were £5 million (2011: £6 million) and interest charged on UK Government
refundable advances was £5 million (2011: £2 million).
The non-cash charge on post-employment benefits arises as the expected return on scheme
assets of £138 million (2011: £153 million) was more than offset by interest on post-employment
obligations of £158 million (2011: £170 million). Details of the assumptions used in calculating
post-employment costs and income are provided in note 25.
Profit before tax
The management profit before tax was £497 million (2011: £417 million). The profit before tax
on a statutory basis was £588 million (2011: £351 million).
Taxation
The book tax rate on management profits of subsidiaries was 16% (2011: 16%), arising as a
£74 million tax charge on management profits of subsidiaries of £456 million.
The Group’s theoretical weighted average tax rate, which assumes that book profits/losses
are taxed at the statutory tax rates in the countries in which they arise, is 32% (2011: 31%).
The book tax rate is significantly lower, largely because of the recognition of substantial
deferred tax assets (mainly in the US and UK) due to increased confidence in the Group’s
ability both to access and realise future taxable profits that absorb brought forward tax
deductions, partially offset by an increase in the Group’s provision for uncertain tax positions.
One of GKN’s tax objectives is to utilise prior years’ tax losses in order to reduce the ‘cash
tax’ charge on management profits. ‘Cash tax’ provides a proxy for the cash cost of taxation
of management profits. The cash tax charge was 12% (2011: 13%). In the near term, the ‘cash
tax’ rate is expected to continue at or below 20% due to further utilisation of brought forward
tax deductions.
The tax rate on statutory profits of subsidiaries was 15% (2011: 14%) arising as an £85 million
tax charge on statutory profits of £550 million.
Non-controlling interests
The profit attributable to non-controlling interests was £23 million (2011: £27 million)
including a £20 million (2011: £21 million) impact from the pension partnership arrangement.
Earnings per share
Management earnings per share was 26.5 pence (2011: 22.6 pence, including the effect of the
£19 million net charge relating to the Hoeganaes incident at Gallatin, US). On a statutory
basis earnings per share was 30.2 pence (2011: 18.0 pence). Average shares outstanding in
2012 were 1,587 .8 million (see note 7 for further details).
Dividend
In view of the improving trading performance and taking into account the Group’s future
prospects, the Board has decided to recommend a final dividend of 4.8 pence per share
(2011: 4.0 pence). The total dividend for the year will, therefore, be 7 .2 pence per share (2011:
6.0 pence). The Group’s objective is to have a progressive dividend policy reflecting growth
in earnings per share and free cash flow generation, including the pension deficit funding.
The final dividend is payable on 20 May 2013 to shareholders on the register at 12 April 2013.
Shareholders may choose to use the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) to reinvest the final
dividend. The closing date for receipt of new DRIP mandates is 26 April 2013.
Cash flow
Operating cash flow, which is defined as cash generated from operations of £538 million
(2011: £500 million) adjusted for capital expenditure (net of proceeds from capital grants) of
£334 million (2011: £281 million) and proceeds from the disposal/realisation of fixed assets
of £6 million (2011: £8 million), was an inflow of £210 million (2011: £227 million).
Management earnings per share pence .33
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Within operating cash flow there was an outflow of working capital and provisions of
£104 million (2011: £89 million outflow). Average working capital as a percentage of sales
increased from 7 .5% in 2011, to 8.5% in 2012.
Capital expenditure (net of proceeds from capital grants) on both tangible and intangible
assets totalled £334 million (2011: £281 million), including £25 million (2011: £54 million) on
the A350 programme. Of this, £271 million (2011: £235 million) was on tangible fixed assets
and was 1.2 times (2011: 1.2 times) the depreciation charge. Expenditure on intangible
assets, mainly initial non-recurring costs on Aerospace programmes, totalled £63 million
(2011: £46 million). The Group invested £124 million in the year (2011: £103 million) on
research and development activities not qualifying for capitalisation.
Free cash flow
Free cash flow, which is operating cash flow including joint venture dividends and after
interest, tax, amounts paid to non-controlling interests and own shares purchased but before
dividends paid to GKN shareholders, was an inflow of £213 million before the impact of Volvo
Aero (2011: £147 million), or an inflow of £86 million including Volvo Aero. The year on year
change reflects an improvement in profitability more than offset by increased capital
expenditure and a working capital outflow.
Net interest paid totalled £59 million (2011: £43 million), excluding £9 million of costs
associated with refinancing. The increase is a result of the additional debt required to fund
acquisitions. Tax paid in the period was £62 million (2011: £38 million).
Net borrowings
At the end of the year, the Group had net borrowings of £871 million (2011: £538 million),
the increase reflecting the acquisition of Volvo Aero. The Group’s share of net funds in joint
ventures was £nil (2011: £2 million).
Pensions and post-employment obligations
GKN operates a number of defined benefit pension schemes and historic retiree medical
arrangements, some of which are funded plans and some unfunded. At 31 December 2012,
the total deficit on post-employment obligations of the Group totalled £978 million (2011:
£868 million), comprising the deficits on funded obligations of £446 million (2011: £465 million)
and on unfunded obligations of £532 million (2011: £403 million).
The net amount included within trading profit of £42 million (2011: £33 million) includes
the current service cost of £44 million (2011: £38 million) partly offset by past service credits
and settlement credits. The increase in service cost is primarily attributable to the UK and
includes the effects of increases in pensionable payroll and the removal of age related
rebates from April 2012 due to the UK Government’s abolition of “contracting out” rules (this
“contracting out” effect is partly offset by lower national insurance payments within the staff
costs component of the Income Statement). The net post-employment finance charge of
£20 million (2011: £17 million) has risen slightly due to interest costs on liabilities being
more than offset by lower expected returns on scheme assets.
Current Net amount included Other net
service cost within Trading Profit financing charges
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m
UK pensions (33) (24) (33) (21) – 5
Overseas pension (10) (13) (9) (12) (17) (19)
Retiree medical and
life insurance (1) (1) – – (3) (3)
(44) (38) (42) (33) (20) (17)
Contributions to the various defined benefit pension schemes and retiree medical
arrangements totalled £114 million (2011: £67 million), including £46 million paid to buy-out
Swedish pension arrangements. In addition, £30 million was distributed from the pension
partnership to the UK pension scheme in June 2012.
ÄÄÅ ÄÄÇ ÄÉÄ ÄÉÉ ÄÅ
É É
ÉÇÅ
!"
#
 !"
 "Ä
ÅÄ
ÉÄ
É!Ä
#Ä
Ä
Operating cash flow £m
ÄÄÅ ÄÄÇ ÄÉÄ ÄÉÉ ÄÅ
( ÄÅ)
(!ÄÄ)
(É"É)
("!Å)
( !Å)
(É,ÄÄÄ)
( "Ä)
("ÄÄ)
("Ä)
Ä
Net borrowings £m
2012 excludes a working capital refinancing (£85m)
and special pension payment (£54m) both relating to
Volvo Aero. Review of performance .34
UK pensions
During the year, the UK defined benefit pension scheme was split into two separate schemes
each with different characteristics. Both schemes are funded, defined benefit plans: one of
the schemes primarily comprises pensioner members associated with businesses no longer
owned by GKN, whilst the other comprises other pensioner and deferred members as well as
current employees who accrue future benefits on a career average basis. A hybrid pension
plan providing a combination of defined benefit and defined contribution benefits is currently
open to new members. Members currently in employment with the Company represent
approximately 17% of total liabilities of £2,846 million (2011: £2,650 million).
The accounting deficit at 31 December 2012 of £324 million was £65 million higher than the
deficit at the end of 2011. December 2012 asset values were above those of end December
2011 but the valuations of liabilities at 31 December 2012 were £196 million higher. This
increase in liabilities largely reflected a 60 basis point reduction in discount rate to 4.1%. 
Overseas pensions
Overseas pension obligations arise mainly in the US, Germany and Japan.
The overseas pension deficit increased by £40 million to £579 million. This included a £97 million
adverse impact from actuarial assumptions, offset to an extent by a US curtailment gain.
On 1 April 2012 the Group transferred the assets and liabilities of its defined benefit pension
scheme of the hourly paid workers at GKN Aerospace’s St. Louis facility in the US to the
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (‘IAM’) National Pension
Fund. As a result there was a net pension scheme curtailment benefit of £35 million.
When acquiring Volvo Aero, the Group wished to minimise its exposure to historic Swedish
pension liabilities and, therefore, a portion of the agreed acquisition price was set aside in
order to insure against this risk on completion of the deal. On acquisition, the Group assumed
a defined benefit pension deficit of £67 million, £64 million of which related to a Swedish
pension scheme. Shortly after the acquisition, the Group spent £46 million to fund a fully
insured buy-out of the Swedish pension scheme with a third party insurer, thereby taking
control of a business in which pensions had been largely de-risked. This resulted in a net
pension curtailment credit of £18 million recognised in the Income Statement, in addition to
a credit of £10 million on the settlement of associated payroll taxes, which took the total
curtailment credit for the Swedish pension arrangements to £28 million.
Retiree medical and life insurance 
GKN operates retiree medical and life insurance arrangements in North America and the Group
also has a UK scheme which has been closed to new members for many years.
The obligation in respect of all schemes at the end of the year was £75 million compared with
£70 million at the end of 2011, the movement being caused principally by changed actuarial
assumptions.
Defined contribution pension schemes
Besides the above defined benefit pension schemes, the Group also operates a number of
defined contribution pension schemes in relation to which the 2012 income statement
charge was £21 million.
2013 reporting changes
2013 will see the new requirements of IAS 19 introduced with the primary impact on the
Group being an increase in other net financing charge of around £20 million. Additionally,
the Company will review the structure of the pension partnership arrangement which, subject
to the consent of the Trustees, may result in an increase to the IAS 19 reported UK deficit and
related other net financing charge in 2013. If these partnership changes were effective from
the start of 2013 the reported deficit would increase by around £340 million and 2013 other
net financing charge would increase by a further £14 million.
None of the above reporting changes would impact the underlying cash flows paid to the UK
Pension scheme. .3N
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Net assets
Net assets of £1,927 million were £303 million higher than the December 2011 year end figure
of £1,624 million. The increase includes actuarial losses on post-employment obligations net
of tax of £73 million, adverse currency movements net of tax of £134 million and dividends
paid to equity shareholders of £101 million offset by retained profit of £503 million and net
proceeds from an equity placing of £137 million.
Financing
The following section describes the way in which the Group manages and controls its treasury
function and ensures it is financed in an appropriate and cost-effective manner.
Treasury management
All treasury activities are co-ordinated through a central function (Group Treasury), the
purpose of which is to manage the financial risks of the Group and to secure short and long
term funding at the minimum cost to the Group. It operates within a framework of clearly
defined Board-approved policies and procedures, including permissible funding and hedging
instruments, exposure limits and a system of authorities for the approval and execution of
transactions. It operates on a cost centre basis and is not permitted to make use of financial
instruments or other derivatives other than to hedge identified exposures of the Group.
Speculative use of such instruments or derivatives is not permitted. Group Treasury prepares
reports at least annually to the Board, and on a monthly basis to the Finance Director and
other senior executives of the Group. In addition, liquidity, interest rate, currency and other
financial risk exposures are monitored weekly. The overall indebtedness of the Group is
reported on a weekly basis to the Chief Executive and the Finance Director. The Group
Treasury function is subject to an annual internal and external review of controls.
Funding, liquidity and going concern
At 31 December 2012, UK committed bank facilities were £917 million, £837 million of which
were committed revolving credit facilities together with an £80 million eight-year amortising
facility from the European Investment Bank (EIB). The next major maturities of the committed
bank facilities are £592 million in 2016. At 31 December 2012, the £80 million facility from the
EIB was fully drawn and drawings against the revolving credit facilities were £77 million,
leaving undrawn, committed UK borrowing facilities totalling £760 million. 
Capital market borrowings were £800 million at 31 December 2012 (31 December 2011:
£526 million) and include existing unsecured £350 million 6.75% bonds maturing in
October 2019 and new unsecured £450 million 5.375% bonds maturing in September 2022.
The weighted average maturity profile of the Group’s committed borrowing facilities was
6.1 years. At 31 December 2012, the Group had net borrowings of £871 million.
All of the Group’s committed credit facilities have a financial covenant requiring EBITDA of
subsidiaries to be at least 3.5 times net financing costs and net debt must be no greater than
3 times EBITDA of subsidiaries. The covenants are tested every six months using the previous
12 months’ results. For the 12 months to 31 December 2012, EBITDA was 13 times greater than
net interest, whilst net debt was 1.2 times EBITDA.
The Directors have taken into account both divisional and Group forecasts to assess the
future funding requirements of the Group and compared them to the level of committed
available borrowing facilities, described above. The Directors have concluded that the Group
will have a sufficient level of headroom in the foreseeable future and that the likelihood of
breaching covenants in this period is remote, such that it is appropriate for the financial
statements to be prepared on a going concern basis. Principal risks and uncertainties .3O
GKN has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and
consequences of risk and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate their impact. 
A detailed description of this framework is given on page 52. Set out below are the principal risks and
uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group and the corresponding mitigating
actions that are in place. Additional risks not currently known or which are currently regarded as
immaterial could also adversely affect future performance.
Market risks
Financial risks
Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation
Operating in
global markets
GKN operates globally and as such our results could be
impacted by global and regional changes in macroeconomic
and political conditions, consumer demand and preferences.
An adverse impact could result from the European debt crisis,
changing consumer confidence and associated volatility in
automotive demand; rescheduling or cancellation of orders for
civil aircraft and changes in amount or timing of US government
public spending; and volatility in agricultural, construction,
mining and industrial markets.
n Diverse business portfolio serving different markets, with
lead indicators in those markets kept under continuous
review 
n Flexible systems, including treasury management and cash
forecasting
n Effective management of variable and fixed cost base,
investment spending and working capital
Customer
concentration
Significant customer concentration exists in the automotive and
aerospace industries. The insolvency of, damage to relations,
or significant worsening of commercial terms with a major
customer could result in the loss of future business
opportunities, asset write-offs and restructuring actions.
n GKN is not dependent on contractual or other arrangements
with any individual customer. No customer represented
more than 10% of Group sales in the year ended
31 December 2012
n Active management of customer relations and credit exposure
n Strong commercial and engineering focus at customer level
together with effective programme management
Highly competitive
markets
GKN operates in highly competitive markets with customer
decisions based typically on price, quality, technology and
service. Customer vertical integration (including OEMs taking
production in-house), the entry of new competitors or
consolidation of existing competitors could restrict our ability
to deliver the Group’s strategic objectives. Inability to develop
or maintain sufficient or appropriate engineering and
manufacturing capabilities which could impact the Group’s
ability to maintain a competitive advantage. 
n Continual review of competition and market trends
n Maintaining GKN’s competitive position through new
product technology
n Targeting investment in engineering and lean manufacturing
resources, whilst also maintaining strong customer
relationships
Technology
advancements
GKN may lose customers to competitors offering new
technologies if we are unable to adapt to or take advantage of
market developments such as changes in legislative, regulatory
or industry requirements, competitive technologies or consumer
preferences. This may result from failure to launch new
products, new product applications or derivations of existing
products to meet customers’ requirements.
n Regular assessment of market and technology trends and
drivers
n Divisional technology plans aligned to emerging and future
trends
n Focused investment in research and development
n Effective programme delivery over the long term
incorporating changes in technology
Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation
Pension deficit
volatility
Pension deficit levels are affected by changes in asset values,
discount rates, inflation and mortality assumptions. Accounting
valuations of pension obligations can cause volatility in
financial results. Additional Company pension contributions
may have an impact on investment in businesses.
n Active management of pension scheme assets and long-term
view of liability assumptions including the level of benefits
n Alternative funding and risk mitigation actions are
implemented where appropriate
Exchange rate
volatility
Currency risks include: transactional (subsidiary sales or
purchases in currencies other than their functional currency)
and translational (exchange rate movements in investments in
overseas operations). The Group’s financial statements may
fluctuate as a result of movements in exchange rates.
n Natural hedging where possible, for example through local
sourcing
n Hedging of transaction exposures through forward foreign
exchange contracts
Complexity of
global tax regimes
Given GKN’s global footprint and against a background of
complex tax laws on a global basis, it is possible that actual tax
liabilities could differ from management judgements.
n On-going monitoring of tax developments in major
jurisdictions
n Group-wide tax compliance programme  .3P
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Operational risks
Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation
Supply chain
disruption
Supply chain disruption caused by lack of availability of
equipment, components, services and raw materials that meet
specifications could impact GKN’s sales to and relationships
with customers and result in additional unrecoverable costs.
Dependence on limited supply chain arrangements could also
result in additional cost and delay where replacement products
are not available. 
n Effective supply chain management to ensure appropriate
inventory levels are maintained in times of production volatility
n On-going assessment of supplier technology and dependency
n Flexible sourcing arrangements
n Monitoring financial viability of key suppliers
Volatile input costs Sudden increases in the cost of raw materials, labour and
energy could adversely affect the Group’s earnings if we are
unable to pass increases on to customers.
n Contracts that ensure the ability to pass on charges to
customers where possible
n Securing long-term contracts with stable pricing for key inputs
n Maintaining good labour relations
n Forward purchasing of energy requirements where appropriate
New product
introductions 
The introduction of new products brings risks related to lack of
market acceptance, delays in product development or launch
schedule, failure to meet customer specifications and the
inability to manufacture in time for the start of production.
These events may impact customer relationships and result in
cost overruns. 
n Robust bid preparation and approval processes
n Rigorous programme management, including investment
phasing and product testing activities
n Regular review of key programmes by the Executive
Committee and Board 
Product quality
issues
Product quality issues could lead to potential liabilities for
defects in products, warranty claims or product recalls and as a
result adversely affect GKN’s financial performance and damage
our reputation.
n High levels of quality assurance are embedded in robust
manufacturing systems
Inadequate health,
safety and
environmental
processes
Lack of robust processes and procedures governing health,
safety and environmental practices could result in accidents
involving employees and others on GKN sites, regulatory
violations, potential adverse financial impact and damage to
GKN’s reputation.
n Consistent Group-wide application of health, safety and
environmental programmes
n Health and safety audits to ensure adherence to Group
policies and procedures
n A focus on process and behavioural safety through a
number of Group-wide risk assessment and training
programmes
People
capability
A lack of relevant capability in specific geographic regions and
disciplines could result in an inability to execute the strategic
plan and deliver improving financial performance.
n Competitive reward packages together with focused training
and development programmes
n A culture that motivates individuals to perform to the best
of their abilities
Acquisitions and
their integration
A lack of suitable acquisition targets aligned with the planned
growth strategy, a failure to integrate acquired businesses
successfully, completion of an acquisition not aligned with the
strategy, or an inability to capture value from an acquisition
could impact operations and prevent successful delivery of
GKN’s strategic objectives.
n Thorough reviews to ensure strategic alignment of acquisitions
n Extensive pre-acquisition due diligence 
n Robust management of detailed integration plans
n Post-acquisition investment reviews
Laws, regulations
and corporate
reputation 
The Group is subject to applicable laws and regulations in the
global jurisdictions and industries in which it operates. These
include regulations relating to export controls, intellectual
property rights, competition laws and ethical business
practices. Non-compliance could expose the Group to cost,
damage to reputation, suspension or debarment.
n Group-wide governance policies and procedures, on-going
compliance training and strong oversight
n The Board’s oversight of compliance also extends to
consideration of issues that could impact the corporate
brand and reputation
Information system
resilience
The Group could be impacted negatively by information
technology security threats including unauthorised access to
intellectual property or other classified information. Interruptions
to the Group’s information systems could also adversely affect
its day to day operations. 
n Extensive system-based controls and live monitoring of
risks and mitigating actions
n On-going development of appropriate plans in the event of
a breach of critical systems 
n Disaster recovery contingency plans and procedures
The Group insures against the impact of a range of unpredictable losses associated with both our business assets and liabilities. GKN’s risk
financing strategy is based on a significant level of capped self-insured retention at the Group level (within GKN’s own captive insurance
company, Ipsley Insurance Ltd, which does not insure the risks of any other entity) and a much lower retention at subsidiary level through
deductibles. Catastrophe insurance is then purchased in the commercial market over and above these levels of retention. Ipsley’s current
participation in GKN’s principal insurance programme is £10 million per incident capped at £20 million in any one year. Due to the nature of the
risk, the Group’s aviation products liability insurance is placed solely in the commercial market. Sustainability report .3Q
Creating long-term sustainable value
GKN’s Business Model (p13) supports our objective of creating sustainable value for
our stakeholders. At the core of this model are six elements that drive everything we do:
our Values, superior technology, outstanding employees, global footprint, continuous
improvement and corporate responsibility.
Our Values
The main principles of the GKN Code are aligned with
our Values and, together with the associated policies,
they inform the behaviours expected of all GKN people.
The Code is encapsulated into 12 promises, six from
GKN to its employees and six from employees to GKN:
Shareholder
return
Long-term shareholder
value is provided in the
form of steadily growing 
earnings and dividends.
improvement
Continuous
Outstanding
employees
Superior
technology
responsibility
Corporate
footprint
Global
Values
Our
Promises from GKN to employees
> We will support you through investment and
training so we can build a high performance
business by delivering superb customer service.
> We will help you develop your full potential
and we will not tolerate any discrimination.
> We will care for you by providing a safe working
environment.
> We will do what we can to minimise our impact
on the environment.
> We are all part of a wider society and we will
contribute positively to the communities of
which we are part.
> If you have a problem we will listen in
confidence.
Promises from employees to GKN
> I share GKN’s commitment to build a high
performing business with a strong customer
focus. I show that commitment through my work.
> I always respect the rights of other team
members.
> I do not put other team members at risk of injury
and will counsel anyone I see working unsafely.
> I believe in honest and proper conduct at all
times.
> I know I am free to report behaviour which is
wrong and I will do so.
> I will help protect the environment and support
local communities. .3R
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Consistent with the six promises to employees, GKN strives to create and maintain a working
environment that stimulates both personal and organisational growth. We believe that the
greater the employee engagement, the greater the contribution of employees towards
attaining the business goals. This is important both when things are going well and when
there are challenges.
As an important predictor of future success, engagement is a leadership priority. To support
this, GKN’s global leadership development programmes focus on the importance of
individual relationships between leaders and their teams, the communication of a sense of
the future, as well as the need for efficient execution. 
A core aspect of GKN’s commitment to employee engagement is its drive to bring the
Company values to life for everyone. During 2011 and 2012, a global programme of workshops
gave participants the opportunity to explore the GKN Values and what each one means to
them. During the last two years, values workshops have involved around 9,000 employees
across GKN. 
The GKN Values together with Group strategy are also cascaded through the organisation via
the Chief Executive’s Council, which comprises the 25 most senior executives across the
Group. This group meets quarterly and is a key body when it comes to the communication
of Group strategy through the organisation. A variety of communication channels, with an
emphasis on face-to-face communication, is used to help employees contribute their ideas
and understand the context for decision-making in GKN.
For a number of years GKN has measured its performance on employee engagement using a
combination of a biennial Global Employee Survey and the monthly Positive Climate Index (PCI),
which is a mini survey tool.
The PCI uses a sub-set of questions from the Global Employee Survey; results are gathered
immediately and then discussed by the participants during group sessions. The sessions
are facilitated by a business leader and ownership of the process, its benefits and its
opportunities reside with the business unit. Almost 1,000 PCI sessions were held during 2012
and aggregated data indicates progress on engagement between 2011 and 2012, building on
previous year-on-year improvements.
Where relevant, we reinforce the GKN Values with specific training. The GKN anti-bribery and
corruption (ABC) training is an example. The purpose of the training is to increase awareness
and understanding of the relevant GKN compliance requirements and the Group’s
commitment to their effective application. Training takes two forms: face-to-face training for
management teams and senior market-facing employees; and a bespoke online course
delivered via GKN Academy (see page 41) for a wider population of employees.
If you have a problem we will listen in confidence.
The GKN Code states that we will treat all our employees fairly, ensuring there is no
discrimination. In line with global best practice, GKN’s Employee Disclosure Policy
encourages individuals to report and discuss problems on a confidential basis, as well as
providing a confidential grievance process. GKN offers a 24 hour, international whistleblowing
hotline run by an external and independent third party ensuring that employees can make
(on an anonymous basis if preferred) confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety
or wrong doing. The policy requires that employees are able to make any such disclosures
without fear of recrimination. Any matters reported are investigated and, where appropriate,
escalated to the Audit Committee. Initial feedback is given to the relevant employee within
14 days.
A meeting designed to reinforce GKN Values in Mexico
in 2012.
Supporting UK employee engagement:
During 2012, GKN made a public commitment
to the UK Government-sponsored Engage
for Success, which is championed by a
national voluntary task force and led by UK
businesses. It aims to raise awareness of the
benefits of employee engagement and to
develop and deploy effective practice. Nigel
Stein, GKN Chief Executive, joined other UK
business leaders as a key sponsor; Doug
McIldowie, GKN Group HR Director, is a
member of the task force; and a senior GKN
HR manager was seconded to the staff team
to help raise awareness of employee
engagement in the UK. Sustainability report .40
Superior technology
Technology differentiation is a priority for the Group. The global trends driving technology
development across the divisions are broadly similar: the low-carbon and fuel efficiency
agenda, electrification, urbanisation, shortages of key resources, population growth and
changes in food consumption.
All divisions deploy technology to help customers meet these challenges. The benefits of
GKN technology development is in evidence throughout this report, whether it is leadership
in composite structures, designed for powder metallurgy components, the latest in energy-
saving driveline systems or electromagnetic components (see pages 18-19).
The Group Technology Strategy Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, brings together the key
technologists and drives the development and deployment of technology plans.
To raise further the status of engineers within the Group, the GKN Engineering Fellowship
Scheme was created late in 2012. Initially involving 13 of the Group’s most experienced and
highly-qualified individuals from across all four divisions, Fellows have a wide variety of
expertise and will work together to provide technical leadership and advice across the Group
to promote engineering best practice and knowledge sharing. They will receive GKN’s full
commitment to enable them to remain at the forefront of their areas of expertise, developing
new ideas and supporting the GKN engineers of tomorrow.
Outstanding employees
We will help you to develop your full potential and we will not tolerate any discrimination.
GKN has approximately 48,000 employees in subsidiaries and joint ventures. From
highly-qualified engineers to the most recently recruited apprentices, the success of GKN’s
strategy to deliver shareholder value depends on ensuring that it creates the conditions for
a high-performance culture. That means it must be an employer of choice with motivated,
well trained employees and outstanding leaders.
Employer of choice
GKN seeks to recruit talented individuals with the skills and passion to become leaders of
the future. In 2012, GKN recruited over 200 graduates worldwide, providing opportunities to
develop professional technical and leadership career paths. These are sought after posts
that require high quality candidates.
GKN is using its strength as a Group to enhance recruitment. A cross-divisional group
focused on a few major engineering universities to recruit graduates in a unified manner.
The first university chosen as a partner was Pennsylvania State University (Penn State),
which is strong in mechanical, aerospace and agricultural engineering. A concerted
programme of communication events allowed GKN to raise the Group’s profile with students,
offering a single entry into any one of the GKN divisions. This created considerable interest
from potential employees and has already yielded commitments from high potential
candidates. Based on the success of the Penn State experience, GKN plans to embark on
similar partnerships in Europe and Asia.
Outreach programmes also help GKN find excellent people. At its Auburn Hills, Michigan
facility, GKN Driveline offers an engineering intern programme to help develop students from
local universities. There are around 20 internship students at any one time and the programme
runs for up to five years. Each student has a mentor and receives wide experience within the
business. Many such interns have gone on to become permanent GKN employees and
developed long term careers with the Group.
GKN has appointed 13 of its most outstanding engineers
to become Fellows of Engineering. The Fellowship scheme
recognises the contributions these individuals have made
and creates technology ambassadors who will work to
foster innovation.
GKN China’s student sponsorship programme supports
underprivileged students at six engineering universities
in China. Each year, GKN China sponsors approximately
60 engineering students providing financial support for
their studies. These students are also invited to participate
in internships at GKN plants during their vacations. .41
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
GKN is also expanding its recruitment of apprentices and currently has nearly 1,000 globally.
Apprentices receive world-class training and support to ensure they achieve their full
potential. There is also the opportunity to study for and complete degrees. For example in the
UK, working in close partnership with the City of Bristol College, students start in the college,
learning key engineering skills, then move onto day-release programmes while working on
site. Each student spends time in targeted areas as members of the engineering,
manufacturing and design teams. There are currently approximately 60 students on this
programme, of which nearly half joined during 2012.
Employee turnover is a measure of success in retaining our people and achieving our goal of
being an employer of choice. In 2012, voluntary employee turnover, which excludes compulsory
redundancies and terminations, was 3.84% (2011: 3.97%).
Well trained employees
A cornerstone of the GKN Values is support for all employees through training. In 2012, 88% of
employees had annual performance and development discussions with their functional leader.
Development processes and frameworks chart employees’ progress through managerial and
technical careers, with focused assessment and training to provide the right support to
achieve success. GKN completes an annual organisation-wide planning process to ensure it
is continually developing the people and capabilities required to deliver the business plan.
Over 12,000 employees participated in this process. One result of this is that over 70% of
managerial level roles are filled by internal candidates.
To help deliver training support, the GKN Academy offers a library of 700 online courses and
training available to employees in ten languages. Introduced in 2010, the past year has seen
a significant expansion of courses available to GKN people, enabling most employees
worldwide to access development options from their workplace or home. In its first full year,
around 12,000 courses were completed. 
Outstanding leaders
Effective leadership is at the heart of delivering success and GKN has an integrated suite of
leadership development programmes. The aim is to help equip leaders at all levels to lead
and grow their businesses and their teams. The programmes are also developing a shared
leadership culture throughout the Group.
Global footprint
GKN has factories, service centres and offices in over 30 countries on five continents. Across
the Group, GKN people collectively speak at least 26 languages.
This strong global presence positions the business to serve an international customer base
and creates a platform to access fast-growing markets (see pages 16-17). Global presence is
also a key enabler to developing new technologies in partnership with customers wherever
they are across the world.
GKN’s global culture enables each division to build and sustain close relationships with
market-leading customers and it helps optimise positions in major supply chains.
Manufacturing in close proximity to customers means products have to be transported
shorter distances, helping the Group reduce its impact on the environment (see page 43)
whilst supporting customers’ just-in-time manufacturing.
At the GKN Aerospace Filton and Western Approach sites in
the UK, apprenticeship schemes combine learning practical
skills with classroom studies, preparing apprentices for a
future career at the heart of aerospace innovation.
,ÄÅÅ
UK
 !,"ÅÅ
Europe
excluding UK
 #,ÄÅÅ
Americas
 Å,$ÅÅ
Rest of World
Employees by region
,ÄÅÇ
GKN Driveline
 , ÇÇ
GKN Powder Metallurgy
!!,ÄÇÇ
GKN Aerospace
Å, ÅÇ
GKN Land Systems
,ÇÇÇ
Other Businesses
Employees by business
Total 4P ,R00
Including subsidiaries and joint ventures
Total 4P ,R00
Including subsidiaries and joint ventures Sustainability report .42
Continuous improvement 
We will support you through investment and training so we can build a high performance business
by delivering superb customer service.
Continuous improvement in GKN is founded on global deployment of the Lean Enterprise
model. This continued during 2012, building on 10 years of roll-out. At the end of 2012,
approximately 60% of the Group’s turnover was generated through structured Lean value
streams. This continues to provide improved safety and quality performance benefits,
increased efficiency, lead time and inventory reduction and enhanced employee alignment
with business objectives.
GKN supports Lean with an extensive Group programme of training, from leadership to shop
floor, which commenced in 2003. Over 1,000 leaders have graduated from training
programmes (including nearly 200 people during 2012), which include hands-on
implementation of Lean principles.
The application of the Lean Enterprise model creates a culture in which all employees can
see the flow of value to their customer, understand their role in that flow and participate in
improving process and efficiency. For GKN, the flow of value extends from raw material
suppliers, through GKN’s operations, and onward to the customer locations. By mapping and
improving value streams, operations can be designed, sized and managed to meet customer
demand with the most efficient use of resources.
Lean Enterprise applies not just to manufacturing operations but also to business processes,
such as supply chain planning, that are increasingly important in fast-paced commercial
environments. Applying Lean principles helps ensure that demand planning from customers
is quickly and accurately transferred to GKN’s value stream organisation.
The foundation of GKN’s Lean Enterprise system is Employee Involvement (EI) – allowing all
employees to continuously improve their work environment and processes. GKN’s EI system
includes alignment of objectives, clear display of targets and performance in the workplace
and a robust method of reviewing progress. This structured approach ensures that leaders
regularly engage with employees about their work, providing opportunities for recognition,
coaching, and constructive feedback.
Policy Deployment is a continuous improvement planning tool used in Lean processes.
It ensures that employees across GKN align their efforts to Group objectives which are
cascaded to the operating divisions, then to business units and regions, and finally to each
location and individual. This helps establish a clear purpose, specific targets and
measurable results, creating a solid platform for sustainable growth and a culture of
continuous improvement.
Lean is central to enhancing sustainability as it helps cut waste, reduce energy use, minimise
raw material use and streamline all processes. Continuous improvement is also an important
mechanism in supporting improvements in health, safety and environmental performance
which the following section addresses.
US-based GKN Rockford, part of GKN Land Systems, has
redrawn its Sales, Inventory, and Operations Planning
processes (SIOP) using internal training and help from the
University of Wisconsin. As a result, customers have seen
a substantially improved performance in quality and
delivery, and inventory has been cut. Now the Rockford
team is sharing its experiences with GKN colleagues
elsewhere in the world.
Enhancing customer experience:
Continuous improvement activities,
a key element of the Lean Enterprise
model, focus on enhancing the customer
experience. A particularly strong example
in 2012 is the mobilisation by GKN Land
Systems to support key global customers
in the wake of an earthquake in northern
Italy that extensively damaged the
operations of a major competitor to its
wheel manufacture business.
The elimination of a major supplier
could have seriously impacted customers
in the agricultural machinery sector
were it not for the actions of GKN Land
Systems’ European plants. To replace
the lost production required a major
mobilisation that, in one GKN plant
alone, involved 56 new designs and
four new tools needing 900t of
additional steel. .43
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Corporate responsibility
For GKN, corporate responsibility is the integration of social and environmental concerns with
business operations. It means not only fulfilling legal expectations, but also going beyond
compliance and investing in the environment, health and safety, and the communities in
which we operate.
Environment
We will do what we can to minimise our impact on the environment.
GKN’s main impacts on the environment are energy use (and associated CO
2
emissions),
waste generation and recycling, and water consumption. Environmental performance in 2012
was mixed, with GKN Aerospace and GKN Powder Metallurgy performing strongly, while GKN
Land Systems and GKN Driveline improved in some measures but worsened slightly in others.
The Group is committed to continuous improvement in all these areas of environmental
performance and continues to take actions to address each of them.
Across the Group 89% of manufacturing locations are certified to the ISO14001 environmental
management system and the remainder are in the process of obtaining certification. The
acquisition of Stromag in late 2011 meant that the Group took ownership of a number of
locations that were not certified to this standard. The process of certifying these sites in line
with GKN policies is now underway.
Lean Enterprise is applied to energy efficiency and waste reduction programmes, both in
offices and at manufacturing locations. All sites continue to develop energy efficiency
targets, and actions are incorporated into their continuous improvement plans, ensuring
regular reviews and appropriate actions. 
The Group objective is to improve energy efficiency by 15% over the period 2009 to 2014.
Every division is on track to meet this. Since 2009, GKN Driveline has improved energy
efficiency by 10%, GKN Powder Metallurgy by 13%, GKN Aerospace by 12% and GKN Land
Systems by 14%. In 2012, GKN Driveline and GKN Powder Metallurgy improved energy
efficiency compared with 2011. GKN Driveline and GKN Land Systems were slightly less
efficient in 2012 compared to 2011 due to the effect of acquisitions where energy efficiency
is being brought up to Group standards.
GKN encourages individual sites to take the initiative to reduce environmental impacts. GKN
Driveline in South Europe has instigated a programme of changing its traditional fluorescent
lighting to LED lighting. When completed in 2013, it will reduce its carbon emissions by some
2,360 tonnes per year. In GKN Driveline Bruneck, the focus has been on reducing the amount
of oil consumed in its bearing manufacture process. Thanks to improved centrifuges and
better procedures, the quantity of oil recovered and reused has substantially increased. This
means that mixed oil and water is no longer being shipped offsite.
During 2012, there were ten environmental enforcement actions issued to six sites in the
USA with a total financial penalty of $7 ,600.

Ä
Å,
Å,Ä
Ç,
Ç,Ä
É,
Driveline Powder 
Metallurgy
Aerospace* Land
Systems
ÇÅ ÇÅÅ ÇÅÇ
Energy consumption per unit of production
kWh/tonne

Ä
Å
Ç
É
Ñ,
Driveline Powder 
Metallurgy
Aerospace* Land
Systems
ÄÑ ÄÑÑ ÄÑÄ
CO
2
emissions per unit of production
kg/tonne

Ä
Å
ÅÄ
Ç
ÇÄ
Driveline Powder 
Metallurgy
Aerospace* Land
Systems
ÇÅ ÇÅÅ ÇÅÇ
Waste generation per unit of production
kg/tonne

Ä
Å
Ç
É
Ñ
Driveline Powder 
Metallurgy
Aerospace Land
Systems
ÄÑ ÄÑÑ ÄÑÄ
Recycled waste
% of total waste

Ä
Å
Ç
É
Ñ
Ö
Ü
á
Driveline Powder 
Metallurgy
Aerospace* Land
Systems
ÅÄ ÅÄÄ ÅÄÅ
Water consumption per unit of production
m
3
/tonne
*Aerospace measured against £1,000/sales. Sustainability report .44
Health and Safety 
We will care for you by providing a safe working environment.
GKN is committed to continuous improvement in health and safety performance, with a goal
of zero preventable accidents.
GKN measures progress towards its goal through two metrics. The accident frequency rate
(AFR) is used to track the number of lost time accidents and the accident severity rate (ASR)
records the number of days lost due to accidents and occupational ill health. From 2011 both
these measures incorporate agency workers; prior to this date GKN employees only were
included. 
2012 saw an improvement in the Group’s safety performance, with AFR reducing from 2.3
in 2011 to 2.1, and ASR reducing from 59 in 2011 to 51. However, this otherwise improving
performance was marred by a fatality late in the year.
A subcontractor at the GKN Wheels Liuzhou plant in China suffered a fatal injury during a
lifting operation of a large mining wheel. A full investigation was carried out and lessons
learned have been communicated across the Group. We deeply regret this loss of life and
have provided support to the employee’s family.
This incident underlined the importance of maintaining our impetus to improve safety.
Supporting this are two Group programmes: thinkSAFE! and a new formal safety audit
process.
thinkSAFE! is a global communication and awareness programme pioneered by GKN Driveline
that has now been rolled out across the Group (see page 20). Each location has a safety
corner which is used to communicate key safety messages in an engaging manner and to
provide focused training on key safety issues. These are supported by e-brochures translated
into 26 languages and video reconstructions of actual accidents are used to highlight
behavioural issues and demonstrate the nature of hazards. Although it is still early days,
there is clear evidence that where thinkSAFE! is rigorously applied it yields positive results.
During 2011-2012, some 50 internal safety audits were carried out through the use of external
audit expertise, a new internal Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) audit function, and HSE
peer audits. The audits assess performance against broad-based and wide-ranging criteria.
Audit findings are used to ensure corrective actions are made and to improve the work
environment by spreading best practice.
GKN continues to promote the use of RADAR (Risk Awareness, Detection, Action and Review)
among all employee groups. A GKN-developed behaviour awareness and improvement tool,
RADAR assists employees in recognising hazards and risks in their working area and
empowers them to take action to improve their workplace.
2012 has also seen the introduction of Total Plant Risk Management (TPRM), which applies
risk management processes to the broader aspects of manufacturing facilities by educating
key specialist employees in areas such as gas explosion, electrical and fire risk. Screening
tools allow specialists to identify potential risks and take appropriate corrective actions. This
programme was developed by GKN Driveline in 2012 and in excess of 150 employees have
been trained. During 2013, TPRM will be integrated into key operations throughout the rest
of the Group.
During 2012, there were a total of five safety enforcement actions issued, three in Brazil with
a total penalty of $4,400, one action in the USA with a penalty of $29,000 and one in the UK
with a penalty of £13,885.

Ä
Å
Ç
É
Ñ
Ö
Ü
á
Åá Å ÅÄ ÅÄÄ ÄÅ
ÜÑ
ÜÄ
Öá
Ñ 
 Å
Accident severity rate
Number of days/shifts lost due to accidents and
occupational ill health per 1,000 employees*
.
.Ä
Å.
Å.Ä
Ç.
Ç.Ä
É.
Ç Ç! ÇÅ ÇÅÅ ÄÅ
Ç.Ä
Ç.Å
Ç."
Ç.É
.Å
Accident frequency rate
Number of lost time accidents per 1,000 employees*
* 2008-2010 figures include employees only,
2011-2012 figures also include agency workers.
* 2008-2010 figures include employees only,
2011-2012 figures also include agency workers. .4N
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Communities
We are all part of a wider society and we will contribute positively to the communities in which
we operate.
GKN has a long tradition of working with the communities in which it operates. Some
initiatives are company led, but more often than not the impetus comes from employees
themselves. There is a rich history at GKN of supporting local activities around the world
through community programmes. To encourage this, individuals and groups of employees are
recognised for the contribution they make through the annual GKN Hearts of Gold Awards.
In 2012, awards recognised activities that helped to create opportunities for disabled people
in Sweden and for people who need special care in Slovenia; supported orphaned teenagers
in Romania; worked with local community groups across the world; and raised funds for
hospitals and hospices through a wide range of events and personal endeavours.
These activities are just a few of the numerous connections with communities; visit
www.gkn.com/corporateresponsibility for further examples of the work undertaken by
GKN employees.
The GKN Hope School
In December 2012, a delegation from GKN China made one
of its regular visits to GKN Hope School in Liangping County,
Chongqing. Money raised by GKN employees was used to
improve the lives of the children at the school. The GKN
Hope School was rebuilt in 2008 from the original Tian
Sheng Elementary School in Pingjin Town, which was
destroyed during the Sichuan earthquake. Now the school
offers both the elementary and kindergarten programmes
and has 50 students in total. GKN China donations helped
fund the rebuild and provide continuous care and ongoing
material support. .

Michael Turner, CBE
Chairman
Nigel Stein
Chief Executive
Marcus Bryson
Chief Executive Aerospace
and Land Systems
Angus Cockburn
Independent non-executive Director
Tufan Erginbilgic
Independent non-executive Director
Shonaid Jemmett-Page
Independent non-executive Director
Richard Parry-Jones, CBE
Senior Independent Director
Andrew Reynolds Smith
Chief Executive Automotive and
Powder Metallurgy
William Seeger
Finance Director
John Sheldrick
Independent non-executive Director
Judith Felton
Company Secretary
The Board .4P
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Michael Turner, CBE (64)
Chairman
N
Appointed to the Board in September 2009
and became Chairman on 3 May 2012.
Experience
Has extensive experience of the aerospace
industry having worked for BAE Systems
plc for over 40 years, and as Chief
Executive from 2002 to 2008. Former
President of the Aerospace & Defence
Industries Association of Europe. Fellow
of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
External Appointments
Chairman of Babcock International
Group PLC and non-executive Director of
Lazard Ltd. Member of the Government’s
Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.
Nigel Stein (57)
Chief Executive
N E
Appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Experience
Joined GKN in 1994 and held a range of
commercial, general management and
finance roles, including Group Finance
Director and Chief Executive Automotive
before becoming Chief Executive on
1 January 2012. Prior to GKN, he gained
experience in the commercial vehicle and
manufacturing sector and held senior
financial positions with Laird Group plc
and Hestair Duple Ltd. Member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Scotland and former non-executive
Director of Wolseley plc.
External Appointments
Director of the Society of Motor
Manufacturers and Traders Ltd and
Member of the Automotive Council.
Marcus Bryson (58)
Chief Executive Aerospace and
Land Systems
E
Appointed to the Board in June 2007 .
Experience
Joined GKN with the acquisition of the
Westland Group in 1994. He has extensive
experience of the aerospace industry
having held a number of finance and
commercial roles with Westland and
senior positions in GKN’s Aerospace
division. Joined the Executive Committee
as Chief Executive Aerospace in January
2006 and assumed responsibility for
Land Systems in October 2011.
External Appointments
Vice-President Aerospace of ADS Group Ltd
and co-Chairman of the Aerospace
Growth Partnership.
Angus Cockburn (49)
Independent non-executive Director
A R N
Appointed to the Board in January 2013.
Experience
Currently Chief Financial Officer of
Aggreko plc. He joined Aggreko in 2000
from Pringle Scotland, a division of
Dawson International plc, where he was
Managing Director. Prior to this he held
a number of roles at PepsiCo Inc and
was latterly Regional Finance Director for
Central Europe. Former Chairman of the
Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
External Appointments
Non-executive Director of Howden Joinery
Group plc.
Tufan Erginbilgic (53)
Independent non-executive Director
A R N
Appointed to the Board in May 2011.
Experience
Currently Chief Operating Officer for the
Refining and Marketing division of BP plc
with specific responsibility for the global
lubricants, aviation and LPG businesses
as well as all refining and fuels
operations outside the US. He joined
BP in 1997 and has held a number of
senior marketing and operational roles,
including Chief of Staff to the Group
Chief Executive. His early career was
spent at Mobil Oil.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page (52)
Independent non-executive Director
A R N
Appointed to the Board in June 2010.
Experience
Former Chief Operating Officer for
CDC Group plc, the UK Government’s
development finance institution. She
joined CDC from Unilever, where for eight
years she was Senior Vice-President
Finance and Information, Home and
Personal Care, originally in Asia and later
for the group as a whole. Her early career
was spent at KPMG, latterly as a partner.
Former non-executive Director of
Havelock Europa plc.
External Appointments
Independent non-executive Director of
Amlin plc, APR Energy plc and Close
Brothers Group plc. Non-executive
Director and Vice Chairman of Origo
Partners plc. Chair of the Sustainability
Committee of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England & Wales and an
Association Member of BUPA.
Richard Parry-Jones, CBE (61)
Senior Independent Director
A R N
Appointed to the Board in March 2008
and became Senior Independent Director
in May 2012.
Experience
Has extensive experience of the
automotive industry having previously
worked for the Ford Motor Company for
38 years, latterly as Group Vice-President
Global Product Development and Group
Chief Technical Officer. Fellow of the
Royal Academy of Engineering, the
Institution of Mechanical Engineers and
the Royal Society of Statistical Science.
Former Chairman of the Welsh Assembly
Government Ministerial Advisory Group.
External Appointments
Non-executive Chairman of Network Rail
Ltd and non-executive Director of
Cosworth Group Holdings Ltd. Visiting
Professor within the Department of
Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering
at Loughborough University. Joint
Chairman of the Automotive Council.
Andrew Reynolds Smith (46)
Chief Executive Automotive and
Powder Metallurgy
E
Appointed to the Board in June 2007 .
Experience
Joined GKN in 2002 and has held a
number of senior positions across the
Group’s Driveline, Powder Metallurgy
and OffHighway businesses. Joined the
Executive Committee in January 2006
and became Chief Executive Automotive
and Powder Metallurgy on 1 October
2011. Prior to GKN, he held various
general management and functional
positions at Ingersoll Rand, Siebe plc
(now Invensys plc) and Delphi
Automotive Systems. Former Chairman
of the CBI Manufacturing Council and
former member of the Ministerial
Advisory Group for Manufacturing.
External Appointments
Vice President of CLEPA (the European
Association of Automotive Suppliers).
William Seeger (61)
Finance Director
E
Appointed to the Board in September 2007 .
Experience
Joined GKN in 2003 as Senior Vice-
President and Chief Financial Officer of
GKN Aerospace. In June 2007 he became
a member of the Executive Committee as
President and Chief Executive Propulsion
Systems and Special Products. Appointed
Finance Director in September 2007 . Prior
to GKN, he held a number of senior
finance positions at TRW Inc spanning
over 20 years, latterly as Vice-President
Financial Planning and Analysis.
John Sheldrick (63)
Independent non-executive Director
A R N
Appointed to the Board in December 2004.
He will retire from the Board at the
conclusion of the 2013 Annual General
Meeting.
Experience
Former Group Finance Director of
Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 to 2009.
Prior to joining Johnson Matthey in 1990
he was Group Treasurer of The BOC Group
plc. He is also a former non-executive
Director of API Group plc. Fellow of the
Association of Corporate Treasurers and
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants.
External Appointments
Non-executive Director of Fenner plc and
Low & Bonar plc.
Judith Felton 
Company Secretary
E
Joined GKN in 1980 and became Deputy
Company Secretary in 1995 before being
appointed Company Secretary in 2009.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Secretaries and Administrators.
External Appointments
Non-executive Director and Trustee of
Young Enterprise UK.
A Member of Audit Committee
R Member of Remuneration Committee
N Member of Nominations Committee
E Member of Executive Committee Corporate governance .BF
In this section
Leadership page 49
Effectiveness page 51
Accountability page 52
Relations with shareholders page 53
Compliance statement page 54
Introduction
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance. The
demonstration by those leading the Group of behaviours that uphold GKN’s Values is of
paramount importance in this regard, particularly as the Group grows in size and extends its
global footprint. I recognise fully my role in this leadership and in promoting equivalent high
standards of behaviour throughout the whole of the Group.
To support this commitment, during the year we approved the appointment of a new non-
executive Director to strengthen the Board further, increased our focus on executive
succession planning to the Board and the level below the Board, implemented a revised
remuneration policy including new long term incentive arrangements which received strong
support from shareholders at the 2012 AGM, and approved the strengthening of the role of
the Executive Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk with specific reference to risk
assurance processes.
All of these actions, which are described more fully throughout this annual report, further
strengthen our governance framework and will, I believe, contribute to the continuing
success of the Group. 
Mike Turner CBE
Chairman
25 February 2013 .BG
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Leadership
The Board recognises that to maintain good governance requires considerable and continuing effort. Governance is therefore an integral part of the
way in which the Board and its Committees operate.
GKN's governance framework is designed to facilitate a combination of effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management required both to
safeguard shareholders' interests and to sustain the success of GKN over the longer term. It is underpinned by GKN's Values, which require Directors
and employees to act with integrity at all times, combining high standards of business performance with equivalent standards of corporate
governance and risk management.
Directors also have a statutory duty to take into account the long term consequences of their decisions, the interests of employees, relationships with
suppliers, customers and others, the impact of the Group's operations on local communities and the environment, and the need to maintain a
reputation for high standards of business conduct.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive. Michael Turner succeeded Roy Brown as Chairman in May 2012
and in this role is responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness. He was considered to be independent on appointment as Chairman.
Nigel Stein leads the business as Chief Executive having been appointed in January 2012 and, with the support of the Executive Committee, he is
responsible for the execution of the Group's strategy and the day-to-day running of the Group.
The Board
The GKN Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Group. Key aspects of the Board's role include setting the Group's strategic
objectives, ensuring that the necessary capabilities to deliver the strategy are in place, reviewing operational performance and ensuring that an
appropriate and effective framework of control and risk management exists. A full description of the role of the Board, which includes a number of
specific responsibilities reserved for its decision, is available on our website at www.gkn.com. 
Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, who maintains a
12 month rolling programme of items for discussion by the Board to ensure that all matters reserved to the Board and other key issues are considered
at the appropriate time. Agendas are closely aligned to the key aspects of the Board's role; below are examples of areas of the Board's focus in 2012.
The Board meets formally at least eight times a year. At least one meeting is combined with a Board visit to the Group's business locations; in 2012
the Board visited Driveline, Powder Metallurgy and Land Systems facilities located in Bruneck, Italy. A number of informal meetings are also held
during the year which help to strengthen relations between Directors. There are sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to meet with the non-
executive Directors, without the executive Directors being present, should this be deemed appropriate.
Strategy
■      Reviewed and approved
the Group’s strategic
plans and annual
budget
■      Approved the strategic
acquisition of Volvo
Aero and the associated
funding including an
equity placing and
bond issue
Capabilities
■      Considered succession
planning for the Board
and for senior executive
positions within the
Group as well as the
succession planning
framework
■      Reviewed technology
plans to support the
delivery of the
business’ strategy
Performance
■      Reviewed divisional
strategic and
operational
performance
■      Considered Group
financial performance
against budget and
forecast
■      Considered health and
safety performance
throughout the Group
Risk
■      Assessed the risks to
the achievement of the
Group strategy,
including consideration
of a risk analysis in
relation to the
acquisition of Volvo
Aero
■      Considered further de-
risking opportunities in
respect of the Group’s
pension arrangements
■      Agreed proposals to
strengthen further the
risk management
framework
Control 
■      Assessed, with the
support of the Audit
Committee, the
effectiveness of internal
control and audit
processes
■      Evaluated the
effectiveness of the
Board Corporate governance continued .C0
Board Committees
The Board has appointed a number of Committees which play an important governance role through the detailed work they carry out to fulfil the
responsibilities delegated to them. Their terms of reference are available on our website. All Board Committees are supported by the Company
Secretariat.
Corporate Governance Committees
Audit Committee monitors the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes and reviews the effectiveness of the Group's systems of internal
control and risk management. A report on its activities in 2012 is given on pages 56 and 57 .
Remuneration Committee determines and makes recommendations on the Group's remuneration policy and framework to recruit, retain and reward
executive Directors and senior executives. The remuneration report is set out on pages 58 to 72.
Nominations Committee recommends Board and Board Committee appointments and reviews succession planning against the leadership needs of
the Group. A report on its activities during the year is set out on page 55.
All independent non-executive Directors are members of these Committees. This gives them detailed insight into matters critical to the success of the
Group and helps to inform Board discussions. The Chairman and the Chief Executive are also members of the Nominations Committee.
Briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members in advance of each meeting and, in respect of the Audit Committee, made
available to other Directors. In order that the Board remains fully appraised of their work, the Committee Chairmen report formally on Committee
activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
These Committees can obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company if deemed necessary.
Operational Governance 
Executive Committee (chaired by Nigel Stein) is responsible for executing strategy by leading, overseeing and directing the activities of the Group. Its
work is supported by a number of sub-committees:
Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee is responsible for driving operational best practice globally through the application of Lean business processes.
Group Technology Strategy Board is responsible for development of the Group’s technology plan, driving the development of appropriate
technologies across the Group and the strengthening of external relationships including access to sources of funding. It also reviews the plans for and
progress of major technology projects across the Group.
Governance and Risk Sub-Committee has responsibility for monitoring and reviewing matters relating to governance and compliance, risk
management and corporate social responsibility. 
In addition, the Chief Executive’s Council assists in shaping the Group’s strategy and operations. Chaired by the Chief Executive, the Council comprises
members of the Executive Committee and 20 senior executives from divisional leadership teams involved in the day-to-day running of the businesses.
Board and Committee attendance
The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2012 was as
follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Audit           Remuneration              Nominations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Board                 Committee                 Committee                 Committee
Director                                                                                                                                                                                                                (11 meetings)              (4 meetings)             (8 meetings)             (5 meetings)
Chairman                                                                                                                                                                           
Michael Turner
(a)
                                                                                                                                                           11                     1/1*                    4/4*                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                             
Executive Directors                                                                                                                                                         
Nigel Stein                                                                                                                                                                      11                          –                          –                          5
Marcus Bryson                                                                                                                                                              11                          –                          –                          –
Andrew Reynolds Smith                                                                                                                                              11                          –                          –                          –
William Seeger                                                                                                                                                              11                          –                          –                          –
                                                                                                                                                                                             
Non-executive Directors                                                                                                                                                
Tufan Erginbilgic
(b)
                                                                                                                                                       10                          4                          8                          5
Shonaid Jemmett-Page                                                                                                                                               11                          4                          8                          5
Richard Parry-Jones                                                                                                                                                      11                          4                          8                          5
John Sheldrick                                                                                                                                                               11                          4                          8                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                             
Former non-Executive Director                                                                                                                                     
Roy Brown
(c)
                                                                                                                                                              3/3*                          –                          –                     1/1*
* Actual attendance/maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of appointment/retirement/change in role.
(a) Michael Turner ceased to be a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees following his appointment as Chairman on 3 May 2012.
(b) Tufan Erginbilgic was unable to attend a Board meeting in March due to a prior business commitment.
(c) Roy Brown retired as Chairman and from the Board on 3 May 2012. .C1
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Effectiveness
Board composition
The Board currently comprises four executive and six non-executive Directors, including the Chairman. Biographical details of all Directors are given
on pages 46 and 47 . The Board considers that all of the non-executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, are independent and is not aware of any
relationship or circumstance likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
On 3 May 2012 Roy Brown retired as Chairman of the Board and was succeeded by Michael Turner. On the same date Richard Parry-Jones succeeded
Michael Turner as Senior Independent Director.
Angus Cockburn was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2013. In accordance with the Company’s articles of association,
he will retire and offer himself for election at the AGM on 2 May 2013. All other Directors, with the exception of John Sheldrick who retires at the
conclusion of the AGM, will seek re-election in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Descriptions of the role of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary are available on our website. The non-
executive Directors provide constructive challenge and bring independence to the Board and its decision making process.
Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the Nominations Committee. The Committee follows Board approved procedures
(available on our website) which provide a framework for the different types of Board appointments on which the Committee may be expected to make
recommendations. Appointments are made on merit, and against objective criteria with due regard to diversity (including skills, experience and
gender). Non-executive appointees are also required to demonstrate that they have sufficient time to devote to the role. 
These procedures were used by the Nominations Committee in recommending to the Board the appointment of Michael Turner as Chairman, Richard
Parry-Jones as Senior Independent Director and Angus Cockburn as a non-executive Director. The Committee engaged the services of an external
search consultant in relation to the appointment of Chairman and the new non-executive Director; further information is set out in the Nominations
Committee report on page 55.
At Board level, it is our stated aim to have an appropriate level of diversity to reflect the diverse nature of the Company’s operations. However, we are
clear that our responsibility to maintain a strong Board takes priority and our overriding obligation in any new appointments must always be to select
the best candidate.
Development
Directors are continually updated on the Group’s businesses, the markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive and regulatory
environment through briefings to the Board and meetings with senior executives. Board visits to Group business locations enable the Directors to
meet local management and employees and to update and maintain their knowledge and familiarity with the Group’s operations. Non-executive
Directors are also encouraged to visit Group operations throughout their tenure to increase their exposure to the business.   
Training and development needs are discussed with each Director by the Chairman as part of the individual performance review process. The
suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary such that any needs identified either through the review process or on
an ad hoc basis can be addressed. Directors attended external training courses on a number of matters during the year including remuneration, risk
and compliance. 
Information and support
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information. The provision of information to the Board was
reviewed during the year as part of the performance evaluation exercise referred to below.
To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion and to enable informed decision making, briefing papers are prepared and circulated
to Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings. All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is
tasked with ensuring that the Board is fully briefed on legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments. In addition, Directors may, in
the furtherance of their duties, take independent professional advice at the Company’s expense.
The Company Secretary also supports the Committee Chairmen by ensuring that agendas are appropriate and address all matters for which the
Committee has specific responsibility.
On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction pack which includes background information about GKN and its Directors, and
details of Board meeting procedures, Directors’ duties and responsibilities, procedures for dealing in GKN shares and a number of other governance-
related issues. This is supplemented by a briefing with the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the induction of new Directors both into
the Group and as to their roles and responsibilities as Directors. The Director meets with the Chief Executive and with relevant senior executives to be
briefed on the Group strategy and each individual business portfolio. Plant visits and external training, particularly on matters relating to the role of a
Director and the role and responsibilities of Board Committees, are arranged as appropriate. This induction process was applied following the
appointment of Angus Cockburn as a non-executive Director.  .C2
Performance evaluation
The board and board committee evaluation process for 2012 involved
in-depth one-to-one interviews conducted by the Company Secretary with
each Director. These focused on progress in areas highlighted through
the 2011 board evaluation process, believed to be critical to informing
and assisting the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees:
■ strategy and process;
■ risk and risk management systems;
■ monitoring financial and non-financial performance;
■ succession planning; and
■ overall Board and Committee working/efficiency.
No significant issues were identified in relation to the effectiveness of
the Board or its Committees. The strategy process, which culminated in
a full day Board review and discussion in October 2012, was considered
to be robust with agreement to review progress against key actions at a
Board strategy update in April 2013. It was also agreed that an
additional half day would be devoted to the Board strategy review in
2013. The Board was supportive of proposals to strengthen the role of
the Executive Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk to enhance the
Group’s risk identification, mitigation and assurance processes. The
current financial KPIs were confirmed as appropriate with a further
review to be carried out of non-financial KPIs. Actions to strengthen
further the succession planning process were identified, including a
greater focus on diversity. Overall Board working and efficiency was
considered to be strong with an appropriate mix of skills, experience
and diversity in the Board’s composition.
As the last external board evaluation was conducted in 2010, it is
intended that the board evaluation process for 2013 will be externally
facilitated. 
The individual performance of the Directors was also evaluated, against
a number of assessment areas, through one-to-one interviews with the
Chairman. An evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by the Senior
Independent Director taking into account the views of the other
Directors. Through this process, it was confirmed that each Director
continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and, where
relevant, its Committees and devotes sufficient time to the role. 
Accountability
Financial and business reporting
When reporting externally the Board aims to present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
Such assessment is provided in the business review sections of this
annual report. The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of the
preparation of the annual report are set out on page 76 and the
auditors' report on page 77 includes a statement by PwC about their
reporting responsibilities. As set out on page 35, the Directors are of the
opinion that GKN's business is a going concern.
Risk management and internal control
Risk management is critical to the long-term success of the Group and
accordingly GKN has in place an extensive risk management framework
designed to identify, assess and manage risk.
The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the Group’s internal
control and risk management systems and receives regular reports in
respect of this matter. It delegates responsibility for risk management to
the Executive Committee; this includes the identification, evaluation
and monitoring of risks facing the Group. The occurrence of any material
control issues, serious accidents or events that have had a major
commercial, financial or reputational impact, or the identification of
significant new risks are reported to the next Board meeting and/or
Audit Committee meeting as appropriate. 
Identification, evaluation and monitoring of risk
GKN’s enterprise risk management (ERM) programme facilitates a
common, Group-wide approach to the identification and assessment of
risks and the way in which these are monitored, managed and
controlled. Through the use of an ERM software tool, risk profiling is
undertaken at plant, region/business stream, divisional and corporate
levels. The ERM tool provides a consistent set of risk definitions and a
common approach to risk evaluation with reference to probability and
impact. A summary of those risks which could have a material impact on
the Group is given on pages 36 and 37 .
A broad spectrum of risks is considered in the ERM process, including
those relating to strategy, operational performance, finance (including
credit risk, risk financing and fraud), product engineering and
technology, business reputation, human resources, health and safety,
and the environment. Mitigating actions designed to control the
identified risks are also recorded. 
Output from the ERM tool, in the form of consolidated ‘risk maps’, is
reviewed at various points throughout the year by divisional
management, the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the
Board.
As part of its remit, the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee is
responsible for monitoring and reviewing matters relating to risk
management. During the year, the role of the Sub-Committee was
strengthened to include oversight of risk assurance processes and
enhancement of the application of ERM. 
Corporate governance continued .CA
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Managing risk
In addition to consideration of mitigating controls for enterprise risk
undertaken as part of the process described above, the Group also has
in place systems and procedures for exercising control and managing
risk in respect of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated
accounts. These include:
■ the implementation of Group accounting policies and procedures,
supported by regular bulletins from the central and divisional
finance teams on the application of accounting standards and
reporting protocols;
■ Group and divisional policies governing the maintenance of
accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial control
procedures;
■ a proprietary internal control monitoring system, GKN Reporting and
Integrity Procedures (GRiP), to assess compliance with key financial
controls on monthly, quarterly and annual cycles;
■ monthly operational review meetings which include, as necessary,
reviews of internal financial reporting issues and financial control
monitoring; and
■ ongoing training and development of financial reporting personnel.
Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their
business risks and to report on whether there has been any material
breakdown in their internal controls. This formal review is
supplemented by an interim review conducted at the half year.
Companies also have to confirm annually whether they have complied
with statutory and regulatory obligations as well as with the policies
which support the GKN Code. 
The Group’s systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage
and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of
failure to achieve business objectives. They are not designed to
eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement
or loss.
Process for review of effectiveness
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control
processes, and the actions undertaken by the Committee to discharge
this responsibility are described in the Audit Committee’s report on
pages 56 and 57 .
The Board receives an annual report from the Audit Committee
concerning the operation of the systems of internal control and risk
management. This report is considered by the Board in forming its own
view on the effectiveness of the systems.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s systems of
internal control and risk management during the period covered by this
annual report. It confirms that the processes described above, which
accord with the guidance on internal control (the revised Turnbull
Guidance), have been in place throughout that period and up to the
date of approval of the annual report. The Board also confirms that no
significant failings or weaknesses were identified in relation to the
review.
Relations with shareholders
The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders directed towards
ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
Major shareholders
Communication with major institutional shareholders is undertaken as
part of GKN’s investor relations programme, in which non-executive
Directors are encouraged to participate.
The Chairman, with support from the Company Secretary, meets with
institutional shareholders and investor representatives to discuss
matters relating to governance and strategy. Any issues raised are fed
back to the Board. The Senior Independent Director is also available to
discuss issues with shareholders where concerns cannot be addressed
through normal channels of communication.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman also engages in discussion with
shareholders on matters relating to executive remuneration. In early
2012, he consulted extensively with major shareholders on proposed
changes to the remuneration framework for executive Directors prior to
submission of those proposals for shareholder approval at the 2012 AGM. 
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations
meet regularly with major shareholders to discuss strategy, financial
and operating performance. Feedback is sought by the Company’s
brokers after meetings and presentations to ensure that the Group’s
strategy and performance is being communicated effectively and to
develop further an understanding of shareholder views. This feedback is
included in a twice-yearly report to the Board which also provides an
update on investor relations activity, highlights changes in holdings of
substantial shareholders and reports on share price movements. In
addition, external brokers’ reports on GKN are circulated to all Directors.
GKN hosted a number of events for institutional investors in 2012, which
included site visits to its facilities in the UK and China and divisional
presentations on strategy, growth opportunities and technology
innovations. A recording of the presentations and slide material shown
is available on our website. 
Communications with shareholders
Written responses are given to letters or email received from
shareholders and all shareholders receive, or can access electronically,
copies of the annual and half year reports. The investor relations
section of our website provides further detail about the Group,
including share price information, webcasts and presentations of
annual and half year results, other presentations made to the
investment community, and copies of financial reports.
Annual General Meeting
Information regarding the 2013 AGM is given on page 73. Shareholders
who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions during the meeting and
to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Resolutions for consideration at the AGM are voted on by way of a poll
rather than by show of hands. This is a more transparent method of
voting as it allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including
those cast by proxy. The results of the poll vote will be announced to the
London Stock Exchange and published on our website after the meeting.  .CB
Compliance statement
This corporate governance statement, together with the Nominations
Committee report on page 55, the Audit Committee report on pages 56
and 57 and the remuneration report on pages 58 to 72, provide a
description of how the main principles of the 2010 edition of the UK
Corporate Governance Code (the Code) have been applied within GKN
during 2012. The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council
and is available on its website at www.frc.org.uk. 
It is the Board’s view that, throughout the financial year ended 31
December 2012, GKN was in compliance with the relevant provisions set
out in the Code.
This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, 2.2(1), 2.3(1), 2.5, 2.7
and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the
Financial Services Authority. The information required to be disclosed
by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown on pages 73 to 75.
Corporate governance continued .CC
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Composition
The Nominations Committee comprises the following Directors:
Michael Turner (Chairman)
Angus Cockburn
Tufan Erginbilgic
Shonaid Jemmett-Page
Richard Parry-Jones
John Sheldrick
Nigel Stein
Roy Brown chaired the Committee until his retirement from the Board on
3 May 2012. Upon his retirement Michael Turner, until then a member of
the Committee, became its Chairman. Angus Cockburn became a
member of the Committee on his appointment as a non-executive
Director on 1 January 2013.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code,
the majority of members are independent non-executive Directors.
The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary. 
Role
The role of the Nominations Committee is to lead the process for
identifying, and making recommendations to the Board on, candidates
for appointment as Directors of the Company and as Company
Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and the
leadership needs of the Group. It also: 
■ makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the
Nominations Committee and the composition and chairmanship 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees; 
■ keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the
Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge, experience,
ethnicity and gender and the independence of the non-executive
Directors; and 
■ makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes. 
The Nominations Committee follows Board-approved procedures in
making its recommendations.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committee's authority and
responsibility are available on our website at www.gkn.com. 
Advice provided to the Committee 
From time to time the Committee appoints external search consultants
to provide support in recruiting and selecting individuals for potential
appointment to the Board. During 2012 MWM Consulting was engaged
by the Committee; it does not provide any other services to the Group.
2012 Activities
The Committee met on five occasions in 2012. Members’ attendance at
these meetings is set out in the table on page 50.
The Committee’s focus during the year was on succession planning for
future executive Director and other senior executive appointments, as
well as strengthening the non-executive composition of the Board. An
in-depth succession planning review was held mid-year with a follow-up
towards the end of the year. The Committee was supportive of two
internal promotions made during the year to Divisional Chief Executive
of GKN Driveline and GKN Powder Metallurgy respectively. 
In light of the fact that John Sheldrick’s term of office as a non-executive
Director was due to expire in 2013, the Committee identified in 2012 the
need for a new non-executive Director with a proven track record in
international business and a strong financial background. In line with
the Company’s aim of extending the female composition of the Board as
vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified, the Committee
ensured that female candidates who matched the agreed criteria were
included for consideration for the position. Following a thorough
process, and taking into account the skills and expertise required for
the role, the Board approved the Committee’s recommendation to
appoint Angus Cockburn with effect from 1 January 2013.
Since the end of the year and after due consideration, the Committee
recommended to the Board the appointment of Shonaid Jemmett-Page
as Chairman of the Audit Committee to succeed John Sheldrick on his
retirement from the Board on 2 May 2013 at the conclusion of the AGM.
The Board accepted this recommendation.
Performance evaluation
No changes were considered necessary to the Committee’s terms of
reference as a result of the Committee evaluation process which took
place during the year, and the Committee was considered to be effective
in fulfilling its role throughout 2012.
On behalf of the Committee
Mike Turner CBE
Chairman of the Nominations Committee
25 February 2013
Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report .CD
Composition
The Audit Committee comprises the following independent non-
executive Directors:
John Sheldrick (Chairman)
Angus Cockburn
Tufan Erginbilgic
Shonaid Jemmett-Page
Richard Parry-Jones
Michael Turner was a member of the Committee until his appointment
as Chairman of the Board on 3 May 2012. Angus Cockburn became a
member of the Committee on his appointment as a non-executive
Director on 1 January 2013.
The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary. 
The Committee's members have, in the Board’s view, recent and
relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate
Governance Code. In particular, John Sheldrick, the Committee
Chairman, was Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc from 1995
until his retirement in September 2009 and has chaired GKN’s Audit
Committee since 2006; and Shonaid Jemmett-Page has held a number
of senior finance roles in Unilever and is a former partner at KPMG and
former Chief Operating Officer at CDC Group plc, the UK Government’s
development finance institution. Angus Cockburn is currently the Chief
Financial Officer of Aggreko plc and previously held senior finance
positions within international organisations.
Role
The primary role of the Audit Committee, which reports its findings 
to the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and
audit processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk
management systems. The Committee is responsible for monitoring and
reviewing:
■ the integrity of the Group’s financial statements and the 
significant reporting judgements contained in them;
■ the appropriateness of the Group’s relationship with the external
auditors, including auditor independence, fees and provision of
non-audit services;
■ the effectiveness of the external audit process, making
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the 
external auditors;
■ the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function
(Corporate Audit);
■ the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and risk
management systems; and
■ the Group’s policies and practices concerning business conduct 
and ethics, including whistleblowing.
Written terms of reference that outline the Committee’s authority and
responsibility are available on our website at www.gkn.com.
Advice provided to the Committee
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access
to the services of Corporate Audit and to the external auditors, and 
may obtain outside professional advice as necessary. During 2012 no
member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, sought such
outside professional advice beyond that which was provided directly to
the Committee by the external auditors. Both the Head of Corporate
Audit and the external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of
the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
2012 Activities
The Committee met on four occasions in 2012 timed to coincide with the
financial and reporting cycles of the Company. Members’ attendance at
these meetings is set out in the table on page 50.
The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Corporate
Audit, the engagement partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) and
other members of senior management attended meetings by invitation.
The Head of Corporate Audit and PwC each had the opportunity to discuss
matters with the Committee without any executive management being
present at two meetings. In addition, the members of the Committee met
separately at the start of each meeting to discuss matters in the absence
of any persons attending by invitation.
Financial reporting
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed a wide range of financial
reporting and related matters in respect of the Company’s half year 
and annual results statements and its annual report prior to their
consideration by the Board. In particular, the Committee reviewed the
significant accounting judgements made in respect of business
combination accounting, including the accounting methodologies used
to establish a fair value opening balance sheet for the Volvo Aero
acquisition, recognition of deferred tax assets, development costs on
Aerospace contracts and assumptions in respect of post-employment
obligations. Key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the
adequacy, clarity and completeness of the financial statements were
also considered. Reports highlighting key accounting matters and
significant judgements were also received from PwC in respect of each
set of financial statements; these were discussed in Committee
meetings with the auditors. Analysis to support the going concern
judgement given on page 35 was also reviewed.
External auditors
Independence
The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation
and monitoring of the Company’s policies on external audit. The
policies, designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the
external auditors, regulate the appointment of former employees of the
external audit firm to positions in the Group and set out the approach to
be taken when using the external auditors for non-audit work.  .CE
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
As a general principle the external auditors are excluded from consultancy
work and cannot be engaged by GKN for other non-audit work unless there
are compelling reasons to do so, for example where PwC can draw upon
significant historic knowledge gained through the audit process. Any
proposal to use the external auditors for non-audit work must be
submitted to the Finance Director, via the Group Financial Controller, for
approval prior to appointment. The Finance Director will, depending on the
nature of the service, seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of the
Audit Committee.
Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2012 can be found in note 4(a) to the
financial statements. Non-audit fees incurred during 2012 amounted to 
£1.6 million which related principally to corporate finance transaction
services (£0.7 million) and tax compliance services (£0.6 million) with tax
advisory services totalling £0.2 million and other services pursuant to
legislation equalling £0.1 million. All activities remained within the policy
approved by the Board. 
The Committee receives annual confirmation from PwC as to their
independence and objectivity within the context of applicable
regulatory requirements and professional standards, as well as
management confirmation of compliance with the Group’s policies on
the employment of former employees of the external auditors and the
use of the external auditors for non-audit work. The objectivity and
independence of PwC is also considered as part of Corporate Audit's
annual review of the effectiveness of both the external auditors and the
audit process.
Effectiveness and reappointment
During the year, the Committee undertook a thorough review of the
performance of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the
external audit process. This included consideration of the responses
from interviews conducted with Directors and senior management
concerning the audit strategy, independence and objectivity of PwC.
The Committee also took into consideration the recent rotation of the
audit partner (in March 2011) and the matters reviewed as part of the
subsequent tender proposal by the new audit partner for future GKN
audits which covered such matters as qualification, expertise, resourcing,
independence, objectivity and value for money. The tender proposal
was subject to thorough review by the Committee.
In light of the above, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate
to recommend to the Board PwC’s reappointment as the Company’s
auditors for a further year. There are no contractual obligations
restricting the Committee’s choice of external auditors.
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code, which will apply to GKN
from the 2013 financial year, will require listed companies to put the
audit services contract out to tender at least every ten years or explain
why they have not done so. On the recommendation of the Audit
Committee, the Board is proposing to put the audit contract out to
competitive tender no later than the time of the rotation of the current
audit partner which is scheduled for 2016. Mindful of FRC advice on the
impracticality of all companies conducting a tender exercise at the same
time, the precise timing of this exercise will be kept under review.
Internal control
In 2012 the Committee reviewed the results of the audits undertaken 
by Corporate Audit and considered the adequacy of management’s
response to the matters raised, including the implementation of any
recommendations made. The Committee considered and approved 
the 2013 Corporate Audit programme, including the proposed audit
approach, coverage and allocation of resources. The effectiveness of
Corporate Audit was formally reviewed, taking into account the views of
Directors and senior management on matters such as independence,
proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
The Committee reviewed regular reports on control issues of Group level
significance, including details of any remedial action being taken; these
reports included updates on the status of the Group's proprietary
internal financial control monitoring system (GKN Reporting and
Integrity Procedures). It considered reports from Corporate Audit and
PwC on the Group’s systems of internal control and reported to the
Board on the results of its review. The Committee also examined reports
detailing the Group’s actual or potential material litigation, monitored
compliance with the Group’s policy for the appointment of agents and
consultants, and reviewed the Directors’ and Company Secretary’s
expenses.
Further information on the Group’s systems of internal control and risk
management is given on pages 52 and 53.
Whistleblowing
To support the Group’s Employee Disclosure Procedures Policy (which
is available on our website), GKN operates a Group-wide international
whistleblowing hotline. Run by an external and independent third party,
the hotline facilitates arrangements whereby employees can make
(on an anonymous basis if preferred) confidential disclosures about
suspected impropriety and wrongdoing. Any matters reported are
investigated and escalated to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
Statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made 
are reported to the Committee on an annual basis.
Performance evaluation
No changes were considered necessary to the Committee’s terms of
reference as a result of the Committee evaluation process which took
place during the year, and the Committee was considered to be effective
in fulfilling its role throughout 2012.
On behalf of the Committee
John Sheldrick
Chairman of the Audit Committee
25 February 2013 Remuneration report .CF
Remuneration strategy review
The Committee’s main focus during the year was the completion of the
remuneration strategy review (commenced in 2011) and the
implementation of the new remuneration framework for executive
Directors and senior managers. The biggest change related to long term
incentive arrangements; we sought shareholder approval at the AGM
for a new long term incentive plan, the GKN Sustainable Earnings Plan
(SEP), to replace the previous arrangements. The changes made to our
remuneration structure were aimed at improving the alignment of the
remuneration framework with the interests of shareholders and our
strategic objective to deliver long term sustainable earnings growth.
The key changes to the remuneration framework that were made during
the year are set out below. 
■ SEP – awards are subject to an extended time horizon of five years
to reflect better the longer term nature of our business. The key
principle of the SEP is to encourage and reward earnings
performance that is sustained over the long term, in line with our
growth strategy and our stated objective of creating long term
shareholder value. A financial underpin will be applied by the
Committee on vesting of awards to test the quality of earnings.
■ Short term variable remuneration scheme – new strategic
measures were introduced to align better our reward structure with
key strategic priorities. A clawback provision was also introduced
for awards from 2012 onwards in the event of material
misstatement or gross misconduct. 
Although the structure of long term incentives has changed, the new
arrangements have been designed so that the overall quantum remains
broadly unchanged. If earnings performance is not sustained, the long
term incentive opportunity compared with our previous arrangements
is reduced.
During the year, the Committee also reviewed the shareholding
requirement for executive Directors. This was increased from 100% to
200% of base salary in order to increase the alignment of executive
Directors’ interests with those of shareholders. 
Company performance
The Company’s strong performance during the year is reported in detail
throughout the annual report and, in the view of the Remuneration
Committee, justifies the payments to executive Directors under the 
annual incentive arrangements which were on average around 50% of
salary (see page 66). Long term incentive awards granted in 2010 have
met their performance conditions (based on achievement of earnings
per share of 27 .5p and upper quartile TSR performance over the three
year measurement period) and have vested in full. The Committee is
satisfied, in light of the Company’s performance over that period,
taking account of key financial measures (see pages 22 and 23),
progress towards our strategic goals and the increase in share price,
that this level of vesting is justified.
Changes to base salary 
Salaries of executive Directors were reviewed and increased by
between 2.7% and 3% with effect from 1 July 2012, which is in line with
increases for the wider employee population. 
Shareholder engagement and governance
During the year, we were committed to engaging with key shareholders
in an open and transparent manner so that we could understand fully
their views and perspectives and address any concerns on the
proposed changes to our incentive arrangements. This proved to be a
valuable process as we were able to receive constructive advice and
feedback. This positive engagement with shareholders resulted in a
high level of support for the SEP at the 2012 AGM. 
We are also mindful of the need for transparency in relation to
remuneration reporting and therefore we have voluntarily incorporated
information necessary to comply with the UK government’s proposed
regulations as far as practicable. 
Finally, I believe the Committee has applied the new remuneration
policy prudently with a strong alignment to the interests of
shareholders. I am therefore pleased to present the remuneration
report for 2012.
On behalf of the Board
Richard Parry-Jones CBE
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
25 February 2013
Governance 
Remuneration Committee
During the year, the Committee comprised the following independent
non-executive Directors:
Richard Parry-Jones (Chairman)
Tufan Erginbilgic 
Shonaid Jemmett-Page
John Sheldrick
Michael Turner
(a)
(a) Until his appointment as Chairman on 3 May 2012.
Angus Cockburn became a member of the Committee on his
appointment as a non-executive Director on 1 January 2013.
The Secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary. 
During the year Michael Turner (Chairman), Nigel Stein (Chief Executive) and
Douglas McIldowie (Group Human Resources Director) were invited by the
Committee to attend meetings but were not present during any discussions
relating to their own remuneration. In addition, representatives of Deloitte
LLP (Deloitte) and New Bridge Street (NBS), the Committee’s independent
advisers, were invited to attend meetings as necessary. 
Role
The Committee is responsible for:
■   determining and making recommendations to the Board on the
Group’s policy on executive Directors’ remuneration; 
■   setting, within the terms of the policy approved annually by the
Board, the detailed terms of service of the executive Directors 
and the Company Secretary and the terms on which their service
may be terminated;
■   determining the fees of the Chairman; and 
■   recommending to the Chief Executive and monitoring the level 
and structure of remuneration of the most senior executives
immediately below Board level. 
The Committee’s terms of reference are available on our website at
www.gkn.com. The terms of reference were reviewed during the year to
ensure they continue to reflect accurately the Committee’s remit.
Committee advisers
Following a tender exercise in 2011, Deloitte was appointed to assist the
Committee in its review of remuneration strategy (a role which continued
in early 2012) and, from April 2012, was appointed as independent
advisers to the Committee on ongoing remuneration and incentive
arrangements for executive Directors and senior executives below Board
level. Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and,
as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to
executive remuneration consulting in the UK.  .CG
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
a number of changes to the remuneration framework. The Committee
Chairman consulted extensively with major shareholders prior to the
submission of a new long term incentive plan (the SEP) for shareholder
approval at the 2012 AGM and their comments were taken into account
specifically in relation to strengthening the financial underpin to the
EPS performance criterion. The table below sets out the voting outcome
of the resolutions relating to Directors’ remuneration at the AGM in 2012
(and 2011):
For Against
SEP 92% 8%
(a)
2011 Directors’ remuneration report 96% 4%
(b)
2010 Directors’ remuneration report 96% 4%
(a)
(a) Less than 0.5% of votes were withheld and not counted.
(b) 2% of votes were withheld and not counted. 
The Committee has continued to engage with shareholders to ensure
effective communication on matters relating to executive Directors’
remuneration  including the application of the remuneration policy and
the method of applying the financial underpin on the vesting of 
SEP awards.
Remuneration policy
Executive Directors
GKN’s remuneration policy for executive Directors is designed to attract,
retain and motivate directors of the high calibre required to ensure that
the Group is managed successfully to the benefit of shareholders. The
design of the package is based on the following key principles:
Key principle Remuneration policy
Paying competitively When setting executive Director salaries, the
Committee considers remuneration practices in
other multinational companies based in the UK
and also ensures that the remuneration
arrangements for executive Directors are
compatible with those for executives
throughout the Group. 
It also considers the most recent pay awards 
in the Group generally, with the aim of
maintaining salary increases for executive
Directors (other than in the event of any
changes in role and/or responsibilities) in line
with the wider Group employee population.
Aligned to GKN
strategy and delivery
of performance
A substantial proportion of executive Director
remuneration is variable and linked to the
Group’s performance.
The performance measures for the annual and
long-term incentive arrangements have been
selected to support business strategy and the 
ongoing enhancement of shareholder value
through a focus on sustainable earnings growth
as well as profit, margin and cash flow, together
with key non-financial measures.
The extended time horizon for the SEP (i.e. over
five years) also reflects the longer term nature
of the business. 
Alignment with
interests of
shareholders 
A substantial proportion of the package is
delivered in the Company’s shares to ensure
that the interests of executives are aligned with
those of shareholders. 
This is further supported by a shareholding
requirement – which was increased during the
year – ensuring that a meaningful portion of
each executive Director’s personal investment
is linked to share price performance.
The nature and quantum of other services provided by Deloitte,
comprising the provision of tax support to GKN employees on
international assignment and advice on other taxation matters
including transfer pricing, was also taken into account in confirming the
appointment to ensure that no conflict of interest would arise in relation
to the services provided to the Committee. During the year, fees of
£96,500 were paid for remuneration advice to the Committee, of which
£34,250 related to the remuneration strategy review and SEP
implementation and £62,250 to ongoing remuneration advice. 
The Committee received advice from NBS until March 2012, and
throughout the year on the outturn of TSR based awards granted in
previous years. The total amount of fees for this advice was £23,000. 
Aon Hewitt (the parent company of NBS) provided advice to the
Company in relation to UK pension de-risking in 2012 as well as ongoing
administration services relating to US employee healthcare benefits and
ongoing actuarial services relating to German retirement benefits. 
The Committee also receives advice from the Company Secretary on
governance matters; input from the Chief Executive on the remuneration
of other executive Directors and of the Company Secretary; and input
from the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director on the
remuneration of senior executives immediately below Board level. 
2012 activities
The Committee met eight times during the year; members’ attendance
at Committee meetings is set out in the table on page 50. The key
matters that were considered during the year were as follows:
Shareholder engagement
In early 2012, the Committee completed a thorough review of the policy
and structure of remuneration for executive Directors which resulted in 
Pay and annual
incentive plan
■ salary review proposals for executive
Directors, the Company Secretary and
senior executives below Board level
■ payments under the short term variable
remuneration scheme for 2011 and
proposals for awards in 2012 and 2013 
■ changes to the rules of the Deferred Bonus
Plan in order to introduce clawback 
Long term incentive
arrangements
■ assessment of the performance conditions
for the vesting of ESOS and LTIP awards
granted in 2009
■ proposals for awards under the SEP for
2012 and 2013 
Remuneration
strategy
■ completion of a detailed review of
remuneration strategy for executive
Directors and senior executives including
changes to retirement benefits for new
executive Directors
Shareholding
requirement
■ review of and increase in shareholding
requirement for executive Directors and
senior executives
Governance matters ■ performance evaluation of the Committee
and its external advisers
■ approval of the 2011 remuneration report 
■ review of the remuneration and severance
policies 
■ remuneration policy risk review
■ government consultations in relation to
proposals for enhanced remuneration
reporting .D0 Remuneration report continued
A summary of the key elements of executive Directors’ remuneration for 2012 is set out below:
Element of
remuneration Objective Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Base salary ■ To provide a package
within market
competitive range 
to recruit and retain
talent whilst
recognising and
rewarding individual
performance, skills
and experience. 
■ Reviewed annually (with any
increase usually effective
from 1 July) taking into
account individual
performance, Group
profitability, prevailing
market conditions and pay
awards in the Group
generally. 
■ Performance is reviewed to
ensure payment is in line
with stated policy and is
entirely justified.
■ Salary increases will
normally not exceed the
average increase awarded to
other employees in the
Group. However, larger
increases may be awarded
where there is a compelling
reason to do so, such as:
• an increase in scope
and responsibility; 
• a new executive Director
being moved to market
positioning over time; 
• an executive Director
falling significantly
below market
positioning; or 
• in other exceptional
circumstances.
Not applicable.
Benefits ■ To provide market
competitive
arrangements.
■ Executive Directors receive
benefits consistent with
those provided to senior
managers, which principally
include car and fuel
allowance and healthcare
benefits. 
■ Other benefits may be
provided based on
individual circumstances,
such as relocation
allowances or tax and social
security equalisation.
■ Benefits do not form part of
pensionable earnings. 
■ Set at a level which the
Committee considers to be
appropriately positioned
against peers and to provide
a sufficient level of benefit
based on individual
circumstances. 
Not applicable.
Annual incentive
plan (STVRS)
■ To drive and reward
achievement of short
term key financial
and strategic
measures which
support long term
strategic objectives
and are aligned with
the Group’s financial
KPIs. 
■ Whilst stretching,
these targets are
designed to
discourage excessive
risk taking.
■ An element deferred
into shares assists
with retention of key
executives.
■ The Committee reviews
performance measures
annually to ensure alignment
with the Group’s financial
KPIs and its longer term
strategic objectives.
■ Level of payment determined
after the year end based on
performance against targets. 
■ Payments do not form part of
pensionable earnings.
■ Awards up to a certain
percentage of base salary
(currently 65%) are delivered
in cash, with any amounts in
excess of this deferred into
shares which must be held
for two years.
■ Clawback is applied to bonus
element deferred into shares
in the event of material
misstatement or gross
misconduct.
■ Target and maximum
opportunities under the
STVRS are: 
• 55% of base salary at
target; and
• 110% of base salary at
maximum. 
■ Award levels are reviewed
annually by the Committee.
■ Stretching targets are
applied to a combination 
of Group and, where
appropriate, individual
portfolio financial and
strategic measures. 
■ The Committee has
discretion to alter targets 
to reflect changed
circumstances such as
material changes in
accounting standards or
changes in the Group’s
structure.  .D1
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Element of
remuneration Objective Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Long term
incentives 
(SEP)
■ To encourage and
reward sustained
earnings
performance in line
with the Group’s
growth strategy and
its objective of
creating longer term
shareholder value.
■ To assist with
retention of key
executives. 
■ Whilst stretching the
targets are designed
to discourage
excessive risk taking.
■ Awards comprise Core Award
and Sustainability Award
with vesting dependent on
achievement of performance
conditions over an initial
three year period and
subsequent two year period.
■ 50% of Core Award released
at the end of initial three
year performance period;
balance of Core Award
together with Sustainability
Award released at the end of
year five.
■ The Committee keeps the
performance conditions
under review to ensure
continued alignment with
business strategy.
■ Maximum award level
allowed under the SEP rules
is 200% of base salary
(including both the Core and
Sustainability Awards). 
■ Award levels are reviewed
annually by the Committee.
Core Awards: 
■ Measured over initial three
year period based on
stretching EPS performance
targets. 
■ Vesting at threshold is 25%
rising to a maximum of
100%. 
Sustainability Awards:
■ Sustained earnings growth
is measured independently
in years four and five. 
■ Up to 50% of the award is
released for achievement of
performance in each of
years four and five. 
■ Vesting of Core and
Sustainability Awards is
subject to additional
financial underpin to ensure
growth is based on quality
earnings.
Retirement benefits ■ To provide adequate
income in retirement
and assist with
recruitment and
retention. 
■ Provided by means of an
allowance delivered in cash
or as payment to a defined
contribution retirement plan.
■ Where historical contractual
commitments are in place,
benefits in part are provided
through membership of the
Group Pension Scheme.
■ Maximum is 40% of base
salary.
■ Maximum amount for new
executive Directors reduced
to 25% of base salary.
Not applicable.
Shareholding
requirement
■ To ensure that the
interests of executive
Directors and
shareholders are
aligned.
■ The Company operates a
shareholding requirement
which is reviewed
periodically.
■ Shareholding requirement
for executive Directors is
shares to a value of 200% 
of base salary. 
■ Shareholding requirement
for non-executive Directors
is shares to a value of 30%
of base fee.
Not applicable.
Pay policy for other employees
Reward policies for other employees are designated by grade and reflect the role, statutory requirements, market practice and performance. 
The incentive arrangements which operate for executive Directors are applied to employees in management grades. Where appropriate, local
arrangements apply to other employees providing them with participation in an annual incentive plan. Base pay is generally reviewed on an annual
basis, except where agreements have been put in place to extend the timeframe, and the reviews consider market practice, economic conditions and
the Company’s budget. Benefits vary according to statutory requirements and local market practice. 
Remuneration policy for new hires
When hiring a new executive Director, the Committee will typically seek to align the remuneration package with the Company’s remuneration policy.
However, the Committee retains discretion to make remuneration decisions which are outside the policy to facilitate the hiring of candidates of an
appropriate calibre and skill-set. 
In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee will take into consideration a number of relevant factors, including quantum,
the nature and structure of remuneration, and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited to ensure they are in the best interests of both
the Company and its shareholders. 
In such circumstances, the Committee may make an award in respect of ‘buying-out’ incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take into account a number of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards and the
time at which they would have vested. .D2 Remuneration report continued
Ä%
Base salary/
benets in kind
 !%
Pension
"Ä%
Annual
incentive plan
(STVRS) 
 #% 
Long term
incentive plan (SEP)
Target
Executive Director pay mix
The charts below show the balance of remuneration between fixed pay (base salary, benefits in kind and pension) and variable pay (short and long
term incentive arrangements) assuming target and maximum performance levels. 
■ Target: STVRS at 55% of base salary and SEP at 25% of maximum vesting opportunity. 
■ Maximum: STVRS at 110% of base salary and full vesting of the SEP award (174% of base salary).
■ Pension value: 40% of base salary at target and maximum.
The Committee believes that these proportions represent an appropriate balance between fixed income and performance-related remuneration 
linked to GKN’s operational and strategic objectives. 
Ä%
Base salary/
benets in kind
 %
Pension
!%
Annual incentive plan (STVRS) 
Ä"% 
Long term
incentive plan 
(SEP)
Maximum
Annual incentive plan
Performance-related short term variable remuneration scheme (STVRS)
Stretching targets are applied to a combination of Group and, where appropriate, individual portfolio financial and strategic measures. The Committee
has flexibility to select appropriate targets each year dependent on the specific business needs and strategic goals of the Group. These targets, whilst
stretching, are designed to discourage excessive risk taking. 
STVRS payments are delivered as a mix of cash and shares up to a maximum of 110% of base salary. Payments up to a certain percentage of base
salary are delivered in cash and amounts in excess of this percentage are compulsorily deferred and invested in GKN shares under the Deferred Bonus
Plan (see below). 
→  Delivered in cash      ← →    Deferred into shares for two years  ←
Details of the targets applied and payments made in respect of the 2012 STVRS are set out in the second table on page 66.
Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) 
Awards are granted under the DBP in respect of the element of STVRS that exceeds a percentage of base salary (currently 65%). On release of the
shares, a cash amount is paid equivalent to aggregate dividends per share paid during the deferral period. The release of such shares is not subject to
any further performance conditions; however in certain circumstances, such as resignation during the deferral period, the award may lapse. As part of
the remuneration strategy review, a clawback provision was introduced on awards granted from 2012 onwards which will apply in the event of a
material misstatement or gross misconduct. 
Details of share awards granted to executive Directors under the DBP are shown on page 71. 
Target Maximum
55% 65% 110% .DA
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Long term incentive arrangements 
GKN Sustainable Earnings Plan (SEP)
The SEP was introduced in 2012 to improve alignment with the Group’s growth strategy and with shareholders’ interests. It is designed to encourage
and reward earnings performance which is sustained over the long term.
Awards under the SEP take the form of a Core Award and an associated Sustainability Award. Executive Directors may receive award values up to
200% of salary; for 2012, the award values were 174% of salary (which includes the Sustainability Award). 
Core Award
The Core Award is subject to the achievement of stretching EPS growth targets measured over a three year core performance period. To the extent that
this core target has been met, half of the Core Award will be released at the end of the third year and the balance (the Deferred Core Award) after a
further two year period (i.e. at the end of five years). 
Sustainability Award
The number of shares over which a Sustainability Award is granted is equal to 20% of the number of shares granted under the associated Core Award.
At the end of the core performance period the number of shares subject to the Sustainability Award will be reduced to the extent that the core target is
not satisfied over the core performance period. The number of shares that can be earned under the associated Sustainability Award is subject to the
satisfaction of a sustainability target measured over a two year sustainability performance period. 
This is illustrated below:
On vesting, dividends are treated as having accrued on the shares from the date of grant to the date of release with the value delivered in the form of
additional shares or in cash.
Details of awards made to executive Directors during the year are set out in the table on page 70.
Vesting levels for awards granted in 2012 under the rules of the SEP are as follows:
Core target
Compound annual EPS
(a)
growth                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vesting level 
12% or more                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                100%
6%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25%
Less than 6%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
Between 6% and 12%                                                                                                                                                                                                       Straight line basis
(a) Management EPS calculated using cash tax rate as reported in the financial statements.
Sustainability target
If the highest level of EPS attained in the core performance period is achieved or exceeded in both years four and five, the Sustainability Award will
vest in full subject to any reduction made in respect of the core target not being satisfied over the core performance period. The sustainability target
will be assessed for year four and year five separately. 
There is no provision for the retesting of performance for either the Core Award or Sustainability Award. 
Adjustment of targets
To ensure a measure of consistency year on year the Remuneration Committee has discretion to alter the core and sustainability targets.
Core Award 
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 
Sustainability Award 
Core performance period
 
Sustainability performance period
 
Deferred Core Award 
50% Core Award released 50% Core Award released 
Sustainability Award will be reduced to the
extent that the core target is not satis!ed
over the core performance period 
Sustainability Award vests at the
end of year !ve subject to the
sustainability target set out below  .DB Remuneration report continued
Underpin
The vesting of Core Awards and Sustainability Awards will be subject to an additional test based on the Remuneration Committee’s assessment of and
its satisfaction that the quality of earnings justifies the vesting of awards. This will involve consideration of the Group’s return on invested capital
against internal projections, shareholder expectations, new investment performance and cost of capital, and the extent to which the level of vesting
appropriately reflects shareholder value creation. The key conclusions from this assessment and the basis for any adjustment to the levels of vesting
will be disclosed retrospectively in the remuneration report. 
Retirement benefits
Retirement benefits generally take the form of a supplementary allowance, expressed as a percentage of base salary, up to a maximum of 40% of
base salary for existing executive Directors and up to 25% for newly appointed executive Directors. These may be delivered by means of either a cash
payment or as a payment to a defined contribution retirement plan. Details of the supplementary allowances paid to executive Directors in the year
are set out in the table on page 69.
In certain cases, based on historical contractual commitments, retirement benefits in part are delivered through membership of the executive section
of the GKN Group Pension Scheme 2012, which is a defined benefit scheme. The Scheme provides executive Directors with a pension of up to two-
thirds of annual base salary (up to a pensionable earnings cap), from 1 September 2007 calculated on a career average basis, on retirement at age 60
after 20 or more years’ service and proportionately less for shorter service or for retirement before pension age. An employee contribution of 8.6% of
salary up to their pensionable earnings cap is required under the scheme. The salary on which any defined benefit provisions are based is taken into
account in calculating the supplementary allowance above. Details of defined benefit provisions for executive Directors are set out in the first table 
on page 72.
No compensation is offered for any additional tax suffered by the individual in the event that the value of their pension exceeds the statutory Lifetime
Allowance. 
Executive Directors with non-UK service agreements typically receive pension retirement benefits consistent with local practice. In particular, in
accordance with standard practice in the US, GKN makes a total annual contribution equivalent to 11% of William Seeger’s base salary and any STVRS
payment made in the relevant year to his qualified and non-qualified defined contribution pension arrangement. The amount contributed by GKN, as
noted above, forms part of the overall supplementary allowance payable to William Seeger of 40% of base salary.
Service agreements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Notice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Date of                                                                     Notice                    period by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Service                                                               period by                    executive
Executive Director                                                                                                                                                                                         Agreement                                Expiry                   Company                      Director
Nigel Stein                                                                                                                                                  22.08.01   One year rolling         12 months           6 months
Marcus Bryson                                                                                                                                           01.10.07   One year rolling         12 months           6 months
Andrew Reynolds Smith                                                                                                                           14.11.07   One year rolling         12 months           6 months
William Seeger                                                                                                                                           11.02.08                   31.12.16
(a)
      12 months           6 months
(a) William Seeger has a US service agreement which can be extended beyond the expiry date with the agreement of both parties.
The policy below is applied in the event of a termination of an executive Director’s service contract:
        
The Remuneration Committee is proposing to make changes to the above policy for future appointments, in particular to remove the change of control
clause, to bring it in line with best practice and in the light of the proposed new regulations on remuneration reporting. The Committee will also
consider whether such changes should apply to existing contracts.
Policy
Termination by Company No predetermined compensation payable. 
Usually equivalent to one year’s base salary and pension contributions. Consideration given to the inclusion
of additional elements relating to STVRS and major benefits in kind unless termination is as a result of
underperformance.
Mitigation would be applied.
Termination by Company on less
than due notice within 12 months of
a change of control
One year’s base salary, pension contributions, benefits in kind and loss of entitlements relating to STVRS
(30% of base salary).
Termination by mutual consent The Committee will approve such termination arrangements as are appropriate in the particular circumstances.
Vesting of long term incentives Governed by leaver provisions in relevant share schemes rules.
Pension enhancements An enhancement to the pension rights upon early retirement will only be considered in exceptional cases and
a full costing would be provided to the Committee at the time it is being discussed. Such enhancement
would not be considered unless objectives set for the Director had been met or it was otherwise merited in
the opinion of the Committee. .DC
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
It is also the Board’s policy that, at the time of consideration of a proposed appointment of an executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will
take into account the likely cost of severance in determining the suitability of the proposed terms of appointment. In accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Companies Act 2006, no payment will be made to a Director for loss of office or employment with the Company in excess of the
Director’s contractual obligations without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Chairman and non-executive Directors
Remuneration policy
The remuneration policy for the Chairman and the other non-executive Directors is to pay fees in line with those paid by other UK listed companies 
of comparable size and complexity. Such fees may include additional payments to the Senior Independent Director and to the Chairmen of Board
Committees to reflect the significant extra responsibilities attached to these positions. 
The fees of the non-executive Directors (other than the Chairman), together with any additional fees payable to the Senior Independent Director and
the Chairmen of Board Committees, are determined by the Board upon the recommendation of the Chairman and Chief Executive and are set at a level
that the Board believes will attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a substantial contribution to the Group’s affairs. The
fees received by the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee. No Director participates in discussions concerning his own fee. 
Neither the Chairman nor the other non-executive Directors participate in the Group’s STVRS or long term incentive arrangements or in its pension
scheme, nor do they receive benefits in kind.
Terms of appointment
The terms of service of the Chairman and other non-executive Directors are contained in letters of appointment.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Date of                                                                                                     Notice
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       current                     Expiry of                         Notice                    period by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      letter of                       current                    period by           non-executive
Non-executive Director                                                                                                                                                                                  appointment                            term                   Company                      Director
Michael Turner                                                                                                                                                 24.11.11             03.05.15         12 months         12 months
Angus Cockburn                                                                                                                                               19.11.12               31.12.15           3 months           3 months
Tufan Erginbilgic                                                                                                                                            04.04.11            09.05.14           3 months           3 months
Shonaid Jemmett-Page                                                                                                                                28.04.10              31.05.13           3 months           3 months
Richard Parry-Jones                                                                                                                                       03.02.11            28.02.14           3 months           3 months
John Sheldrick                                                                                                                                                 05.01.11              19.12.13           3 months           3 months
Michael Turner was appointed as Chairman with effect from the 2012 AGM for an initial period of three years. The current policy for non-executive
Directors is to serve on the Board for nine years with interim renewals after three and six years, subject to mutual agreement and annual performance
reviews. There are no provisions for compensation in the event of termination. John Sheldrick has indicated his intention to retire at the 2013 AGM
having served for almost nine years as a non-executive Director. With the exception of John Sheldrick, all Directors will offer themselves for annual
re-election, in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Shareholding requirement
Executive Directors
During the year, the Committee reviewed and increased the shareholding requirement for executive Directors from 100% to 200% of base salary in
order to increase the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders. Directors are expected to meet the new requirement within five years.
Newly appointed Directors are expected to reach a shareholding of 100% of base salary within five years and 200% of base salary as soon as possible
thereafter. Directors will be required to retain all vested long term incentive awards (net of tax) until the requirement has been met. 
Non-executive Directors
Non-executive Directors are expected to achieve a shareholding requirement equivalent to 30% of one year’s base fee within three years of
appointment.
Information on the progress towards meeting the shareholding requirement is set out in the share interests table on page 72.  .DD Remuneration report continued
Implementation of policy 
Single figure disclosure
The chart below shows total remuneration for each of the executive
Directors for 2012 based on fixed pay (base salary, benefits in kind and
pension) and variable pay (2010 LTIP/ESOS awards and 2012 STVRS). 
Individual elements of remuneration
Base salary
With effect from 1 July 2012, the base annual salaries for executive
Directors were increased as follows: 
Salary at Salary at
1 January 1 July
2012 2012 Increase
Director ££ (%)
Nigel Stein 725,000 745,000 2.7%
Marcus Bryson 450,000 463,000 2.9%
Andrew Reynolds Smith 450,000 463,000 2.9%
William Seeger 422,300 435,000 3.0%
These increases are in line with the Group’s budgeted average salary
increases for all management staff. 
The average base salary of the eight executives in the most senior
executive grade below Board level whose remuneration is monitored by
the Remuneration Committee was £261,500 as at 31 December 2012 (all
non-sterling amounts have been translated into sterling at the year end
exchange rate for this purpose).
Benefits in kind
As noted in the policy table on page 60, executive Directors are entitled to
receive benefits consistent with those provided to senior managers. Due
to the complicated interaction between the UK and the US tax regimes,
tax and social security equalisation is applied to William Seeger’s
remuneration. Additional taxes which arise in excess of the monthly
contribution deducted from William Seeger’s salary are settled by the
Company in order to ensure that he is not disadvantaged by his global tax
position. As part of the contractual arrangements, agreed on his
appointment as Finance Director, relating to his relocation from the US to
the UK, William Seeger is entitled to reimbursement of reasonable
expenses in relation to the sale of his property in the US. These expenses
have not yet been incurred due to the difficult US housing market that has
prevailed since that time. In the event that his US property is sold,
expenses (capped at 7% of the selling price) would be paid to him.
Annual incentive plan pay-outs
The 2012 performance related payments made under the STVRS were
triggered by the achievement of financial measures based on Group
and, where appropriate, individual portfolio targets relating to profit,
margin and cash flow and strategic measures relating to health and
safety performance and improvements in levels of stock turn. For 2012,
10% of the bonus opportunity related to strategic measures and the
balance related to financial measures. 
The maximum amount that an individual could receive and the range of
payments to executive Directors under the 2012 STVRS were as follows:
Target Maximum Actual 
Element %% %
Profit 25 67 .5 21.3 to 30.2
Margin 5 17 .5 3.3 to 11.3
Cash flow 15 15 12.0 to 15.0
Health & Safety performance 55 0.0 to 5.0
Stock turn levels 55 0.0 to 2.5
55 110 40.8 to 59.0
   
For 2013, the proportion of STVRS attributable to strategic measures was
increased to 20% at maximum and is based on the achievement of
targets and milestones relating to key Group and divisional strategic
objectives including improved capital allocation, integration of the
Volvo Aero acquisition, Driveline margin enhancement, Powder
Metallurgy business wins and Land Systems strategy deployment.
Nigel Stein
Value attributable to 
share price appreciation
Marcus Bryson Andrew Reynolds Smith William Seeger

Ä
Å,
Å,Ä
Ç,
Ç,Ä
É,
Ñ
Base salary and bene!ts
Pension bene!ts
STVRS – cash
LTIP – performance element
LTIP – value attributable to share price appreciation
ESOS
Salary & benefits – The amount of salary and the taxable value of
benefits received in the year.
Pension – The cash allowance of up to 40% of salary paid in lieu of
pension. For individuals participating in the Company’s defined
benefit pension scheme, it also includes the additional value
achieved in the year calculated using the HMRC method (using a
multiplier of 20). 
STVRS – Full value of the annual bonus paid in respect of 2012. A
description of performance against the objectives which applied for
the financial year is provided below. 
LTIP – Value of LTIP awards granted in 2010 which vested by reference
to a performance period which ended in 2012. It includes an amount
equivalent to dividends per share paid in the final year of the
performance period.
The performance condition for this award was based on growth in EPS
as described on page 67 . EPS of 27 .5p was achieved in the final year of
the performance period and therefore awards vested in full. The value
is based on the share price at 31 December 2012. Approximately 40%
of the value relates to share price growth from the date of grant.
Directors will not be entitled to receive any benefit in respect of this
award until the fourth anniversary of the date of grant (11 August 2014). 
ESOS – Value of ESOS awards granted in 2010 which vested by
reference to a performance period which ended in 2012. The
performance condition for this award was based on TSR performance
against the constituents of the FTSE 350 index as described on page
67 . GKN’s TSR was upper quartile and therefore awards vested in full. 
The value is based on the growth in share price, from the exercise
price of 134.6p to the share price of 228.8p at 31 December 2012. 
Directors will not be entitled to receive any benefit in respect of this
award until the third anniversary of the date of grant (7 May 2013). .DE
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Value earned from long term incentive awards during the year
Prior to the introduction of the SEP , long term incentive arrangements comprised the GKN Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) which targeted EPS growth
and the GKN Executive Share Option Scheme (ESOS) which was based on TSR performance. From 2012, no further awards will be granted under 
these plans. 
The vesting of outstanding awards under the LTIP and ESOS depends on the Group’s performance against the relevant targets during the three years
commencing on 1 January in the year of award and on satisfaction of a personal shareholding requirement. In addition, before any shares become
eligible for release or exercise, the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that this is justified by the underlying financial performance of the
Group over the measurement period. There is no provision for the retesting of awards. The maximum number of shares that could vest upon
satisfaction of the relevant performance condition in respect of each executive Director is set out in the tables on pages 70 and 71.
The performance targets and vesting levels for outstanding awards under the LTIP and ESOS are shown below:
LTIP ESOS
Compound annual EPS
(a)
growth Vesting level TSR ranking in comparator group
(b)
Vesting level
12% or more 100 % Upper quartile 100%
6% 30% Median level 35%
Less than 6% 0 Below median level 0
Between 6% and 12% Straight line basis Between median and upper quartile Straight line basis
(a) Management EPS normalised for tax, and excluding exceptional items, post-employment finance charges and volatile IFRS charges or credits (see note 9 to the financial statements).
(b) TSR data and ranking information is obtained from NBS to ensure that the comparative performance is independently verified. 
The performance period for the 2010 LTIP and ESOS awards ended on 31 December 2012 and the respective vesting levels are shown in the table
below. Vesting under the LTIP was dependent on absolute EPS growth targets, and vesting under the ESOS was dependent on the performance of
GKN’s TSR against that of the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index over a three year measurement period, commencing on 1 January 2010. 
GKN EPS Vesting level GKN TSR ranking Vesting level
27 .5p 100% Upper quartile 100%
LTIP awards to Directors are released on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant; the 2010 awards will not be released until 11 August 2014. 
ESOS awards are exercisable from the third anniversary of the date of grant; the 2010 awards will be exercisable from 7 May 2013.
The table below sets out, in respect of the ESOS, LTIP and SEP awards made in recent years (no awards were granted in 2008), the percentage which
has vested and in respect of outstanding awards performance to 31 December 2012: 
Performance Performance Target for vesting Performance outcome Actual
Year of award Scheme period condition Threshold
(a)
Maximum (or performance to date) vesting
2007 LTIP 2007 – 2009 TSR Median Upper quartile Below median 0
ESOS 2007 – 2009 TSR Median Upper quartile Below median 0
2008 LTIP No award made N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
ESOS No award made N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
2009 LTIP 2009 – 2011 EPS 12.4p 15.5p 23.2p 100%
ESOS 2009 – 2011 TSR Median Upper quartile Upper quartile 100%
2010 LTIP 2010 – 2012 EPS 15.3p 18.0p 27 .5p 100%
ESOS 2010 – 2012 TSR Median Upper quartile Upper quartile 100%
2011 LTIP 2011 – 2013 EPS 6% p.a. growth 12% p.a. growth 16% p.a. growth
ESOS 2011 – 2013 TSR Median Upper quartile Median to upper quartile
2012 SEP
(b)
2012 – 2014 EPS 6% p.a. growth 12% p.a. growth 13% p.a. growth
Vested awards Outstanding awards
(a) Percentage of awards that vest for threshold performance: ESOS – 35%; LTIP – 30%; and SEP – 25%.
(b) The SEP is based on a Core Award and a Sustainability Award. Both the Core and Sustainability Award are subject to the targets set out above. The Sustainability Award is also
subject to the highest level of EPS in the initial three year period being sustained or exceeded in year four and/or year five. .DF Remuneration report continued
Long term incentive awards granted during the year
Awards granted under the SEP in 2012 were based on 174% of base
salary (comprising 145% for the Core Award and 29% for the
Sustainability Award). Vesting at threshold is 25% for the Core and
Sustainability Award. The performance period for the Core Award is 
1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014 and for the Sustainability Award it
is 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2016. The face value of awards is set
out below:
Face value 
of award
Nigel Stein
Core Award £1,080,250
Sustainability Award £216,050
Marcus Bryson 
Core Award £671,350
Sustainability Award £134,270
Andrew Reynolds Smith
Core Award £671,350
Sustainability Award £134,270
William Seeger
Core Award £630,750
Sustainability Award £126,150
The base year (2011) EPS against which growth will be measured was
adjusted to take account of the two acquisitions (Getrag Driveline
Products and Stromag) made in September 2011. As a result, instead of
the reported management EPS of 23.2p, the base year EPS was
increased to 24.5p.
Chairman and non-executive Director fees
Annual fees for the Chairman and non-executive Directors (which were
unchanged since 2008) were reviewed during 2012. Non-executive
Director fees, and additional fees payable to the Senior Independent
Director and the Committee Chairmen were considered to be below the
market competitive range, and were therefore increased, with effect
from 1 January 2013, to bring them into line with the market; previous
and current fee levels are set out below:
Fees at Fees at
1 January 1 January
2012 201A
Base fee ££
Chairman 300,000 300,000
Non-executive Directors 50,000 55,000
                                                                                                    
Additional fees ££
Senior Independent Director 5,000 10,000
Audit Committee Chairman 11,000 15,000
Remuneration Committee Chairman 10,000 15,000
Additional information
Change of control
None of the current or previous long term incentive arrangements
contain provisions for the automatic release of awards in respect of
which the measurement period has not ended on a change of control of
GKN plc. In these circumstances, the Remuneration Committee will
determine the number of shares to be released by taking into account
the level of performance and the period of time that has elapsed since
the start of the performance period.
Sourcing of shares
In line with the share plan rules, the Company may satisfy awards
granted under the ESOS, LTIP and SEP by the issue of new shares,
shares held in treasury or shares held in an employee share ownership
plan trust (the Trust). Awards under the DBP are satisfied by shares held
in the Trust. 
The Company monitors the dilution limits set out in the ESOS, LTIP and
SEP rules and is satisfied that the number of shares that may be issued
or transferred from treasury to satisfy these awards meet the guidelines
set by the Association of British Insurers. 
Dilution limits at 31 December 2012:
Limit % of share capital issued 
5% in 10 years 2.16%
10% in 10 years 2.23%
During 2012, shares held in treasury were used to satisfy awards under
the ESOS and LTIP and shares held in the Trust were used to satisfy
awards under the DBP . The Trust purchased 1,300,000 shares and at 
31 December 2012, it held 3,111,998 shares (2011: 2,219,116). 
Total Shareholder Return
The chart above is prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008. It shows the Company’s TSR and that of the FTSE 350
Index, based on an initial investment of £100, over the five year period
to the end of 2012. The FTSE 350 Index was chosen for this chart as it is
a broadly based index which contains more manufacturing and
engineering companies than the FTSE 100 Index. 
GKN TSR
Value ()
ÄÅÅÇ ÄÅÉÄ ÄÅÉÉ ÄÅÉÅ ÄÅÅÑ ÄÅÅÖ
FTSE !"Å Index TSR Source: New Bridge Street
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160 .DG
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Directors’ remuneration 2012
With the exception of the section headed ‘Share interests’ on page 72 and the information relating to percentage of salary and value of awards in the
tables on pages 70 and 71, the information set out on pages 69 to 72 represents the auditable disclosures required by Schedule 8 to the Large and
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 which have been audited by the Company's auditors,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .
The remuneration of the Directors was as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                 Supplementary
Base salary                       Annual incentive plan (STVRS)                            Car                           Other                      pension                            Total                           Total
and fees                            Cash
(a)
                     Shares                   allowance                      benefits                   allowance
(c)
                         2012                           2011
£000                           £000                           £000                          £000                           £000                           £000                           £000                         £000
Executive Directors                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Nigel Stein 726                      342                          –                        14                          4                      252                  1,AAF                    889
Marcus Bryson 457                     269                          –                         15                        85
(b)
                  183                  1,00G                 1,018
(d)
Andrew Reynolds Smith 450                      186                          –                        12                          5                       151                     F 0B                    704
William Seeger
(e)
429                      210                          –                        12                        19                       171                      F B1                    830
2,062                  1,007                          –                        53                       113                      757                  A,GG2                 3,441
Non-executive Directors
Michael Turner 217                          –                          –                          –                          –                          –                      21E                       55
Tufan Erginbilgic 50                          –                          –                          –                          –                          –                        C0                      32
Shonaid Jemmett-Page 50                          –                          –                          –                          –                          –                        C0                      50
Richard Parry-Jones 63                          –                          –                          –                          –                          –                        DA                      60
John Sheldrick 61                          –                          –                          –                          –                          –                        D1                       61
441                          –                          –                          –                          –                          –                      BB1                    258
Former executive Director
Sir Kevin Smith
(f )
–                          –                          –                          –                          –                          –                          –                 1,402
Former non-executive Director
Roy Brown
(g) 
103                          –                          –                          –                          –                          –                      10A                    300
103                          –                          –                          –                          –                          –                      10A                 1,702
Total remuneration 2,606                  1,007                          –                        53                       113                      757                  B,CAD                 5,401
(a) Full amount of 2012 STVRS was paid in cash as payments were less than 65% of salary. 
(b) Includes £79,800 relocation expenditure.
(c) Supplementary pension allowances delivered to executive Directors by means of either a cash payment or as a payment to a defined contribution retirement plan to assist them
towards securing retirement benefits. The pension cost for William Seeger includes GKN's contribution to his US qualified and non-qualified defined contribution pension
arrangement.
(d) Includes 2011 STVRS payment of £113,046 deferred into shares under the DBP in 2012 and which will be released in 2014.
(e) Under the terms of his service agreement, William Seeger’s emoluments are paid semi-monthly in US$, converted at the exchange rate published in the UK Financial Times on the
first business day of the relevant month. William Seeger is a US National who relocated to the UK in 2008 in the role of Finance Director. He had full US Federal and State
hypothetical tax withholding through the US payroll in 2012. As a result of the complicated interaction of the UK and US tax regimes, a payment of £429,333 (2011: £425,188) was
made by GKN to the UK and US tax authorities on his behalf in order to mitigate a period of double taxation. Any subsequent tax refunds resulting from the tax paid by GKN are
refunded to the Company in due course. At the end of 2012, the Company held an estimated credit balance of £109,160 representing the difference between hypothetical tax
amounts withheld from William Seeger and the amount actually paid over to the tax authorities which arose as a result of the timing of the exercise of an ESOS option (in
November 2012). At the end of 2011, the best estimate of the amount which was not expected to be refunded based on information available at that date was £167 ,847 . (These
amounts are not included in the total remuneration shown above for 2011 and 2012.) 
(f) Received a cash payment of £30,000 equivalent to aggregate dividends per share paid in the final year of the 2009 LTIP performance period and in the 2011 DBP deferral period,
in accordance with the rules of the schemes. This was paid following Sir Kevin Smith’s retirement on 31 December 2011 and is therefore not shown in the table above.
(g) Retired on 3 May 2012. .E0 Remuneration report continued
Long term incentive plans
SEP
Details of SEP awards made to executive Directors in the year are shown in the table below: 
                                                                                                                                                                                           Face value                     Core and                                                                                      Total Core and
                                                                                                                                                                                         of Core and            Sustainability             Core Awards            Sustainability           Sustainability
                                                                                                                                                      % of base            Sustainability              Awards held                       granted        Awards granted              Awards held
                                                                                                                     Date of                     salary at                   Awards at                     1 January                         during                         during             A1 December
                                                                                                                         grant                           grant                            grant                            2012                              year
(a)
                         year
(a)                                      
2012
Nigel Stein                                                               06.08.12                   174%       £1,296,300                         –              518,453             103,690              D22,1BA
Marcus Bryson                                                        06.08.12                   174%          £805,620                         –             322,206                64,441             AF D,DBE
Andrew Reynolds Smith                                       06.08.12                   174%          £805,620                         –             322,206                64,441             AF D,DBE
William Seeger                                                       06.08.12                   174%          £756,900                         –              302,721               60,544             ADA,2DC
(a) The GKN share price at the date of grant (6 August 2012) was 216.4p. Awards will vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions (as described on page 63)
over the performance period which for Core Awards ends on 31 December 2014 and for Sustainability Awards ends on 31 December 2016. 
(b) Awards were granted as conditional awards and will automatically be released; half of the Core Award will be released at end of year three and the remaining Core Award together
with the Sustainability Award will be released at the end of year five.
(c) No Core or Sustainability Awards lapsed or were released during the year. 
LTIP
Details of LTIP awards held by executive Directors who served during the year are shown below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     % of base                      Value of              Awards held              Awards held
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Date of                     salary at                   awards at                     1 January             A1 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                        grant                           grant                            grant                            2012                            2012
Nigel Stein
(a)
                                                                                                                      12.08.09                    80%          £390,000             260,841             2D0,F B1
                                                                                                                                                 11.08.10                    80%          £400,000             453,720             BCA,E20
                                                                                                                                                  01.04.11                  120%         £600,000             408,997             B0F ,GGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1,123,558           1,12A,CCF
Marcus Bryson
(a)
                                                                                                              12.08.09                    80%          £300,000             200,647             200,DBE
                                                                                                                                                 11.08.10                    80%          £336,000               381,125              AF 1,12C
                                                                                                                                                  01.04.11                  120%          £504,000              343,558             ABA,CCF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        925,330             G2C,AA0
Andrew Reynolds Smith
(a)
                                                                                              12.08.09                    80%          £320,000              214,024             21B,02B
                                                                                                                                                 11.08.10                    80%          £336,000               381,125              AF 1,12C
                                                                                                                                                  01.04.11                  120%          £504,000              343,558             ABA,CCF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        938,707             GAF ,E0E
William Seeger
(b)
                                                                                                              12.08.09                    80%          £320,000              214,024             21B,02B
                                                                                                                                                 11.08.10                    80%          £328,000             372,050             AE2,0C0
                                                                                                                                                  01.04.11                  120%          £492,000              335,378             AAC,AEF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         921,452              G21,BC2
(a) Awards were granted as nil cost options which can be exercised between the fourth and tenth anniversary of date of grant.
(b) Awards were granted as conditional awards which will be automatically released on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant.
(c) Awards will vest subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance condition (as described on page 67) and a personal shareholding requirement set at date of grant. The
last performance period ends on 31 December 2013.
(d) The performance period for the 2010 awards ended on 31 December 2012 with 100% of the award having vested. The GKN share price at date of award (11 August 2010) was
138.4p. The shares will be released/exercisable from the fourth anniversary of the date of grant. On release a cash amount will be paid equivalent to aggregate dividends per
share paid in the period commencing 1 January in the final year of the performance period to the fourth anniversary of the date of grant (11 August 2014). 
(e) No awards were granted, released or lapsed during the year. .E1
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
ESOS
Details of ESOS options held by executive Directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below:
                                                                                                                                        Shares         Options               Options                    Shares
                                                                                                                            % of          Face value    under option            lapsed            exercised         under option
                                                                                            Date of     base salary           of options          1 January           during                 during          A1 December         Exercise       Exercisable     Exercisable
                                                                                                grant           at grant              at grant                   2012                year                     year                        2012             price
(b)
               from
(c)
                  to
(c)
Nigel Stein                                          15.03.02          150%    £450,000      129,878   129,878                    –                       –    207 .87p     15.03.05     14.03.12
                                                             19.03.03          150%   £495,000      359,834                –       359,834
(d)
                    –    110.04p     19.03.06     18.03.13
                                                             12.08.09          170%     £828,750       752,861                –                    –           EC2,F D1    110.08p      12.08.12     11.08.19
                                                              07 .05.10         120%     £585,000      434,621                –                    –           BAB,D21   134.60p      07 .05.13   06.05.20
                                                               01.04.11           80%    £400,000     200,420                –                    –          200,B20   199.58p      01.04.14     31.03.21
                                                                                                                              1,877 ,614   129,878       359,834       1,AF E,G02                                                            
Marcus Bryson                                  15.03.02
(a)
         71%       £78,000        22,638     22,638                    –                       –    207 .87p     15.03.05     14.03.12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                             12.08.09          170%     £637 ,500       579,124                –           27 ,252
(e)
        CC1,F E2    110.08p      12.08.12     11.08.19
                                                              07 .05.10         120%    £450,000      334,323                –                    –          AAB,A2A   134.60p      07 .05.13   06.05.20
                                                               01.04.11           80%    £336,000       168,353                –                    –           1DF ,ACA   199.58p      01.04.14     31.03.21
                                                                                                                             1,104,438     22,638           27 ,252       1,0CB,CBF                                                            
Andrew Reynolds Smith                  15.03.02
(a)
        65%     £118,000         33,957      33,957                    –                       –    207 .87p     15.03.05     14.03.12
                                                             19.03.03
(a)
        63%     £120,000         87 ,095                –          87 ,095
(f )
                    –    110.04p     19.03.06     18.03.13
                                                             12.08.09          170%    £680,000       617 ,732                –                    –           D1E,EA2    110.08p      12.08.12     11.08.19
                                                              07 .05.10         120%    £480,000       356,612                –                    –           ACD,D12   134.60p      07 .05.13   06.05.20
                                                               01.04.11           80%    £336,000       168,353                –                    –           1DF ,ACA   199.58p      01.04.14     31.03.21
                                                                                                                             1,263,749      33,957          87 ,095        1,1B2,DGE                                                            
William Seeger                                 12.08.09          170%    £680,000       617 ,732                –         617 ,732
(g)
                     –    110.08p      12.08.12     11.08.19
                                                                 07 .05.10         120%    £480,000       356,612                –                    –           ACD,D12   134.60p      07 .05.13   06.05.20
                                                                  01.04.11           80%    £328,000      164,345                –                    –           1DB,ABC   199.58p      01.04.14     31.03.21
                                                                                                                                1,138,689                –         617 ,732          C20,GCE                                                            
(a) Options were granted prior to appointment as a Director. 
(b) Exercise prices for the 2002 and 2003 options were adjusted for the rights issue in 2009.
(c) Awards vest subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance condition (as described on page 67) and a personal shareholding requirement (set at date of grant). The last
performance period ends on 31 December 2013.
(d) The GKN share price on date of exercise (1 August 2012) was 211.5p. All the shares were retained on exercise.
(e) The GKN share price on date of exercise (19 September 2012) was 230.8p. All the shares were retained on exercise.
(f) The GKN share price on date of exercise (11 December 2012) was 226.20p. 21,160 shares were retained on exercise.
(g) Exercised in two tranches: 27 ,252 on 20 August 2012 (GKN share price: 224p) and all shares were retained; 590,480 on 30 November 2012 (GKN share price: 222p) and 
173,457 shares were retained.
(h) The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of options during the year was £1,202,000.
(i) The closing mid-market price of a GKN share on 31 December 2012 was 228.8p and the price range during the year was 173.6p to 237 .2p.
(j) No options were granted during the year.
DBP
Details of DBP awards held by executive Directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Awards held                        Awards              Awards held
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Date of                    1 January          granted during             A1 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              grant                            2012                             year                           2012
Nigel Stein                                                                                                                                                       01.04.11               94,009                          –               GB,00G
Marcus Bryson                                                                                                                                                01.04.11                 57 ,918                          –                CE,G1F
                                                                                                                                                                          08.08.12                          –                53,278
(a)
            CA,2EF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     111,1GD
Andrew Reynolds Smith                                                                                                                                01.04.11                82,172                          –                F 2,1E2
William Seeger                                                                                                                                                01.04.11                77 ,477                          –                EE,BEE
(a) The GKN share price on date of award (8 August 2012) was 215.7p and the GKN share price used to calculate the number of shares to be deferred was 212.18p. The award was in
respect of amounts deferred under the 2011 STVRS (see note (d) to the Director’s remuneration table on page 69).
(b) Awards will normally be released at the end of the two year deferral period. On release a cash amount will be paid equivalent to aggregate dividends per share paid during the
deferral period.
(c) Awards are not subject to a performance condition, however clawback may be applied in the event of a material misstatement or gross misconduct.
(d) No awards lapsed or were released during the year.  .E2 Remuneration report continued
Retirement benefits 
The table below sets out the defined benefit provision for those executive Directors whose retirement benefits are delivered in part through the GKN
Group Pension Scheme 2012.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Transfer 
                                                                                                                                                                                       Transfer value           Transfer value                                                                                                value at
                                                                                                                       Accrued                      Accrued                  of accrued                  of accrued                                                                                       A1 December
                                                                                                                         annual                        annual                        annual                        annual                   Change in                 Increase in                      2012 of
                                                                                                                  pension at                 pension at                 pension at                  pension at                       transfer                        annual              increase in
                                                                                                              A1 December             31 December             A1 December              31 December                       value in                  pension in     annual pension
                                                                                                                             2012
(a)
                         2011
(a)
                         2012                            2011                            2012
(b)
                          2012
(c)
                   in 2012
(c)
                                                                                                                            £000                          £000                           £000                           £000                           £000                           £000                         £000
Nigel Stein                                                                           EF                         71                  1,F 20                  1,690                      1A0                          4                       G1
Marcus Bryson                                                                  1F 1                      173                   B,C11                  4,285                     22D                          3                      DC
Andrew Reynolds Smith                                                   AG                        34                      D1A                     566                        BE                          3                      BE
(a) The accrued annual pension includes entitlements earned as an employee prior to becoming a Director as well as for qualifying services after becoming a Director.
(b) A transfer value represents the present value of accrued benefits. It does not represent an amount of money which the individual is entitled to receive. The change in transfer
value over the year reflects the additional pension earned and the effect of changes in stock market conditions during the year. In particular, a reduction in the discount rate
assumption and a strengthening of the mortality assumption have resulted in a significant increase in the transfer value, in addition to that arising from the additional benefit
accrued. The method and assumptions used to calculate transfer values from the GKN Group Pension Scheme 2012 were last reviewed in November 2012 following a
reorganisation of GKN’s pension arrangements which took effect from 1 October 2012 (details of which are set out on page 119). The new 2012 Scheme adopted the same transfer
value assumptions that applied under the GKN Group Pension Scheme prior to 1 October 2012.
(c) Increase over the year in accrued pension in excess of inflation to which the Director would have been entitled on leaving service.
Total amounts paid to executive Directors as supplementary cash allowances and/or as payments to defined contribution retirement plans are
included in the supplementary pension allowance column in the remuneration table on page 69. The payment for William Seeger comprises his
retirement benefit in full. 
Share interests 
The interests of the Directors, and of their connected persons, in GKN shares together with outstanding awards over GKN shares as at 31 December
2012 are set out below:
                                                                                                                                                                Ordinary shares held          Shareholding requirement                                 Outstanding awards
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Number of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          shares subject
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Shareholding              Number of                  to deferral
                                                                                                                                                                   As at                            As at                                               at A1 December      shares subject                       without
                                                                                                                                                    A1 December                    1 January                             % of              2012 as % of     to performance              performance
                                                                                                                                                                   2012                            2012               salary/fees                salary/fees
(a)
          conditions
(b)
                 condition
(c)
Executive Directors                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Nigel Stein                                                                                             F E0,2A2              510,398                 200%                  2CA%          A,1AA,D0A               GB,00G
Marcus Bryson                                                                                      2B0,BEC              207 ,214                 200%                   112%          2,ADD,C2C                111,1GD
Andrew Reynolds Smith                                                                    A0B,2F A              283,123                 200%                  1B2%          2,BDF ,0C1                F 2,1E2
William Seeger                                                                                      AAE,1D0             135,000                 200%                  1DF %          1,F 0C,DEB                 EE,BEE
Chairman                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Michael Turner                                                                                     2D0,000             160,000                    30%                  1F F %                           –                           –
Non-executive Directors                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Tufan Erginbilgic                                                                                    A0,000               30,000                    30%                  1A0%                          –                           –
Shonaid Jemmett-Page                                                                         12,G00                12,900                    30%                    CD%                          –                           –
Richard Parry-Jones                                                                              20,000               20,000                    30%                    F E%                          –                           –
John Sheldrick                                                                                        20,000               20,000                    30%                    F E%                          –                           –
(a) Based on average share price of 216.39p per share for the period 1 October 2012 to 31 December 2012 and salary as at 31 December 2012. The percentage excludes the value 
of outstanding options. Executive Directors have five years from July 2012 to meet the requirement.
(b) Relates to outstanding awards under the SEP , ESOS and LTIP which are subject to performance conditions described on pages 63 and 67 . 
(c) Relates to outstanding awards under the DBP which are not subject to a further performance condition but may be forfeited in certain circumstances such as resignation 
and dismissal.
There were no changes in the Directors’ interests in shares or options between 31 December 2012 and 25 February 2013.*
This report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act), the Listing Rules of
the UK Listing Authority and Statutory Instrument 2008/410: The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations
2008. Furthermore, the Board has applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors’ remuneration contained within the UK Corporate
Governance Code. The Act requires the auditors to report to the Company’s shareholders on the audited information within this report and to state
whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been prepared in accordance with the Act. The auditors’ opinion is set out on page 127 and
those aspects of the report which have been subject to audit are clearly marked.
* As at 27 February 2013, there were no changes in the interests of the Directors. .EA
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
Other statutory information
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 2.00 pm on
Thursday, 2 May 2013 at the Cavendish Conference Centre, 22 Duchess
Mews, London W1G 9DT. The notice of meeting, which includes the
special business to be transacted at the meeting, is included within the
AGM circular. The circular also contains an explanation of all the
resolutions to be considered at the AGM. 
Dividend
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.8p per ordinary share in
respect of the year ended 31 December 2012, payable to shareholders
on the register at the close of business on 12 April 2013. This, together
with the interim dividend of 2.4p paid in September 2012, brings the
total dividend for the year to 7 .2p. 
Issued share capital
In July 2012 the Company conducted an equity placing of 70 million
ordinary shares of 10p each at a price of £2 per share to raise a total of
£140 million before expenses. 
At 31 December 2012, the issued share capital of the Company consisted
of 1,660,529,859 ordinary shares of 10p (2011: 1,590,529,859 shares), 
of which 28,243,201 shares (1.70%) were held in treasury (2011:
37 ,388,984 shares; 2.35%). During the year a total of 9,145,783 ordinary
shares were transferred out of treasury in connection with the exercise
of options by participants under the Company’s share option schemes
(2011: 176,194 shares).
GKN operates an Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (the Trust) to
satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under
the Group’s share-based incentive arrangements. As at 31 December 2012,
the Trust held 3,111,998 shares (2011: 2,219,116 shares), being 0.19% of
the Company’s issued share capital (2011: 0.14%) including treasury
shares. A total of 1,300,000 shares with a nominal value of £0.1 million
were purchased by the Trust in the open market during 2012 for a cash
consideration of £2.7 million (2011: 2,213,306 shares with a nominal value
of £0.2 million were purchased for a cash consideration of £5 million).
During the year 407 ,118 (2011: nil) shares were transferred out of the
Trust to satisfy the exercise of awards. 
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. In
addition, GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt
(ADR) programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon acts as
Depositary. The ADRs trade in the US over-the-counter market where
each ADR represents one GKN ordinary share.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when
declared, to receive the Company's annual report, to attend and speak
at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise
voting rights. 
On a show of hands at a meeting of GKN, every member present holding
ordinary shares has one vote. On a poll taken at a meeting, every
member present and entitled to vote has one vote in respect of each
ordinary share held by him. In the case of joint shareholders only the
vote of the senior joint holder who votes (and any proxy duly authorised
by him) may be counted. Shares held in treasury carry no voting rights.
The trustee of the Trust does not exercise any voting rights in respect of
shares held by the Trust. Once the shares are transferred from the Trust
to share scheme participants, the participants are entitled to exercise
the voting rights attaching to those shares.
The Trust waived payment of the 2011 final dividend in May 2012 and the
2012 interim dividend in September 2012.
Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s
shares are contained in the articles of association. 
Restrictions on the transfer of securities
Whilst the Board has the power under the articles of association to
refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions on the
transfer of shares.
Under the Company’s articles, the Directors have power to suspend
voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of shares in
circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a
notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Substantial shareholders
As at 31 December 2012*, the Company had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority:
Shareholder                                                                                                                 Nature of interest                                                                                                                                                                    % of voting rights
Standard Life Investments Ltd                                               Direct                                                                                                                                                      6.79%
                                                                                                      Indirect                                                                                                                                                    4.18%
                                                                                                      Total                                                                                                                                                       10.97%
Ameriprise Financial Inc                                                          Direct                                                                                                                                                       0.15%
                                                                                                      Indirect                                                                                                                                                   4.98%
                                                                                                      Contracts for difference                                                                                                                      0.02%
                                                                                                      Total                                                                                                                                                          5.15%
* see footnote on page 75. Other statutory information continued
.EB
Directors
The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows:
Name                                                                                                                              Position as at A1 December 2012                                                                                      Service in the year ended A1 December 2012
Roy Brown                                                                                   N/A                                                                                                                             Retired on 3 May 2012
Marcus Bryson                                                                           Chief Executive Aerospace and Land Systems                                       Served throughout the year
Tufan Erginbilgic                                                                        Independent non-executive Director                                                        Served throughout the year 
Shonaid Jemmett-Page                                                            Independent non-executive Director                                                        Served throughout the year
Richard Parry-Jones
(a)
                                                               Senior Independent Director                                                                      Served throughout the year
Andrew Reynolds Smith                                                          Chief Executive Automotive and Powder Metallurgy                            Served throughout the year
William Seeger                                                                           Finance Director                                                                                            Served throughout the year
John Sheldrick                                                                           Independent non-executive Director                                                        Served throughout the year
Nigel Stein                                                                                  Chief Executive                                                                                              Served throughout the year
Michael Turner
(b)
                                                                        Chairman                                                                                                         Served throughout the year 
(a) Appointed Senior Independent Director on 3 May 2012.
(b) Appointed Chairman on 3 May 2012.
Membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors in
office at the date of this report are shown on pages 46 and 47 . Further
details relating to Board and Committee composition are disclosed in
the corporate governance statement on pages 48 to 54.
Following his appointment to the Board in January 2013 and in
accordance with the Company’s articles of association, Angus Cockburn
will retire and offer himself for election at the 2013 AGM. With the
exception of John Sheldrick, who retires at the conclusion of the AGM,
all other Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election in
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The articles of association provide that a Director may be appointed by
an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing Directors,
either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director. Further information
on GKN’s internal procedures for the appointment of Directors is given
in the corporate governance statement. 
The remuneration report, which includes details of service agreements
and the Directors' interests in GKN shares, is set out on pages 58 to 72. 
Copies of the service contracts of the executive Directors and the letters
of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available for
inspection at the Company’s registered office during normal business
hours and will be available for inspection at the Company’s AGM.
Directors’ powers
The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company
subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Company’s articles
of association and any directions given by the Company in general
meeting. The powers of the Directors include those in relation to the
issue and buyback of shares. 
At the 2012 AGM the Directors were authorised to exercise the powers of
the Company to purchase up to 155,314,088 of its ordinary shares. No
shares were purchased under this authority in 2012. The Directors were
also authorised to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate
nominal amount of £51,816,057 . These authorities will remain valid until
the conclusion of the 2013 AGM or, if earlier, until 1 July 2013. Resolutions
to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
Directors’ indemnities
Pursuant to the articles of association, the Company has executed a
deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the Company
and persons who were Directors of the Company in respect of costs of
defending claims against them and third party liabilities. These
provisions, deemed to be qualifying third party indemnity provisions
pursuant to section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force
during the year ended 31 December 2012 and remain in force. The
indemnity provision in the Company’s articles of association also
extends to provide a limited indemnity in respect of liabilities incurred
as a director, secretary or officer of an associated company of the
Company.
A copy of the deed poll of indemnity is available for inspection at the
Company’s registered office during normal business hours and will be
available for inspection at the Company’s AGM.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for legal
action taken against its Directors and officers.
Conflicts of interest
Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid
conflicts of interest with the Company. As permitted by the Act, the
Company’s articles of association enable Directors to authorise actual
and potential conflicts of interest.
Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such
conflicts are in place. These procedures enable non-conflicted Directors
to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation
and require the Board to review the register of Directors’ conflicts
annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary. Any potential
conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed Directors are
considered by the Board prior to appointment.
Articles of association
The Company’s articles of association can only be amended by special
resolution of the shareholders. GKN’s current articles are available on
our website at www.gkn.com.
Change of control
As at 31 December 2012, the Company’s subsidiary, GKN Holdings plc,
had agreements with 17 banks for 24 bilateral banking facilities totalling
£837 million and an £80 million loan facility with the European
Investment Bank. Each of these agreements provides that, on a change
of control of GKN plc, the respective bank can give notice to GKN
Holdings plc to repay all outstanding amounts under the relevant
facility.
On 8 August 2012 GKN Holdings plc established a euro medium term note
programme (the EMTN Programme) which provides the Group with a
standardised documentation platform for debt issuance in the eurobond
markets. The maximum potential issuance under the EMTN Programme is
£2 billion. On 19 September 2012, the Company issued £450 million fixed
rate notes paying 5.375% interest and maturing on 19 September 2022
under the EMTN Programme (the Notes). Pursuant to the terms attaching .EC
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Governance
to the Notes, a holder of the Notes has the option to require GKN
Holdings plc to redeem or (at GKN Holdings plc’s option) purchase the
holder’s Notes at their principal amount if there is a change of control of
the Company and either (i) the Notes are unrated or do not carry an
investment grade credit rating from at least two ratings agencies; or (ii) if
the Notes carry an investment grade credit rating from at least two ratings
agencies, the Notes are downgraded to a non-investment grade rating or
that rating is withdrawn within 90 days of the change of control and such
downgrade or withdrawal is cited by the ratings agencies as being the
result of the change of control.
Companies in the Group’s Aerospace division are party to long term
supply contracts with customers which are original equipment
manufacturers of aircraft and aero engines. Certain of these contracts
contain provisions which would entitle the customer to terminate the
contract in the event of a change of control of the Company, where such
change of control conflicts with the interests of the customer. 
All of the Company’s share schemes contain provisions relating to a
change of control. Outstanding options and awards normally vest and
become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of
any performance conditions at that time. 
The executive Directors’ service agreements provide for payment of a
predetermined amount equivalent to one year’s salary and benefits on
termination by the Company of a Director’s service agreement on less
than due notice within 12 months of a change of control of GKN plc.
Further information is given in the remuneration report on page 64.
Payments to suppliers
It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers,
provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the
contract. In line with this policy, the Company has confirmed that it will
sign up to the UK Government’s Prompt Payment Code.
GKN plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to
trade creditors at 31 December 2012. 
Branches
GKN, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in a
number of different countries in which the business operates. 
Donations
In 2012, charitable donations made by Group companies around the
world totalled £616,400 of which £58,600 was to UK registered charities.
In addition, the GKN Millennium Trust, a UK charitable trust established
in 1995, donated a total of £137 ,000 to the Engineering Development
Trust and Young Enterprise in 2012. The GKN Foundation, an
independent US charitable body established in 1951, supported
approximately 350 organisations in the US in 2012 with contributions
totalling approximately US $720,000. 
In accordance with the Group’s policy, no political donations were made
and no political expenditure was incurred during 2012.
The Group’s US Aerospace business has a Political Action Committee
(PAC) which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses. No
funds are provided to the PAC by GKN and any administrative services
provided to the PAC by the US Aerospace business are fully charged to
and paid for by the PAC, and the Company does not therefore consider
these to be political donations. Employee contributions are entirely
voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to participate. Under
US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing
company.
Auditors & disclosure of information
Resolutions to reappoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of the
Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their
remuneration will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this
Directors’ report confirms that, so far as he/she is aware, there is no
relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors are
unaware. Each Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to
have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors
are aware of that information.
This Directors' report comprising the inside front cover and pages 1 to 76
has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by
Judith Felton
Company Secretary
25 February 2013
* As at 27 February 2013, no changes had been notified to the Company under Rule 5
of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority. .ED Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the
Directors’ remuneration report and the Group and Company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, the
Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and have
elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and United Kingdom (UK) Accounting Standards (UK
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of their profit or
loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and Company
financial statements the Directors are required to:
■ select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently;
■ make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
■ for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU;
■ for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial
statements; and
■ prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it
is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will
continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records
that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s and the Company’s
transactions, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Group and the Company, and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection
of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors as at the date of the annual report, whose names
and functions are set out on pages 46 and 47 , confirm that to the best of
their knowledge:
■ the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs
as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
and
■ the Directors’ report includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the Company and
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole,
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties
that they face.
Approved by the Board of GKN plc and signed on its behalf by
Mike Turner CBE
Chairman
25 February 2013 .""
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts ! !
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report to the
members of GKN plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of GKN plc for the year
ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Income
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of
the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a
true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion
on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s
Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in
giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements 
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s circumstances and
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors;
and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition,
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual
report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
■ give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at
31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then
ended;
■ have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted
by the European Union; and
■ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ report for the
financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the Group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our
opinion: 
■ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are
not made; or 
■ we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 
■ the Directors’ statement, set out on page 35, in relation to going
concern; 
■ the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the
Company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code specified for our review; and
■ certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on
Directors’ remuneration.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
statements of GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the
information in the Directors’ remuneration report that is described as
having been audited.
Ian Chambers (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Birmingham
25 February 2013
Notes
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the
Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were
initially presented on the website. 
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.  .EF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2012                             2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Notes                               £m                               £m
Sales                                                                                                                                                                                                              2                  D,C10                  5,746 
                                                                                                                                                                
Trading profit                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C0F                      419 
Change in value of derivative and other financial instruments                                                                                                                           12D                       (31)
Amortisation of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations                                                                                   (AE)                     (22)
Gains and losses on changes in Group structure                                                                                                                                                        C                          8 
Reversal of inventory fair value adjustment arising on business combinations                                                                   15                       (AE)                         –
Pension scheme curtailment                                                                                                                                                                25                        DA                          –
Operating profit                                                                                                                                                                                          4                     D2F                      374 
                                                                                                                                                                
Share of post-tax earnings of joint ventures                                                                                                                                     13                        AF                       38 
                                                                                                                                                                
Interest payable                                                                                                                                                                                                               (D0)                     (47)
Interest receivable                                                                                                                                                                                                              F                          5 
Other net financing charges                                                                                                                                                                                         (2D)                     (19)
Net financing costs                                                                                                                                                                                    5                      (EF )                      (61)
Profit before taxation                                                                                                                                                                                                        CF F                       351 
                                                                                                                                                                
Taxation                                                                                                                                                                                                        6                      (F C)                     (45)
Profit after taxation for the year                                                                                                                                                                                   C0A                    306 
                                                                                                                                                                
Profit attributable to other non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                                     A                          6 
Profit attributable to the Pension partnership                                                                                                                                                               20                       21 
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                                              2A                        27 
Profit attributable to equity shareholders                                                                                                                                                                    BF 0                      279 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C0A                     306 
                                                                                                                                                                
Earnings per share – pence                                                                                                                                                                     7                                                         
Continuing operations – basic                                                                                                                                                                                       A0.2                    18.0 
Continuing operations – diluted                                                                                                                                                                                  A0.0                     17 .9 
Consolidated Income Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012 .EG
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2012                             2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Notes                               £m                              £m 
Profit after taxation for the year                                                                                                                                                                                      C0A                    306 
Other comprehensive income                                                                                                          
Currency variations – subsidiaries                                                                                                 
Arising in year                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1AB)                      (31)
Reclassified in year                                                                                                                                                                                4                         (B)                       (4)
Currency variations – joint ventures                                                                                              
Arising in year                                                                                                                                                                                        13                         (A)                         3 
Reclassified in year                                                                                                                                                                                4                          –                        (2)
Derivative financial instruments – transactional hedging                                                                                                             20                                                         
Arising in year                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1A                         (1)
Reclassified in year                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1A)                         –
Actuarial gains and losses on post-employment obligations                                                                               
Subsidiaries                                                                                                                                                                                          25                     (1E2)                   (277)
Joint ventures                                                                                                                                                                                        13                         (2)                         –
Taxation                                                                                                                                                                                                        6                      10F                        56 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (20E)                   (256)
Total comprehensive income for the year                                                                                                                                                                     2GD                        50 
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:                                                                                     
Equity shareholders                                                                                                                                                                                                       2EB                        23 
Other non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                                                                       2                          6 
Pension partnership                                                                                                                                                                                                        20                       21 
Non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                                                                                22                        27 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2GD                        50 
Consolidated Statement
of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2012 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
For the year ended 31 December 2012
.F 0
Non-controlling 
Other reserves interests
Capital Share Share-
Share redemption premium Retained Exchange Hedging Other holders’ Pension Total
capital reserve account earnings reserve reserve reserves equity partnership Other equity
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 
At 1 January 2012 1CG 2GF G ED0 ACD (1GE) (1AA) 1,2C2 ABB 2F 1,D2B
Profit for the year – – – BF 0 – – – BF 0 20 A C0A 
Other comprehensive 
income/(expense) – – – (EA) (1AA) – – (20D) – (1) (20E)
Share-based payments 10 – – – D – – – D – – D 
Share options exercised 22 – – – 10 – – – 10 – – 10
Distribution from Pension
partnership to 
UK Pension scheme 25 – – – – – – – – (A0) – (A0)
Purchase of non-controlling
interests 24 – – – (1) – – – (1) – (G) (10)
Proceeds from share issues 22 E – 1A0 – – – – 1AE – – 1AE 
Transfers – – – 1 – – (1) – – – – 
Purchase of own shares by 
Employee Share Ownership 
Plan Trust 22 – – – (A) – – – (A) – – (A)
Dividends paid to equity 
shareholders 8 – – – (101) – – – (101) – – (101)
Dividends paid to 
non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – – (2) (2)
At A1 December 2012 1DD 2GF 1AG 1,0EG 22A (1GE) (1AB) 1,CEB AAB 1G 1,G2E 
At 1 January 2011 159 298 9 788 388 (196) (133) 1,313 346 28 1,687 
Profit for the year – – – 279 – – – 279 21 6 306 
Other comprehensive 
income/(expense) – – – (223) (32) (1) – (256) – – (256)
Share-based payments 10 – – – 6 – – – 6 – – 6 
Distribution from Pension
partnership to 
UK Pension scheme 25 – – – – – – – – (23) – (23)
Purchase of own shares by 
Employee Share Ownership 
Plan Trust 22 – – – (5) – – – (5) – – (5)
Dividends paid to equity 
shareholders 8 – – – (85) – – – (85) – – (85)
Dividends paid to
non-controlling interests – – – – – – – – – (6) (6)
At 31 December 2011 159 298 9 760 356 (197) (133) 1,252 344 28 1,624 
Oth    er reserves include accumulated reserves where distribution has been restricted due to legal or fiscal requirements and accumulated adjustments
in respect of piecemeal acquisitions. .F 1
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
Consolidated Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2012                             2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Notes                               £m                              £m
Assets                                                                                                                                                       
Non-current assets                                                                                                                             
Goodwill                                                                                                                                                                                                       11                      CC1                      534 
Other intangible assets                                                                                                                                                                           11                     GF G                     424 
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                                             12                  1,GDB                  1,812 
Investments in joint ventures                                                                                                                                                                13                      1CA                      147 
Other receivables and investments                                                                                                                                                      14                        AF                       37 
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                                                                                          20                        CB                        21 
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                                                                                    6                     A02                     224 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           B,0C1                   3,199 
Current assets                                                                                                                                     
Inventories                                                                                                                                                                                                 15                     F F C                      749 
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                                                   16                   1,102                     962 
Current tax assets                                                                                                                                                                                       6                        2B                        16 
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                                                                                          20                        2E                          5 
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                    18                      1F 1                      156 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,21G                  1,888 
Total assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D,2E0                  5,087 
                                                                                                                                                                
Liabilities                                                                                                                                              
Current liabilities                                                                                                                                
Borrowings                                                                                                                                                                                                 18                     (11C)                   (228)
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                                                                                          20                        (11)                     (30)
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                                                                       17                 (1,AG2)               (1,308)
Current tax liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                6                     (1CE)                   (138)
Provisions                                                                                                                                                                                                   21                       (BE)                     (46)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,E22)                (1,750)
Non-current liabilities                                                                                                                       
Borrowings                                                                                                                                                                                                 18                    (GAE)                  (466)
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                                                                                          20                      (AG)                     (72)
Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                                                                              6                    (20B)                     (96)
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                                                                       17                    (A2F )                   (120)
Provisions                                                                                                                                                                                                   21                     (1AC)                      (91)
Post-employment obligations                                                                                                                                                               25                    (GEF )                  (868)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (2,D21)                 (1,713)
Total liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                             (B,ABA)               (3,463)
                                                                                                                                                              
Net assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,G2E                  1,624 
                                                                                                                                                                
Shareholders' equity                                                                                                                         
Share capital                                                                                                                                                                                             22                      1DD                      159 
Capital redemption reserve                                                                                                                                                                                             2GF                     298 
Share premium account                                                                                                                                                                                                    1AG                          9 
Retained earnings                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,0EG                     760 
Other reserves                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (10F )                      26 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,CEB                   1,252 
Non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACA                      372 
Total equity                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,G2E                  1,624 
The financial statements on pages 78 to 126 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 25 February 2013. They were signed
on its behalf by:
Nigel Stein, William Seeger – Directors .F 2 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2012                             2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Notes                               £m                               £m
Cash flows from operating activities                                                                                             
Cash generated from operations                                                                                                                                                          24                     CAF                     500 
Interest received                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A                          5 
Interest paid                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (D2)                     (48)
Costs associated with refinancing                                                                                                                                                                                     (G)                         – 
Tax paid                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (D2)                     (38)
Dividends received from joint ventures                                                                                                                                               13                        B1                        35 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BBG                     454 
Cash flows from investing activities                                                                                              
Purchase of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                                               (2EF )                   (236)
Receipt of government capital grants                                                                                                                                                                                 E                           1 
Purchase of intangible assets                                                                                                                                                                                          (DA)                     (46)
Proceeds from sale and realisation of fixed assets                                                                                                                                                        D                          8 
Payment of contingent consideration                                                                                                                                                    4                         (2)                         – 
Acquisition of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired)                                                                                                                          23                    (BBD)                   (450)
Acquisition of other investments                                                                                                                                                                                        –                         (4)
Proceeds from sale of businesses (net of cash disposed)                                                                                                               4                          2                          5 
Proceeds from sale of joint venture                                                                                                                                                       4                           1                          8 
Investments in joint ventures                                                                                                                                                                13                         (C)                       (4)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (EEF )                   (718)
Cash flows from financing activities                                                                                              
Distribution from Pension partnership to UK Pension scheme                                                                                                     25                      (A0)                     (23)
Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust                                                                                             22                         (A)                        (5)
Purchase of non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                                 24                       (10)                         – 
Proceeds from exercise of share options                                                                                                                                           22                        10                          – 
Gross proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares                                                                                                                           22                      1B0                          – 
Costs associated with issuance of ordinary shares                                                                                                                         22                         (A)                         – 
Proceeds from borrowing facilities                                                                                                                                                                                 C0F                       115 
Repayment of other borrowings                                                                                                                                                                                     (1F C)                     (10)
Finance lease payments                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1)                         – 
Amounts returned from deposit                                                                                                                                                                                          –                          4 
Dividends paid to shareholders                                                                                                                                                             8                     (101)                     (85)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                                                    (2)                       (6)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A2A                       (10)
                                                                                                                                                                
Currency variations on cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                      (1C)                       (2)
Movement in cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                       (21)                   (276)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January                                                                                                                                                                         1BC                      421 
Cash and cash equivalents at A1 December                                                                                                                                      24                      12B                      145  .F A
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
Notes to the consolidated 
financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2012
1 Accounting policies and presentation
The Group's significant accounting policies are summarised below.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements (the “statements”) have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) as endorsed and adopted for use by the European Union. These statements have been prepared under the historical cost method except
where other measurement bases are required to be applied under IFRS as set out below.
These statements have been prepared using all standards and interpretations required for financial periods beginning 1 January 2012. No
standards or interpretations have been adopted before the required implementation date. 
Standards, revisions and amendments to standards and interpretations
There were no changes in standards or interpretations outlined in the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December
2011 reported as likely to have a material impact on the reporting of the Group’s results, assets and liabilities in 2012. 
The Group adopted all applicable amendments to standards with an effective date in 2012 with no material impact on its results, assets and
liabilities.
Basis of consolidation
The statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (together “the Group”) and the Group’s share of the
results and equity of its joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries are entities over which, either directly or indirectly, the Company has control through the power to govern financial and operating
policies so as to obtain benefit from their activities. This power is accompanied by a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights. The
results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are included in the Group’s results from the date of acquisition or up to the date of
disposal. All business combinations are accounted for by the purchase method. Assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired in a business
combination are measured at fair value.
Intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated.
Other non-controlling interests represent the portion of shareholders' earnings and equity attributable to third party shareholders.
Joint ventures
Joint ventures are entities in which the Group has a long term interest and exercises joint control with its partners over their financial and
operating policies. In all cases voting rights are 50% or lower. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method. The Group’s
share of equity includes goodwill arising on acquisition.
The Group’s share of profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and joint ventures are eliminated.
Foreign currencies
Subsidiaries and joint ventures account in the currency of their primary economic environment of operation, determined having regard to the
currency which mainly influences sales and input costs. Transactions are translated at exchange rates approximating to the rate ruling on the date
of the transaction except in the case of material transactions when actual spot rate may be used where it more accurately reflects the underlying
substance of the transaction. Where practicable, transactions involving foreign currencies are protected by forward contracts. Assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Such transactional exchange
differences are taken into account in determining profit before tax.
Material foreign currency movements arising on the translation of intra-group balances treated as part of the net investment in a subsidiary are
recognised through equity. Movements on other intra-group balances are recognised through the income statement. 
The Group’s presentational currency is sterling. On consolidation, results and cash flows of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures are translated
to sterling at average exchange rates except in the case of material transactions when the actual spot rate is used where it more accurately reflects
the underlying substance of the transaction. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. Such
translational exchange differences are taken to equity.
Profits and losses on the realisation of currency net investments include the accumulated net exchange differences that have arisen on the
retranslation of the currency net investments since 1 January 2004 up to the date of realisation.
Presentation of the income statement
IFRS is not fully prescriptive as to the format of the income statement. Line items and subtotals have been presented on the face of the income
statement in addition to those required under IFRS.
Sales shown in the income statement are those of subsidiaries. Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
.F B
1 Accounting policies and presentation (continued)
Presentation of the income statement (continued)
Operating profit is profit before discontinued operations, taxation, finance costs and the share of post-tax earnings of joint ventures accounted for
using the equity method. In order to achieve consistency and comparability between reporting periods, operating profit is analysed to show
separately the results of normal trading performance and individually significant charges and credits. Such items arise because of their size or
nature and comprise:
■ the impact of the annual goodwill impairment review;
■ asset impairment and restructuring charges which arise from events that are significant to any reportable segment;
■ amortisation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations;
■ changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and material currency translation movements arising on intra-group funding;
■ profits or losses on businesses sold or closed which do not meet the definition of discontinued operations or which the Group views as
capital rather than revenue in nature; 
■ profits or losses arising from business combinations including fair value adjustments to pre-combination shareholdings, changes in estimates
of deferred and contingent consideration made after the provisional fair value period and material expenses and charges incurred on a
business combination; and
■ significant pension scheme curtailments.
The Group’s post-tax share of joint venture earnings is shown as a separate component of profit before tax. The Group’s share of material
restructuring and impairment charges, amortisation of the fair value of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations and
other net financing charges and their related taxation are separately identified, in the related note.
Net financing costs are analysed to show separately interest payable, interest receivable and other net financing charges. Other net financing
charges include the net of interest payable on post-employment obligations and the expected return on pension scheme assets and unwind of
discounts on fair value amounts established on business combinations. 
Revenue recognition
Sales
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable which generally equates to the invoiced amount,
excluding sales taxes and net of allowances for returns, early settlement discounts and rebates.
Invoices for goods are raised when the risks and rewards of ownership have passed which, dependent upon contractual terms, may be at the
point of despatch, acceptance by the customer or, in Aerospace, certification by the customer. Sales of services under risk and revenue sharing
partnerships are recognised by reference to the stage of completion based on services performed to date. The assessment of the stage of
completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will generally be based on: costs incurred to the extent these relate to services
performed up to the reporting date; achievement of contractual milestones where appropriate; or flying hours or equivalent for long-term
aftermarket arrangements. Revenue from royalties is not significant.
Many businesses in Automotive and Land Systems recognise an element of revenue via a surcharge or similar raw material cost recovery
mechanism. The surcharge invoiced or credited is generally based on prior period movement in raw material price indices applied to current
period deliveries. Other cost recoveries are recorded according to the customer agreement. In those instances where recovery of such increases is
guaranteed, irrespective of the level of future deliveries, revenue is recognised, or due allowance made, in the same period as the cost movement
takes place.
Other income
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest rate method. Dividend income is not significant.
Sales and other income is recognised in the income statement when it can be reliably measured and its collectability is reasonably assured.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment charges.
Cost
Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in bringing the asset into use and borrowings costs on qualifying assets. Where
freehold and long leasehold properties were carried at valuation on 23 March 2000, these values have been retained as book values and
therefore deemed cost at the date of the IFRS transition. 
Where assets are in the course of construction at the balance sheet date they are classified as capital work in progress. Transfers are made to
other asset categories when they are available for use.
Depreciation
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or capital work in progress. In the case of all other categories of property, plant and equipment,
depreciation is provided on a straight line basis over the course of the financial year from the date the asset is available for use. .F C
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
1 Accounting policies and presentation (continued)
Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Depreciation (continued)
Depreciation is applied to specific classes of asset so as to reduce them to their residual values over their estimated useful lives, which are
reviewed annually.
The range of main rates of depreciation used are:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Years
Freehold buildings                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Up to 50
Steel powder production plant                                                                                                                                                                                                                18
General plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings                                                                                                                                                                            6 to 15
Computers                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3 to 5
Commercial vehicles and cars                                                                                                                                                                                                            4 to 5
Property, plant and equipment is reviewed at least annually for indications of impairment. Impairments are charged to the income statement.
Similarly, where property, plant and equipment has been impaired and subsequent reviews demonstrate the recoverable value is in excess of the
impaired value an impairment reversal is recorded. The amount of the reversal cannot exceed the theoretical net book amount at the date of the
reversal had the item not been impaired. Impairment reversals are credited to the income statement against the same line item to which the
impairment was previously charged. 
Costs capitalised relating to leasehold properties are charged to the income statement in equal annual instalments over the period of the lease or
50 years, whichever is the shorter. 
Leased assets
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement as incurred over the lease term. Finance leased assets are not significant. 
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are capitalised as cost on qualifying tangible and intangible fixed asset expenditure. A qualifying asset is an asset or programme
where the period of capitalisation is more than 12 months and the capital value is more than £25 million (2011: £10 million). For general
borrowings the capitalisation rate is the weighted average of the borrowing costs outstanding during the year. For specific funding and borrowings
the amount capitalised is the actual borrowing cost incurred less any investment income on the temporary investment of those borrowings. There
has been no material impact on the current or prior period financial statements as a result of changing the qualifying asset threshold to £25 million.
Financial assets and liabilities
Financial liabilities are recorded in arrangements where payment, or similar transfers of financial resources, is unavoidable or guaranteed. In
respect of the Group’s Pension partnership arrangement payments are subject to discretion and can, if certain conditions are met, be avoided.
In this instance, the arrangement is classified as a non-controlling interest.
Borrowings are measured initially at fair value which usually equates to proceeds received and includes transaction costs. Borrowings are
subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and overdrafts together with highly liquid investments of less than 90 days
maturity. Other financial assets comprise investments with more than 90 days until maturity. Unless an enforceable right of set-off exists and
there is an intention to net settle, the components of cash and cash equivalents are reflected on a gross basis in the balance sheet.
The carrying value of other financial assets and liabilities, including short term receivables and payables, are stated at amortised cost less any
impairment provision unless the impact of the time value of money is considered to be material.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group does not trade in derivative financial instruments. Derivative financial instruments including forward foreign currency contracts are
used by the Group to manage its exposure to risk associated with the variability in cash flows in relation to both recognised assets or liabilities or
forecast transactions. All derivative financial instruments are measured at the balance sheet date at their fair value.
Where derivative financial instruments are not designated as or not determined to be effective hedges, any gain or loss on remeasurement is
taken to the income statement. Where derivative financial instruments are designated as and are effective as cash flow hedges, any gain or loss
on remeasurement is held in equity and recycled through the income statement when the designated item is transacted, unless related to the
purchase of a business, when recycled against consideration.
Gains or losses on derivative financial instruments no longer designated as effective hedges are taken directly to the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognised at their fair value when the nature, characteristics and risks of the
derivative are not closely related to the host contract. Gains and losses arising on the remeasurement of these embedded derivatives at each
balance sheet date are taken to the income statement. .F D
1 Accounting policies and presentation (continued)
Goodwill
Goodwill consists of the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the identifiable intangible and tangible assets net of the
fair value of the liabilities including contingencies of businesses acquired at the date of acquisition. Acquisition related expenses are charged to
the income statement as incurred.
Goodwill in respect of business combinations of subsidiaries is recognised as an intangible asset. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a joint
venture is included in the carrying value of the investment.
Where negative goodwill arises, following reassessment of fair values, it is credited to the income statement in the year in which the acquisition is
made. 
Goodwill is not amortised but tested at least annually for impairment. Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses that arise
from the annual assessment of its carrying value. To the extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount, determined as the higher
of estimated discounted future net cash flows or recoverable amount on a fair value less cost to sell basis, goodwill is written down to the
recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognised in the income statement.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment charges.
Computer software
Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised and categorised as intangible assets.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in bringing the asset into use. Amortisation is provided on a straight line basis over
its useful economic life which is in the range of 3-5 years.
Development costs and participation fees
Where development expenditure results in a new or substantially improved product or process and it is probable that this expenditure will be
recovered it is capitalised. Cost comprises development expenditure and borrowing costs on qualifying assets or fair value on initial recognition
when as a result of a business combination. In addition, payments made to engine manufacturers for participation fees relating to risk and
revenue sharing partnerships, are carried forward in intangible assets to the extent that they can be recovered from future sales.
Amortisation is charged from the date the asset is available for use. In Aerospace, amortisation is charged over the asset’s life up to a maximum
of 15 years for all programmes other than risk and revenue sharing partnerships where a maximum life of 25 years is assumed, either on a straight
line basis or, where sufficient contractual terms exist, a unit of production method is applied. In Automotive amortisation is charged on a straight
line basis over the asset’s life up to a maximum of 7 years.
Capitalised development costs, including participation fees, are subject to annual impairment reviews with any resulting impairments charged to
the income statement.
Research expenditure and development expenditure not qualifying for capitalisation is written off as incurred.
Assets acquired on business combinations – non-operating intangible assets
Non-operating intangible assets are intangible assets that are acquired as a result of a business combination, which arise from contractual or
other legal rights and are not transferable or separable. On initial recognition they are measured at fair value. Amortisation is charged on a
straight line basis to the income statement over their expected useful lives which are:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Years
Marketing related assets                                                                              – brands and trademarks                                                                                       20-50
                                                                                                                            – agreements not to compete                                                         Life of agreement
Customer related assets                                                                               – order backlog                                                                                  Length of backlog
                                                                                                                            – other customer contracts and relationships                                                    2-25
Technology based assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5-25
Inventories 
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value with due allowance being made for obsolete or slow-moving items.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out or weighted average cost basis. Cost includes raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and the
relevant proportion of works overheads assuming normal levels of activity. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated
selling costs and costs to complete. 
Taxation
Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement unless they relate to items recognised directly in other comprehensive
income when the related tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Full provision is made for deferred tax on all temporary differences resulting from the difference between the carrying value of an asset or liability
in the consolidated financial statements and its tax base. The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected manner of realisation or settlement of
the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued .F E
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
1 Accounting policies and presentation (continued)
Taxation (continued)
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered
against future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted profits of joint ventures. No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted profits of overseas branches
and subsidiaries except to the extent that it is probable that such earnings will be remitted to the parent in the foreseeable future.
Pensions and post-employment benefits
The Group’s pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes throughout the world. In the UK and in
certain overseas companies pension arrangements are made through externally funded defined benefit schemes, the contributions to which are
based on the advice of independent actuaries or in accordance with the rules of the schemes. In other overseas companies funds are retained
within the business to provide for retirement obligations.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit arrangements which provide certain employees with defined post-
employment healthcare benefits.
The Group accounts for all post-employment defined benefit schemes through full recognition of the schemes’ surpluses or deficits on the
balance sheet at the end of each year. Actuarial gains and losses are included in other comprehensive income. Current and past service costs,
curtailments and settlements are recognised within operating profit. Returns on scheme assets and interest on obligations are recognised in other
net financing charges.
For defined contribution arrangements the cost charged to the income statement represents the Group’s contributions to the relevant schemes in
the year in which they fall due.
Government refundable advances
Government refundable advances are reported in Trade and other payables in the balance sheet. Refundable advances include amounts
advanced by Government, accrued interest and directly attributable costs. Refundable advances are provided to the Group to part-finance
expenditures on specific development programmes. The advances are provided on a risk sharing basis, i.e. repayment levels are determined
subject to the success of the related programme. Interest is calculated using the effective interest rate method. 
Share-based payments
Share options granted to employees and share-based arrangements put in place since 7 November 2002 are valued at the date of grant or award
using an appropriate option pricing model and are charged to operating profit over the performance or vesting period of the scheme. The annual
charge is modified to take account of shares forfeited by employees who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-
market related performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely the option will vest.
Provisions
Provisions for onerous or loss making contracts, warranty exposures, environmental matters, restructuring, employee obligations and legal claims
are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources
will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination
penalties and employee termination payments. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. Any increase in provisions due to discounting,
only recorded where material, is recognised as interest expense.
Standards, revisions and amendments to standards and interpretations issued but not yet adopted
The Group does not intend to adopt any standard, revision or amendment before the required implementation date. The only material impact on
the Group’s assets, liabilities and results from a change in accounting policy in 2013 is expected to be from adoption of IAS 19, ‘Employee
benefits’ (revised). The impact on the Group will be as follows: a) to immediately recognise all past service credits; b) to replace interest cost on
scheme liabilities and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined
benefit liability; and c) to split scheme administration costs previously reflected in “other net financing changes” between those relating to
management of plan assets (to be presented within other comprehensive income) and other administration costs (to be presented in trading profit).
The expected impact; on net assets at 1 January 2012 is £8 million, on statutory profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December 2012 is
£20 million and on management profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December 2012 is £4 million. 
The impact of IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’, IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ including amendment to IAS 27 and IFRS 11 ‘Joint
Arrangements’ including amendment to IAS 28 are being assessed with adoption expected after 1 January 2014. 
All other revisions and amendments to standards and interpretations which have an implementation date in 2013 or 2014 are not expected to
have a material impact on the Group's results, assets or liabilities. .F F Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
1 Accounting policies and presentation (continued)
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates
The Group's significant accounting policies are set out above. The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRS, requires the use of
estimates, subjective judgement and assumptions that may affect the amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and reported
profit and earnings for the year. The Directors base these estimates, judgements and assumptions on a combination of past experience,
professional expert advice and other evidence that is relevant to the particular circumstance.
The accounting policies where the Directors consider the more complex estimates, judgements and assumptions have to be made are those in
respect of acquired assets and liabilities - business combinations (note 23), post-employment obligations including the valuation of the Pension
partnership plan asset (note 25), derivative and other financial instruments (notes 4b and 20), taxation (note 6) and impairment of non-current
assets (note 11). Details of the principle estimates, judgements and assumptions made are set out in the related notes as identified.
2 Segmental analysis
The Group's reportable segments have been determined based on reports reviewed by the Executive Committee led by the Chief Executive. The
operating activities of the Group are largely structured according to the markets served; automotive, aerospace and the land systems markets.
Automotive is managed according to product groups; driveline and powder metallurgy. Reportable segments derive their sales from the
manufacture of product and sale of service. Revenue from inter segment trading and royalties is not significant. 
(a) Sales
                                                                                                                                                                                        Automotive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Powder                                                                    Land                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                  Driveline                 Metallurgy                  Aerospace                      Systems                             Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
2012                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Subsidiaries                                                                                                                2,GBC                      F EB                   1,CF B                     F F G
Joint ventures                                                                                                                  2G1                           –                           –                        BB 
                                                                                                                                       A,2AD                      F EB                   1,CF B                      GAA                  D,D2E
Acquisitions                                                                                                                                                                                     
Subsidiaries                                                                                                                        –                           –                       1G1                           –                       1G1
                                                                                        
Other businesses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F D
Management sales                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D,G0B
Less: Joint venture sales                                                                                                                                                                                                                (AGB)
Income statement – sales                                                                                                                                                                                                            D,C10 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
2011                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Subsidiaries                                                                                                                2,432                     845                   1,481                     805                            
Joint ventures                                                                                                                 246                          –                          –                        42                            
                                                                                                                                       2,678                     845                   1,481                     847                   5,851 
Acquisitions                                                                                                                                                                                     
Subsidiaries                                                                                                                     117                          –                          –                        38                      155 
                                                                                        
Other businesses                                                                                                                                                                                                                              106 
Management sales                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6,112 
Less: Joint venture sales                                                                                                                                                                                                                (366)
Income statement – sales                                                                                                                                                                                                            5,746 
  .F G
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
(b) Trading profit
                                                                                                                                                                                        Automotive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Powder                                                                    Land                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                  Driveline                 Metallurgy                  Aerospace                      Systems                             Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
2012                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Trading profit before depreciation, impairment and amortisation                    A10                       11G                      2A2                       101                             
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment                     (12B)                     (A2)                      (B1)                      (1E)                           
Amortisation of operating intangible assets                                                             (B)                         –                        (11)                         (1)                           
Trading profit – subsidiaries                                                                                       1F 2                        F E                      1F 0                        F A                           
Trading profit/(loss) – joint ventures                                                                          CA                           –                         (A)                         C                           
                                                                                                                                           2AC                        F E                       1EE                        F F                      CF E 
Acquisitions                                                                                                                                                                                     
Trading profit – subsidiaries                                                                                           –                           –                         1C                           –                         1C
Acquisition related charges                                                                                            –                           –                         (A)                         –                         (A)
Restructuring charge                                                                                                         –                           –                       (1G)                         –                       (1G)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (E)
Other businesses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (B)
Gallatin temporary plant closure                                                                                                                                                                                                       2
Corporate and unallocated costs                                                                                                                                                                                                    (21)
Management trading profit                                                                                                                                                                                                              CCE
Less: Joint venture trading profit                                                                                                                                                                                                    (BG)
Income statement – trading profit                                                                                                                                                                                                C0F 
2011                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Trading profit before depreciation, impairment and amortisation                    255                      103                     208                        77                            
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment                     (107)                      (31)                     (34)                      (13)                           
Amortisation of operating intangible assets                                                             (3)                        –                        (5)                        (1)                           
Trading profit – subsidiaries                                                                                       145                        72                      169                        63                            
Trading profit/(loss) – joint ventures                                                                         46                          –                        (3)                         5                            
                                                                                                                                            191                        72                      166                       68                     497 
Acquisitions                                                                                                                                                                                     
Trading profit – subsidiaries                                                                                           7                          –                         –                          4                         11 
Acquisition related charges                                                                                           (3)                        –                         –                        (5)                       (8)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3 
Other businesses                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3 
Gallatin temporary plant closure                                                                                                                                                                                                    (19)
Corporate and unallocated costs                                                                                                                                                                                                    (16)
Management trading profit                                                                                                                                                                                                             468 
Less: Joint venture trading profit                                                                                                                                                                                                    (49)
Income statement – trading profit                                                                                                                                                                                                 419 
No income statement items between trading profit and profit before tax are allocated to management trading profit, which is the Group’s
segmental measure of profit or loss.
Acquisition related charges in 2012 comprise; integration costs, £2 million and transaction professional fees, £6 million, offset by gains on
commercial hedging contracts, £5 million.
During the year, GKN Driveline and GKN Land Systems exited their operations in Uruguay. Closure costs of £2 million are offset by previous
currency variations of £2 million reclassified from other reserves.
The Group income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 includes a net £2 million credit in relation to additional recoveries from the
Group’s insurer in respect of the temporary plant closure in Gallatin during 2011. The financial implication of this incident in 2011 was a net
pre-tax charge of £19 million. The £19 million, which was charged to trading profit, represented a gross cost of £34 million offset by recoveries
from the Group’s external insurer of £15 million. The net £19 million charge attracted taxation relief of £4 million. The impact on cash flows in
the year ended 31 December 2011 from operating activities was a net outflow of £19 million.
Corporate and unallocated costs include £2 million of transaction costs in 2012 related to the previously considered divestment of the Wheels
business. In the comparative period, corporate and unallocated costs included a £2 million credit for a pension scheme curtailment. .G0 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
(c) Goodwill, fixed assets and working capital – subsidiaries only
                                                                                                                                                                                        Automotive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Powder                                                                    Land                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                  Driveline                 Metallurgy                  Aerospace                      Systems                             Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
2012                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Property, plant and equipment and operating intangible assets                      GC0                      A1G                      GB1                       1AE                  2,ABE
Working capital                                                                                                                GA                        GC                        F 2                         EB                      ABB 
Net operating assets                                                                                                 1,0BA                      B1B                   1,02A                       211                             
Goodwill and non-operating intangible assets                                                     2GF                        2E                      D2A                      1F C                             
Net investment                                                                                                              1,AB1                      BB1                  1,DBD                      AGD                             
2011                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Property, plant and equipment and operating intangible assets                     982                      313                     479                      142                   1,916 
Working capital                                                                                                                77                      100                        56                        73                     306 
Net operating assets                                                                                                 1,059                      413                      535                      215                            
Goodwill and non-operating intangible assets                                                      321                        29                     282                      196                            
Net investment                                                                                                           1,380                     442                      817                       411                            
 
(d) Fixed asset additions, investments in joint ventures and other non-cash items
 
Automotive
                                                                                                                                              Powder                                                                    Land                           Other                                                                             
                                                                                                    Driveline                 Metallurgy                  Aerospace                      Systems                Businesses                   Corporate                             Total 
                                                                                                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Fixed asset additions and 
capitalised borrowing costs                                                                                                                                                                                                              
– property, plant and equipment                     1B2                        BE                        C2                         21                           2                           1                      2DC
– intangible assets                                                  G                           B                         CA                           1                           –                           –                        DE
Investments in associate and                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Joint ventures                                                    12C                           –                           –                         10                        22                           –                       1CE
Other non-cash items 
– share-based payments                                   2                           1                           1                           –                           –                           2                           D 
2011                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Fixed asset additions and 
capitalised borrowing costs                                                                                                                                                                                                              
– property, plant and equipment                     136                        44                        58                        18                           1                          –                      257 
– intangible assets                                                  9                          –                        39                           1                          –                          –                        49 
Investments in associate and
Joint ventures                                                    118                          –                          –                         11                        22                          –                       151 
Other non-cash items 
– share-based payments                                   2                           1                           1                          –                         –                         2                          6 
  .G1
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
2 Segmental analysis (continued)
(e) Country analysis
                                                                                                                                             United                                                                                                         Other                             Total                                      
                                                                                                                                           Kingdom                              USA                     Germany                    countries                        non-UK                             Total
                                                                                                                                                      £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Management sales by origin                                                      1,00G                   2,10B                      GEG                  2,F 12                  C,F GC                  D,G0B 
Goodwill, other intangible assets, 
property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                                                            
and investments in associate
and joint ventures                                                                        BBA                      GA2                     BF B                  1,F 02                  A,21F                   A,DD1
2011                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Management sales by origin                                                         930                  1,720                   1,017                  2,445                   5,182                   6,112 
Goodwill, other intangible assets,
property, plant and equipment 
and investments in associate
and joint ventures                                                                         411                     908                     498                   1,104                   2,510                  2,921
(f) Other sales information
Subsidiary segmental sales gross of inter segment sales are; Driveline £2,999 million (2011: £2,491 million), Powder Metallurgy £875 million
(2011: £851 million), Aerospace £1,775 million (2011: £1,481 million) and Land Systems £890 million (2011: £805 million). Inter segment
transactions take place on an arm’s length basis using normal terms of business.
In 2012 and 2011, no customer accounted for 10% or more of subsidiary sales or management sales. 
Management sales by product are: Driveline – CVJ systems 61% (2011: 70%), all-wheel drive systems 30% (2011: 23%), transaxle solutions 6%
(2011: 5%) and other goods 3% (2011: 2%). Powder Metallurgy – sintered components 83% (2011: 83%) and metal powders 17% (2011: 17%).
Aerospace – aerostructures 56% (2011: 64%), engine components and sub-systems 37% (2011: 28%) and special products 7% (2011: 8%).
Land Systems – power management devices 41% (2011: 36%), wheels and structures 36% (2011: 37%) and aftermarket 23% (2011: 27%).
(g) Reconciliation of segmental property, plant and equipment and operating intangible fixed assets to the balance sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m 
Segmental analysis – property, plant and equipment and operating intangible assets                                                                2,ABE                   1,916 
Segmental analysis – goodwill and non-operating intangible assets                                                                                                  1,1AA                     828 
Goodwill                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (CC1)                   (534)
Other businesses                                                                                                                                                                                                    1G                        19 
Corporate assets                                                                                                                                                                                                       C                          7 
Balance sheet – property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets                                                                                  2,GCA                  2,236 
 
(h) Reconciliation of segmental working capital to the balance sheet
                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m
Segmental analysis – working capital                                                                                                                                                            ABB                     306 
Other businesses                                                                                                                                                                                                    10                         11 
Corporate items                                                                                                                                                                                                     (AG)                     (36)
Accrued interest                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1E)                      (21)
Restructuring provisions                                                                                                                                                                                        (D)                     (10)
Deferred and contingent consideration                                                                                                                                                           (F C)                     (29)
Government refundable advances                                                                                                                                                                   (F F )                     (42)
Balance sheet – inventories, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and provisions                                            11G                     179 
  .G2 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
3 Adjusted performance measures
(a) Reconciliation of reported and management performance measures
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                                               Exceptional                                                                                                           Exceptional 
                                                                                                                As                       Joint               and non-       Management                           As                       Joint               and non-       Management 
                                                                                                     reported                ventures       trading items                      basis                reported                ventures       trading items                      basis 
                                                                                                               £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m 
Sales D,C10                 AGB                      –             D,G0B             5,746                 366                      –               6,112 
Trading profit C0F                    BG                      –                  CCE                 419                   49                      –                 468 
Change in value of derivative and 
other financial instruments 12D                      –                 (12D)                     –                   (31)                    –                    31                      – 
Amortisation of 
non-operating intangible assets
arising on business combinations (AE)                     –                    AE                      –                  (22)                    –                    22                      – 
Gains and losses on changes in 
Group structure C                      –                     (C)                     –                      8                      –                    (8)                    – 
Reversal of inventory fair 
value adjustment arising on 
business combinations (AE)                     –                    AE                      –                      –                      –                      –                      – 
Pension scheme curtailment DA                      –                  (DA)                     –                      –                      –                      –                      – 
Operating profit D2F                    BG                (120)                 CCE                 374                   49                    45                 468 
Share of post-tax earnings of 
joint ventures AF                  (BG)                     A                     (F )                  38                  (49)                    2                    (9)
Interest payable (D0)                     –                      –                  (D0)                 (47)                    –                      –                  (47)
Interest receivable F                      –                      –                      F                      5                      –                      –                      5 
Other net financing charges (2D)                     –                    2D                      –                   (19)                    –                    19                      – 
Net financing costs (EF )                     –                    2D                   (C2)                 (61)                    –                    19                  (42)
Profit before taxation CF F                      –                   (G1)                BGE                  351                      –                   66                  417 
Taxation (F C)                     –                     11                   (EB)                 (45)                    –                   (15)                (60)
Profit after tax for the year C0A                      –                  (F 0)                B2A                306                      –                    51                  357 
Profit attributable to 
non-controlling interests (2A)                     –                    20                     (A)                 (27)                    –                    21                    (6)
Profit attributable to 
equity shareholders BF 0                      –                  (D0)                B20                 279                      –                    72                  351 
Earnings per share – pence A0.2                      –                 (A.E)               2D.C               18.0                      –                  4.6                22.6 
Basic and management earnings per share use a weighted average number of shares of 1,587 .8 million (2011: 1,553.1 million). Also see note 7 .
Given the significance of the Gallatin incident and related net charge in 2011 (see note 2b), the table below highlights the impact of the
temporary plant closure on management trading profit and margin. .GA
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
3 Adjusted performance measures (continued)
(b) Summary of management performance measures by segment
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                 Trading                                                                                                   Trading 
                                                                                                                                               Sales                            profit                         Margin                           Sales                           profit                        Margin 
                                                                                                                                                   £m                                £m                                                                     £m                               £m                                     
Driveline                                                                                         A,2AD                      2AC                    E.A%                 2,678                       191                    7 .1% 
Powder Metallurgy                                                                           F EB                        F E                 10.0%                     845                        72                   8.5% 
Aerospace                                                                                       1,CF B                       1EE                  11.2%                   1,481                      166                  11.2% 
Land Systems                                                                                    GAA                        F F                   G.B%                     847                       68                  8.0% 
Other businesses                                                                               F D                         (B)                                                 106                          3                            
Engine Systems (Aerospace)                                                          1G1                         (E)                                                      –                          –                            
Corporate and unallocated costs                                                      –                        (21)                                                      –                       (16)                           
Prior year acquisitions                                                                         –                          –                                                   155                          3                            
                                                                                                          D,G0B                      CCC                   F .0%                   6,112                     487                  8.0% 
Gallatin temporary plant closure                                                      –                           2                                                       –                       (19)                           
                                                                                                          D,G0B                      CCE                    F .1%                   6,112                     468                    7 .7% 
4 Operating profit
The analysis of the additional components of operating profit is shown below:
(a) Trading profit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m 
Sales by subsidiaries                                                                                                                                                                                       D,C10                 5,746 
                                                                                                                                                  
Operating costs                                                                                       
Change in stocks of finished goods and work in progress                                                                                                                          (F D)                       32 
Raw materials and consumables                                                                                                                                                                (A,0GB)               (2,636)
Staff costs (note 9)                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,D0A)                (1,457)
Reorganisation costs (ii):                                                                  
Redundancy and other employee related amounts                                                                                                                               (D)                         –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (iii)                                                                                                                                   (21B)                    (191)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                                 (B)                        (1)
Amortisation of operating intangible assets                                                                                                                                                   (1E)                     (10)
Operating lease rentals payable:                                                        
Plant and equipment                                                                                                                                                                                        (1C)                      (14)
Property                                                                                                                                                                                                              (2F )                     (29)
Impairment of trade receivables                                                                                                                                                                          (A)                       (8)
Amortisation of government capital grants                                                                                                                                                        A                           1 
Net exchange differences on foreign currency transactions                                                                                                                          –                         (1)
Acquisition related charges                                                                                                                                                                                  (A)                       (8)
Acquisition restructuring charges                                                                                                                                                                      (1G)                         –
Other costs                                                                                                                                                                                                            (G1A)                (1,005)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (D,002)                (5,327)
Trading profit                                                                                                                                                                                                        C0F                      419 
(i) EBITDA is subsidiary trading profit before depreciation, impairment and amortisation charges included in trading profit. EBITDA in 2012
was £743 million (2011: £621 million).
(ii) Reorganisation costs in 2012 reflect actions in the ordinary course of business to reduce costs, improve productivity and rationalise
facilities in continuing operations. This cost is included in trading profit.
(iii) Including depreciation charged on assets held under finance leases of less than £1 million (2011: less than £1 million).
(iv) Research and development expenditure in subsidiaries was £124 million (2011: £103 million). .GB Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
4 Operating profit (continued)
(a) Trading profit (continued)
(v) Auditors’ remuneration
The analysis of auditors' remuneration is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 £m                               £m 
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the audit of the parent company                                              
and consolidated annual financial statements                                                                                                                                (0.B)                    (0.3)
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and their associates for other services to the Group:                                            
– Audit of the Company's subsidiaries pursuant to legislation                                                                                                        (B.A)                    (3.4)
Total audit fees                                                                                                                                                                                              (B.E)                    (3.7)
– Other services pursuant to legislation                                                                                                                                                 (0.1)                    (0.1)
– Tax advisory services                                                                                                                                                                               (0.2)                    (0.2)
– Tax compliance services                                                                                                                                                                          (0.D)                    (0.5)
– Corporate finance transaction services                                                                                                                                               (0.E)                    (0.2)
– Other services                                                                                                                                                                                                 –                      (0.1)
Total non-audit fees                                                                                                                                                                                      (1.D)                     (1.1)
Fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and their associates in respect of associated pension schemes:                             
– Audit                                                                                                                                                                                                                  –                          – 
– Other services                                                                                                                                                                                                 –                         – 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               –                          – 
Total fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and their associates                                                                                      (D.A)                    (4.8)
All fees payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP , the Company's auditors, include amounts in respect of expenses. All fees payable to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have been charged to the income statement, with the exception of £0.1 million relating to the issuance of the
new 2022 Bond (see note 18).
(b) Change in value of derivative and other financial instruments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m
Forward currency contracts (not hedge accounted)                                                                                                                                      11E                     (29)
Embedded derivatives                                                                                                                                                                                            (1)                       (3)
Commodity contracts (not hedge accounted)                                                                                                                                                     1                         (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11E                       (33)
Net gains and losses on intra-group funding                                   
Arising in year                                                                                                                                                                                                        G                         2 
Reclassified in year                                                                                                                                                                                              –                          –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G                         2 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12D                      (31)
IAS 39 requires derivative financial instruments to be valued at the balance sheet date and any difference between that value and the intrinsic
value of the instrument to be reflected in the balance sheet as an asset or liability. Any subsequent change in value is reflected in the income
statement unless hedge accounting is achieved. Such movements do not affect cash flow or the economic substance of the underlying
transaction. In 2012 and 2011 the Group used transactional hedge accounting in a limited number of instances. 
(c) Amortisation of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m
Marketing related                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1)                         –
Customer related                                                                                                                                                                                                   (2C)                      (17)
Technology based                                                                                                                                                                                                  (11)                        (5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (AE)                     (22)
  .GC
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
4 Operating profit (continued)
(d) Gains and losses on changes in Group structure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m
Business sold                                                                                                                                                                                                             1                          4 
Profit on sale of joint venture                                                                                                                                                                                 –                          4 
Gain on contingent consideration                                                                                                                                                                        B                          –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C                          8 
On 20 November 2012 the Group sold GKN Geplasmetal S.A. for cash consideration of £3 million. The profit on sale of £1 million comprises a
£1 million loss on disposal of net assets and a £2 million gain on reclassification of previous currency variations from other reserves.
On 27 January 2012 the Group sold its 49% share in a joint venture company, GKN JTEKT (Thailand) Limited for cash consideration of £1 million,
realising neither a profit or a loss.
During the year, £2 million of contingent consideration relating to the purchase of Getrag Driveline Products in 2011 was paid in cash. The
balance of the liability for contingent consideration recorded at 31 December 2011, £4 million, was released to the income statement outside
trading profit.
On 31 March 2011 the Group sold its 49% share in a joint venture company, GKN JTEKT Limited, for cash consideration of £8 million. A profit on
sale of £4 million was realised which included £2 million of previous currency variations reclassified from other reserves.
On 30 November 2011 the Group sold its Engineering Services division of GKN Aerospace for net cash consideration of £5 million. A profit on
sale of £4 million was realised which represented previous currency variations reclassified from other reserves.
5 Net financing costs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m
(a) Interest payable and fee expense
Short term bank and other borrowings                                                                                                                                                        (10)                     (10)
Repayable within five years                                                                                                                                                                            (1C)                      (14)
Repayable after five years                                                                                                                                                                               (AB)                     (26)
Government refundable advances                                                                                                                                                                  (C)                       (2)
Borrowing costs capitalised                                                                                                                                                                               C                          6 
Finance leases                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1)                        (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (D0)                     (47)
Interest receivable                                                                                  
Short term investments, loans and deposits                                                                                                                                                F                          5 
Net interest payable and receivable                                                                                                                                                                 (C2)                     (42)
The capitalisation rate on specific funding was 7 .5% (2011: 5.6%) and on general borrowings was 4.9% (2011: 6.1%).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m
(b) Other net financing charges
Expected return on post-employment scheme assets                                                                                                                            1AF                      153 
Interest on post-employment obligations                                                                                                                                                 (1CF )                   (170)
Post-employment finance charges                                                                                                                                                               (20)                      (17)
Unwind of discounts                                                                                                                                                                                           (D)                       (2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (2D)                     (19)
  .GD Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
6 Taxation
(a) Tax expense
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
Analysis of charge in year                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m 
Current tax (charge)/credit                                                                    
Current year charge                                                                                                                                                                                           (EE)                     (82)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and other assets                                                                                                        F                        10 
Net movement on provisions for uncertain tax positions                                                                                                                       (A0)                     (22)
Adjustments in respect of prior years                                                                                                                                                            (D)                         1 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (10C)                     (93)
Deferred tax (charge)/credit                                                                 
Origination and reversal of temporary differences                                                                                                                                    (F 1)                     (26)
Tax on change in value of derivative financial instruments                                                                                                                    (1G)                         7 
Other changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets                                                                                                                               1AD                        58 
Adjustments in respect of prior years                                                                                                                                                          (1D)                         9 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20                        48 
Total tax charge for the year                                                                                                                                                                                (F C)                     (45)
                                                                                        
Analysed as:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                            2011 
Tax in respect of management profit                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £m                               £m 
Current tax                                                                                                                                                                                                         (110)                     (97)
Deferred tax                                                                                                                                                                                                         AD                        37 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (EB)                     (60)
Tax in respect of items excluded from management profit                                               
Current tax                                                                                                                                                                                                              C                         4 
Deferred tax                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1D)                        11 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (11)                       15 
Total for tax charge for the year                                                                                                                                                                          (F C)                     (45)
Management tax rate
The tax charge arising on management profits of subsidiaries of £456 million (2011: £377 million) was £74 million (2011: £60 million charge)
giving an effective tax rate of 16% (2011: 16%). Details of the effective tax rate for the Group and the underlying events and transactions
affecting this are given on page 32.
Significant judgements and estimates
The Group operates in many jurisdictions and is subject to tax audits which are often complex and can take several years to conclude.
Therefore, the accrual for current tax includes provisions for uncertain tax positions which require estimates for each matter and the exercise
of judgement in respect of the interpretation of tax laws and the likelihood of challenge to historic tax positions. Where appropriate, estimates
of interest and penalties are included in these provisions. As amounts provided for in any year could differ from eventual tax liabilities,
subsequent adjustments which have a material impact on the Group's tax rate and/or cash tax payments may arise. Tax payments comprise
payments on account and payments on the final resolution of open items and, as a result, there can be substantial differences between the
charge in the income statement and cash tax payments. With regard to deferred tax, judgement is required for the recognition of deferred tax
assets, which is based on expectations of future financial performance in particular legal entities or tax groups. .GE
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
6 Taxation (continued)
(a) Tax expense (continued)
2012 2011
Tax reconciliation                                                                                                                                                                                              £m                                   %                              £m                                  % 
Profit before tax                                                                                                                                          CF F                                                   351                            
Less share of post-tax earnings of joint ventures                                                                                (AF )                                                  (38)                           
Profit before tax excluding joint ventures                                                                                             CC0                                                   313                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Tax charge calculated at 24.5% (2011: 26.5%) standard UK corporate tax rate                          (1AC)                     (2B)                     (83)                     (26)
Differences between UK and overseas corporate tax rates                                                               (2F )                        (C)                      (16)                        (5)
Non-deductible and non-taxable items                                                                                                   (B)                         (1)                       (2)                        (1)
Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and other assets                                                  F                           1                        10                          3 
Other changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets                                                                         12D                        2A                        58                        19 
Tax charge on ordinary activities                                                                                                             (AA)                        (D)                     (33)                     (10)
Net movement on provision for uncertain tax positions                                                                   (A0)                        (C)                     (22)                       (7)
Other adjustments in respect of prior years                                                                                         (22)                        (B)                       10                          3 
Total tax charge for the year                                                                                                                      (F C)                      (1C)                     (45)                      (14)
(b) Tax included in comprehensive income
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m 
Deferred tax on post-employment obligations                                                                                                                                                EG                       30 
Deferred tax on foreign currency gains and losses on intra-group funding                                                                                                1                          1 
Current tax on post-employment obligations                                                                                                                                                  22                        24 
Current tax on foreign currency gains and losses on intra-group funding                                                                                                  D                           1 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10F                        56 
(c) Current tax
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                            2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m 
Assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2B                        16 
Liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1CE)                   (138)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1AA)                   (122)
(d) Recognised deferred tax 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                            2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                                                                                              A02                     224 
Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                       (20B)                     (96)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GF                      128 
There is a net £20 million deferred tax credit to the income statement in the year (2011: £48 million) and a further deferred tax credit of £80 million
has been recorded directly in other comprehensive income (2011: £31 million). These credits primarily relate to the recognition of previous
unrecognised future tax deductions in the US and UK, based on management projections which indicate the future availability of taxable
profits to absorb the deductions. .GF Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
6 Taxation (continued)
(d) Recognised deferred tax (continued)
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities (prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12)
during the year are shown below:
Assets Liabilities
                                                                                                                                                   Post-                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                    employment                                Tax                                                                   Fixed                                                                             
                                                                                                                                       obligations                          losses                           Other                          assets                           Other                             Total 
                                                                                                                                                      £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m 
At 1 January 2012                                                                              1B2                       1BE                         C1                    (20D)                        (D)                     12F
Included in the income statement                                                 (1B)                         G                         (D)                        B1                       (10)                       20 
Included in other comprehensive income                                    EG                           –                           –                           –                           1                        F 0
Businesses acquired                                                                          21                           –                         1B                     (1D2)                         –                     (12E)
Currency variations                                                                             (B)                        (F )                        (B)                       1B                          (1)                        (A)
At A1 December 2012                                                                        22B                      1BF                         CC                     (A1A)                      (1D)                       GF
At 1 January 2011                                                                                 111                      120                        47                     (161)                       (9)                    108 
Included in the income statement                                                    –                        23                        12                         11                          2                        48 
Included in other comprehensive income                                    30                          –                          –                          –                           1                         31 
Businesses acquired                                                                            –                         –                        (8)                     (60)                        –                     (68)
Currency variations                                                                               1                          4                          –                          4                          –                          9 
At 31 December 2011                                                                         142                      147                         51                    (206)                       (6)                     128 
No deferred tax assets (2011: £41 million) have been recognised in territories where tax losses have been incurred in the year.
(e) Unrecognised deferred tax assets 
Certain deferred tax assets have not been recognised on the basis that the Group’s ability to utilise them is uncertain as shown below. 
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                        Tax value                           Gross                          Expiry                    Tax value                           Gross                          Expiry 
                                                                                                                                                  £m                               £m                          period                              £m                              £m                        period 
Tax losses – with expiry: national                                                  11C                      A2G         201A-20A1                      142                      401          2012-2031
Tax losses – with expiry: local                                                         1F                      BB2         201A-20A1                        20                     487          2012-2031
Tax losses – without expiry                                                              DC                      2DC                                                   120                     463                            
Total tax losses                                                                                  1GF                   1,0AD                                                  282                    1,351                            
Post-employment obligations                                                            1                           B                                                     70                     298                            
Other temporary differences                                                              C                         1G                                                      41                       161                            
Total other temporary differences                                                     D                        2A                                                    111                      459                            
Unrecognised deferred tax assets                                               20B                   1,0CG                                                   393                   1,810                            
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries except where the distribution of such profits is planned. If
these earnings were remitted in full, tax of £12 million (2011: £13 million) would be payable.
(f) Changes in UK tax rate
A reduction in the mainstream rate of UK corporation tax to 24% took effect from April 2012 which gives rise to an effective UK tax rate of 24.5%
for the year. Further reductions to 21% by 2014 are expected and at the balance sheet date a reduction to 23% had been substantively
enacted, so UK deferred tax is measured at 23%. Further reductions will cause a corresponding reduction in the value of UK deferred tax
assets.
(g) Franked investment income – litigation
Since 2003, the Group has been involved in litigation with HMRC in respect of various advance corporate tax payments made and corporate
tax paid on certain foreign dividends which, in its view, were levied by HMRC in breach of the Group’s EU community law rights. A High Court
judgment regarding payments on account was handed down in January 2013 confirming HMRC should repay payments on account to GKN. The
European Court of Justice published its decision on 13 November 2012 and the case will return to the UK Courts.
The continuing complexity of the case and uncertainty over the issues raised means that it is not possible to predict the final outcome of the
litigation with any reasonable degree of certainty and, as a result, no contingent asset has been recognised. .GG
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
7 Earnings per share
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                     Weighted                                                                                                Weighted
                                                                                                                                                                                          average                                                                                                   average 
                                                                                                                                                                                     number of              Earnings per                                                        number of              Earnings per
                                                                                                                                                  Earnings                         shares                           share                     Earnings                         shares                           share
                                                                                                                                                            £m                         million                           pence                              £m                        million                         pence 
Basic                                                                                                           BF 0               1,CF E.F                    A0.2                     279                1,553.1                    18.0 
Dilutive securities                                                                                        –                     1B.0                     (0.2)                         –                     6.3                      (0.1)
Diluted                                                                                                       BF 0               1,D01.F                    A0.0                      279               1,559.4                     17 .9 
Management basis earnings per share, 26.5p (2011: 22.6p) are presented in note 3 and use the weighted average number of shares consistent
with basic earnings per share calculations.
Earnings per share in 2011 have not been impacted by the issuance of ordinary shares in the year (see note 22) as the shares were issued at full
market price.
8 Dividends
Paid or proposed in 
respect of Recognised
                                                                                                                                                                                               2012                             2011                             2013                            2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                             pence                         pence                               £m                               £m                              £m 
2010 final dividend paid                                                                                                          –                          –                          –                          –                        54 
2011 interim dividend paid                                                                                                     –                      2.0                          –                          –                         31 
2011 final dividend paid                                                                                                          –                     4.0                          –                        D2                         – 
2012 interim dividend paid                                                                                                 2.B                          –                          –                        AG                         – 
2012 final dividend proposed                                                                                             B.F                         –                        79                          –                          – 
                                                                                                                                                    E.2                      6.0                        79                       101                        85 
The 2012 final proposed dividend will be paid on 20 May 2013 to shareholders who are on the register of members at close of business on 12 April
2013.
9 Employees including Directors
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
Employee benefit expense                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                               £m 
Wages and salaries                                                                                                                                                                                                (1,A0G)               (1,204)
Social security costs                                                                                                                                                                                                  (22C)                   (199)
Post-employment costs                                                                                                                                                                                              (DA)                     (48)
Share-based payments                                                                                                                                                                                                 (D)                       (6)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1,D0A)                (1,457)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
Average monthly number of employees (including Executive Directors)                                                                                                                                                                       Number                       Number 
By business                                                                                                      
Driveline                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1E,GG1                 16,197 
Powder Metallurgy                                                                                                                                                                                                  D,BF A                   6,162 
Aerospace                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G,21F                 8,632 
Land Systems                                                                                                                                                                                                           C,BGF                 4,848 
Other businesses                                                                                                                                                                                                         GB1                    896 
Corporate                                                                                                                                                                                                                      20B                      190 
Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                          B0,AAC                36,925 
 
  .100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
9 Employees including Directors (continued)
Key management
The key management of the Group comprises GKN plc Board Directors and members of the Group's Executive Committee during the year and their
aggregate compensation is shown below. More detailed disclosure on Directors' remuneration is set out in the Directors' remuneration report on
pages 58 to 72.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
Key management compensation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £m                               £m 
Salaries and short term employee benefits                                                                                                                                                           B.A                      6.3 
Post-employment benefits                                                                                                                                                                                         0.A                      0.7 
Share-based and medium term incentives and benefits                                                                                                                                   2.F                       4.2 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E.B                      11.2 
The amount outstanding at 31 December 2012 in respect of annual short term variable remuneration payable in cash was £1.2 million (2011:
£1.9 million). Key management participate in certain incentive arrangements where the key performance metric is management earnings per
share using the cash tax rate which is discussed on page 32 of the business review. Management eps using the cash tax rate is 27 .5p (2011: 23.2p).
A total of £108,247 in dividends was received by key management in 2012 (2011: £106,700). 
10 Share-based payments 
The Group has granted options over shares to employees for a number of years under different schemes. Where grants were made after 7 November
2002 they have been accounted for as required by IFRS 2 “Share-based payment”. Awards made before that date have not been so accounted. 
Details of awards made in 2012 are set out below. Details of awards made since 7 November 2002 that impact the 2012 accounting charge are: 
(a) Executive Share Option Schemes (ESOS)
Awards were made to Directors and certain senior employees in March 2003 under the 2001 scheme and in August 2009, May 2010 and April
2011 under the 2004 scheme. Under both schemes options were granted with a fixed exercise price based on the average share price for the
five dealing days immediately before the date of grant and subject to meeting performance conditions over a three year period. In the case of
the 2001 scheme, the performance condition was based on earnings per share (eps) growth whilst under the 2004 scheme the condition was
based on Total Shareholder Return (TSR) compared with that of comparator companies. Under the 2001 scheme only, where the performance
condition is not satisfied in full after the first three years, retesting is carried out each year up to six years from the date of grant. Release is
subject to the satisfaction of a personal shareholding requirement for Directors and certain very senior employees. No ESOS awards were
granted during the period.
(b) Long Term Incentive Plans (LTIP)
Awards were made in August 2009, August 2010 and April 2011 to GKN plc Directors only subject to eps performance over a three year period.
There is no retest facility under the scheme. Release is subject to Directors satisfying a personal shareholding requirement. No LTIP awards
were granted during the period. On release, a cash amount will be paid equivalent to aggregate dividends per share paid in the period
commencing 1 January in the performance period to the fourth anniversary of the date of grant.
(c) Profit Growth Incentive Plan (PGIP)
Awards were made in August 2010 and April 2011 under the PGIP to certain senior employees (excluding Directors). Any benefit under the PGIP
will be delivered dependent upon the extent to which profit growth targets are satisfied by the Group over a three year performance period.
The PGIP is a cash-based incentive plan, however, for certain very senior employees the benefit is delivered in shares; the number of shares
will be released following the performance period if the minimum targeted profit growth is achieved. A maximum of twice the amount of
shares will be released on achievement of the maximum profit growth target, with one and a half times the number being released for
“medium” performance. No shares will be released and the awards will lapse if the minimum profit growth target is not achieved. Release is
also conditional upon the satisfaction of a personal shareholding requirement for certain very senior employees. Any awards delivered under
the PGIP will be satisfied from GKN ordinary shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust. No PGIP awards were granted during the
period.
(d) Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP)
Awards were made to Directors and certain senior employees in April 2011 and August 2012. Awards are in respect of above target performance
under the short term variable remuneration scheme which are compulsorily deferred into shares under the DBP . Awards are not subject to a
further performance condition and shares will normally be released at the end of a two year deferral period. On release, a cash amount will be
paid equivalent to aggregate dividends per share paid during the deferral period.
Details of awards granted during the year are set out below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Weighted average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Shares granted                fair value at 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       during period measurement date
2012 DBP awards                                                                                                                                                                                           625,105              212.18p
The fair value of shares awarded under the DBP is calculated as the share price on the grant date.
  .101
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
10 Share-based payments (continued)
(e) Sustainable Earnings Plan (SEP)
Awards comprising a Core Award and a Sustainability Award were made to Directors and certain senior employees in August 2012. A Core
Award is subject to eps growth targets over an initial three year performance period and a Sustainability Award is subject to the highest level
of eps achieved over the initial three year period being sustained for a further two year period. Sustained eps growth is measured
independently in years four and five. 50% of the Core Award will be released at the end of the initial three year period; the balance of the Core
Award together with the Sustainability Award will be released at the end of year five. There is no provision for retesting performance for either
the Core Award or Sustainability Award. On release, dividends are treated as having accrued on the shares from the date of grant to the date of
release with the value delivered in either shares or cash.
Details of SEP awards (both a Core Award and a Sustainability Award) granted during the year are set out below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Weighted average
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Shares granted                fair value at 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       during period measurement date
2012 SEP awards                                                                                                                                                                                     10,318,028             214.00p
The fair value of shares awarded under the SEP is calculated as the share price on the grant date.
Further details of the ESOS, LTIP , PGIP , DBP and SEP schemes are given in the Directors’ remuneration report of GKN plc.
A reconciliation of ESOS option movements over the year to 31 December 2012 is shown below: 
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Weighted                                                          Weighted 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            average                                                             average 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Number            exercise price                       Number            exercise price 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           000s                           pence                           000s                          pence 
Outstanding at 1 January                                                                                                                     21,210                  12E.1E                20,617                 121.58 
                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Granted                                                                                                                                                             –                          –                  1,637                199.66 
Forfeited                                                                                                                                                   (1,0F C)                1EC.B1                    (868)               132.93 
Exercised                                                                                                                                                 (F ,EBD)                11B.B2                     (176)               118.33 
Outstanding at 31 December                                                                                                               11,AEG                 1A2.AE                 21,210                  127 .17 
Exercisable at 31 December                                                                                                                  C,12D                  110.C1                  3,249                138.32 
For options outstanding at 31 December the range of exercise prices and weighted average contractual life is shown in the following table: 
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Contractual                                                      Contractual 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         weighted                                                          weighted 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Number                       average                       Number                       average 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    of shares           remaining life                    of shares            remaining life 
Range of exercise price                                                                                                                                                                                000s                            years                            000s                            years 
110p-145p                                                                                                                                                 G,F EF                     D.F 1               18,680                     7 .00 
195p-220p                                                                                                                                                  1,C01                    F .2C                  2,530                    6.06 
The weighted average share price during the year for options exercised over the year was 208.9p (2011: 201.5p). The total charge for the year
relating to share-based payment plans was £6 million (2011: £6 million) all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment
transactions. After deferred tax, the total charge was £6 million (2011: £6 million).
Liabilities in respect of share-based payments were not material at either 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011. There were no vested rights
to cash or other assets at either 31 December 2012 or 31 December 2011.  .102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets
(a) Goodwill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m 
Cost                                                                                                           
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                                             E1C                      527 
Businesses acquired                                                                                                                                                                                             AF                      188 
Currency variations                                                                                                                                                                                               (AB)                         –
At A1 December                                                                                                                                                                                                     E1G                     715 
Accumulated impairment                                                                      
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                                             1F 1                     177 
Currency variations                                                                                                                                                                                                (1A)                         4 
At A1 December                                                                                                                                                                                                     1DF                       181 
                                                                                                                                                  
Net book amount at A1 December                                                                                                                                                                     CC1                      534 
The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December comprised:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                            2011 
Reportable segment                                                                               Business                                                            Geographical location                                                                  £m                               £m 
Driveline                                                                       Driveline                                         Americas                                                               11F                     126 
                                                                                        Driveline                                         Europe                                                                     DA                       63 
Powder Metallurgy                                                     Hoeganaes                                     North America                                                        21                       22 
Aerospace                                                                    Aerostructures                              North America                                                        A1                        33 
                                                                                        Engine Systems
(i)
                          North America & Europe                                     AE                          –
                                                                                        Engine Products                           North America                                                       GA                        98 
                                                                                        Special Products                          North America                                                       AD                        38 
Land Systems                                                              Power Management Devices     Europe                                                                     E1                        70 
                                                                                        Wheels and Structures               Italy                                                                          1G                        20 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BF G                     470 
Other businesses not individually significant to the carrying value of goodwill                                                                                    D2                        64 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CC1                      534 
(i) Includes goodwill arising on the acquisition of Volvo Aerospace on 1 October 2012 (see note 23).
(b) Other intangible assets
2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Assets arising on business combinations                                     
                                                                                                                               Development       Participation              Computer             Marketing              Customer          Technology                                
                                                                                                                                              costs                        fees                software                   related                   related                     based                       Total 
                                                                                                                                                  £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m
Cost                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
At 1 January 2012                                                                            1E0                      –                    G1                    12                  2E1                  10E                  DC1
Businesses acquired                                                                      GD                  1AA                      –                      –                 2AD                    GE                 CD2 
Additions                                                                                           CD                      –                      F                      –                      –                      –                    DB 
Capitalised borrowing costs                                                            A                      –                      –                      –                      –                      –                      A
Disposals                                                                                             –                      –                     (A)                     –                      –                      –                     (A)
Businesses sold                                                                                 –                      –                     (2)                     –                      –                      –                     (2)
Currency variations                                                                           (1)                     –                     (A)                     –                     (F )                   (B)                  (1D)
At A1 December 2012                                                                    A2B                  1AA                    G1                    12                 BGG                 200              1,2CG
Accumulated amortisation                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
At 1 January 2012                                                                              CB                      –                    EE                      2                     E1                    2A                 22E
Charge for the year                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Charged to trading profit                                                              F                      2                      E                      –                      –                      –                     1E
Non-operating intangible assets                                               –                      –                      –                       1                    2C                     11                    AE
Disposals                                                                                             –                      –                     (A)                     –                      –                      –                     (A)
Businesses sold                                                                                 –                      –                     (2)                     –                      –                      –                     (2)
Currency variations                                                                            2                      –                     (A)                     –                     (2)                   (A)                   (D)
At A1 December 2012                                                                      DB                      2                    ED                      A                    GB                     A1                 2E0
Net book amount at A1 December 2012                                   2D0                   1A1                     1C                      G                 B0C                  1DG                 GF G .10A
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
(b) Other intangible assets (continued)
2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Assets arising on business combinations                                     
                                                                                                                                                             Development              Computer             Marketing              Customer           Technology                                
                                                                                                                                                                            costs                software                   related                   related                    based                       Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m
Cost                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
At 1 January 2011                                                                                                     126                 104                      6                  145                    31                  412 
Businesses acquired                                                                                                 –                      –                      7                  126                    76                 209 
Additions                                                                                                                     41                      5                      –                      –                      –                   46 
Capitalised borrowing costs                                                                                     3                      –                      –                      –                      –                      3 
Disposals                                                                                                                      –                    (9)                    –                      –                      –                    (9)
Businesses sold                                                                                                          –                    (8)                    –                      –                      –                    (8)
Currency variations                                                                                                    –                     (1)                    (1)                    –                      –                    (2)
At 31 December 2011                                                                                              170                    91                    12                  271                  107                  651 
Accumulated amortisation                                                                                                                                                                                            
At 1 January 2011                                                                                                        51                   89                      2                    52                    18                  212 
Charge for the year                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Charged to trading profit                                                                                      4                      6                      –                      –                      –                    10 
Non-operating intangible assets                                                                        –                      –                      –                    17                      5                    22 
Disposals                                                                                                                      –                    (9)                    –                      –                      –                    (9)
Businesses sold                                                                                                          –                    (8)                    –                      –                      –                    (8)
Currency variations                                                                                                    (1)                    (1)                    –                      2                      –                      – 
At 31 December 2011                                                                                                54                    77                      2                    71                    23                 227 
Net book amount at 31 December 2011                                                              116                    14                    10                 200                   84                 424 
Development costs of £78 million (2011: £54 million) and £11 million (2011: £13 million) in respect of two aerospace programmes are being
amortised on a units of production basis. There is £44 million (2011: £52 million) in respect of a customer relationship asset arising from one
previous business combination with a remaining amortisation period of 5 years (2011: 6 years). Following the acquisition of Volvo Aerospace in
the year there are other intangible assets of £320 million in respect of four programmes with a remaining amortisation period of 25 years.
As a result of a further acquisition in the year (see note 23 for details) and the increased value of “assets arising on business combination”,
further analysis has been provided for each sub-category. Comparative information has been enhanced for consistency. There has been no
change to the total for “assets arising on business combinations” in the comparative period.
(c) Impairment testing
An impairment test is a comparison of the carrying value of the assets of a business or cash generating unit (CGU) to their recoverable amount.
Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment results. During the year, all goodwill (including amounts arising
on the business acquired in the year) was tested for impairment with no impairment charges resulting.
For the purposes of carrying out impairment tests, the Group’s total goodwill has been allocated to a number of CGUs and each of these CGUs
has been separately assessed and tested. The size of a CGU varies but is never larger than a primary or secondary reportable segment. In
some cases, a CGU is an individual subsidiary or operation.
All of the recoverable amounts were measured based on value in use. Detailed forecasts for the next five years have been used which are
based on approved annual budgets and strategic projections representing the best estimate of future performance. In the case of an
individual CGU within the Group’s Aerospace (Engine Products) business, value in use at 31 December 2012 was measured using operating
cash flow projections covering the next ten years which incorporate the anticipated timing of volumes on current programmes. Management
consider forecasting over this period to more appropriately reflect the length of business cycle of that CGU’s programmes, in particular the
growth of certain military programmes.
Significant judgements, assumptions and estimates
In determining the recoverable amount of all CGUs it is necessary to make a series of assumptions to estimate the present value of future cash
flows. In each case, these key assumptions have been made by management reflecting past experience and are consistent with relevant
external sources of information.
Operating cash flows
The main assumptions within forecast operating cash flow include the achievement of future sales prices and volumes (including reference to
specific customer relationships, product lines and the use of industry relevant external forecasts of global vehicle production within Driveline
businesses and consideration of specific volumes on certain US military and civil programmes within Aerospace), raw material input costs, the
cost structure of each CGU and the ability to realise benefits from annual productivity improvements, the impact of foreign currency rates upon
selling price and cost relationships and the levels of ongoing capital expenditure required to support forecast production.  .10B
11 Goodwill and other intangible assets (continued)
(c) Impairment testing (continued)
Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates
Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates are derived from risk-free rates based upon long term government bonds in the territory, or territories,
within which each CGU operates. A relative risk adjustment (or “beta”) has been applied to risk-free rates to reflect the risk inherent in each
CGU relative to all other sectors on average, determined using an average of the betas of comparable listed companies. 
The range of pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates set out below have been used for impairment testing. The range of rates reflects the mix of
geographical territories within CGUs within the reportable segments.
Driveline: North and South America 13%-24% (2011: 13%-24%), Europe 12%-14% (2011: 12%-14%) and Japan and Asia Pacific region countries
10%-17% (2011: 10%-17%)
Powder Metallurgy: Europe 12% (2011: 12%) and North America 13% (2011: 13%)
Aerospace: Europe 11% (2011: 11%) and North America 12% (2011: 12%)
Land Systems: Europe 11%-14% (2011: 12%) and North America 13% (2011: 13%)
Long term growth rates
To forecast beyond the detailed cash flows into perpetuity, a long term average growth rate has been used. In each case, this is not greater
than the published International Monetary Fund average growth rate in gross domestic product for the next five year period in the territory or
territories where the CGU is primarily based. This results in a range of nominal growth rates: 
Driveline: North and South America 3%-8% (2011: 3%-8%), Europe 2%-7% (2011: 3%-7%) and Japan and Asia Pacific region countries 2%-8%
(2011: 2%-8%)
Powder Metallurgy: Europe 4% (2011: 4%) and North America 3% (2011: 3%)
Aerospace: Europe 3% (2011: 3%) and North America 3% (2011: 3%)
Land Systems: Europe 2%-4% (2011: 2%-3%) and North America 3% (2011: 3%)
Goodwill sensitivity analysis 
The results of the Group’s impairment tests are dependent upon estimates and judgements made by management, particularly in relation to
the key assumptions described above. Sensitivity analysis to potential changes in key assumptions has therefore been reviewed. 
At 31 December 2012, the date of the Group's annual impairment test, the estimated recoverable amount of one individual CGU within the
Group’s Aerospace operations, one CGU within the Group’s Driveline operations and one CGU within the Group’s Land Systems operations
exceeded their carrying value by £131 million, £480 million and £25 million respectively. The table below shows the discount rate, long term
growth rate and forecast operating cash flow assumptions used in the calculation of value in use and the amount by which each assumption
must change in isolation in order for the estimated recoverable amount to equal the carrying value.
 
Segment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Aerospace                Driveline       Land Systems
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Power 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Engine                                                   Management 
Business                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Products                    Americas                       Devices 
Value in use excess over carrying value                                                                                                                        £131m               £480m                  £25m 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Assumptions used in calculation of value in use                                                                                                                                                
Pre-tax adjusted discount rate                                                                                                                                        12%                     13%                     12%
Long term growth rate                                                                                                                                                         3%                      3%                      3%
Total pre-discounted forecast operating cash flow                                                                                              £706m            £2,061m               £340m
Change required for the carrying value to exceed the recoverable amount                                                                                                                               
Pre-tax adjusted discount rate                                                                                                                                5.9%pts             8.0%pts              1.2%pts
Long term growth rate                                                                                                                                             29.4%pts            17 .7%pts             1.8%pts
Total pre-discounted forecast operating cash flow                                                                                                   49%                    45%                     12%
Other than as disclosed above, it is not considered that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would generate a
different impairment test outcome to the one included in this annual report.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued .10C
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
12 Property, plant and equipment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Other                         Capital                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                           Land and                    Plant and                      tangible                        work in                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                           buildings                  machinery                          assets                     progress                             Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                                     £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
Cost                                                                                                                                                                                                     
At 1 January 2012                                                                                                                   EBB                  A,DBD                      1BG                      1A0                  B,DDG
Businesses acquired                                                                                                             B0                      1BB                           2                           C                       1G1 
Additions                                                                                                                                   12                       11C                           B                       1A2                      2DA
Capitalised borrowing costs                                                                                                   –                          2                           –                          –                          2 
Disposals                                                                                                                                   (2)                     (DD)                        (A)                         –                       (E1)
Businesses sold                                                                                                                        (1)                         –                         (1)                         –                        (2)
Transfers                                                                                                                                      F                       101                           2                       (111)                         –
Currency variations                                                                                                               (AE)                    (1DC)                        (F )                        (F )                   (21F )
At A1 December 2012                                                                                                             EDB                  A,EEE                       1BC                      1BF                  B,F AB
Accumulated depreciation and impairment                                                                                                                                   
At 1 January 2012                                                                                                                   221                  2,C0G                       12E                           –                  2,F CE 
Charge for the year                                                                                                                                                                                
Charged to trading profit                                                                                                                                                                 
Depreciation                                                                                                                    1G                      1F G                           D                           –                     21B
Impairments                                                                                                                       1                           A                           –                          –                          B
Disposals                                                                                                                                    (1)                     (DB)                        (A)                         –                      (DF )
Businesses sold                                                                                                                        (1)                         –                          (1)                         –                        (2)
Currency variations                                                                                                                 (11)                    (11D)                        (F )                         –                    (1AC)
At A1 December 2012                                                                                                             22F                   2,C21                       121                           –                 2,F E0 
Net book amount at A1 December 2012                                                                            CAD                   1,2CD                        2B                      1BF                  1,GDB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Other                        Capital                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                       Land and                    Plant and                      tangible                        work in                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                       buildings                  machinery                         assets                     progress                            Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                                 £m                               £m                               £m                               £m                               £m
Cost                                                                                                                                                                                                     
At 1 January 2011                                                                                                                   693                  3,527                       151                        91                  4,462 
Businesses acquired                                                                                                              43                        69                          5                          8                      125 
Additions                                                                                                                                   17                      157                          2                        78                      254 
Capitalised borrowing costs                                                                                                    1                          2                          –                          –                         3 
Disposals                                                                                                                                   (8)                   (102)                       (8)                        –                    (118)
Businesses sold                                                                                                                        –                        (8)                        (1)                        –                        (9)
Transfers                                                                                                                                      –                       45                           1                      (46)                        –
Currency variations                                                                                                                  (2)                     (44)                        (1)                        (1)                     (48)
At 31 December 2011                                                                                                            744                 3,646                      149                      130                 4,669 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment                                                                                                                                   
At 1 January 2011                                                                                                                   208                  2,472                       131                          –                  2,811 
Charge for the year                                                                                                                                                                                
Charged to trading profit                                                                                                                                                                 
Depreciation                                                                                                                    16                      169                          6                          –                      191 
Impairments                                                                                                                      –                          1                          –                          –                          1 
Disposals                                                                                                                                   (6)                     (99)                       (8)                        –                    (113)
Businesses sold                                                                                                                        –                        (7)                       (2)                        –                        (9)
Currency variations                                                                                                                   3                       (27)                        –                         –                     (24)
At 31 December 2011                                                                                                             221                  2,509                      127                          –                  2,857 
Net book amount at 31 December 2011                                                                            523                   1,137                        22                      130                   1,812 
Included within other tangible assets at net book amount are fixtures, fittings and computers £23 million (2011: £20 million) and commercial
vehicles and cars £1 million (2011: £2 million). The net book amount of assets under finance leases is land and buildings £2 million (2011: 
£2 million), plant and equipment £5 million (2011: nil) and other tangible assets nil (2011: nil).
As a result of a further acquisition in the year (see note 23 for details) and the increased value of “other tangible assets”, further analysis has
been provided for each sub-category. Comparative information has been enhanced for consistency. There has been no change to the total of
“plant and machinery” and “other tangible assets” in the comparative period. .10D Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
13 Investments in joint ventures 
Group share of results
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    £m                              £m 
Sales                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AGB                     366 
Operating costs                                                                                                                                                                                                          (ABC)                   (317)
Trading profit                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BG                       49 
Net financing costs                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1)                        (1)
Profit before taxation                                                                                                                                                                                                    BF                        48 
Taxation                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (E)                       (8)
Share of post-tax earnings – before exceptional and non-trading items                                                                                                         B1                        40 
Exceptional and non-trading items                                                                                                                                                                            (A)                       (2)
Share of post-tax earnings                                                                                                                                                                                          AF                        38 
Exceptional and non-trading items represent amortisation of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations and other net
financing charges including tax nil (2011: £1 million).
Group share of net book amount
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                                       Group                  Provisions                                                                Group                  Provisions 
                                                                                                                                                   share of                                 for                     Net book                      share of                                for                     Net book
                                                                                                                                                      equity                impairment                        amount                          equity                impairment                      amount 
                                                                                                                                                            £m                                £m                                £m                              £m                               £m                               £m 
At 1 January                                                                                                1BE                           –                       1BE                     143                          –                      143
Share of post-tax earnings                                                                      AF                           –                        AF                        38                          –                        38 
Actuarial losses on post-employment                                                                                                                                                                                                        
obligations, including deferred tax                                                    (2)                         –                         (2)                         –                          –                          – 
Dividends paid                                                                                           (B1)                         –                        (B1)                     (35)                        –                       (35)
Additions                                                                                                        C                           –                           C                          4                          –                          4 
Disposals                                                                                                       (1)                         –                          (1)                       (6)                        –                         (6)
Currency variations                                                                                     (A)                         –                         (A)                         3                          –                          3 
                                                                                                                      1BA                           –                      1BA                      147                          –                      147 
Financial guarantee contract                                                                                                                             10                                                                                    – 
At A1 December                                                                                                                                                   1CA                                                                                147 
                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    £m                               £m 
Non-current assets                                                                                                                                                                                                      12G                      124 
Current assets                                                                                                                                                                                                               1BF                      127 
Current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                          (GF )                     (79)
Non-current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                 (AD)                     (25)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1BA                      147 
Financial guarantee contract                                                                                                                                                                                       10                          –
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1CA                      147 
The joint ventures have no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed and nor has the Group any significant contingent
liabilities in relation to its interest in the joint ventures. The share of capital commitments of the joint venture is shown in note 28.
On 19 December 2012 the Group committed to provide £8 million of additional funding to Emitec, a 50% joint venture in equal proportion to the other
50% venturer. At the same time the Group signed a guarantee contract with Emitec’s external bankers with regard to future debt repayment. The
guarantee has been valued at £10 million based on future forecasts and an estimate of the probability of default if the guarantee were not in place.
The guarantee contract is included above with a corresponding liability (shown in note 20).
On 2 January 2013 the £8 million of funding was paid in cash. .10E
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
14 Other receivables and investments 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    £m                               £m 
Other investments                                                                                                                                                                                                           B                         4 
Indirect taxes and amounts recoverable under employee benefit plans                                                                                                          21                       23 
Other receivables                                                                                                                                                                                                           1A                        10 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AF                        37 
Other investments represents the Group’s 31% shareholding (25% on a fully diluted basis) in Evo Electric Limited which is designated as an
associated undertaking. During the year further investment of £1 million has been offset by the Group’s equity accounted share of results.
Included in other receivables is a £6 million (2011: £9 million) indemnity asset.
15 Inventories 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    £m                               £m
Raw materials                                                                                                                                                                                                               AGG                      355 
Work in progress                                                                                                                                                                                                          A0E                     242 
Finished goods                                                                                                                                                                                                             1EG                     152 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         F F C                      749 
Inventories of £68 million (2011: £70 million) are carried at net realisable value. The amount of any write down of inventory recognised as an
expense in the year was £2 million (2011: £1 million). A fair value increase for inventory of £37 million relating to the acquisition of Volvo
Aerospace (see note 23) has reversed during the period of ownership.
16 Trade and other receivables 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    £m                               £m
Trade receivables                                                                                                                                                                                                        GAD                    840 
Amounts owed by joint ventures                                                                                                                                                                                1A                       19 
Other receivables                                                                                                                                                                                                           CD                        46 
Prepayments                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CB                        21 
Indirect taxes recoverable                                                                                                                                                                                           BA                        36 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,102                     962 
Provisions for doubtful debts against trade receivables                                                   
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (12)                     (10)
Charge for the year                                                                                         
Additions                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (A)                       (8)
Unused amounts reversed                                                                                                                                                                                        2                          1 
Amounts used                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C                         5 
Currency variations                                                                                                                                                                                                          –                         –
At A1 December                                                                                                                                                                                                               (F )                      (12)
Trade receivables subject to provisions for doubtful debts                                                                                                                                  F                         13 
Ageing analysis of trade receivables and amounts owed by joint ventures past due but not impaired 
Up to 30 days overdue                                                                                                                                                                                             C0                        43 
31 – 60 days overdue                                                                                                                                                                                                 11                          9 
61 – 90 days overdue                                                                                                                                                                                                  A                         4 
More than 90 days overdue                                                                                                                                                                                       E                          7 
There is no provision against other receivable categories.
  .10F Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
17 Trade and other payables 
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Current               Non-current                        Current               Non-current 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      £m                                £m                                £m                               £m 
Amounts owed to suppliers and customers                                                                                              (GCC)                      (EE)                   (975)                       (9)
Amounts owed to joint ventures                                                                                                                       (D)                         –                         (2)                        – 
Accrued interest                                                                                                                                                  (1E)                         –                       (21)                        – 
Government refundable advances                                                                                                                     –                      (F F )                         –                      (42)
Deferred and contingent consideration                                                                                                        (EA)                      (12)                      (12)                      (17)
Payroll taxes, indirect taxes and audit fees                                                                                                  (EE)                         (1)                     (73)                        (1)
Amounts due to employees and employee benefit plans                                                                      (1DE)                      (E2)                   (154)                     (35)
Government grants                                                                                                                                               (A)                        (F )                       (2)                       (6)
Customer advances and deferred income                                                                                                    (GB)                      (E0)                     (69)                     (10)
                                                                                                                                                                           (1,AG2)                   (A2F )               (1,308)                   (120)
Government refundable advances are forecast to fall due for repayment between 2014 and 2055. Non-current deferred and contingent
consideration falls due as follows: one – two years £6 million (2011: £5 million) and two – five years £6 million (2011: £12 million). Non-current
amounts owed to suppliers and customers fall due within two years.
Contingent consideration of £9 million (2011: £9 million) is included as payable based upon Filton achieving certain levels of sales in 2013, 2014
and 2015. The range of contingent consideration payable is nil to £9 million.
18 Net borrowings 
(a) Analysis of net borrowings 
                                                                                                                                           Current                                                                         Non-current                                                                                 Total 
                                                                                                                                                Within                 One to two                  Two to five                  More than                                                                           
                                                                                                                                            one year                            years                            years                    five years                             Total
                                                                                                           Notes                               £m                               £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Unsecured capital market borrowings                                                                                                                                                                                                
£450 million 5⅜ 2022 unsecured bond          i                           –                           –                           –                    (BBB)                   (BBB)                   (BBB)
£350 million 6¾% 2019 unsecured bond      i                           –                           –                           –                    (ABF )                   (ABF )                   (ABF )
Unsecured committed bank borrowings                                                                                                                                                                                             
European Investment Bank                                i                           –                           –                       (BF )                     (A2)                     (F 0)                     (F 0)
2013 Committed Revolving Credit Facility                               (20)                         –                           –                           –                           –                       (20)
2016 Committed Revolving Credit Facility                                  –                           –                        (C1)                         –                        (C1)                      (C1)
2017 Committed Revolving Credit Facility                                   –                           –                           –                           –                           –                           – 
Other                                                                                                    –                         (C)                        (F )                         –                        (1A)                      (1A)
Other secured US$ denominated loan                                           (A)                         –                           –                           –                           –                         (A)
Finance lease obligations                                     iii                         (1)                         –                          (1)                         –                          (1)                        (2)
Bank overdrafts                                                                                  (CE)                         –                           –                           –                           –                       (CE)
Other short term bank borrowings                                                (AB)                         –                           –                           –                           –                       (AB)
Borrowings                                                                                         (11C)                        (C)                   (10F )                   (F 2B)                   (GAE)                (1,0C2)
Bank balances and cash                                                                 1EE                           –                           –                           –                           –                       1EE
Short term bank deposits                                      ii                          B                           –                           –                           –                           –                           B
Cash and cash equivalents                                  iv                      1F 1                           –                           –                           –                           –                       1F 1
Net borrowings                                                                                   DD                         (C)                   (10F )                   (F 2B)                   (GAE)                    (F E1) .10G
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
18 Net borrowings (continued)
(a) Analysis of net borrowings (continued)
                                                                                                                                           Current                                                                       Non-current                                                                               Total 
                                                                                                                                             Within                 One to two                  Two to five                  More than                                                                         
                                                                                                                                         one year                            years                            years                    five years                            Total
                                                                                                        Notes                              £m                              £m                               £m                               £m                               £m                               £m
2011                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Unsecured capital market borrowings                                                                                                                                                                                                
£350 million 6¾% 2019 unsecured bond      i                          –                          –                          –                    (347)                   (347)                   (347)
£176 million 7% 2012 unsecured bond            i                     (176)                        –                          –                          –                          –                     (176)
Unsecured committed bank borrowings                                                                                                                                                                                             
European Investment Bank                                i                          –                          –                       (32)                     (48)                     (80)                     (80)
2016 Committed Revolving Credit Facility                                  –                          –                      (29)                        –                      (29)                     (29)
Other                                                                                                    –                          –                         (4)                        –                         (4)                       (4)
Other secured US$ denominated loan                                           (2)                       (3)                        (1)                        –                         (4)                       (6)
Finance lease obligations                                     iii                         (1)                        (1)                        (1)                        –                         (2)                       (3)
Bank overdrafts                                                                                   (11)                        –                          –                          –                          –                        (11)
Other short term bank borrowings                                                (38)                        –                          –                          –                          –                      (38)
Borrowings                                                                                       (228)                       (4)                     (67)                   (395)                  (466)                  (694)
Bank balances and cash                                                                 150                          –                          –                          –                          –                      150 
Short term bank deposits                                      ii                          6                          –                          –                          –                          –                          6 
Cash and cash equivalents                                   iv                      156                          –                          –                          –                          –                      156 
Net borrowings                                                                                   (72)                       (4)                     (67)                   (395)                  (466)                   (538)
Unsecured capital market borrowings include: unsecured £350 million (2011: £350 million) 6¾% bond maturing in 2019 less unamortised
issue costs of £2 million (2011: £3 million) and a new unsecured £450 million 5⅜% bond maturing in 2022 less unamortised issue costs of 
£6 million. 
During the year the Group repaid its £176 million 7% 2012 unsecured bond.
Unsecured committed bank borrowings include £80 million (2011: £80 million) drawn under the Group’s European Investment Bank unsecured
facility. The loan is due for repayment in five equal annual instalments of £16 million, commencing in June 2015 and attracts a fixed interest
rate of 4.1% per annum payable annually in arrears. Also included is £71 million, net of £6 million unamortised issue costs (2011: £29 million
net of £4 million unamortised issue costs) drawn from the Group’s 2013 and 2016 Committed Revolving Credit Facilities of £612 million and no
drawings from the Group’s new 2017 Committed Revolving Credit Facilities of £225 million. The term of the new facility is 5 years and attracts a
variable interest rate.
A secured term loan of £3 million (2011: £6 million) is secured by way of a fixed and floating charge on certain Aerospace fixed assets.
Notes 
(i) Denotes borrowings at fixed rates of interest until maturity. All other borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are at variable interest
rates unless otherwise stated.
(ii) The average interest rate on short term bank deposits was 0.5% (2011: 0.7%). Deposits at both 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011
had a maturity date of less than one month.
(iii) Finance lease obligations gross of finance charges fall due as follows: £1 million within one year (2011: £1 million), £2 million in one to five
years (2011: £3 million) and nil in more than five years (2011: nil).
(iv) £14 million (2011: £24 million) of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents are held by the Group’s captive insurance company to maintain
solvency requirements and as collateral for Letters of Credit issued to the Group’s principal external insurance providers. These funds
cannot be circulated within the Group on demand. .110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
18 Net borrowings (continued)
(b) Fair values 
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Book value                    Fair value                 Book value                    Fair value 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               £m                                £m                               £m                               £m 
Borrowings, other financial assets and cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                          
Other borrowings                                                                                                                                      (GCG)                 (1,021)                   (642)                   (659)
Finance lease obligations                                                                                                                            (2)                        (2)                       (3)                       (3)
Bank overdrafts and other short term bank borrowings                                                                     (G1)                      (G1)                     (49)                     (49)
Bank balances and cash                                                                                                                           1EE                       1EE                      150                      150 
Short term bank deposits                                                                                                                             B                           B                          6                          6 
                                                                                                                                                                       (F E1)                   (GAA)                   (538)                   (555)
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                               
Government refundable advances                                                                                                         (F F )                     (GG)                     (42)                     (39)
Deferred and contingent consideration                                                                                                 (F C)                     (F C)                     (29)                     (29)
                                                                                                                                                                       (1EA)                   (1F B)                      (71)                     (68)
The following methods and assumptions were used in estimating fair values for financial instruments:
Unsecured bank overdrafts, other short term bank borrowings, bank balances and cash and short term bank deposits approximate to book
value due to their short maturities. For other amounts, the repayments which the Group is committed to make have been discounted at the
relevant interest rates applicable at 31 December 2012. Bonds included within other borrowings have been valued using quoted closing
market values. 
19 Financial risk management 
The Group’s activities give rise to a number of financial risks: market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. Market risk includes foreign currency risk, cash
flow and fair value interest rate risk and commodity price risk. The Group has in place risk management policies that seek to limit the effects of
financial risk on financial performance. Derivative financial instruments, mainly forward foreign currency contracts, are used to hedge risk exposures
that arise in the ordinary course of business. Further information is provided in the treasury management section of the business review.
Risk management policies have been set by the Board and are implemented by the central Treasury Department that receives regular reports from
all the operating companies to enable prompt identification of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken. The Treasury Department
has a policy and procedures manual that sets out specific guidelines to manage foreign currency risks, interest rate risk, financial credit risk and
liquidity risk and the use of financial instruments to manage these.
(a) Foreign currency risk
The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the
subsidiaries’ functional currency. These exposures are forecast on a monthly basis by operating companies and are reported to the central
Treasury Department. Under the Group’s foreign currency policy, such exposures are hedged on a reducing percentage basis over a number of
forecast time horizons using forward foreign currency contracts.
As a result of the Volvo Aerospace acquisition on 1 October 2012, specific transactional hedge arrangements have been taken out against
future payroll costs to fix the US$ functional currency amounts.
The Group’s reporting currency for its consolidated financial statements is sterling. Changes in exchange rates will affect the translation of
results and net assets of operations outside of the UK. The Group's largest exposures are the euro and the US dollar where a 1% movement in
the average rate impacts trading profit of subsidiaries and joint ventures by £1 million and £2 million respectively.
Regarding financial instruments a 1% strengthening of sterling against the currency rates indicated below would have the following impact on
operating profit:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Trading profit:                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Payables                   Derivative                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and                     financial                 Intra-group 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      receivables               instruments                       funding 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     £m                               £m                               £m 
Euro                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3                     (2.7)                      1.0 
US dollar                                                                                                                                                                                   (0.6)                   18.2                      0.2 
The derivative sensitivity analysis has been prepared by reperforming the calculations used to determine the balance sheet values adjusted
for the changes in the individual currency rates indicated with all other cross currency rates remaining constant. The sensitivity is a fair value
change relating to derivatives for which the underlying transaction has not occurred at 31 December 2012. The Group intends to hold all such
derivatives to maturity. The analysis of other items has been prepared based on an analysis of a currency balance sheet.  .111
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
19 Financial risk management (continued)
(a) Foreign currency risk (continued)
Analysis of net borrowings by currency:
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                                                              Cash and                                                                                                Cash and 
                                                                                                                                                                                      cash                                                                                                         cash 
                                                                                                                                    Borrowings                equivalents                             Total                Borrowings                equivalents                            Total 
                                                                                                                                                   £m                                £m                                £m                               £m                               £m                               £m 
Sterling                                                                                              (GE2)                        21                     (GC1)                  (644)                      29                     (615)
US dollar                                                                                                (E)                       2C                         1F                       (12)                       16                          4 
Euro                                                                                                      (2B)                       2G                           C                          –                       34                        34 
Others                                                                                                  (BG)                     10D                         CE                      (38)                       77                        39 
                                                                                                         (1,0C2)                      1F 1                     (F E1)                  (694)                     156                    (538)
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to fair value interest rate risk on fixed rate borrowings and cash flow interest rate risk on variable rate net
borrowings/funds. The Group's policy is to optimise interest cost in reported earnings and reduce volatility in the debt related element of the
Group's cost of capital. This policy is achieved by maintaining a target range of fixed and floating rate debt for discrete annual periods, over a
defined time horizon. The Group's normal policy is to require interest rates to be fixed for 50% to 80% of the level of underlying borrowings
forecast to arise over a 12 month horizon. At 31 December 2012 82% (2011: 87%) of the Group's gross borrowings were subject to fixed interest
rates. 
As at 31 December 2012 £4 million (2011: £6 million) was in bank deposits, all of which was on deposit with banks on the Isle of Man (2011: 
£6 million).
(c) Credit risk
The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to financial instruments. In terms of
substance, and consistent with the related balance sheet presentation, the Group considers it has two types of credit risk; operational and
financial. Operational credit risk relates to non-performance by customers in respect of trade receivables and by suppliers in respect of other
receivables. Financial credit risk relates to non-performance by banks and similar institutions in respect of cash and deposits, facilities and
financial contracts, including forward foreign currency contracts.
Operational 
As Tier 1 suppliers to automotive, land systems and aerospace original equipment manufacturers the Group may have substantial amounts
outstanding with a single customer at any one time. The credit profiles of such original equipment manufacturers are available from credit
rating agencies. The failure of any such customer to honour its debts could materially impact the Group's results. However, there are many
advantages in these relationships. In Land Systems there are a greater proportion of amounts receivable from small and medium sized
customers. 
Credit risk and customer relationships are managed at a number of levels within the Group. At a subsidiary level documented credit control
reviews are required to be held at least every month. The scope of these reviews includes amounts overdue and credit limits. At a divisional
level debtor ratios, overdue accounts and overall performance are reviewed regularly. Provisions for doubtful debts are determined at these
levels based upon the customer's ability to pay and other factors in the Group's relationship with the customer. 
At 31 December the largest 5 trade receivables as a proportion of total trade receivables analysed by major segment is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            %                                  % 
Driveline                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CD                       53 
Powder Metallurgy                                                                                                                                                                                                  1G                        20 
Aerospace                                                                                                                                                                                                                DG                        67 
Land Systems                                                                                                                                                                                                          2C                        28 
The amount of trade receivables outstanding at the year end does not represent the maximum exposure to operational credit risk due to the
normal patterns of supply and payment over the course of a year. Based on management information collected as at month ends the
maximum level of trade receivables at any one point during the year was £1,055 million (2011: £940 million).
Financial
Credit risk is mitigated by the Group’s policy of only selecting counterparties with a strong investment graded long term credit rating, normally
at least A- or equivalent, and assigning financial limits to individual counterparties.
The maximum exposure with a single bank for deposits is £4 million (2011: £6 million), whilst the maximum mark to market exposure for
forward foreign currency contracts at 31 December 2012 to a single bank was £11 million (2011: £1 million).  .112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
19 Financial risk management (continued)
(d) Capital risk management
The Group defines capital as total equity. The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the ability to continue as a going
concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain a capital structure which optimises
the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders,
return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group monitors borrowings on the basis of the ratio of gross borrowings to EBITDA. The Group seeks to operate at a gross debt to EBITDA
of subsidiaries ratio of 3 times or less and the ratios at 31 December 2012 and 2011 were as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m 
Gross borrowings                                                                                                                                                                                              1,0C2                     694 
EBITDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EBA                      621 
Gross borrowings to EBITDA ratio                                                                                                                                                          1.B times             1.1 times
The Group’s two external banking covenants require an EBITDA of subsidiaries to net interest payable and receivable ratio of 3.5 times or more
and net debt to EBITDA of subsidiaries of 3 times or less measured at 30 June and 31 December. The ratios at 31 December 2012 and 2011 were
as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m
EBITDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EBA                      621 
Net interest payable and receivable (excluding borrowing costs capitalised)                                                                                       (CE)                     (48)
EBITDA to net interest payable and receivable ratio                                                                                                                      1A.0 times         12.9 times
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m
Net debt                                                                                                                                                                                                                  F E1                      538 
EBITDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EBA                      621 
Net debt to EBITDA ratio                                                                                                                                                                           1.2 times           0.9 times
The Group monitors these ratios on a rolling basis and they are part of the budgeting and forecasting processes.
(e) Liquidity risk
The Group is exposed to liquidity risk as part of its normal financing and trading cycle at times when peak borrowings are required. Borrowings
normally peak in May and September following dividend and bond coupon payments. The Group's policies are to ensure that sufficient
liquidity is available to meet obligations when they fall due and to maintain sufficient flexibility in order to fund investment and acquisition
objectives. Liquidity needs are assessed through short and long term forecasts. Committed bank facilities total £917 million of which £20 million
expires in 2013, £592 million expires in 2016 and £225 million in 2017 . In addition the Group’s European Investment Bank unsecured facility
(£80 million) is repayable in five equal instalments of £16 million commencing in June 2015. There were £157 million of drawings on these
facilities at 31 December 2012. Committed facilities are provided through 19 banks.
The Group also maintains £56 million of uncommitted facilities, provided by 3 banks. There were drawings of £53 million against these
facilities at 31 December 2012. .11A
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
19 Financial risk management (continued)
(e) Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis of borrowings, derivatives and other financial liabilities 
                                                                                                                                                                                   Within                 One to two                  Two to five                  More than                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                   one year                            years                            years                    five years                             Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
2012                                                                                                                                                                                           
Borrowings (note 18)                                                                                                    (11C)                        (C)                   (10F )                   (F 2B)                (1,052)
Contractual interest payments and finance lease charges                                   (CE)                      (CE)                    (1CB)                   (1DD)                   (BAB)
Government refundable advances                                                                               (2)                        (F )                     (A0)                    (1AE)                    (1EE)
Deferred and contingent consideration                                                                    (EB)                        (D)                        (D)                         –                       (F D)
Derivative financial instruments liabilities – receipts                                         20C                      10F                       1ED                        22                        C11 
Derivative financial instruments liabilities – payments                                     (21A)                    (11B)                   (1F G)                     (22)                   (CAF )
2011
Borrowings (note 18)                                                                                                   (228)                       (4)                     (67)                   (395)                  (694)
Contractual interest payments and finance lease charges                                   (41)                     (29)                     (89)                     (75)                   (234)
Government refundable advances                                                                                –                          –                       (12)                     (55)                     (67)
Deferred and contingent consideration                                                                    (12)                       (6)                      (12)                        –                      (30)
Derivative financial instruments liabilities – receipts                                          333                      223                      314                     262                   1,132 
Derivative financial instruments liabilities – payments                                     (360)                   (237)                   (341)                   (273)                 (1,211)
There is no significant difference in the contractual undiscounted value of other financial liabilities from the amounts stated in the balance
sheet and balance sheet notes.
(f) Commodity price risk
The Group is exposed to changes in commodity prices, particularly of metals, which has a significant impact on input costs and the overall
financial results. The Group seeks to mitigate this exposure in a variety of ways including medium term price agreements, surcharges and
advance purchasing. In rare circumstances and only in respect of certain specified risks the Group uses derivative commodity hedging
instruments. The impact of such financial instruments in respect of the overall commodity price risk is not material. 
(g) Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Held for trading
                                                                                                                                                                                Loans and                  Amortised                     Financial                     Financial                                      
                                                                                                                                                                             receivables                              cost                          assets                    liabilities                             Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m
2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Other receivables and investments                                                                             1A                           –                           –                           –                         1A
Trade and other receivables                                                                                    1,00C                           –                           –                           –                   1,00C
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                    –                           –                         F 1                       (C0)                        A1 
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                          1F 1                           –                           –                           –                       1F 1 
Borrowings                                                                                                                          –                 (1,0C2)                         –                           –                 (1,0C2)
Trade and other payables                                                                                                –                 (1,22F )                         –                           –                 (1,22F )
Provisions                                                                                                                            –                       (EF )                         –                           –                       (EF )
                                                                                                                                        1,1GG                 (2,ACF )                       F 1                       (C0)                 (1,12F )
2011                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Other receivables and investments                                                                             10                          –                          –                          –                        10 
Trade and other receivables                                                                                       905                          –                          –                          –                     905 
Derivative financial instruments                                                                                    –                          –                        26                     (102)                     (76)
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                          156                          –                          –                          –                      156 
Borrowings                                                                                                                          –                    (694)                        –                          –                    (694)
Trade and other payables                                                                                                –                 (1,078)                        –                          –                 (1,078)
Provisions                                                                                                                            –                      (50)                        –                          –                      (50)
                                                                                                                                         1,071                 (1,822)                      26                     (102)                   (827)
For the purposes of IFRS 7 derivative financial instruments are categorised as a Level 2 fair value measurement. The discounted contingent
element of deferred and contingent consideration of £8 million (2011: £14 million) is categorised as a Level 3 fair value measurement, see 
note 17 .  .11B Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
20 Derivative financial instruments
2012 2011
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
                                                                                     Non-                                                  Non-                                                                            Non-                                               Non-
                                                                                 current                Current               current              Current                   Total             Current              Current               current              Current                   Total
                                                                                        £m                        £m                      £m                      £m                      £m                      £m                      £m                      £m                      £m                      £m 
Forward currency contracts                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
Not hedge accounted                        AF                 2D                (21)               (10)               AA                  2                   4                (61)              (29)             (84)
Hedge accounted                                  –                   –                   –                   –                   –                   –                   –                   –                   –                   – 
Commodity contracts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Not hedge accounted                           –                   –                   –                   –                   –                  –                   –                   –                  (1)                 (1)
Embedded derivatives                            1D                    1                  (F )                 (1)                  F                 19                    1                (11)                 –                   9 
Financial guarantee contract                  –                   –                (10)                  –                (10)                 –                   –                   –                   –                   – 
                                                                     CB                 2E               (AG)               (11)                A1                 21                   5               (72)              (30)              (76)
Hedge accounting – cash flow hedges
The Group manages exposure to foreign currency fluctuations on forecast and outstanding purchase and sale transactions using forward foreign
currency contracts. The Group adopted transactional foreign currency hedge accounting for a limited number of foreign currency contracts. The
cash flows and related currency hedges to which hedge accounting applied all occurred before the end of 2012.
In order to mitigate exposure to foreign currency risk on the consideration payment for acquisition of Volvo Aerospace (see note 23), the Group
entered into forward currency contracts to fix the sterling value of the SEK denominated equity consideration. Hedge accounting was applied
which resulted in the ‘gain’ of £13 million being taken to the Hedging Reserve. On settlement of consideration on 1 October 2012, the £13 million
gain was recycled into the purchase price used for calculating goodwill.
Significant judgement and estimates
Forward foreign currency contracts, commodity contracts and embedded derivatives are marked to market using market observable rates and
published prices together with forecast cash flow information where applicable. The amounts in respect of embedded derivatives represent
commercial contracts denominated in US dollars between European Aerospace subsidiaries and customers outside the USA.
21 Provisions
                                                                                                                                                   Contract                                                        Claims and                   Employee                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                  provisions                     Warranty                     litigation                obligations                           Other                             Total 
                                                                                                                                                              £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m 
At 1 January 2012                                                                                       (C0)                      (AC)                     (2A)                      (1G)                      (10)                    (1AE)
Net charge for the year:                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Additions                                                                                                   –                       (12)                        (C)                        (A)                         (1)                      (21)
Unused amounts reversed                                                                     A                           2                           –                           1                           –                           D 
Unwind of discounts                                                                                  (C)                         –                           –                           –                           –                         (C)
Businesses acquired                                                                                (A1)                      (1B)                        (D)                        (D)                        (E)                     (DB)
Amounts used                                                                                               A                         1A                         12                           2                           C                        AC
Currency variations                                                                                      2                           2                           –                           2                         (2)                         B
At A1 December 2012                                                                                 (EF )                     (BB)                     (22)                     (2A)                      (1C)                   (1F 2)
Due within one year                                                                                   (B)                     (2D)                        (E)                        (B)                        (D)                      (BE)
Due in more than one year                                                                     (EB)                      (1F )                      (1C)                      (1G)                        (G)                    (1AC)
                                                                                                                    (EF )                     (BB)                     (22)                     (2A)                      (1C)                   (1F 2)
As a result of a further acquisition in the year (see note 23 for details) and the increased value of “other provisions”, categories of provision have
been reanalysed to provide a more relevant basis in the future.
Contract provisions
The Group has a small number of onerous contracts and a non-beneficial lease arrangement, primarily arising on business combinations. Onerous
contracts relate to customer programmes where the unavoidable costs of delivering product are in excess of contracted sales prices.
Utilisation of the provision due in more than one year is estimated as £5 million in 2014 and £69 million from 2015.
Warranty
Provisions set aside for warranty exposures either relate to amounts provided systematically based on historical experience under contractual
warranty obligations attaching to the supply of goods or specific provisions created in respect of individual customer issues undergoing
commercial resolution and negotiation. In the event of a claim, settlement will be negotiated with the customer based on supply of replacement
products and compensation for the customer’s associated costs. Amounts set aside represent management’s best estimate of the likely
settlement and the timing of any resolution with the relevant customer. 
Utilisation of the provision due in more than one year is estimated as £7 million in 2014 and £11 million from 2015. .11C
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
21 Provisions (continued)
Claims and litigation
Claims provisions are held in the Group’s captive insurance company and amount to £6 million (2011: £14 million). Claims provisions and charges
are established in accordance with external insurance and actuarial advice.
Legal provisions amounting to £5 million (2011: £4 million) relate to management estimates of amounts required to settle or remove litigation
actions that have arisen in the normal course of business. Further details are not provided to avoid the potential of seriously prejudicing the
Group's stance in law. Amounts unused and reversed only arise when the matter is formally settled or when a material change in the litigation
action occurs where legal advice confirms lower amounts need to be retained to cover the exposure.
As a consequence of primarily legacy activities a small number of sites in the Group are subject to environmental remediation actions, which in all
cases are either agreed formally with relevant local and national authorities and agencies or represent management’s view of the likely outcome
having taken appropriate expert advice and following consultation with appropriate authorities and agencies. Amounts of £11 million (2011: £5 million)
have been provided.
Utilisation of the provision due in more than one year is estimated as £4 million in 2014 and £11 million from 2015.
Employee obligations
Long service non-pension and other employee related obligations arising primarily in the Group’s continental European subsidiaries amount to
£23 million (2011: £19 million).
Utilisation of the provision due in more than one year is expected as follows: £4 million in 2014; £3 million in 2015; £2 million in 2016 and £10 million
from 2017 .
Other
Other provisions include £6 million in relation to previous reorganisation arising from the Group’s strategic restructuring programmes (2011:
£10 million) and £7 million on acquisition of Volvo Aerospace relating to customer and supplier exposures. Utilisation of the provision due in more
than one year is expected as follows: £2 million in 2014 and £7 million from 2015.
22 Share capital
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Issued and fully paid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    £m                               £m 
Ordinary shares of 10p each                                                                                                                                                                                     1DD                      159 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Number                       Number 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 000s                            000s 
Ordinary shares of 10p each                                                                        
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,CG0,CA0          1,590,530 
Shares issued                                                                                                                                                                                                        E0,000                         –
At 31 December                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,DD0,CA0          1,590,530 
At 31 December 2012 there were 28,243,201 ordinary shares of 10p each, with a total nominal value of £2.8 million, held as treasury shares (2011:
37 ,388,984 ordinary shares of 10p each, with a total nominal value of £3.7 million). A total of 9,145,783 (2011: 176,194) shares were transferred out
of treasury during 2012 to satisfy the exercise of options by participants under share option schemes. The remaining treasury shares, which
represented 1.7% (2011: 2.4%) of the called-up share capital at the end of the year, have not been cancelled but are held as treasury shares and
represent a deduction from shareholders’ equity.
At 31 December 2012, the GKN Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust (“the Trust”) held 3,111,998 ordinary shares (2011: 2,219,116). A total of
1,300,000 shares with a nominal value of £0.1 million were purchased by the Trust in the open market during 2012 for cash consideration of
£2.7 million (2011: 2,213,306 with a nominal value of £0.2 million were purchased for cash consideration of £5 million). During the year a total of
407 ,118 (2011: nil) shares were transferred out of the Trust to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under the Group’s
share-based incentive arrangements. The remaining Trust shares will be used to satisfy future exercises. A dividend waiver operates in respect of
shares held by the Trust.
During the year shares issued under share incentive schemes generated a cash inflow of £10 million (2011: less than £1 million).
On 10 July 2012 the Company conducted an equity placing of 70 million ordinary shares of 10p each with a total nominal value of £7 million, at a
price of £2 per share, to raise a total of £140 million before transaction costs of £3 million which have been taken to the Share Premium Account,
as a deduction from equity. .11D
23 Business combinations 
Acquisition of Volvo Aerospace
GKN Aerospace acquired the aero engine components businesses from AB Volvo on 1 October 2012. The Group acquired 100% of the equity. The
entities acquired are together referred to as “Volvo Aerospace” or “GKN Engine Systems”.
Volvo Aerospace designs, engineers and manufactures components and sub-assemblies for aircraft engine turbines. Volvo Aerospace employs
some 3,000 people based in Sweden, Norway and the US. The enlarged GKN Aerospace is a world leader in both aero structures and aero engine
components. Within aero engines, the Group’s composite leadership and now strong metallic technology provides a unique offering to customers
who are focused on lightweight, high performance engine solutions.
The following amounts represent a provisional determination of the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Final
determination of the fair value of certain assets and liabilities will be completed within the one year measurement period as required by IFRS 3
“Business Combinations”. The size and complexity of the Volvo Aerospace acquisition will necessitate the use of this measurement period to
further analyse and assess a number of the factors used in establishing the asset and liability fair values as of the acquisition date including;
significant contractual and operational factors underlying the customer related intangible assets, final negotiation of the purchase price, the
assumptions underpinning certain provisions such as those for the loss making contracts and the related tax impacts of any changes made. Any
potential adjustments could be material in relation to the preliminary values presented below:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          £m 
Intangible assets arising on business combinations                            
– customer related                                                                                                                                                                                                                               236 
– technology based                                                                                                                                                                                                                               97 
Operating intangible assets                                            
– development costs                                                                                                                                                                                                                             96 
– participation fees                                                                                                                                                                                                                              133 
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                                                                                                              191 
Cash                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30 
Inventories                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 242 
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                                                                                                    115 
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (339)
Government refundable advances                                                                                                                                                                                                        (43)
Post-employment obligations                                                                                                                                                                                                                (67)
Provisions                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (64)
Deferred tax                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (127)
Provisional goodwill                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   38 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      538 
Satisfied by:                                                                        
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                                                                    476 
Deferred consideration                                                                                                                                                                                                                              62 
Fair value of consideration                                                                                                                                                                                                                     538 
From the date of acquisition to the balance sheet date, Volvo Aerospace contributed £191 million to sales and £15 million to trading profit
excluding acquisition related charges of £3 million and restructuring costs of £19 million. If the acquisition had been completed on 1 January 2012
the Group’s statutory sales and trading profit for the year ended 31 December 2012 are estimated at £6,996 million and £579 million respectively.
Acquisition related charges of £3 million and a restructuring charge of £22 million have been recorded in the income statement within trading
profit (see note 2 for details).
Goodwill (which is not tax deductible) is attributable to the value of the assembled workforce and expected future sales synergies from
combination with the Group’s existing Aerospace business.
Prior year acquisitions
During the year the Group made a claim under an indemnity clause, relating to the purchase of Stromag Holding GmbH in 2011. The total claim of
£4 million was in excess of the indemnity asset recorded £3 million so the residual £1 million has been recorded in the income statement within
trading profit.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued .11E
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
23 Business combinations (continued)
Significant judgements, assumptions and estimates in the acquisition accounting for Volvo Aerospace
Valuation of intangible assets – methodology
The fair value exercise was carried out in conjunction with third party experts and considered the existence of the intangible assets relevant and
attributable to the business.
The intangible assets inherent in Volvo Aerospace’s customer relationships/contracts were valued using an excess earnings method. This
methodology places a value on the asset as a function of (a) management’s estimate of the expected cash flows arising from the customer
contracts; (b) discount rates reflective of the risks inherent in the cash flows; and (c) a contributory charge attributable to assets needed to
generate the operating cash flows. An after tax discount rate of 10.0% to 11.0% was applied to the forecast cash flows.
The proprietary technology and know-how has been valued using a relief from royalty methodology. The cash flow forecasts supporting this
valuation reflect the future sales to be generated in conjunction with the technology. The fair value attributed to proprietary technology represents
the theoretical costs avoided by Volvo Aerospace from not having to pay a licence fee for the technology. The royalty rate used in the valuation
was 3%, based on a review of licence agreements for comparable technologies in a similar segment. An after tax discount rate of 10.5% was
applied to the forecast cash flows, a rate that reflects the inherent risk within cash flows and is comparable with the weighted average cost of
capital for the acquisition.
The valuation of all intangible assets reflects the tax benefit of amortisation, which has meant a benefit assessed with reference to Sweden,
Norway and the US tax laws. According to US tax law an intangible asset may be rateably amortised over 15 years regardless of its actual useful
life, in Sweden the amortisation period is 5 years and in Norway the amortisation period is 25 years. As such, there is a tax benefit to an acquirer
and hence values attributable to the intangible assets have been recognised. This value amounts to £124 million across all the intangibles
recognised. 
In order to attribute value to pre-existing development costs and participation fees an impairment exercise under IAS 36 was performed based on
acquisition date information. The value recognised for “operating intangible assets” together with the value recognised for customer related
“intangible assets arising on business combinations” is supported by underlying contract valuations prepared under IFRS 3.
Valuation of other assets and liabilities – methodology
Fair value adjustments on tangible fixed assets represent a net uplift on property, plant and equipment to fair values following external third party
appraisal. The uplift primarily represents the restoration of asset values fully depreciated and the current market conditions.
Inventories acquired were assessed for scrap and obsolete items before being fair valued. Inventories acquired have been valued at current
replacement cost for raw materials and selling price, adjusted for costs of completion and disposal and associated margin, for finished goods and
work-in-progress. The fair value of the inventory uplift was £37 million.
Liabilities include an amount in respect of onerous contracts and government refundable advances. 
At acquisition there were forecast unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under long term agreements which exceed the contractual
economic inflow they will generate. Accordingly an additional onerous contract liability of £29 million has been recognised using a risk adjusted
pre-tax discount rate of 12%. Unavoidable costs include direct labour, material and specific engineering costs in addition to the net cost of
purchasing fixed assets dedicated to the contract. 
A liability of £43 million is included on the acquisition balance sheet for a contractual requirement to repay refundable advances provided by the
Swedish Government under a risk sharing arrangement. The liability has been valued based on forecast cash flows and the effective interest rate
methodology.
Volvo Aerospace has been determined to have a US$ functional currency, which has been used in establishing the opening balance sheet and
impacts post-acquisition earnings. .11F
24 Cash flow reconciliations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
Cash generated from operations                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £m                               £m 
Operating profit                                                                                                                                                                                                           D2F                      374 
Adjustments for:                                                                                             
Depreciation, impairment and amortisation of fixed assets                                            
Charged to trading profit                                                                          
Depreciation                                                                                                                                                                                                           21B                       191 
Impairment                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B                           1 
Amortisation                                                                                                                                                                                                             1E                        10
Amortisation of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations                                                                              AE                        22 
Change in value of derivative and other financial instruments                                                                                                                       (12D)                       31 
Amortisation of government capital grants                                                                                                                                                              (A)                        (1)
Net profits on sale and realisation of fixed assets                                                                                                                                                 (A)                       (3)
Gains and losses on changes in Group structure                                                                                                                                                    (C)                       (8)
Charge for share-based payments                                                                                                                                                                               D                          6 
Pension scheme curtailments and related cash                                                                                                                                                   (GG)                         –
Movement in post-employment obligations                                                                                                                                                          (2F )                     (34)
Change in inventories                                                                                                                                                                                                   EA                      (60)
Change in receivables                                                                                                                                                                                                 (E0)                   (109)
Change in payables and provisions                                                                                                                                                                       (10E)                      80 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CAF                     500 
                                                                                                                                                         
Movement in net debt                                                                                   
Movement in cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                (21)                   (276)
Net movement in other borrowings and deposits                                                                                                                                              (A2A)                   (109)
Costs associated with refinancing                                                                                                                                                                               G                          –
Finance leases                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1)                         –
Currency variations                                                                                                                                                                                                          A                         (2)
Movement in year                                                                                                                                                                                                       (AAA)                   (387)
Net debt at beginning of year                                                                                                                                                                                  (CAF )                    (151)
Net debt at end of year                                                                                                                                                                                              (F E1)                   (538)
                                                                                                                                                         
Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents                                          
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet                                                                                                                                                      1F 1                      156 
Bank overdrafts included within “current liabilities – borrowings”                                                                                                                 (CE)                      (11)
Cash and cash equivalents per cash flow                                                                                                                                                             12B                      145 
On 27 January 2012 the Group purchased the non-controlling interest of 49% in GKN Driveline JTEKT Manufacturing Limited for total cash
consideration of £10 million, £9 million of which was paid in the first half year. The Group now owns 100% of the equity share capital of this
company.
Cash outflow in respect of previous restructuring plans was £4 million (2011: £31 million). Proceeds from sale of fixed assets, put out of use as part
of previous restructuring programmes, of nil were recognised in the year (2011: £2 million).
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued .11G
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
25 Post-employment obligations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2012                             2011 
Post-employment obligations as at the year end comprise:                                                                                                                                                                                                        £m                               £m 
Pensions – funded                                                                                                                                                                    (B22)                   (443)
– unfunded                                                                                                                                                                (BF 1)                   (355)
Medical – funded                                                                                                                                                                      (2B)                     (22)
– unfunded                                                                                                                                                                   (C1)                     (48)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (GEF )                  (868)
The Group’s pension arrangements comprise various defined benefit and defined contribution schemes throughout the world. The main externally
funded defined benefit pension schemes operate in the UK, US and Japan. During the year, the UK defined benefit pension scheme was split into
two separate schemes (referred to as GKN1 and GKN2 below), each with different characteristics. In Europe, funds are retained within certain
businesses to provide defined benefit pension benefits. In addition, in the US and UK a number of retirement plans are operated which provide
certain employees with post-employment medical benefits. As part of the Volvo Aerospace acquisition (see note 23 and note (d) below) certain
pension assets and liabilities were acquired by the Group.
Independent actuarial valuations of all major defined benefit scheme assets and liabilities were carried out at 31 December 2012. The present
value of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and the past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit
method. 
(a) Defined benefit schemes – significant judgements, assumptions and estimates
Key assumptions:
                                                                                                                                                                                              UK                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                                         GKN1                           GKN2                    Americas                         Europe                             ROW
                                                                                                                                                                                                %                                   %                                  %                                  %                                  % 
2012
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries                                                                 n/a                    A.G0                     A.C0                     2.C0                           –
Rate of increase in payment and deferred pensions                                          A.00                    A.00                    2.00                      1.EC                      n/a
Discount rate                                                                                                                A.F 0                    B.A0                     B.10                    A.20                     1.BC
Inflation assumption                                                                                                  2.F 0                    2.G0                     2.C0                      1.EC                      n/a
Rate of increases in medical costs:
Initial/long term                                                                                                                D.1/D.1                               F .0/C.0                      n/a                      n/a
2011
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries                                                                            4.00                                    3.50                    2.50                          –
Rate of increase in payment and deferred pensions                                                         3.10                                    2.00                     1.75                      n/a
Discount rate                                                                                                                              4.70                                    4.50                    4.90                     1.65
Inflation assumption                                                                                                                3.00                                    2.50                     1.75                      n/a
Rate of increases in medical costs:
Initial/long term                                                                                                              6.0/5.4                               8.5/5.0                      n/a                      n/a
Historically the discount rate for the UK was referenced against the yield on the iBoxx index for GBP Corporate rated AA bonds with a maturity
of 15 years plus and, as at 31 December 2012, this was 4.07%. However, following the separation of the UK Pension scheme and for further
consistency between the term of the bond yields used to determine the discount rate and the estimated term of the pension obligations
(around 12 years for GKN1 and around 17 years for GKN2), a term specific discount rate has been adopted for each UK scheme in 2012. This has
been derived from the Mercer pension discount yield curve, which is based on corporate bonds with two or more AA ratings. The European
discount rate of 2.7% was calculated with reference to the yield as at 31 December 2012 on the index of iBoxx Euro Corporate rated AA bonds
with a maturity of 10 years plus, adjusted to reflect the duration of liabilities. For the USA, the discount rate referenced the Citigroup pension
liability index, the Merrill Lynch US corporate AA 15+ years index and the Towers Watson rate:LINK benchmark as at 31 December 2012 (4.05,
4.04 and 4.07 respectively). There was no change in approach to European and US discount rate calculations.
The underlying mortality assumptions for the major schemes, consistent with the prior year, are as follows:
United Kingdom
Data on the UK schemes’ mortality experience is collected and reviewed annually. The key current year mortality assumptions for both GKN1
and GKN2 use S1NA (year of birth) mortality tables allowing for medium cohort projections with a minimum improvement of 1% and
adjustments of +0.7 and +1.3 years for male/female members of GKN1 and +0.1 and +0.4 years for male/female members of GKN2. These
assumptions give the following expectations for each scheme: for GKN1 a male aged 65 lives for a further 21.3 years and a female aged 65 lives
for a further 24.0 years whilst a male aged 45 is expected to live a further 23.2 years from age 65 and a female aged 45 is expected to live a
further 25.9 years from age 65. For GKN2 a male aged 65 lives for a further 21.8 years and a female aged 65 lives for a further 24.8 years whilst
a male aged 45 is expected to live a further 23.7 years from age 65 and a female aged 45 is expected to live a further 26.7 years from age 65. .120
25 Post-employment obligations (continued)
(a) Defined benefit schemes – significant judgements, assumptions and estimates (continued)
Key assumptions: (continued)
Overseas
In the USA, PPA2012 tables have been used whilst in Germany the RT2005-G tables have again been used. In the USA the longevity
assumption for a male aged 65 is that he lives a further 19.2 years (female 21.0 years) whilst in Germany a male aged 65 lives for a further
18.6 years (female 22.7 years). The longevity assumption for a USA male currently aged 45 is that he also lives for a further 19.2 years once
attaining 65 years (female 21.0 years), with the German equivalent assumption for a male being 21.3 years (female 25.2 years). These
assumptions are based solely on the prescribed tables not on actual GKN experience. 
Assumption sensitivity analysis
The impact of a one percentage point movement in the primary assumptions on the defined benefit net obligations as at 31 December 2012 is
set out below:
UK Americas Europe ROW 
                                                                                                                                        Income                                                  Income                                                  Income                                                  Income 
                                                                                                   Liabilities             statement             Liabilities             statement             Liabilities             statement             Liabilities             statement 
                                                                                                               £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m                          £m 
Discount rate +1%                                                 365                 24.1                   40                (0.8)                  68                 (0.2)                    4                 (0.2)
Discount rate -1%                                                 (457)             (22.8)                 (50)                 1.2                  (88)                 0.5                    (4)                 0.2 
Rate of inflation +1%                                           (391)             (23.8)                    –                      –                  (55)               (2.8)                    –                      –
Rate of inflation -1%                                             295                 21.3                      –                     –                   46                  2.3                      –                     –
Rate of increase in medical costs +1%                (2)                (0.1)                   (2)               (0.2)                    –                      –                      –                     –
Rate of increase in medical costs -1%                  2                   0.1                      2                  0.2                      –                     –                      –                     –
 
Judgements and estimates
Pension partnership interest
On 31 March 2010 the Group agreed an asset-backed cash payment arrangement with the Trustee of the UK Pension scheme to help address
the UK pension funding deficit. In connection with the arrangement certain UK freehold properties and a non-exclusive licence over the GKN
trade marks, together with associated rental and royalty rights, were transferred to a limited partnership established by the Group. The
partnership is controlled by and its results are consolidated by the Group. The fair value of the assets transferred was £535 million. On 31 March
2010, the Group made a special contribution to the UK Pension scheme of £331 million and on the same date the UK Pension scheme used
this contribution to acquire a nominal limited interest in the partnership for its fair value of £331 million. The UK Pension scheme’s nominal
partnership interest entitles it to a distribution from the income of the partnership of £30 million per annum for 20 years subject to a discretion
exercisable by the Group in certain circumstances. At inception the discounted value of the cash distributions was assessed at £331 million
which was recognised as a pension plan asset and as a non-controlling interest in equity. In accordance with IAS 19 a plan asset has been
recognised given that the UK pension schemes have unfettered rights to freely transfer or sell their interests in the arrangement to a third
party. Other factors relevant to recognition as a plan asset include the ability of third parties to value the asset, the income interest inherent in
the arrangement is held by a legally separate entity, the asset is held solely to fund employee benefits, there are restrictions on its availability
to the Group’s creditors in a bankruptcy and restrictions exist on the assets’ return to the Group. In accordance with IAS 32 the non-controlling
interest in equity arises as there is an unconditional right to avoid making cash payments due to discretion provisions which form part of the
agreement. A distribution of £30 million for the year to 31 December 2011 was made in the second quarter of 2012 (2011: £23 million).
The Pension partnership interest has been valued on a discounted cash flow basis. The valuation is carried out on an arm’s length basis from
a market participant’s perspective. This considers factors relevant to the risk assessments that are specific to the arrangement structure and
would reasonably be considered by a market participant should they have the opportunity to participate in the arrangement. The valuation
considered separately the profiles of the originating royalty and rental income streams using the Group’s current budget and forecast data
with other factors considered being related expenses including taxation, timing of the distributions, exchange rates, bond yields and the
Group’s weighted average cost of capital. Monte Carlo simulation techniques are used to assess the valuation impact of various scenarios
attributable to potential value and risk assessments that a reasonable market participant could consider.
Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued .121
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
25 Post-employment obligations (continued)
(b) Defined benefit schemes – reporting
The amounts included in operating profit are:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pension                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Employee                       scheme                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   benefit               settlement/                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 expense              curtailments                             Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                                £m                                £m
2012                                                                                                                                         
Current service cost                                                                                                                                                                 (BB)                         –                      (BB)
Past service                                                                                                                                                                                    1                           –                          1
Settlement/curtailments                                                                                                                                                            1                         CA                        CB 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      (B2)                       CA                          11 
2011                                                                                                                                          
Current service cost                                                                                                                                                                 (38)                        –                      (38)
Past service                                                                                                                                                                                    1                          –                          1 
Settlement/curtailments                                                                                                                                                           4                          –                         4 
                                                                                                                                                                                                      (33)                        –                      (33)
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are:
2012
                                                                                                                                                    UK                     Americas                         Europe                             ROW                             Total                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                   £m                               £m                                £m                               £m                               £m                               £m 
Present value of unfunded obligations                                        (1E)                     (D2)                    (BC1)                        (2)                   (CA2)                  (403)
Present value of funded obligations                                      (2,F BD)                   (2F 2)                     (AG)                     (AF )               (A,20C)                (3,158)
Fair value of plan assets                                                             2,C22                       1F 1                        AD                        20                  2,ECG                  2,693 
Net obligations recognised in the balance sheet                    (AB1)                    (1DA)                   (BCB)                     (20)                   (GEF )                  (868)
The contribution expected to be paid by the Group during 2013 to the UK schemes is £33 million and to overseas schemes £32 million.
Additionally, section (a) of this note, above, describes the Pension partnership interest created on 31 March 2010 under which a distribution
of £30 million is expected to be made in the first half of 2013.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity are as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           £m                               £m
At 1 January                                                                                                                                                                                                           (DAC)                   (358)
Net actuarial losses in year                                                                                                                                                                               (1E2)                   (277)
At 31 December                                                                                                                                                                                                    (F 0E)                   (635)
  .122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
25 Post-employment obligations (continued)
(b) Defined benefit schemes – reporting (continued)
Movement in schemes’ obligations (funded and unfunded) during the year
                                                                                                                                                                                          UK                     Americas                        Europe                             ROW                            Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                             £m                               £m                               £m                               £m                               £m
At 1 January 2012                                                                                                      (2,DDA)                   (BDG)                   (AF A)                     (BD)                (A,CD1)
Businesses acquired                                                                                                         –                           –                     (1CF )                         –                     (1CF )
Current service cost                                                                                                       (AA)                        (2)                        (D)                        (A)                     (BB)
Interest                                                                                                                            (12A)                      (1E)                      (1F )                         –                     (1CF )
Contributions by participants                                                                                        (B)                         –                           –                           –                         (B)
Actuarial gains and losses                                                                                         (1E0)                      (1D)                   (10D)                         (1)                   (2GA)
Benefits paid                                                                                                                  1A0                         1C                         1E                           B                      1DD
Past service cost                                                                                                                –                           1                           –                           –                           1
Settlements/curtailments                                                                                               –                      12A                       1C2                           –                      2EC
Currency variations                                                                                                            –                         21                         12                           D                        AG 
At A1 December 2012                                                                                                 (2,F DA)                   (ABB)                   (BG0)                     (B0)                (A,EAE)
At 1 January 2011                                                                                                       (2,448)                  (399)                   (369)                     (44)               (3,260)
Businesses acquired                                                                                                         –                         (1)                      (13)                        –                       (14)
Current service cost                                                                                                       (24)                       (4)                       (6)                       (4)                     (38)
Interest                                                                                                                            (129)                      (21)                     (19)                        (1)                   (170)
Contributions by participants                                                                                        (4)                        –                          –                          –                         (4)
Actuarial gains and losses                                                                                         (201)                     (55)                       (2)                         2                    (256)
Benefits paid                                                                                                                   127                        17                        16                          3                      163 
Past service cost                                                                                                                –                           1                          –                          –                           1 
Settlements/curtailments                                                                                              16                          –                          –                           1                        17 
Currency variations                                                                                                            –                         (7)                       10                         (3)                        – 
At 31 December 2011                                                                                                (2,663)                  (469)                   (383)                     (46)                (3,561)
Movement in schemes’ assets during the year
                                                                                                                                                                                              UK                     Americas                        Europe                             ROW                            Total 
                                                                                                                                                                                            £m                               £m                               £m                               £m                               £m
At 1 January 2012                                                                                                        2,AG1                      2BF                         A1                        2A                  2,DGA 
Businesses acquired                                                                                                         –                           –                         G1                           –                         G1
Expected return on assets                                                                                           12A                         1A                           1                           1                      1AF
Actuarial gains and losses                                                                                          102                         1A                           B                           2                       121
Contributions by Group                                                                                                  A0                         21                        BB                           2                        GE 
Contributions by participants                                                                                         B                           –                           –                           –                           B
Settlements/curtailments                                                                                               –                      (F F )                    (1AA)                         –                     (221)
Benefits paid                                                                                                                 (12F )                      (1C)                         (1)                        (C)                    (1BG)
Currency variations                                                                                                            –                        (11)                         (1)                        (A)                      (1C)
At A1 December 2012                                                                                                  2,C22                       1F 1                        AD                        20                  2,ECG
At 1 January 2011                                                                                                        2,364                      245                        28                        23                 2,660 
Businesses acquired                                                                                                         –                          –                          2                          –                          2 
Expected return on assets                                                                                           134                        17                           1                           1                      153 
Actuarial gains and losses                                                                                              –                       (19)                        –                         (2)                      (21)
Contributions by Group                                                                                                  23                        19                          –                          3                        45 
Contributions by participants                                                                                         4                          –                          –                          –                          4 
Settlements/curtailments                                                                                            (13)                        –                          –                          –                       (13)
Benefits paid                                                                                                                  (121)                      (17)                        –                         (3)                    (141)
Currency variations                                                                                                            –                          3                          –                           1                          4 
At 31 December 2011                                                                                                  2,391                     248                         31                        23                  2,693 
  .12A
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
25 Post-employment obligations (continued)
(b) Defined benefit schemes – reporting (continued)
The defined benefit obligation is analysed between funded and unfunded schemes as follows:
2012
                                                                                                                                                       UK                     Americas                         Europe                             ROW                             Total                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                   £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                                £m                               £m 
Funded                                                                                          (2,F BD)                   (2F 2)                     (AG)                     (AF )               (A,20C)                (3,158)
Unfunded                                                                                             (1E)                     (D2)                    (BC1)                        (2)                   (CA2)                  (403)
                                                                                                        (2,F DA)                   (ABB)                   (BG0)                     (B0)                (A,EAE)                (3,561)
The fair value of the assets in the schemes and the expected rates of return were:
UK Americas Europe ROW 
                                                                                                    Long term                                              Long term                                              Long term                                              Long term                                
                                                                                                           rate of                                                     rate of                                                     rate of                                                     rate of                                
                                                                                                            return                                                      return                                                      return                                                      return                                
                                                                                                      expected                      Value               expected                      Value               expected                      Value               expected                      Value 
                                                                                                                   %                          £m                             %                          £m                             %                          £m                             %                          £m
At A1 December 2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Equities (inc. Hedge Funds)                                F .0                  EEC                  F .E                   121                      –                      –                    C.1                      F
Bonds                                                                       A.F               1,210                   2.1                    CD                      –                      –                  0.D                      E 
Property                                                                   D.D                    GE                      –                      –                      –                      –                      –                      – 
Cash and net current assets                                0.C                    DA                  2.A                      B                      –                      –                      –                      –
Partnership plan asset 
(GKN1/GKN2)                                              B.B/D.0                 AB2                      –                      –                      –                      –                      –                      –
Other assets                                                            B.A                    AC                      –                      –                   C.C                    AD                   1.A                      C 
                                                                                                          2,C22                                            1F 1                                             AD                                             20
At 31 December 2011                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Equities (inc. Hedge Funds)                                 7 .8                 696                  8.9                 166                      –                      –                  5.8                      8 
Bonds                                                                       3.9               1,182                  3.0                    75                      –                      –                  0.9                      9 
Property                                                                   6.6                   97                      –                      –                      –                      –                      –                      – 
Cash and net current assets                                0.5                   39                  2.3                      7                      –                      –                      –                      – 
Partnership plan asset                                          6.1                 344                      –                      –                      –                      –                      –                      – 
Other assets                                                            4.7                    33                      –                      –                  4.8                    31                  0.9                      6 
                                                                                                        2,391                                          248                                           31                                            23 
The expected return on plan assets is a blended average of projected long term returns for the various asset classes. Equity returns are
developed based on the selection of the equity risk premium above the risk-free rate which is measured in accordance with the yield on
government bonds. Bond returns are selected by reference to the yields on government and corporate debt, as appropriate to the plan’s
holdings of these instruments. All other asset classes returns are determined by reference to current experience. As part of the split of the UK
Pension scheme, the UK schemes’ assets were divided between GKN1 and GKN2, including the income interest in the Pension Partnership
arrangement.
The actual return on plan assets was £259 million (2011: £132 million). .12B Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
25 Post-employment obligations (continued)
(b) Defined benefit schemes – reporting (continued)
History of experience gains and losses
2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UK                     Americas                        Europe                             ROW
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets:                                                                                                             
Amount – £m                                                                                                                                           102                         1A                           B                           2
Percentage of scheme assets                                                                                                           B.0%                    E.2%                   11.1%                 10.0%
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:                                                                                                                  
Amount – £m                                                                                                                                              (A)                         –                         (2)                         – 
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities                                                               (0.1%)                         –                  (0.B%)                         – 
Present value of scheme liabilities – £m                                                                                        (2,F DA)                   (ABB)                   (BG0)                     (B0)
Fair value of scheme assets – £m                                                                                                      2,C22                       1F 1                        AD                        20
Deficit – £m                                                                                                                                                 (AB1)                    (1DA)                   (BCB)                     (20)
                                                                                        
2011                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets:                                                                                                             
Amount – £m                                                                                                                                               –                       (19)                        –                         (2)
Percentage of scheme assets                                                                                                                  –                  (7 .7%)                        –                 (8.7%)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:                                                                                                                  
Amount – £m                                                                                                                                           (34)                         1                          4                           1 
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities                                                               (1.3%)                 0.2%                   1.0%                   2.2% 
Present value of scheme liabilities – £m                                                                                        (2,663)                  (469)                   (383)                     (46)
Fair value of scheme assets – £m                                                                                                       2,391                     248                         31                        23 
Deficit – £m                                                                                                                                                (272)                   (221)                   (352)                     (23)
                                                                                        
2010
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets:                                                                                                       
Amount – £m                                                                                                                                             77                        10                          –                         (1)
Percentage of scheme assets                                                                                                           3.3%                    4.1%                          –                 (4.3%)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:                                                                                                                  
Amount – £m                                                                                                                                              71                         (5)                        (1)                        – 
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities                                                               2.9%                  (1.3%)                (0.3%)                        – 
Present value of scheme liabilities – £m                                                                                        (2,448)                  (398)                   (369)                     (45)
Fair value of scheme assets – £m                                                                                                      2,364                      245                        28                        23 
Deficit – £m                                                                                                                                                  (84)                    (153)                   (341)                     (22)
                                                                                        
2009
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets:                                                                                                       
Amount – £m                                                                                                                                           152                        21                         (1)                        – 
Percentage of scheme assets                                                                                                           7 .9%                   9.8%                  (3.7%)                        – 
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:                                                                                                                  
Amount – £m                                                                                                                                               –                           1                          6                          – 
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities                                                                      –                   0.3%                    1.7%                          – 
Present value of scheme liabilities – £m                                                                                        (2,440)                   (355)                   (352)                     (39)
Fair value of scheme assets – £m                                                                                                       1,930                      215                        27                        18 
Deficit – £m                                                                                                                                                 (510)                   (140)                   (325)                      (21)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            
2008
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets:                                                                                                       
Amount – £m                                                                                                                                         (539)                     (86)                        –                         (4)
Percentage of scheme assets                                                                                                       (30.6%)               (43.1%)                        –                (21.0%)
Experience gains/(losses) on scheme liabilities:                                                                                                            
Amount – £m                                                                                                                                               7                          2                         (5)                        – 
Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities                                                               0.3%                   0.5%                  (1.4%)                        – 
Present value of scheme liabilities – £m                                                                                        (2,043)                   (401)                   (353)                     (46)
Fair value of scheme assets – £m                                                                                                       1,759                     202                        29                        19 
Deficit – £m                                                                                                                                                (284)                   (199)                   (324)                     (27)
  .12C
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
25 Post-employment obligations (continued)
(c) Defined contribution schemes
The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes outside the United Kingdom. The charge to the income statement in the year
was £21 million (2011: £15 million).
(d) Changes to Group post-employment obligations arrangements
St Louis
On 1 April 2012 the Group transferred the assets and liabilities of its defined benefit pension scheme of the hourly paid workers at GKN
Aerospace’s St Louis facility to the International Association of Mechanists and Aerospace Workers (‘IAM’) National Pension Fund. At this date
the IAM National Pension Fund had over 1,750 participating employers with over £5 billion of investment assets under management and as at
31 December 2011 it was in a net surplus position. From 1 April 2012 the members associated with this pension scheme are part of a multi-
employer pension arrangement and as the total assets are not capable of separate determination the Group will account for its future
obligations as if it were part of a defined contribution scheme. 
The post-employment obligation was actuarially assessed at 31 March 2012 and the current service cost, other pension financing charge,
actuarial gains and losses and contributions were recorded to this date consistent with other defined benefit pension schemes in the Group.
At 31 March 2012, the scheme had an IAS 19 deficit of £55 million (31 December 2011: £68 million), which has subsequently been de-
recognised from the balance sheet.
The Group had a remaining obligation of £20 million at 31 March 2012 being the principal amount payable to the IAM National Pension Fund
over 4 years. An obligation of £21 million at 31 December 2012 is included in the Group’s net post-employment obligation of £978 million.
The net pension scheme curtailment of £35 million has been recognised in the income statement, including related professional fees.
Volvo Aerospace
In connection with the acquisition in the year of Volvo Aerospace, the Group took control of defined benefit pension arrangements, including
assets of £91 million and defined benefit liabilities of £158 million, giving a net deficit of £67 million (see note 23). The majority of this deficit
(£64 million) related to the Swedish ITP2 scheme and subsequent to the acquisition the Group entered into a fully insured buy-out arrangement
with a third party insurer, Alecta, in relation to past service liabilities in the ITP2 scheme. Under the terms of this arrangement, the Group
made an incremental cash payment of £46 million, resulting in a net curtailment credit of £18 million recognised in the income statement. 
Arrangements have been made for future service in relation to benefits accruing under the ITP2 scheme also to be fully insured as they arise,
via monthly payments to the relevant third party insurer, such that the Group will account for its future obligations under this scheme as if it
were part of a defined contribution scheme, for as long as the insurance based arrangement subsists. 
In addition to the net curtailment gain a further credit of £10 million was realised on the settlement of associated payroll taxes.
This took the total pension scheme curtailment credit for the ITP2 arrangement to £28 million.
The aggregate of the IAM net pension scheme curtailment and that for the Swedish ITP2 scheme was £63 million (2011: nil).
26 Contingent assets and liabilities 
Aside from the unrecognised contingent asset referred to in note 6 in respect of Franked Investment Income, there were no other material
contingent assets at 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2012.
In the case of certain businesses performance bonds and customer finance obligations have been entered into in the normal course of business. 
27 Operating lease commitments – minimum lease payments 
The minimum lease payments which the Group is committed to make at 31 December are:
2012 2011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Vehicles,                                                          Vehicles, 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  plant and                                                          plant and 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Property                 equipment                      Property                 equipment 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £m                                £m                               £m                               £m 
Payments under non-cancellable operating leases:                                                                                        
Within one year                                                                                                                                                    2C                         12                        25                        12 
Later than one year and less than five years                                                                                                 EF                        22                        78                        20 
After five years                                                                                                                                                     110                           A                       118                          2 
                                                                                                                                                                                21A                        AE                      221                        34 
  Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Continued
.12D
28 Capital expenditure
Contracts placed against capital expenditure sanctioned at 31 December 2012 so far as not provided by subsidiaries amounted to £96 million
property, plant and equipment, £18 million intangible assets (2011: £118 million property, plant and equipment, £6 million intangible assets) and
the Group's share not provided by joint ventures amounted to £20 million property, plant and equipment, nil intangible assets (2011: £1 million
property, plant and equipment, nil intangible assets).
29 Related party transactions 
In the ordinary course of business, sales and purchases of goods take place between subsidiaries and joint venture companies priced on an arm’s
length basis. Sales by subsidiaries to joint ventures in 2012 totalled £65 million (2011: £88 million). The amount due at the year end in respect of
such sales was £13 million (2011: £19 million). Purchases by subsidiaries from joint ventures in 2012 totalled £36 million (2011: £1 million). The
amount due at the year end in respect of such purchases was nil (2011: nil).
At 31 December 2012 a Group subsidiary had £6 million payable to a joint venture company in respect of an unsecured financing facility bearing
interest at one month LIBOR plus 1/8% (2011: £2 million).
30 Principal subsidiaries
The following represent the principal subsidiary undertakings of the GKN Group at 31 December 2012. These subsidiaries were included in the
consolidation and are held indirectly by GKN plc through intermediate holding companies. The undertakings located overseas operate principally
in the country of incorporation. The equity share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the GKN Group. 
A full list of subsidiaries and joint ventures will be attached to the next annual return of GKN plc.
Subsidiary                                                                                                         Country of incorporation                                                                                                                                                                       Interest
GKN Aerospace Chem-tronics Inc                                  USA                                                                                                                                          Common stock
GKN Aerospace North America, Inc                               USA                                                                                                                                          Common stock
GKN Aerospace Services Ltd                                           England                                                                                                                                 Ordinary shares
GKN Aerospace Sweden AB                                             Sweden                                                                                                                                 Ordinary shares
GKN do Brasil Ltda                                                             Brazil                                                                                                                                          Quota capital
GKN Driveline Celaya SA de CV                                       Mexico                                                                                                                                   Ordinary shares
GKN Driveline Deutschland GmbH                                Germany                                                                                                                               Ordinary shares
GKN Driveline Japan Ltd                                                   Japan                                                                                                                                     Ordinary shares
GKN Driveline Köping AB                                                 Sweden                                                                                                                                 Ordinary shares
GKN Driveline Newton LLC*                                             USA                                                                                             Membership interest (no share capital)
GKN Driveline North America Inc                                   USA                                                                                                                                          Common stock
GKN Driveline Polska Sp. Zo.o                                        Poland                                                                                                                                   Ordinary shares
GKN Sinter Metals, LLC**                                                 USA                                                                                             Membership interest (no share capital)
GKN Sinter Metals SpA                                                     Italy                                                                                                                                        Ordinary shares
GKN Westland Aerospace, Inc                                        USA                                                                                                                                          Common stock
Hoeganaes Corporation                                                   USA                                                                                                                                          Common stock
* The principal place of business of GKN Driveline Newton LLC is 1848 Getrag Parkway, Newton, North Carolina, USA.
** The principal place of business of GKN Sinter Metals LLC is 3300 University Drive, Auburn Hills, Michigan, USA. . !"
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts ! !
Financial statements
We have audited the Company financial statements of GKN plc for the
year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Balance Sheet and
the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice).
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of
the Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion
on the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s
Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for
the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in
giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that
the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the
accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances
and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the
Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in
the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent material
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for
our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the Company financial statements:
■ give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at
31 December 2012;
■ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
■ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 
In our opinion:
■ the part of the Directors’ remuneration report to be audited has
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006;
and
■ the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year
for which the Company financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the Company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: 
■ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company,
or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or
■ the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or 
■ certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are
not made; or
■ we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.
Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of GKN
plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Ian Chambers (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Birmingham
25 February 2013
Notes
(a) The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the
Directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were
initially presented on the website. 
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Independent auditors’ report to the
members of GKN plc Balance Sheet of GKN plc
Company number: 4191106
At 31 December 2012
.12F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2012                             2011 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Notes                               £m                               £m 
Fixed assets                                                                                                                                         
Investment in subsidiaries at cost                                                                                                                                                         3                  A,CF B                  3,578 
Current assets                                                                                                                                     
Amounts due from subsidiaries                                                                                                                                                                                          F                          9 
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year                                                                         
Amounts owed to subsidiaries                                                                                                                                                                                   (2,122)                (2,176)
                                                                                                                                                                
Net current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                     (2,11B)                (2,167)
Total assets less current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                             1,BE0                    1,411
Net assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,BE0                   1,411
Capital and reserves                                                                                                                             
Share capital                                                                                                                                                                                               5                      1DD                      159 
Capital redemption reserve                                                                                                                                                                     4                     2GF                     298 
Share premium account                                                                                                                                                                            4                      1AG                          9 
Profit and loss account                                                                                                                                                                              4                     F DE                     945 
Total shareholders’ equity                                                                                                                                                                       6                  1,BE0                    1,411
The financial statements on pages 128 to 130 were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 25 February 2013. They were signed
on its behalf by:
Nigel Stein, William Seeger – Directors .12G
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
Notes to the Financial Statements of GKN plc
1 Significant accounting policies and basis of preparation
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. They have been prepared under the
historical cost convention except where other measurement bases are required to be applied and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom
Accounting Standards and law. In accordance with FRS 1 (revised 1996) and FRS 8 the Company has taken advantage of the exemptions not to
prepare a cash flow statement and not to disclose transactions with related parties. As the consolidated financial statements have been prepared
in accordance with IFRS 7 , the Company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29. 
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have been applied consistently in both years presented.
Investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Treasury shares 
GKN shares which have been purchased and not cancelled are held as treasury shares and deducted from shareholders’ equity.
Share-based payments 
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The Company has no employees. Equity-settled share-based
payments that are made available to employees of the Company’s subsidiaries are treated as increases in equity over the vesting period of the
award, with a corresponding increase in the Company’s investments in subsidiaries, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will
eventually vest.
Profit and loss account
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is
established. Current tax is recognised in the profit and loss account unless items relate to equity.
Dividends
The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the annual general meeting whilst interim dividends are charged in the period they
are paid.
2 Profit and loss account
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year. The
profit for the year ended 31 December 2012 was £7 million (2011: £9 million).
Auditors’ remuneration for audit services to the Company was £0.4 million (2011: £0.3 million).
3 Fixed asset investments
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        £m
At 1 January 2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A,CEF 
Additions – share-based payments                                                                                                                                                                                                         D 
At A1 December 2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A,CF B
Principal subsidiary companies, the investments in which are held through intermediate holding companies, are shown in note 30 of the
consolidated financial statements.
4 Reserves
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Capital                           Share                            Profit 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    redemption                     premium                      and loss 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            reserve                       account                       account 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                                £m                               £m 
At 1 January 2012                                                                                                                                                                            2GF                           G                      GBC
Profit for the year                                                                                                                                                                                 –                           –                           E
Share-based payments                                                                                                                                                                      –                           –                           D 
Dividends paid to equity shareholders                                                                                                                                         –                           –                      (101)
Net proceeds from share placement                                                                                                                                              –                      1A0                           – 
Proceeds from exercise of share options                                                                                                                                      –                           –                         10 
At A1 December 2012                                                                                                                                                                     2GF                      1AG                      F DE 
  Notes to the Financial Statements of GKN plc
Continued
.1A0
5 Share capital 
Share capital disclosure is shown in note 22 of the consolidated financial statements.
6 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders' funds
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         £m
At 1 January 2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,B11
Profit for the year                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
Share-based payments                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
Dividends paid to equity shareholders                                                                                                                                                                                               (101)
Net proceeds from share placement                                                                                                                                                                                                    1AE
Proceeds from exercise of share options                                                                                                                                                                                              10 
At A1 December 2012                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,BE0 .1A1
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Financial statements
Group Financial Record
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2012                       2011                      2010                     2009**                 2008 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   £m                         £m                         £m                         £m                         £m 
Consolidated income statements                                                                                                                                                            
Sales                                                                                                                                                             D,C10              5,746             5,084              4,223              4,376 
Trading profit                                                                                                                                                 C0F                  419                 367                  133                  201 
Restructuring and impairment charges                                                                                                    –                     –                  (39)               (144)               (153)
Change in value of derivative and other financial instruments                                                     12D                   (31)                   12                    76                (124)
Amortisation of non-operating intangible assets arising on business combinations                      (AE)                 (22)                 (19)                 (24)                 (10)
Gains and losses on changes in Group structure                                                                                  C                      8                    (4)                   (2)                    – 
Reversal of inventory fair value adjustment arising on business combinations                        (AE)                    –                      –                      –                      – 
Pension scheme curtailment                                                                                                                    DA                      –                   68                      –                      – 
Operating profit/(loss)                                                                                                                                D2F                 374                 385                   39                  (86)
Share of post-tax earnings of continuing joint ventures                                                                     AF                    38                    35                    21                      6 
Net financing costs                                                                                                                                        (EF )                 (61)                 (75)               (114)                 (50)
Profit/(loss) before taxation from continuing operations                                                                 CF F                  351                 345                  (54)               (130)
Taxation                                                                                                                                                            (F C)                 (45)                (20)                   15                    10 
Profit/(loss) after taxation from continuing operations                                                                     C0A                 306                 325                  (39)               (120)
Profit after taxation from discontinued operations                                                                                   –                      –                      –                      5                    13 
Profit/(loss) for the year                                                                                                                              C0A                 306                 325                  (34)               (107)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests                                                                                       (2A)                 (27)                (20)                   (2)                   (2)
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity shareholders                                                                                  BF 0                 279                 305                  (36)               (109)
Earnings per share – pence ***                                                                                                               A0.2                18.0                19.6                 (3.2)              (11.7)
Dividend per share – pence ***                                                                                                                  E.2                  6.0                  5.0                      –                  3.0 
Management performance measures*                                                                                                                                                            
Sales                                                                                                                                                        D,G0B               6,112              5,429             4,454              4,617 
Trading profit                                                                                                                                              CCE                 468                  411                  156                  221 
Profit before taxation                                                                                                                               BGE                  417                 363                   87                  170 
Earnings per share – pence ***                                                                                                           2D.C                22.6                20.7                   5.7                16.0 
Consolidated balance sheets                                                                                                                                                                                 
Non-current assets                                                                                                                                                                                               
Intangible assets (including goodwill)                                                                                                 1,CB0                958                 550                  525                 520 
Property, plant and equipment                                                                                                              1,GDB               1,812               1,651              1,636              1,797 
Investments in joint ventures                                                                                                                     1CA                  147                  143                  112                  119 
Deferred tax assets                                                                                                                                       A02                 224                  171                    71                    52 
Other non-current assets                                                                                                                               G2                    58                   42                   40                    65 
                                                                                                                                                                        B,0C1              3,199              2,557             2,384              2,553 
Current assets                                                                                                                                                                                                        
Inventories                                                                                                                                                      F F C                 749                 637                 563                  718 
Trade and other receivables                                                                                                                     1,102                 962                 762                 644                 645 
Cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets                                                                        1F 1                  156                 442                 336                  114 
Other (including assets held for sale)                                                                                                         C1                    21                    23                    19                    37 
                                                                                                                                                                       2,21G              1,888              1,864              1,562               1,514 
Current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Borrowings                                                                                                                                                      (11C)              (228)                 (61)                 (72)                 (97)
Trade and other payables                                                                                                                       (1,AG2)           (1,308)           (1,065)              (873)              (972)
Current income tax liabilities                                                                                                                     (1CE)               (138)              (100)                 (79)                (115)
Other current liabilities (including liabilities associated with assets held for sale)                     (CF )                 (76)                 (70)                (98)               (105)
                                                                                                                                                                      (1,E22)            (1,750)           (1,296)            (1,122)           (1,289)
Non-current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                          
Borrowings                                                                                                                                                    (GAE)              (466)               (532)              (564)               (725)
Deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                                (20B)                (96)                 (63)                 (57)                 (63)
Other non-current liabilities                                                                                                                      (ADE)               (192)               (169)               (148)               (174)
Provisions                                                                                                                                                       (1AC)                 (91)                 (74)                 (87)                 (54)
Post-employment obligations                                                                                                                  (GEF )              (868)              (600)              (996)              (834)
                                                                                                                                                                     (2,D21)            (1,713)           (1,438)           (1,852)           (1,850)
Net assets                                                                                                                                                    1,G2E              1,624              1,687                 972                 928 
Net debt                                                                                                                                                          (F E1)              (538)                (151)              (300)              (708)
* Management sales and trading profit aggregate the sales and trading profit of subsidiaries (excluding certain subsidiary businesses sold and closed) with the Group’s share of
the sales and trading profit of joint ventures. Management profit before tax is management trading profit less net subsidiary interest payable and receivable and the Group’s
share of net interest payable and receivable and taxation of joint ventures. Management earnings includes subsidiary tax related to subsidiary management profit before tax less
other non-controlling interests.
** As restated following the announcement to exit the Axles operations of the former OffHighway segment.
*** As restated in 2008 for the bonus issue inherent in the rights issue that was approved on 6 July 2009. .1A2
Automotive
Europe 
GKN Automotive Ltd England
GKN Driveline Birmingham Ltd England
GKN Driveline Bruneck AG Italy
GKN Driveline Deutschland GmbH Germany
GKN Driveline Firenze SpA Italy
GKN Driveline International GmbH Germany
GKN Driveline Köping AB Sweden
GKN Driveline Polska Sp. z o.o. Poland
GKN Driveline SA France
GKN Driveline Slovenija d.o.o. Slovenia
GKN Driveline Trier GmbH Germany
GKN Driveline Vigo SA Spain
GKN Driveline Zumaia SA Spain
GKN Eskisehir Automotive Products Manufacture and Sales A.S. Turkey
GKN EVO eDrive Systems Ltd (50%) England
GKN Freight Services Ltd England
GKN Gelenkwellenwerk Kaiserslautern GmbH Germany 
Americas 
GKN do Brasil Ltda Brazil
GKN Driveline Bowling Green Inc USA
GKN Driveline Celaya SA de CV Mexico
GKN Driveline Newton LLC USA
GKN Driveline North America Inc USA 
GKN Driveline Uruguay SA Uruguay
GKN Driveline Villagran SA de CV Mexico
GKN Freight Services Inc USA
Transejes Transmisiones Homocinéticas de Colombia SA (49%) Colombia
Rest of World 
GKN Driveline (India) Ltd (97%) India
GKN Driveline Japan Ltd Japan
GKN Driveline Manufacturing Ltd Thailand
GKN Driveline Korea Ltd South Korea
GKN Driveline Malaysia Sdn Bhd (68.4%) Malaysia
GKN Driveline Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore
GKN Driveline (Thailand) Ltd Thailand
GKN Driveline Torque Technology (Shanghai) Co Ltd China
GKN Driveshaft (Chongqing) Ltd (34.5%) China
Shanghai GKN Drive Shaft Company Ltd (50%) China
Taiway Ltd (36.25%) Taiwan
Unidrive Pty Ltd (60%) Australia
Powder Metallurgy 
Sinter Metals 
Europe
GKN Sinter Metals Components GmbH Germany
GKN Sinter Metals Engineering GmbH Germany
GKN Sinter Metals Filters GmbH Radevormwald Germany
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH, Bad Brückenau Germany 
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH, Bad Langensalza Germany
GKN Sinter Metals GmbH Radevormwald Germany
GKN Sinter Metals Holding GmbH Germany
GKN Sinter Metals Holdings Ltd England
GKN Sinter Metals SpA Italy 
Americas
GKN Sinter Metals de Argentina SA Argentina 
GKN Sinter Metals LLC USA 
GKN Sinter Metals Ltda Brazil 
GKN Sinter Metals St Thomas Ltd Canada 
Rest of World
GKN Danyang Industries Company Ltd China
GKN Sinter Metals Cape Town (Pty) Ltd South Africa
GKN Sinter Metals Private Ltd India 
GKN Sinter Metals Yizheng Co Ltd China
Hoeganaes 
Hoeganaes Corporation USA
Hoeganaes Corporation Europe GmbH Germany 
Hoeganaes Corporation Europe SA Romania 
Key subsidiaries and joint ventures  .1AA
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Other information
Aerospace 
Europe
Composite Technology and Applications Ltd (49%) England
GKN Aerospace Deutschland GmbH Germany
GKN Aerospace Norway AS Norway
GKN Aerospace Services Ltd England 
GKN Aerospace Sweden AB Sweden
Americas
GKN Aerospace Bandy Machining Inc USA
GKN Aerospace Chem-tronics Inc USA 
GKN Aerospace Cincinnati Inc USA
GKN Aerospace Monitor Inc USA
GKN Aerospace Muncie Inc USA
GKN Aerospace New England Inc USA
GKN Aerospace Newington LLC USA
GKN Aerospace North America Inc USA 
GKN Aerospace Precision Machining Inc USA
GKN Aerospace Services Structures Corp. USA
GKN Aerospace Transparency Systems Inc USA
GKN Westland Aerospace Inc USA 
Land Systems
Europe
Chassis Systems Ltd (50%) England
GKN AutoStructures Ltd England
GKN Ayra Servico SA Spain
GKN Driveline Service Ltd England
GKN Driveline Service Scandinavia AB Sweden
GKN Driveline Ribemont SARL France
GKN Land Systems Ltd England
GKN Service Austria GmbH Austria
GKN Service Benelux BV Netherlands
GKN Service France SAS France
GKN Service International GmbH Germany
GKN Walterscheid Getriebe GmbH Germany
GKN Walterscheid GmbH Germany
GKN Wheels Carpenedolo SpA Italy
GKN Wheels Nagbøl A/S Denmark 
GKN Stromag AG Germany
GKN Stromag Austria GmbH, Austria
GKN Stromag Benelux NV, Belgium
GKN Stromag Brno s.r.o., Czech Republic
GKN Stromag Dessau GmbH Germany
GKN Stromag France SAS France
GKN Stromag Iberica SA, Spain
GKN Stromag Italia SpA., Italy
GKN Stromag SAS, France
GKN Stromag Scandinavia AB, Sweden
GKN Stromag UK Ltd., Great Britain
GKN Land Systems SAS, France
Americas
GKN Armstrong Wheels Inc USA
GKN Rockford Inc USA
GKN Walterscheid Inc USA
GKN Stromag Inc USA
Rest of World
GKN Wheels (Liuzhou) Company Ltd China
Matsui-Walterscheid Ltd (40%) Japan
GKN Stromag Brasil Equipamentos Ltd Brazil
GKN Stromag India Pvt. Ltd India
GKN Stromag (Taicang) Co Ltd China
Other businesses
Emitec
Emitec Denmark A/S (50%) Denmark
Emitec Emission Control Technologies India PVT Ltd. (50%) India
Emitec Emission Treatment System (Shanghai) Co Ltd (50%) China
Emitec France SAS (50%) France
Emitec Gesellschaft für Emissionstechnologie mbH (50%) Germany
Emitec Inc (50%) USA
Emitec Japan KK (50%) Japan
Emitec Korea Inc. (50%) South Korea
Emitec Produktion Eisenach GmbH (50%) Germany 
Emitec Produktion Lohmar GmbH & Co. KG (50%) Germany
Cylinder Liners
GKN Zhongyuan Cylinder Liner Company Ltd (59%) China
Corporate 
Europe
GKN Group Services Ltd England
GKN Holdings plc England
GKN Industries Ltd England
GKN Investments LP Scotland
GKN Sweden Holdings AB Sweden
GKN (United Kingdom) plc England
Ipsley Insurance Ltd Isle of Man 
Americas
GKN America Corp USA
Rest of World
GKN China Holding Co Ltd China Shareholder information .1AB
Financial calendar 2013
Ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend                                         10 April 2013
2012 final dividend record date                                                  12 April 2013
Final date for receipt of DRIP mandates                                   26 April 2013
Annual General Meeting                                                                  2 May 2013
2012 final dividend payable                                                         20 May 2013
Annual General Meeting
The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, 2 May 2013 at the
Cavendish Conference Centre, 22 Duchess Mews, London W1G 9DT,
commencing at 2.00 pm. The notice of meeting, together with an
explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is
contained within the AGM circular.
GKN website and share price information
Information on GKN, including this and prior years’ annual reports, half
year reports, results announcements and presentations together with
the GKN share price, is available on our website at www.gkn.com. 
Shareholding enquiries and information
GKN’s register of members is maintained by Equiniti who act as our
registrar. If you have any questions about your shareholding or you
require any other guidance you can contact Equiniti as follows:
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex 
BN99 6DA 
Tel: 0871 384 2962*
(+44 121 415 7039 from outside the UK)
Correspondence should refer to GKN and include your full name, address
and, if available, the 8 or 11 digit reference number which can be found on
your GKN share certificate, dividend stationery or proxy card.
A range of shareholder information is available online at Equiniti’s
website www.shareview.co.uk. Here you can also view information on
your shareholding and obtain forms that you may need to manage your
shareholding, such as a change of address form or a stock transfer form.
Share dealing service
GKN shares can be traded via the internet or by phone through
Shareview Dealing, a service provided by Equiniti Financial Services Ltd.
For further details, visit www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call Equiniti 
on 08456 037 037 . Equiniti Financial Services Ltd is authorised and
regulated by the UK Financial Services Authority. The registered details
of the provider are available from the above number.
A telephone dealing service is also available through Stocktrade. For
further details telephone 0845 601 0995 (+44 131 240 0414 from outside
the UK) and quote reference Low Co139.
GKN does not endorse or recommend any particular share dealing
service. The value of shares can fall and you may get back less than you
invest; if you are unsure as to the suitability of an investment you
should seek professional advice. 
Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP)
GKN offers a DRIP which enables shareholders to reinvest their cash
dividends to buy additional GKN shares. If you would like more
information about the DRIP or would like to apply online, please go to
Equiniti's website www.shareview.co.uk or call the shareholder helpline
on 0871 384 2962*.
* Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open 8.30 am
to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding UK bank holidays.
American Depositary Receipts
GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt (ADR) facility
in the US, with each ADR representing one GKN ordinary share. GKN’s
ADRs are traded on the US over-the-counter (OTC) market under the
symbol ‘GKNLY’. The ADR facility is managed by The Bank of New York
Mellon.
Dividend payments are generally taxable and will be distributed to ADR
holders in US dollars by The Bank of New York Mellon.
Any queries relating to GKN’s ADR facility should be directed to:
The Bank of New York Mellon
PO Box 358516
Pittsburgh
PA 15252-8516
USA
Tel: +1 201 680 6825 
(From the US, toll free: +1 888 BNY ADRS)
Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com 
Electronic communications
As an alternative to receiving documents in hard copy, shareholders can
elect to be notified by email as soon as shareholder documents such as
our annual report and notice of meeting are published. This notification
includes details of where you can view or download the documents on
our website. Shareholders who wish to register for email notification
can do so via Equiniti’s website www.shareview.co.uk.
Capital gains tax
A capital gains tax (CGT) liability may arise when you dispose of an asset
(e.g. shares) which is worth more when you sell it than when you
acquired it.
Over the years the capital structure of GKN plc has changed. Events that
may need to be considered when calculating any CGT liability in relation
to our shares are set out in the following paragraphs.
2001 demerger of the industrial services businesses
The market values of a GKN ordinary share and a Brambles Industries plc
(Brambles) ordinary share on 7 August 2001 (the first day of trading of
Brambles shares) to be used to allocate the base cost of GKN ordinary
shares acquired since 31 March 1982 are: GKN ordinary shares – 282.5p
(43.943224%) and Brambles ordinary shares – 360.375p (56.056776%).
2000 ‘B’ share issue
The market values of a GKN ordinary share and a GKN ‘B’ share on 30
May 2000 (the first day of trading of ‘B’ shares) to be used to allocate
the base cost of GKN ordinary shares acquired since 31 March 1982 are:
GKN ordinary shares – 914.5p (98.736774%) and GKN ‘B’ shares – 11.7p
(1.263226%).
1GF 2 base values
The adjusted 31 March 1982 base value of one GKN ordinary share held
immediately before the 2009 capital reorganisation and rights issue
was 45.501p. The adjusted base value immediately after the capital
reorganisation and rights issue was 47 .955p.
This information is provided primarily for the purpose of individual
shareholders resident in the UK when calculating their personal tax
liability. Shareholders who are in any doubt as to their tax position or
who may be subject to tax in a jurisdiction other than the UK should
seek professional advice. Neither GKN plc nor our registrar can advise
on CGT matters. .1AC
GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Other information
Shareholder analysis 
Holdings of ordinary shares at 31 December 2012:
                         Shareholders                                 Shares
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Number 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Number                                  %                      (million)                                  %
Holdings                                                                                                                                                                                                          
1–500                                                                                                                                                                        6,553                     27 .7                       1.4                       0.1
501–1,000                                                                                                                                                               3,864                     16.4                          3                      0.2
1,001–5,000                                                                                                                                                           9,329                    39.5                    22.2                       1.4
5,001–50,000                                                                                                                                                         3,162                     13.4                     37 .2                       2.3
50,001–100,000                                                                                                                                                         151                      0.6                    10.8                      0.7
100,001–500,000                                                                                                                                                     256                        1.1                     63.1                      3.8
500,001–1,000,000                                                                                                                                                   99                      0.4                    72.4                      4.4
above 1,000,000                                                                                                                                                      205                      0.9               1,422.2                      87 .1
                                                                                                                                                                                 23,619                      100               1,632.3                      100
Shareholder type                                                                                                                                                                                          
Individuals                                                                                                                                                           20,090                     85.1                      51.1                       3.1
Institutions                                                                                                                                                               3,141                     13.3               1,542.8                    94.5
Other corporates                                                                                                                                                       388                       1.6                    38.4                      2.4
                                                                                                                                                                                 23,619                      100               1,632.3                      100
In addition, GKN held 28.2 million ordinary shares in treasury as at 31 December 2012.
Shareholder security
We are aware that a small number of shareholders have received
unsolicited telephone calls concerning their investment in GKN. These
calls are from overseas based organisations who offer to buy GKN
shares for considerably more than the current market price. In some
cases the caller has suggested that there is currently a takeover offer for
GKN. There is no such offer and we suspect that the calls are bogus.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited investment
advice, offers to buy shares or offers of free company reports.
Operations, commonly known as ‘boiler rooms’, are targeting UK
shareholders and callers can be very persistent and extremely
persuasive. We are aware that they attempt to persuade individuals to
provide email addresses or other personal information; shareholders
are strongly advised not to provide any such details.
The Financial Services Authority (FSA) provides the following guidance
should you be contacted in this manner:
■ obtain the name of the person calling and the organisation they
represent;
■ check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Services
Authority by checking the FSA register of regulated firms at
www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do;
■ call the organisation back to verify their identity using the
telephone number listed for them on the FSA register; 
■ search the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals 
to avoid doing business with at
www.fsa.gov.uk/pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/overseas.shtml.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm you will not be eligible to
receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation
Scheme;
■ report any suspicions to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 
or completing the online form at
www.fsa.gov.uk/Pages/Doing/Regulated/Law/Alerts/form.shtml;
and
■ if the calls persist, hang up.
To reduce the risk of becoming a victim of fraud you should: 
■ Ensure all your certificates are stored in a safe place, or hold your
shares electronically in CREST (electronic settlement system for UK
and Irish securities) via a nominee. 
■ Reduce the number of cold calls you receive by registering with the
Telephone Preference Service on 0845 070 0707 or by visiting
www.tpsonline.org.uk. Alternatively you can also register by writing
to Telephone Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street,
London, W1W 8SS.
■ Keep all correspondence containing your shareholder reference
number in a safe place. 
■ Shred all unwanted correspondence. 
■ Inform Equiniti as soon as possible if you change your address. If
you receive a letter from Equiniti regarding a change of address and
have not recently moved house, please contact them immediately.
You may be a victim of identity theft. 
■ Know when dividends will be paid. You can request that dividends
be paid direct to your bank, reducing the risk of cheques being
intercepted or lost in the post. If you change your bank account,
inform Equiniti of the details of your new account.
■ Consider getting independent professional advice before making
any investment decision, particularly if the type of investment is
unfamiliar to you. Subject index .1AD
Accounting policies                                                                                       83-88
Acquisitions                                                                               3, 5, 6, 15, 28, 29
Aerospace                                                 3, 5, 6, 7 , 9, 11, 15, 18, 19, 21, 28, 29
American depositary receipts                                                                   73, 134
Annual general meeting                                                                      53, 73, 134
Assets
– goodwill and other intangible                                                  86, 102-104
– property, plant and equipment                                                  84-85, 105
Audit Committee report                                                                                56-57
Auditors
– audit information                                                                                         75
– independence                                                                                         56-57
– reappointment                                                                                              57
– remuneration                                                                                          57 , 94
– reports                                                                                                     77 , 127
Balance sheets                                                                                             81, 128
Board and committees                                                                      5, 46-47 , 50
– Audit Committee                                                                              50, 56-57
– Executive Committee                                                                                   50
– Nominations Committee                                                                      50, 55
– Remuneration Committee                                                                   50, 58
Borrowings                                                                               33, 35, 85, 108-110
Business model                                                                                                     13
Business review                                                                                         IFC, 1-45
Capital expenditure                                                  22, 26, 27 , 29, 30, 33, 126
Capital reorganisation                                                                                       134
Cash flow                                                              2, 22, 24, 32, 33, 82, 103, 118
Cautionary statement                                                                                        137
Chairman’s statement                                                                                       4-5
Changes in equity statement                                                                            80
Chief Executive’s review                                                                                    6-7
Community involvement                                                                                     45
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income                                    79
Corporate governance                                                                              5, 48-54
– UK Corporate Governance Code compliance                                         54
Directors
– attendance record                                                                                        50
– biographies                                                                                             46-47
– conflicts of interest                                                                                      74
– report                                                                                                    IFC, 1-76
– remuneration                                                                                                69
– responsibility for the accounts                                                   76, 77 , 127
– service agreements                                                                               64-65
Disposals                                                                       25, 28, 102-103, 105-106
Diversity                                                                                                            51, 52
Dividend                                                                                           2, 4, 23, 32-33
– reinvestment plan                                                                                      134
Divisions                                                                                                            10-11
Driveline                                 IFC, 3, 5, 7 , 10, 14, 16, 17 , 19, 20, 21, 26, 40, 43
Earnings per share                                                                        2, 4, 22, 32, 99
Employees                                                                          5, 6, 23, 38, 39, 40-41
Engine Systems                                                                                    6, 7 , 15, 116
Environment                                                                                                   23, 43
Financial
– funding and liquidity                                                                                   35
– instruments                                                                       31, 35, 85, 94, 114
– record                                                                                                             131
– treasury management                                                                                 35
Financing costs (net)                                                                                    32, 95
Foreign currencies                                                                                         24, 83
Gallatin                                                                                                             25, 31
Going concern                                                                                                       35
Government refundable advances                                                            32, 87
Health and safety                                                                               6, 23, 37 , 44
Income statement                                                                                   78, 83-84
Internal control                                                                                               52, 57
Joint ventures                                                             3, 24, 31, 83, 106, 132-133
Key performance indicators
– financial                                                                                                     12-13
– non-financial                                                                                                  13
Land Systems                                               IFC, 3, 5, 7 , 9, 11, 17 , 19, 21, 30, 42
Long-term incentives                                                           63-64, 67 , 68, 70-71
Nominations Committee report                                                                        55
Margins                                              4, 6, 7 , 22, 24, 25, 26, 27 , 28, 29, 30, 93
Markets                                                        IFC, 6, 7 , 8, 9, 12, 14, 15, 25, 30, 36
Other businesses                                                                                         31, 133
Other statutory information                                                                         73-75
Outlook                                                                                                                     7
Pensions/post-employment obligations   7 , 33, 34, 36, 61, 64, 72, 119-125
Powder Metallurgy                                        IFC, 3, 5, 6, 7 , 10, 15, 17 , 18, 21, 27
Profit/Loss
– before tax                                                                                         2, 4, 6, 32
– operating                                                                                     2, 93, 94, 95
– trading                                                        7 , 24, 25, 26, 27 , 28, 29, 30, 89
Registrar                                                                                                       134, 137
Related party transactions                                                                               126
Remuneration report                                                                                      58-75
– policy                                                                                                         59-65
– implementation of policy                                                                    66-68
Research and development                                                                        33, 36
Restructuring                                                                                                         29
Risk and risk management                                               35, 36-37 , 53, 110-113
Sales                                               2, 4, 6, 7 , 22, 25, 26, 27 , 28, 29, 30, 31, 84
Segmental analysis                                                                                        88-91
Shareholder analysis                                                                                         135
Shares
– capital                                                                                              73, 115-116
– dealing service                                                                                            134
– price information                                                                                        134
– substantial shareholders                                                                           73
Strategy
– group                                                                                           6, 7 , 12, 14-21
– divisional                                                                                                   10-11
Subsidiary companies                                                                               132-133
Sustainability report                                                                                      38-45
Taxation                                                                                32, 86, 87 , 96, 97 , 98
Technology                                                                       4, 5, 6, 12-13, 18-19, 40
thinkSAFE!                                                                                                  6, 20, 44
Values                                                                                                           7 , 13, 38
Volvo Aero (GKN Engine Systems)                     3, 5, 6, 7 , 15, 28, 29, 34, 116
Website                                                                                                        134, 137
Key
IFC – Inside Front Cover GKN plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Contact details
GKN plc
PO Box 55
Ipsley House
Ipsley Church Lane
Redditch
Worcestershire B98 0TL
Tel +44 (0)1527 517715
Fax +44 (0)1527 517700
London Office
50 Pall Mall
London SW1Y 5JH
Tel +44 (0)20 7930 2424
Fax +44 (0)20 7930 3255
enquiries@gkn.com
www.gkn.com
Registered in England No. 4191106
This annual report is available on our website.
Cautionary statement
This annual report and accounts has been prepared for the members 
of GKN plc and should not be relied upon by any other party or for 
any other purpose. It contains forward looking statements which are
made in good faith based on the information available at the time 
of its approval. It is believed that the expectations reflected in these
statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a number 
of risks and uncertainties that are inherent in any forward looking
statement which could cause actual results to differ materially from
those currently anticipated. Nothing in this document should be
regarded as a profits forecast.
The paper in this report is FSC® Certified, fully recyclable and Pulp is
a mix, partly bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) process
and partly bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) process.
CPi Colour are ISO14001 certified, CarbonNeutral®, Alcohol Free,
FSC and PEFC chain of Custody certified. The inks used are vegetable
oil based.
Registrar
Equiniti
Aspect House
Spencer Road
Lancing
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Tel 0871 384 2962*
(+44 121 415 7039 from outside UK)
Fax 0871 384 2100
(+44 1903 698403 from outside UK)
www.equiniti.com
www.shareview.co.uk 
* Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding
bank holidays.
Designed and produced by MAGEE
www.magee.co.uk
Printed by CPi Colour
ISO14001REGISTERED
DNVCertificationBV 013
.1AE that moves the world
Engineering
Annual Report and Accounts 
Also available online…
www.gkn  .com
GKN Annual Report and Accounts 
GKN
