 Annu Al Repo Rt 
2012  Annu Al R e po Rt 2 012 Prodeco, Colombia tABLE OF 
cON t ENt s 1 | Overview
 1.1 | Performance highlights 9
 1.2 | Chairman’s statement  12
 1.3 | Chief Executive Officer’s review 13
 1.4 | Business overview 14
 1.5 | Sustainability 18
 1.6 | Key performance indicators 20
 1.7 | Principal risks and uncertainties 22
2 | Business review 
 2.1 | Financial review 36
 2.2 | Metals and minerals  46
 2.3 | Energy products 54 
 2.4 | Agricultural products 60
 2.5 | Reserves and resources 64
3 | Corporate Governance 
 3.1 | Chairman’s introduction  82
 3.2 | Officers 83
 3.3 | Corporate governance report 86
 3.4 | Directors’ remuneration report 93
 3.5 | Directors’ report 101
4 | Financial Statements
 Confirmation of directors’ responsibilities 108
 Independent auditors’ report 109
 Consolidated statement of income 110
 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 111
 Consolidated statement of financial position 112
 Consolidated statement of cash flows 113
 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 114
 Notes to the financial statements 115
5 | Additional information
 5.1 | Glossary 166
 5.2 | Shareholder information 167 Kamoto Copper Company, DRC Ov Er vi Ew 1 | Overview
 1.1 | Performance highlights 9
 1.2 | Chairman’s statement  12
 1.3 | Chief Executive Officer’s review 13
 1.4 | Business overview 14
 1.5 | Sustainability 18
 1.6 | Key performance indicators 20
 1.7 | Principal risks and uncertainties 22    |  Annual Report 2012  |  9
2010 2011 2012
Marketing activities 2 337 1 911 2 130
Industrial activities 2 953 3 487 2 340
US $ million
0
3 000
5 000
2 000
1 000
4 000
6 000
2010 2011 2012
Adjusted EBIT
Rebased to 1 in 2010
2011 2012
Marketing activities 7% 28%
Industrial activities 16% 20%
Copper equivalent volume growth
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
2010 2011 2012
Net debt (US $ million)
FFO to net debt (%)
Net debt and FFO 
2
 to net debt 
3
US $ million
%
0
7 500
10 000
15 000
5 000
2 500
12 500
2010 2011 2012 
1
50
20
30
10
0
40
60
1
 Adjusted for Viterra acquisition
1.1 | Performance highlights
•  Resilient Adjusted EBITDA / EBIT 
1
 performance driven by 
Glencore’s marketing business and volume growth in indus-
trials.
•  Adjusted EBIT down 17% to $ 4.5 billion; marketing Adjust-
ed EBIT up 11%, industrial Adjusted EBIT down 27%.
•  Continued growth of operating cash flow (FFO 
2
), up 17% to 
$ 4.1 billion.
•  Strong balance sheet with $ 9 billion of committed liquidity.
•  Completed the acquisition of Viterra, a transformational deal 
for our agricultural business, providing access to the grain 
markets in Canada and reinforcing our position in Australia.
•  Industrial growth projects continue to deliver overall volume 
increase; sector leading growth pipeline remains on budget.
•  Continuation of bolt-on acquisition strategy:
 –  increased interest in Kazzinc to 69.6%, Optimum to 67% 
and Mutanda to 60%.
 –  acquisition of Vale’s European manganese ferroalloy  
operations.
•  Kazzinc own gold production up 22% with recovery rates  
continuing to improve; successful ramp-up of new copper 
smelter resulting in increased copper cathode production 
of 25,800 tonnes.
•  Katanga copper metal up 2%, with cathode production up 
7%, in spite of significant disruption from power shortage. 
New power converter and synchronous condenser commis-
sioned in December 2012. 
•  Mutanda copper production up 37%. Following completion 
of the cobalt plant, Mutanda now has capacity in place to 
produce up to 110,000 tonnes of copper and 23,000 tonnes 
of cobalt.
•  Murrin Murrin own sourced production was 33,400 tonnes 
of nickel, a record production year.
•  Prodeco own production up 1% despite the three month 
strike at La Jagua.
•  Significant growth in South African coal production, up 104%,  
following the acquisitions of Optimum and Umcebo.
•  Aseng oil field ahead of initial schedule producing 61.7k 
bbls/day, with Alen field on schedule to start producing in 
Q3 2013.
•  The Directors propose a final dividend of $  0.1035 per 
share, bringing the total dividend for the year to $ 0.1575 
per share, up 5% compared to 2011.
1
 Refer to glossary on page 166 for definitions and calculations.
2
 Refer to page 42.
3
 Refer to page 41. 10  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Metals and minerals
Energy products
Agricultural products
Corporate and other
Main office
Office
Independent agent
Metals and minerals asset
Energy products asset
Agricultural products asset
Glencore’s business segments are responsible for  
managing the marketing, sourcing, hedging,  
logistics and industrial investment and production 
activities for their respective commodities.
Metals and minerals 
Key commodities: zinc, copper, lead, 
alumina, aluminium, ferro alloys, nickel, 
cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, 
refining, mining, processing and storage  
related operations of the relevant  
commodities.
Energy products
Key commodities: crude oil, oil 
products, steam coal and metallurgical 
coal supported by investments in coal 
mining and oil production operations, 
ports, vessels and storage facilities.
Agricultural products
Key commodities: wheat, corn, barley, 
rice, oil seeds, meals, edible oils, bio­
fuels, cotton and sugar supported by  
investments in farming, storage,  
handling, processing and port facilities.
Glencore’s key strengths are its global scale,  
strong growth platform, diversity of products, 
ability to add value, extensive and well  
established customer and  
supplier base and  
industrial and market- 
ing information flows. 
Adjusted EBIT by segment 2012
0
3 000
5 000
6 000
2 000
1 000
US $ million
4 000
5 290
5 398
4 470
2010 2011 2012   |  Annual Report 2012  |  11
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n $ 214 bn $ 45 bn
Africa
Oceania
The Americas
Europe
Asia
Glencore is a leading globally integrated producer and marketer 
of commodities with worldwide activities in the production,  
refinement, processing, storage, transport and marketing of 
metals and minerals, energy and agricultural products.
20%
8%
21%
50%
1%
7%
15%
40%
13%
25%
Non current assets by region 2012 Revenue 
1
 by region 2012
1
  Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales 
counterparty however this may not necessarily be the country of the counterpart’s ultimate 
parent and/or final destination of product.  12  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
1.2 | Chairman’s statement
2012 was marked by a number of historic milestones for Glencore. The Company celebrated its first full year 
as a listed business on the London and Hong Kong Exchanges. It completed the acquisition of Viterra. Most 
notably, it also announced its merger with Xstrata. 
Looking beyond transactions, Glencore further proved the merits of its integrated model by delivering  
robust results for its shareholders. Despite the industry continuing to be impacted by low economic growth 
globally, Glencore successfully expanded its industrial business, producing strong performances in mining 
and a record performance in the oil division. 
With the merger of Xstrata, the Board of Directors remains confident that the expanded industrial base, 
coupled with Glencore’s proven marketing capability will create a group with the expertise and scale to play 
a leading role in meeting the growing global demand for commodities. Furthermore, the combined Group 
will enable the countries possessing key natural resources to generate value from their natural endowments.
On 17 December Glencore completed its acquisition of Viterra. With this transaction, Glencore solidified its 
position as one of the leading participants in the global agricultural commodities industry. The expanded 
footprint in agriculture reflects Glencore’s strong belief in the future potential of the Canadian and Austra­ lian grain and seeds markets.
Sustainability is a core tenet of Glencore. Be it through providing support to local communities where it 
operates or safeguarding the well­ being of its employees, we are determined that our investments will be 
environmentally and socially, as well as financially, rewarding for all our stakeholders. This year Glencore’s 
commitment to sustainability was underscored when Glencore Corporate Practice was extended to include 
a full programme of sustainability targets which will measure the Company’s progress over the coming years.
These achievements and ongoing focus on improvement across the Group leave Glencore well positioned 
to continue to deliver value to its customers, partners, employees and shareholders in the years to come. 
Simon Murray
Chairman   |  Annual Report 2012  |  13
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n 1.3 | Chief Executive Officer’s review
2012 was a year in which the health of the global economy began to improve slowly albeit against a familiar 
backdrop established during the global financial crisis. It was also a year of major political change, which in 
itself brings greater uncertainty over future policy. Although too early to tell definitively, the regime transition 
in China and the election result in the US have so far been reasonably smooth and predictable. China looks 
well positioned to continue the substantial progress it has made since WTO entry in 2001. The US meanwhile 
has begun to show signs of underlying economic improvement notwithstanding the on­ going debate about 
long term fiscal balance. The pick­ up in construction of new houses is particularly noteworthy in the context 
of what appears to be a clear and growing energy advantage versus the rest of the world. The fact that the 
world’s largest economy is regaining its feet is good news for everyone. 
Against this background and despite highly accommodative global monetary policy, commodities experi­ enced a relatively lacklustre year with average prices down 10 – 20% year on year. We are therefore particu­ larly pleased that Glencore’s results proved to be far more robust than the sector. Our marketing operations’  
performance and the growth delivered within our industrial energy business were especially pleasing.
The performance of the marketing business reinforces the strength and resilience of Glencore’s business 
model and the diversification benefits associated with combining and integrating a portfolio of industrial  
assets with large scale physical sourcing, marketing and logistics capabilities. We continued to main­ tain a clear focus on organic growth across the industrial business through our key industrial expansion  
projects, which remain broadly on track and on budget. Both the marketing and industrial operations are 
underpinned by the highly diversified nature of our business across commodity, geography and operation. 
This provides a natural hedge in times of economic uncertainty as well as enabling the Group to be at the  
forefront of spotting emerging trends and opportunities.
We believe 2012 will also prove to have been a turning point in the history of the mining industry in respect of 
capital allocation. It has been evident for some time that capital discipline in the sector had been eroded by 
the period of higher commodity prices. The result has been a material misallocation of capital across the sector 
in respect of organic capex and acquisitions. This year investors called time with results for all to see. This de­ velopment augurs well for long term returns in the sector though investors are likely to have to remain vigilant. 
Outside of our robust financial performance, 2012 also saw some major strategic landmarks for Glencore. 
Most importantly, we commenced the process to reunite Xstrata with Glencore following a decade in the 
public markets. We continue to work on closing the merger with Xstrata. Completion of the merger remains 
conditional upon the receipt of the outstanding regulatory approval in China and completion of the Xstrata 
court process as further set out in the New Scheme Document in connection with the merger published by 
Xstrata on 25 October 2012 and Glencore giving effect to the commitments required by the European Com­ mission. Accordingly, Glencore and Xstrata have agreed, with the consent of the Panel, to extend further the 
long stop date for the merger to 16 April 2013. When completed it will provide Glencore with full access to 
Xstrata’s production flows and allow optimisation of the combined capex pipeline and operating structure. 
Our approach to integration will be to incorporate the best of both businesses and plans to this effect are 
well advanced. The benefits of this process will accrue to all stakeholders in the combined business.
Our second major step during 2012 was to acquire Viterra. This acquisition transforms our agricultural busi­ ness into a global operation through entry into the Canadian grain market and significant expansion of 
our Australian operations. This materially strengthens our ability to assist in ensuring that the world’s grain 
and oilseeds production flows to those areas where it is most needed. This is likely to become increasingly  
important given the shift towards more energy intensive diets globally.
The Board of Directors proposes a final dividend of $ 0.1035 per share resulting in a total dividend of $ 0.1575 
per share for 2012, up 5% on 2011, reflecting our confidence in our business and the continued ramp­ up of 
our brownfield industrial assets.
Looking forward we will continue to take nothing for granted whether it be economic circumstances or the good­ will of our stakeholders. We continue to see a healthy long term outlook for our commodities based on the contin­ uing growth within emerging market economies and sustained levels of consumption within developed markets.
  
Ivan Glasenberg
Chief Executive Officer 14  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
1.4 | Business overview
Ou R Bu sin Ess
Overview
Glencore is a leading integrated producer and marketer of met­ als and minerals, energy and agricultural products. Glencore 
operates globally, marketing and distributing physical com­ modities sourced from third party producers and its own pro­ duction. Glencore’s customers and suppliers number in excess 
of 8,000 and span the automotive, steel, power generation, oil 
and food processing industries. Glencore also provides financ­ ing, logistics and other essential services to producers and 
consumers.
Glencore’s long experience as a commodity marketer has  
allowed it to develop its expertise in the commodities which it 
markets. Glencore has also cultivated long­ term relationships 
with a broad supplier and customer base across diverse indus­ tries and geographic regions. Glencore’s marketing activities 
are supported by investments in industrial assets operating in 
Glencore’s core commodities. Glencore’s marketing operations 
are believed to be less correlated to commodity prices than its 
industrial operations, due to commodity price risk being sub­ stantially hedged. 
As a marketer, Glencore is able to differentiate itself from other 
production entities as, in addition to focusing on minimising 
costs and delivering operational efficiencies, Glencore focuses 
on maximising the efficiency of the entire supply chain, taking 
into account its extensive and global third party supply base, its 
logistics, risk management and working capital financing capa­ bilities, extensive market insight, business optionality, extensive 
customer base, competitive market position in most commodi­ ties and economies of scale. In contrast, this is not the busi­ ness model of Glencore’s mainly industrial competitors who are 
generally not set up to exploit the full range of value added 
margin and arbitrage opportunities which exist throughout the 
commodity supply chain.
Businesses
Glencore conducts its operations in three business segments: 
Metals and minerals, Energy products and Agricultural products. 
Glencore’s business segments are responsible for managing the 
marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial investment 
activities relating to the commodities which they cover.
Glencore
Metals and minerals
Zinc/copper/lead 
Alumina/aluminium
Ferroalloys/nickel/
cobalt/iron ore
Energy products
Oil
Coal/coke
Agricultural products
Grains
Oils/oilseeds
Cotton/sugar
Glencore’s marketing and industrial investment activities are 
supported by a global network of more than 50 offices located 
in more than 40 countries throughout Europe, North, Central 
and South America, the CIS, Asia, Australia, Africa and the 
Middle East. Glencore’s main offices are located in Baar (Swit­ zerland), Stamford (Connecticut), London, Rotterdam, Beijing, 
Moscow and Singapore. This network provides Glencore with 
significant worldwide sourcing and distribution capabilities. 
Glencore’s marketing operations employ close to 3,000 people 
worldwide, while industrial operations directly or indirectly em­ ploy over 58,000 people in 33 countries. Refer to the map on 
page 10 and 11 for more details on the locations of offices and 
operations.
Glencore has an established record of successful strategic in­ vestments in industrial assets which have become an important 
component of its physical marketing activities. Glencore in­ tends to continue to pursue selective strategic acquisitions and 
alliances to support and strengthen its core physical marketing 
activities as and when opportunities arise. Glencore evaluates 
each industrial asset investment opportunity on a stand­ alone  
basis, however, also recognising its potential to support 
and strengthen Glencore’s physical marketing activities or its  
existing industrial operations. Similarly, Glencore evaluates dis­ posals of industrial assets when they are no longer deemed to 
support its marketing activities and/or when compelling selling 
opportunities arise.
Glencore’s three business segments focus on the following 
commodity segments:
•  The metals and minerals business segment focuses on: zinc/
copper/lead, alumina/aluminium and ferroalloys/nickel/co­ balt/iron ore. The activities of Glencore’s metals and minerals  
business segment are supported by ownership interests 
in controlled and non­ controlled industrial assets such as  
mining, smelting, refining and warehousing operations;
•  The energy products business segment focuses on: oil/oil 
products and coal/coke. The activities of Glencore’s energy 
products business segment are supported by ownership in­ terests in controlled and non­ controlled coal mining and oil 
production operations as well as investments in strategic han­ dling, storage and freight equipment and facilities; and
•  The agricultural products business segment focuses on: grains 
(including wheat, maize and barley), oils/oilseeds, cotton and 
sugar. The activities of Glencore’s agricultural products busi­ ness group are supported by investments in controlled and 
non­ controlled storage, handling and processing facilities in 
strategic locations.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  15
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n Ou R st RAt Egy
Glencore’s strategy is to maintain and strengthen its position as 
one of the world’s leading diversified natural resources groups.
Strategic objectives for 2013
•  Focus on capital efficient growth to maintain sector lead-
ing return on equity: Glencore’s objective is to generate and 
sustain market leading shareholder returns by harnessing the 
potential of its marketing platform and industrial asset base.
•  Integration of Xstrata and Viterra (leading grain handler in 
Canada and Australia): Glencore will seek to optimise the  
operational and development potential of these major acqui­ sitions.
•  Continue to leverage geographic scope and diversification 
of operations: Glencore intends to extend product and geo­ graphical range offered to suppliers and customers where  
appropriate.
•  Capitalise on strategic investments in industrial assets: 
Glencore’s strategic investments in industrial assets are an 
important component of its physical sourcing strategy for 
its marketing activities. Glencore believes these investments  
underpin Glencore as a reliable supplier for its customers.
•  Use additional capital and liquidity to grow the business 
when compelling opportunities present themselves.
•  Focus on cost management and further enhancing logistical 
capabilities: Glencore intends to continue its focus on cost 
control and operational efficiencies at its industrial assets and 
on the sourcing of competitively priced physical commodities 
from reliable third party suppliers.
•  Maintain conservative financial profile and investment grade 
ratings: Glencore’s conservative financial profile and invest­ ment grade credit ratings have enabled it to consistently  
access the required funding on competitive terms and main­ tain healthy levels of liquidity. Glencore intends to maintain its 
investment grade credit ratings.
•  Disciplined risk management: Glencore intends to continue 
its focus in this key area by maintaining and expanding its risk 
management resources, information systems and culture.
•  Place highest priority on employees, the environment and 
local communities: Glencore places the highest priority on 
its employees, the environment and the local communities 
where it operates.
MARKEting ACti Viti Es
Function of marketing activities
Glencore’s marketing activities source a diversified range of 
physical commodities from third party suppliers and from  
industrial assets in which Glencore has full or part ownership 
interests. These commodities are sold, often with value added 
services such as freight, insurance, financing and/or storage, 
to a broad range of consumers and industrial commodity end  
users, with many of whom Glencore enjoys long­ term commer­ cial relationships.
Types of arbitrage strategies
Many of the physical commodity markets in which Glencore 
operates are fragmented or periodically volatile. As a result, 
discrepancies often arise in respect of the prices at which the 
commodities can be bought or sold in different geographic 
locations or time periods, taking into account the numerous 
relevant pricing factors, including freight and product quality. 
These pricing discrepancies can present Glencore with arbi­ trage opportunities whereby Glencore is able to deploy capital 
to generate profit by sourcing, transporting, blending, storing 
or otherwise processing the relevant commodities. Whilst the 
strategies used by Glencore’s business segments to generate 
such margin vary from commodity to commodity, the main arbi­ trage strategies can be generally described as follows:
•  Geographic: where Glencore leverages its relationships and 
production, processing and logistical capabilities in order to 
source physical commodities from one location and deliver 
them to another location where such commodities can com­ mand a higher price (net of transport and/or other transac­ tion costs);
•  Product related: where it is possible to exploit the blending 
or multi­ use characteristics of the particular commodities  
being marketed, such as the various crude oil products, coal 
or metal concentrates, in order to supply products which  
attract higher prices than their base constituents, or exploit 
existing and/or expected price differentials; and
•  Time­ related: where it is possible to exploit a difference be­ tween the price of a commodity to be delivered at a future date 
and the price of a commodity to be delivered immediately, 
where the available storage, financing and other related 
costs until the future date are less than the forward pricing 
difference.
Arbitrage ensures markets function more efficiently by deliver­ ing supply to where it is most needed, in time, geography or 
product.
Glencore uses market information made available by its mar­ keting and industrial teams across its many locations to identify 
arbitrage opportunities. Glencore’s marketing and investment 
activities and relationships with producers and consumers of raw 
materials are supported by a global network providing Glencore 
with visibility over shifting supply and demand dynamics in  
respect of sizeable volumes of physical commodities across the 
globe. The detailed information from Glencore’s widespread  
operations and close relationships with producers, consumers 
and logistics providers often enables Glencore to identify oppor­ tunities, taking into account its extensive logistics capabilities, to 
source and supply physical commodities at attractive margins. 16  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Logistics
Glencore’s logistics operations are a key part of its marketing 
operations. They enable Glencore to fulfil its marketing obliga­ tions and to maximise arbitrage opportunities created by de­ mand and supply imbalances. Physical sourcing and marketing 
of commodities requires highly professional handling and ship­ ment of such goods from the supplier to the customer, including 
storage activities, as required. Typically, the staff handling the 
physical movement of goods (the “traffic team”) account for a 
significant proportion of the headcount of a business segment. 
Glencore’s dedicated chartering teams actively trade freight to 
gain market knowledge and volume benefits. The freight ele­ ment of transactions is furthermore used to maintain maximum 
physical optionality so that full value can be extracted from 
the underlying commodity positions of each department. This 
complements Glencore’s overall ability to seize geographic and 
time spread arbitrage opportunities as they arise.
in Dust RiAL ACti Viti Es
Glencore’s ownership of controlled and non­ controlled indus­ trial assets is designed to generate attractive stand­ alone  
returns and overall business diversification. They also serve as 
a way to source physical supply for Glencore’s marketing arm 
and provide further market insight and technical know­ how. 
Glencore believes that its corresponding reduced reliance on 
third parties helps to ensure that suppliers and customers alike 
see Glencore as a more reliable counterparty.
Glencore capitalises on investment opportunities created by, 
among other things, (i) the privatisation of natural resources 
producers primarily in emerging markets, (ii) the rebalancing of 
asset portfolios by other players in the natural resources indus­ try and (iii) further industry consolidation as smaller producers 
sell out and/or seek capital to fund growth.
Any decision to acquire or dispose of an industrial asset is 
based on the stand alone potential of the asset and its poten­ tial contribution to Glencore’s marketing activities and requires 
group level approval. Once acquired, an asset is held within 
one of the business segments. The business segments man­ age the controlled and non­ controlled industrial assets via 
hands­ on “asset controllers” to interface between the asset 
and Glencore in respect of day to day operating, financial and 
commercial matters. Glencore’s approach to the management 
of its industrial assets differs from some of its key competitors 
in that Glencore encourages its industrial assets to focus on 
the elements of operating performance, which businesses can 
directly control.
MARKEt REViEw
Markets started 2012 on a more positive footing after the sover­ eign debt­ related headwinds of 2011. However, the initial opti­ mism faded as the year progressed, with the key constraints for 
economic recovery that we have seen since the global financial 
crisis remaining in place for the remainder of 2012. The major  
factors have been:
•  Very weak Eurozone growth, including a mild contraction in 
Q2 2012, driven by limited consumer demand and industrial 
output. Despite numerous crisis meetings, decisive consen­ sual action was impossible to sustain with key issues simply 
deferred;
•  A loss of growth momentum in Asia, particularly in China as a 
result of their tightening of monetary and fiscal policy in 2011. 
Although both started an easing process over the course of the 
year, these actions have a reasonably extended lead time and 
as such the effects will not immediately be felt. The planned 
political transition in China also hindered any stimulative ef­ fects. China’s manufacturing sector, while still generally buoy­ ant, is starting to feel the pressure of falling profitability; and
•  the US Federal Reserve’s further stimulus packages. However, 
with interest rates already low, the scope to impact consumer 
behaviour was limited. Separately, the US started to feel the 
benefits of sustainable lower power prices and the housing 
market showed the first signs of improvements as household 
formation rate improved.
The pattern for commodity prices during 2012 was to generally 
trend downwards, albeit with frequent spikes around key policy 
events. Volatility also continued the downward trend it has been 
on since the end of the financial crisis, and finished the year  
appreciably lower than the levels experienced in the second  
half of 2011.
Going forward, growth in China is expected to continue to be 
sufficiently strong to create a favourable environment in com­ modity markets in general. However, the rate of growth is clearly 
slowing and signs of variability across different regions and sec­ tors are starting to emerge. Prior to the current political transi­ tion, it was clear that the Chinese government was comfortable 
with a slower rate of growth as it still had concerns over inflation 
potential (mainly housing and food). Under the new generation 
of leaders in China, led by President Xi Jinping, the precise future 
growth path of China is still to be clarified.
The movement in commodity prices generally mirrored the 
poor performance of financial markets as a mark of investors’ 
lower global risk appetite. Compared to 2011, base metals were 
broadly down 10­ 20% in 2012 reflecting global growth concerns.  
Energy commodities, with the exception of US natural gas (in­ creased by 24%) and coal (sizeable declines for many origins), es­ sentially returned to the levels they were at the beginning of the 
year. In agriculture, prices were generally up during Q3 2012 with a 
particularly strong performance from corn, wheat and soya beans.
Looking forward, we anticipate further modest improvements in 
global economic growth, in the absence of any major unantici­ pated policy decisions. 
The US looks increasingly well positioned for the medium to long 
term with their abundance of competitively priced power a key 
positive factor. Meanwhile, we expect China and other major 
emerging economies to remain committed to their stated plans 
to improve the living standards of their people. The key chal­ lenge for all markets remains to balance required social spend 
with growth in economic activity required to sustain this spend 
over the long term.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  17
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n In addition, the West African oil portfolio will further contrib­ ute to the Energy Products industrial asset’s growth. After 
Aseng (Block I) commenced first oil production in November 
2011 ahead of schedule, the development of the Alen gas/con­ densate field (Block O) remains on track for first production in 
Q3 2013 with a target flow rate of 37,500 bbl per day. 
Glencore’s first operated exploration well on the Oak prospect 
in the Bolongo Block, offshore Cameroon, was successfully 
drilled and declared an oil discovery in July 2012. The appraisal 
programme is planned for H2 2013.
In the Agricultural products business unit, sugar crushing ca­ pacity will further increase due to the on­ going expansion at 
Rio Vermelho.
New capital investment
Glencore is focused on delivering industry­ leading organic pro­ duction growth which in turn will help drive growth within its 
marketing business. In this regard, Glencore is very focused on 
delivering this growth in a capital efficient manner.
During 2012 industrial growth projects continued to deliver 
overall volume improvement and expansion is on track to de­ liver growth in the next few years.
The African Copper assets continued their expansion plans, with  
Mutanda / Kansuki expected to have a combined installed capac­ ity of 200,000 tonnes of copper and 23,000 tonnes of cobalt 
by 2013. In addition the feasibility study for the construction of 
a 100,000 tonnes (of copper contained) sulphide concentrator 
remains on track to be completed shortly.
Katanga produced its first copper cathode from the new sol­ vent extraction plants and converted electro­ winning facil­ ity during December 2012 as part of the Phase 4 project. The 
completion of this project will enable Katanga to increase total 
capacity. The Phase 4 project remains on target for mechanical 
completion in Q3 2013, which should allow Katanga to increase 
its annualised copper production capacity to 200,000 tonnes 
and thereafter to 300,000 tonnes per annum, by Q4 2014.
Mutanda, Katanga and Kansuki are collectively undertaking   
a project to secure power for all three operations via the  
refurbishment of two turbines at the Inga dam. This project is  
expected to provide 450 megawatts of power by the end of 
2015 (the “Power Project”). The project has started and is be­ ing executed in partnership with Société Naturale d’Electricité 
(‘SNEL’) and EGMF, the project contractor. The estimated 
cost of $ 284 million will be paid by Mutanda, Katanga and  
Kansuki, the investment in which will be recovered via lower 
future energy tariffs.
At Mopani the $ 323 million Synclinorium shaft project to in­ crease mine production, which is expected to come online dur­ ing 2015, and the associated project to improve and modernise 
the smelter remain on track. In 2012, Mopani announced that 
the smelter upgrade project (including improving SO
2
 emission 
capture to above 97%) is expected to be completed by Decem­ ber 2013, 18 months ahead of the schedule initially agreed with 
the Zambian authorities.
Prodeco’s expansion project is progressing to plan and remains 
on track to deliver annualised production of 20 million tonnes 
by 2014. The construction of the new direct loading port,  
Puerto Nuevo, is also on track and to budget, with commission­ ing expected in H1 2013. 
The South African Coal portfolio including Shanduka Coal,  
Umcebo Mining and Optimum Coal is currently focusing on a 
number of expansion and development projects; at Umcebo  
the Wonderfontein project railed its first coal during December 
2012, at Optimum, construction has started at the Pullenshope 
underground brownfield project with first coal expected in 
Q2 2013 and licensing for the Koornfontein project is expected 
shortly, with construction scheduled to start in Q2 2013. 18  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
1.5 | sustainability
Glencore Corporate Practice (GCP) is designed to ensure ro­ bust business practice for sustainability and other non­ financial 
business areas, throughout all Glencore business segments and 
commodity departments, at both corporate and local levels. 
It meets internationally­ accepted best practice standards for  
corporate governance and the management of non­ financial 
activities. We use it to continuously improve performance in 
these areas, and to develop internal and external understand­ ing and acceptance of how we manage sustainability.
t HE s COPE OF g CP
The GCP requirements are mandatory for everyone at Glencore. 
This applies throughout our marketing activities, and in all indus­ trial activities where we have operational control. 
g CP g OVERn An CE
Responsibility for GCP development and implementation lies 
with our management and the Health, Safety, Environment and 
Communities (HSEC) committee, established by Glencore’s 
Board in 2011. Chaired by an independent Board member, this 
committee provides the leadership, control and guidance that 
seeks to ensure group­ wide GCP adherence.
The committee evaluates how effectively we identify and man­ age environmental and health and safety risks, and assesses our 
compliance with the relevant regulations. It assesses the impact 
of Glencore sustainability programmes on our employees, local 
communities and other third parties, as well as the impact on 
our reputation. 
The committee receives management reports on all fatalities 
and serious accidents (and the resulting actions), and evaluates 
and oversees all sustainability reporting to external stakehold­ ers, on behalf of the Board. It reviews the results of any inde­ pendent audits of Glencore’s sustainability performance, and 
any management strategies and action plans created in re­ sponse to issues raised, making recommendations to the Board 
as appropriate and providing guidance to management.
PROg REss OVERViEw FOR 2012
Health and safety
We regret to report 22 fatalities at our operations in 2012 (com­ pared to 18 in both 2011 and 2010). It is quite clear that we must 
continue with our unwavering focus on improving health and 
safety practices. Despite the unacceptably high level of fatali­ ties, we were able to reduce our lost time injury frequency rate 
to 2.84 (per million hours worked), down from 3.58 in 2011.
In 2012 we conducted independent health and safety assess­ ments, combined with baseline studies of our environmental 
activities, at almost all our major assets. We used this compre­ hensive data to create and introduce a systematic improvement 
plan, in conjunction with our external assessor DuPont. Among 
a range of initiatives, the plan includes stringent fatality inves­ tigation procedures. The essence of our learning from these  
assessments is summarised in the new GCP programme’s 
health and safety section. This was made public in our 2011  
sustainability report, published in November 2012.
Environment
We experienced no serious environmental incidents (classified 
as “Class A: Major” within our environmental incident reporting 
system) in 2012, as in 2011 and 2010. We believe that this posi­ tive result demonstrates the robust nature of our procedures and 
policies, which enable us to effectively manage our extensive and 
complex business activities with minimal environmental impact. 
The GCP programme also commits us to a path of continuous 
improvement in our environmental performance. 2012 saw a num­ ber of initiatives commenced, implemented or completed. One 
of the most important is the upgrade to our smelter in Mufulira, 
Zambia. In this final stage of work, we are installing further gas 
capturing equipment and a second acid plant. The upgrade will 
be completed by the end of 2013, allowing the plant to capture 
over 97% of its sulphur dioxide emissions. This is approximately 18 
months ahead of the timetable set by the Zambian government in 
the environmental management plan agreed during privatisation.
Another achievement in 2012 was the agreement in April to re­ sume operations at our Mufulira heap leach facilities. While op­ erations at this plant were within prescribed environmental limits, 
residents of the nearby Butondo township had raised objections. 
This led to the temporary suspension of operations while con­ ducting an investigation into the community’s concerns. An all­ inclusive stakeholder consultation process, including local repre­ sentatives, NGOs and the Zambian environmental management 
agency, facilitated an amicable resolution of the situation and led 
to enhanced safety and environmental measures.
International law
Best practice standards
GCP principles
Group and local 
policies
GCP management
Local law   |  Annual Report 2012  |  19
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n Communities
Our Calenturitas coal project in Cesar province, Colombia, con­ tinues with the previously reported resettlement project initiat­ ed due to air quality concerns. Prodeco is working together with 
three other mining companies and an external team of local and 
international resettlement experts appointed in 2011. Together, 
the stakeholders have formed the negotiation committees that 
are now working to agree a resettlement action plan. 
We also continued our established programme of social devel­ opment projects; the representative examples below are taken 
from our activities in the DRC. The operations involved are  
Katanga and Mutanda and the main areas of focus are infrastruc­ ture, health and education. 
Infrastructure: Katanga has paved over 19 kilometres of roads 
in Kolwezi and maintains a further 30 kilometres between 
nearby villages. It has also refurbished roads in Lubumbashi 
and contributed to the commissioning of a new ferry for the 
Lualaba river. Separately, Mutanda has funded the construc­ tion of a new bridge over the Lualaba as well as maintaining 
roads. Both operations have also provided infrastructure to 
supply drinking water for several villages. They have donated 
farming supplies to the Provincial Ministry of Agriculture, and 
Katanga has assisted individual farmers with seed, tools and 
fertilisers, while Mutanda provides ongoing funding for a fish 
farm in Kando.
A joint programme with the DRC’s national electricity utility 
will see us fund a major $ 284 million power refurbishment pro­ gramme. Funding started in the second quarter of 2012 and will 
continue until the end of 2015. The programme will increase 
capacity to the public power grid and improve the general  
reliability and stability of supplies for the region.
Health: both operations have built state­ of­ the­ art on­ site 
hospitals and run comprehensive HIV/AIDS training and treat­ ment programmes. Katanga donates pharmaceuticals for ma­ laria and other common diseases, such as diarrhoea, coughs 
and fever. Mutanda’s two clinics in neighbouring communities 
offer weekly open clinics. Katanga’s malaria programme in­ cludes vector control spraying for nearly ten thousand house­ holds, while both operations’ programmes include spraying 
of homes, plants, mines, offices and local government offices. 
Mutanda has worked with the government to open a vaccina­ tion clinic for children under five, as well as an independent 
mother and baby programme to help eliminate infant malnutri­ tion. These programmes have helped reduce infant mortality 
rates to a third of previous levels. Katanga has also built two 
new hospitals in Kisangani (Orientale province) and Pweto  
(Katanga province). 
Education: Katanga and Mutanda have assisted in renovating 
and supporting local schools, benefitting 9,500 pupils with 
desks, books, computers and buildings. Both have made finan­ cial contributions and supplied raw materials, engineers and 
labour to a number of schools, colleges and universities. This 
includes UNIKOL (University of Kolwezi), Matendo school in 
Kolwezi, Nyumba ya Heri school and ISTA (Institut Supérieur de 
Techniques Appliquées).
Reporting
We issued our second public sustainability report (cover­ ing 2011) in the last quarter of 2012. This is available to read  
online or download at www.glencore.com/sustainability.  
Annual reporting will continue this year with the publication 
covering progress and changes in 2012.
t HE g CP PROg RAMME
2012 also saw the enhancement of our GCP programme (pub­ lished in our 2011 sustainability report), incorporating Board­ approved group­ wide sustainability targets and objectives into 
the existing GCP framework. Progress is monitored closely by 
the HSEC Board committee on a regular basis.
The programme has two elements: strategic objectives, which 
are updated as they are achieved, and ongoing projects.  
Together, these address our key sustainability goals and set 
out our strategy for the next three to five years, allowing us to 
measure and report on our progress towards fulfilling our GCP 
commitments.  20  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
1.6 | Key performance indicators
Glencore’s financial and sustainable development key performance indicators (KPIs) provide some measure of our performance 
against key drivers of our strategy.
Adjusted EBIT
Funds from operations (FFO)
Net debt/FFO to net debt 
Fatalities
2010 2011 2012
0
US $ million
4 000
2 000
1 000
6 000
5 000
3 000
2010 2011 2012
0
US $ million
2 000
1 000
4 000
3 000
1
 Adjusted for Viterra acquisition
US $ million
%
2010 2011 2012 
1
0 0
10
20
40
50
60
30
10 000
5 000
2 500
15 000
12 500
7 500
2010 2011 2012
0
number
20
10
5
25
15
Adjusted EBIT is a measure that provides insight into Glencore’s overall business 
performance (a combination of cost management, seizing market opportunities and 
growth) and the corresponding flow driver towards achieving an industry leading  
return on equity. Adjusted EBIT as defined in the glossary on page 166 consists of rev­ enue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of in­ come from associates and jointly controlled entities and dividend income as disclosed 
on the face of the consolidated statement of income, excluding significant items. 
2012 Adjusted EBIT was down 17% to $ 4,470 million compared to 2011 due to lower 
contributions from our industrial activities which were affected by generally lower  
year on year average commodity prices for the key commodities which we and our 
associates (primarily Xstrata) produce.
FFO is a measure that reflects Glencore’s ability to generate cash for investment, debt 
servicing and distributions to shareholders as well as an indication of Glencore’s ability 
to deliver against its growth and financial flexibility objectives. FFO comprises cash 
provided by operating activities before working capital changes less tax and net inter­ est payments plus dividends received and adding back listing related expenses in 2011.
2012 FFO was up 17% to $ 4,115 million compared to $ 3,522 million in 2011, reflecting 
the higher Adjusted EBITDA from marketing activities.
Net debt is an absolute measure of how we are managing our balance sheet and capi­ tal structure, while of equal or greater importance, the relationship of FFO to net debt 
is an indication of our financial flexibility and strength, a key driver of our strategy. 
Net debt is defined as total current and non­ current borrowings less cash and cash 
equivalents, marketable securities and readily marketable inventory. 
Net debt as at 31 December 2012 increased to $ 15,416 million from $ 12,938 million 
as at 31 December 2011. $ 359 million of net debt was assumed in the Viterra acquisi­ tion and $ 3.6 billion of net debt was incurred to finance Glencore’s effective share 
of the equity purchase consideration. Adjusting for the increase in net debt attribut­ able to the Viterra acquisition (completed mid­ December 2012), net debt would be  
$ 11,457 million, a decrease of $ 1,481 million compared to 2011. The ratio FFO to Net 
debt (adjusted for the Viterra acquisition) improved from 27.2% in 2011 to 35.9% in 
2012. A healthy positive free cash flow generation/FFO is expected from the Viterra 
asset base going forward, which is expected to offer support to debt coverage ratios 
and deleveraging initiatives into the future. 
We deeply regret the 22 fatalities at our managed operations in 2012. This was an 
increase compared to 2011 and 2010 (both of which saw 18 fatalities) and included a 
tragic car accident in Argentina where four people lost their lives.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  21
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n The lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) is a key measure of how we are deliver­ ing against our commitment to the health and safety of our employees. The LTIFR is 
calculated based on the total number of injuries per million hours worked (by both 
employees and contractors)
In 2012, our group LTIFR fell from 3.58 to 2.84. This improvement primarily came from 
our metals and minerals and agricultural product segments, while the energy prod­ ucts segment saw a slight increase (however, this was from a much lower original rate). 
Metals and minerals (representing 70% of our industrial workforce) reduced its LTIFR 
from 3.06 to 2.37, agriculture (representing 10%) from 12.61 to 10.78, while energy 
products (representing 20%) increased from 0.81 to 0.86. 
We undertake an extensive and complex range of activities, which are not limited to 
the extraction of natural resources but also include significant logistical operations 
such as maritime transportation. One way in which we measure the robustness of our 
procedures and policies is the frequency of Class A environmental incidents in the 
group. This is our classification for disastrous or close­ to disastrous incidents and  
involves accidents or spills with a major environmental impact and a long­ term effect, 
reversible only by long­ term remediation with aftercare. 
 
No Class A environmental incidents were reported in 2012 (as in 2011 and 2010).
Community investments are Glencore’s contributions to, and financial support of, the 
broader communities in the regions where we operate.
In 2012 Glencore’s community investments amounted to $ 95 million, compared to 
$ 140 million in 2011 and $ 71 million in 2010. A large part of the difference between 
2012 and 2011 was due to the conclusion of an extensive investment project at Kazzinc.
Water withdrawal is a measure of our operational resource efficiency.
In 2012, we used 484 million m
3
 of water, representing a 3.3% reduction in water  
withdrawal compared to 500 million m
3 
in 2011 (in 2010 the figure was 413 million m
3
), 
despite the acquisition of additional operations, largely due to the implementation of 
technical improvements.
Our GHG emission reporting is separated into Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Scope 1 
includes emissions from combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces and  
vehicles/vessels, and Scope 2 consists of those generated in creating the electricity 
(the majority of contributions), steam, heat, etc, provided to the organisation by exter­ nal utility companies.
In 2012, Glencore accounted for 15.7 million tonnes of CO
2
e, compared to 12.8 million 
tonnes in 2011 and 11.2 million tonnes in 2010. This increase is primarily due to newly ac­ quired assets (especially coal assets) and continued refinement of our GHG reporting.
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)
Number of Class A environmental incidents 
Community investments
Water withdrawal
Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2)
L T I FR
Metals and minerals
Energy products
Agricultural products
2010 2011 2012
8
10
12
14
4
6
2
0
2010 2011 2012
0
US $ million
80
40
160
120
2010 2011 2012
0
million m 
3
400
200
100
600
500
300
2010 2011 2012
0
million tonnes
12
6
3
18
15
9 22  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Impact: Fluctuations in the volume of each commodity produced or marketed by the 
Group could materially impact the Group’s business, results of operations and earn­ ings. These fluctuations could result in a reduction or increase in the income generated 
in respect of the volumes handled by the Group’s marketing activities, or a reduction 
or increase in the volume and/or margin in respect of commodities produced by the 
Group’s industrial assets. 
mI t Ig at Io n: The risk of fluctuations in demand for the commodities in which the Group 
markets is managed by maintaining a diversified portfolio of commodities to market, 
reducing the impact of movement in any one commodity market. Individual commodi­ ties, even apparently closely linked products such as barley and wheat, have their own 
demand cycles reducing over­ reliance on any single product. 
Impact: Fluctuations in the price of commodities produced or marketed could materi­ ally impact the Group’s business, results of operations and earnings. The impacts that 
fluctuating commodity prices have on the Group’s business differ between its market­ ing activities and industrial activities.
Marketing activities: In a market environment in which prices for a particular com­ modity are higher on average, the premiums/margins that the Group generates in its 
physical marketing operations relating to such commodity as a result of geographical, 
time and quality imbalances tend to be higher. The Group also generally benefits 
from fluctuating market prices, rather than long periods of stable prices, as it seeks to 
physically arbitrage such resulting price differentials. As prices of commodities rise, 
the Group generally has higher working capital financing requirements over the same 
quantity of commodities in question. During periods of falling commodity prices, the 
opposite applies in that the Group will require less working capital financing for its 
marketing activities.
Industrial activities: Higher prices will be particularly favourable to the profitability of 
the Group in respect of those commodities which the Group produces at its industrial 
assets or are produced by its associated companies and other investees. Similarly, low 
prices will negatively impact the Group’s industrial activities and could result in such 
activities incurring losses. 
EXTERNAL
Fluctuation in expected volumes of supply or demand for the commodities in which the Group markets
The Group is dependent on the ex­ pected volumes of supply or demand for 
commodities in which the Group is ac­ tive, which can vary over time based on 
changes in resource availability, govern­ ment policies and regulation, costs of 
production, global and regional econom­ ic conditions, demand in end markets for 
products in which the commodities are 
used, technological developments, in­ cluding commodity substitutions, fluc­ tuations in global production capacity, 
global and regional weather conditions, 
natural disasters and diseases, all of 
which impact global markets and de­ mand for commodities.
Fluctuation of commodity prices 
The revenue and earnings of the Group’s 
industrial asset activities and, to a lesser 
extent, its marketing activities are de­ pendent upon prevailing commodity 
prices. Commodity prices are influenced 
by a number of external factors, including 
the supply of and demand for commodi­ ties, speculative activities by market par­ ticipants, global political and economic 
conditions and related industry cycles 
and production costs in major producing 
countries.
1.7 |  Principal risks and uncertainties
The Group’s business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by competitive, eco­ nomic, political, legal, regulatory, social, business and financial risks and uncertainties. The risks described below are those that the 
Group currently believes may materially affect it (including following completion of the merger with Xstrata) although this is not an 
exhaustive list. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Group, or those which are currently deemed to be im­ material, may become material and adversely affect the Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects. 
The results may differ significantly from those previously projected as a result of certain factors, including the risks which it faces, 
as described below. The order in which the following is presented does not necessarily reflect the likelihood of their occurrence or 
the relative magnitude of their potential material adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition 
and/or prospects. These principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection with any forward looking statements 
in this document and the cautionary statement.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  23
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n Fluctuation in currency exchange rates
The vast majority of the Group’s trans­ actions are denominated in U.S. Dollars, 
while operating costs are spread across 
several different countries the currencies 
of which fluctuate against the U.S. Dollar. 
A significant downturn in the price of commodities generally results in a decline in the 
Group’s profitability during such a period and could potentially result in a devaluation 
of inventories and impairments. Although the impact of a downturn on commodity 
prices affects the Group’s marketing and industrial activities differently, the negative 
impact on its industrial activities is generally greater, as the profitability in the industri­ al activities is more directly exposed to price risk due to its higher level of fixed costs, 
while the Group’s marketing activities are ordinarily substantially hedged in respect of 
price risk and principally operate a service­ like margin­ based model.
mI t Ig at Io n: The risk of fluctuations in commodity prices is managed by maintaining 
a diversified portfolio of commodities, reducing the impact of movement to any in­ dividual commodity price. In addition, the Group continuously reviews and looks to 
optimise its asset portfolio to ensure it is sufficiently cost effective and efficient and 
a substantial portion of our inventory is either under contract for sale at a predeter­ mined price or hedged through futures and options on commodity exchanges or with 
highly rated counterparties. Therefore, at any one time, the commodity price risk is 
restricted to a small proportion of the working capital balance. Financial expense risk 
during periods of low commodities prices is mitigated by maintaining an investment 
grade rating and a mix of floating and fixed rate funding options, the former generally 
passed on via the transactional terms in marketing arrangements. 
Impact: The vast majority of transactions undertaken by both the Group’s marketing 
and industrial activities are denominated in U.S. Dollars. However, the Group is ex­ posed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates:
•  through its industrial activities, because a large proportion of the operating costs 
of these assets are denominated in the currency of the country in which each asset 
is located, the largest of such currency exposures being to the Australian Dollar, the 
Kazakhstan Tenge, the Colombian Peso, the Euro, the Chilean Peso, the Norwegian 
Kroner, the South African Rand, the Argentine Peso, the Peruvian Sol and the Cana­ dian Dollar (including via Glencore’s stake in Xstrata);
•  through the costs of the Group’s global office network, which are denominated 
largely in the currency of the country in which each office is located, the largest 
of such currency exposures being to the Swiss Franc, the Pound Sterling and the 
Euro; and
•  through its marketing activities, although only a small minority of purchase or sale 
transactions are denominated in currencies other than U.S. Dollars.
Foreign exchange rates have seen significant fluctuation in recent years and a depre­ ciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar against one or more of the currencies in which 
the Group incurs significant costs will therefore, to the extent it has not been hedged, 
result in an increase in the cost of these operations in U.S. Dollar terms and could ad­ versely affect the Group’s financial results.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group manages the risk of fluctuating currency exchanges rates by 
operating in a number of different geographies and by hedging specific future non 
U.S. Dollar denominated commodity purchase or sale commitments.  24  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Geopolitical risk
The Group operates and owns assets in a 
large number of geographic regions and 
countries some of which are categorised 
as developing, complex and having un­ stable political or social climates and, as  
a result, is exposed to a wide range of 
political, economic, regulatory and tax 
environments. These environments are 
subject to change in a manner that may be 
materially adverse for the Group, includ­ ing changes to government policies and 
regulations governing industrial produc­ tion, foreign investment, price controls, 
import and export controls, tariffs, subsi­ dies, income and other forms of taxation 
(including policies relating to the granting 
of advance rulings on taxation matters), 
nationalisation or expropriation of prop­ erty, repatriation of income, royalties, the 
environment and health and safety.
Compliance with a significant number of laws and regulations
As a diversified production, sourcing, 
marketing and distribution company 
conducting complex transactions global­ ly, the Group is exposed to and subject to 
extensive laws and regulations governing 
various matters. These include laws and  
regulations relating to bribery and cor­ ruption, taxation, anti­ trust, financial mar­ kets regulation, environmental protection, 
management and use of hazardous sub­ stances and explosives, management of  
natural resources, licences over resources 
owned by various governments, explora­ tion, development of projects, produc­ tion and post­ closure reclamation, the 
employment of expatriates, labour and 
occupational health and safety standards, 
and historic and cultural preservation.
Liquidity risk
The Group’s failure to obtain funds could 
limit its ability to engage in desired ac­ tivities and grow its business.
Impact: The geopolitical risks associated with operating in a large number of regions 
and countries, if realised, could affect the Group’s ability to manage or retain interests 
in its industrial activities and could have a material adverse effect on the profitability, 
ability to finance or, in extreme cases, viability of one or more of its industrial assets. 
Although the Group’s industrial assets are geographically diversified across various 
countries, disruptions in certain of its industrial operations at any given time could 
have a material adverse effect on the Group’s marketing business. 
mI t Ig at Io n: Geopolitical risk is managed through geographical diversification of 
commodities and operations, continuous monitoring and dialogue through and with 
the Group’s network of field offices and a commitment to engage proactively with em­ ployees and the communities in which it operates, in order to maintain and improve 
its licence to operate.
Impact: These laws and regulations may allow governmental authorities and private 
parties to bring lawsuits based upon damages to property and injury to persons re­ sulting from the environmental, health and safety and other impacts of the Group’s 
past and current operations, and could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, 
penalties, other civil or criminal sanctions, the curtailment or cessation of opera­ tions, orders to pay compensation, orders to remedy the effects of violations and/
or orders to take preventative steps against possible future violations. Moreover, 
the costs associated with compliance with these laws and regulations are sub­ stantial. Any changes to these laws or regulations or more stringent enforcement 
or restrictive interpretation of current laws and regulations could cause additional 
expenditure (including capital expenditure) to be incurred or impose restrictions 
on or suspensions of the Group’s operations and delays in the development of its 
properties. In addition, obtaining the necessary governmental permits can be a par­ ticularly complex and time­ consuming process and may involve costly undertakings. 
The duration and success of permit applications are contingent on many factors, 
including those outside the Group’s control. Failure to obtain or renew a neces­ sary permit could mean that such companies would be unable to proceed with the 
development or continued operation of a mine or project, which, in turn, may have 
a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of operations, financial 
condition and prospects.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group is committed to complying with or exceeding the laws, regu­ lations and best practice guidelines applicable to its operations and products in the 
jurisdictions in which it operates and through continuous monitoring of legislative 
requirements and engagement with government and regulators it strives to ensure 
full compliance.
Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to the Group’s businesses. Liquidity 
risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or 
that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured 
or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments. 
While the Group adjusts its minimum internal liquidity targets in response to changes 
in market conditions, these minimum internal liquidity targets may be breached due 
to circumstances it is unable to control, such as general market disruptions, sharp    |  Annual Report 2012  |  25
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n MARKETING ACTIVITIES
Arbitrage opportunities
The Group’s marketing activities are de­ pendent, in part, on its ability to identify 
and take advantage of arbitrage oppor­ tunities.
Hedging strategy
The Group’s hedging strategy may not 
always be effective, does not require all 
risks to be hedged and may leave an ex­ posure to basis risk.
increases in the prices of commodities or an operational problem that affects its sup­ pliers or customers or itself.
Impact: A lack of liquidity may mean that the Group will not have funds available to 
maintain or increase its marketing activities and industrial activities.
Marketing activities: The Group’s marketing activities employ significant amounts of 
working capital to fund purchases of commodities for future delivery to its end cus­ tomers, to meet margin requirements under derivative contracts and to fund the ac­ quisition and maintenance of certain transport and storage assets which complement 
its marketing activities. Any inability to fund these amounts of working capital may 
prevent the Group from maintaining its historic levels of marketing activity or from 
increasing such levels in the future.
 Industrial activities: The Group’s industrial activities may be capital intensive and the 
continued funding of such activities is critical to maintain its ownership interests in its 
industrial assets, to maintain production levels in periods when net operating cash 
flow is negative or insufficient to cover capital expenditures, to increase production 
levels in the future in accordance with its business plans and to grow its industrial 
activities through the acquisition of new assets. Any inability to fund these operating 
and capital expenditure requirements may prevent the Group from maintaining or 
growing its industrial activities’ production output.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group operates a policy of liquidity risk management, whereby it 
seeks to maintain (via a minimum prescribed level) sufficient cash and cash equiva­ lents and other sources of committed funding available to meet anticipated and  
unanticipated funding needs. 
Impact: Many of the physical commodity markets in which the Group operates are  
fragmented or periodically volatile. As a result, discrepancies generally arise in  
respect of the prices at which the commodities can be bought or sold in different 
forms, geographic locations or time periods, taking into account the numerous  
relevant pricing factors, including freight and product quality. These pricing discrep­ ancies can present the Group with arbitrage opportunities whereby the Group is able 
to generate profit by sourcing, transporting, blending, storing or otherwise processing 
the relevant commodities. Profitability of the Group’s marketing activities is, in large 
part, dependent on its ability to identify and exploit such arbitrage opportunities. A 
lack of such opportunities, for example due to a prolonged period of pricing stability 
in a particular market, or an inability to take advantage of such opportunities when 
they present themselves, because of, for example, a shortage of liquidity or an inabil­ ity to access required logistics assets or other operational constraints, could adversely  
impact the Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group mitigates the risk of an inability to take advantage of arbitrage 
opportunities or lack thereof by maintaining a diversified portfolio of products and 
through informational advantages the Group enjoys via its global network, its size­ able market share and logistics capabilities in many commodities enabling it to move 
quickly in response to arbitrage opportunities afforded by fluctuations and disequi­ librium in commodity markets.
Impact: The Group’s marketing activities involve a significant number of purchase and 
sale transactions across multiple commodities. To the extent the Group purchases a 
commodity from a supplier and does not immediately have a matching contract to sell 
the commodity to a customer, a downturn in the price of the commodity could result  26  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Counterparty credit and performance risk 
The Group, in particular via its marketing 
activities, is subject to non performance 
risk by its suppliers, customers and hedg­ ing counterparties. 
in losses to the Group. Conversely, to the extent the Group agrees to sell a commodity 
to a customer and does not immediately have a matching contract to acquire the com­ modity from a supplier, an increase in the price of the commodity could result in losses 
to the Group, as it then seeks to acquire the underlying commodity in a rising market.
In the event of disruptions in the commodity exchanges or markets on which the 
Group engages in hedging transactions, the Group’s ability to manage commodity 
price risk may be adversely affected and this could in turn materially adversely affect 
its business, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, there are no traded or bilateral derivative markets for certain commodities 
that the Group purchases and sells, which limits the Group’s ability to fully hedge its 
exposure to price fluctuations for these commodities. 
mI t Ig at Io n: In order to mitigate the risks in its marketing activities related to commod­ ity price fluctuations and potential losses, the Group has a policy, at any given time, 
of hedging substantially all of its marketing inventory not already contracted for sale 
at pre­ determined prices through futures and swap commodity derivative contracts, 
either on commodities’ exchanges or in the over the counter market.
In instances where there are no traded or bilateral derivative markets for certain com­ modities, the Group’s ability to hedge its commodity exposure is limited to forward 
contracts for the physical delivery of a commodity or futures and swap contracts for a 
different, but seemingly related, commodity.
Impact: Non­ performance by the Group’s suppliers, customers and hedging counter­ parties may occur in a range of situations, such as: 
•  a significant increase in commodity prices could result in suppliers being unwilling 
to honour their contractual commitments to sell commodities to the Group at pre­ agreed prices;
•  a significant reduction in commodity prices could result in customers being unwilling 
or unable to honour their contractual commitments to purchase commodities from 
the Group at pre­ agreed prices;
•  customers may take delivery of commodities from the Group and then find them­ selves unable to honour their payment obligations due to financial distress or any 
other reasons; and
•  hedging counterparties may find themselves unable to honour their contractual 
commitment due to financial distress or other reasons.
Non­ performance by a counterparty could have an adverse impact on its business, 
results of operations and financial condition, including by creating an unintended, 
unmatched commodity price exposure.
In addition, financial assets consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents,  
marketable securities, receivables and advances, derivative instruments and long­ term advances and loans could potentially expose the Group to concentrations of 
credit risk.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group seeks to reduce the risk of customer non­ performance by  
requiring credit support from creditworthy financial institutions including making 
extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit, insurance 
policies and bank guarantees, where appropriate, and by imposing limits on open 
accounts extended. Whilst these limits are believed appropriate based on current 
levels of perceived risk, there is a possibility that a protracted difficult economic en­ vironment would negatively impact the quality of these exposures. In addition, mark­ to­ market exposures in relation to hedging contracts are regularly and substantially 
collateralised (primarily with cash) pursuant to margin arrangements put in place with 
such hedge counterparties.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  27
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n Risk management policies and procedures
Identifying, quantifying and managing 
risk is complex and challenging and al­ though it is the Group’s policy and prac­ tice to identify and, where appropriate 
and practical, actively manage such risks 
to support its objectives in managing 
its capital and future financial security 
and flexibility, the Group’s policies and 
procedures may not adequately identify, 
monitor and quantify risk.
Supply of commodities from third parties
The Group purchases a portion of the 
physical commodities sold by its market­ ing activities from its controlled indus­ trial operations and associates, including 
Xstrata. The remainder of the commodi­ ties sourced by its marketing operations 
are purchased from third party suppli­ ers and entities in which the Group has 
a minority stake (excluding associates). 
The Group expects to continue to source 
commodities from such third parties in 
the future. The Group is potentially ex­ posed to both price and supply risks with 
respect to commodities sourced from 
third parties and entities in which it holds 
a minority stake. The Group is reliant on 
third parties to source the majority of the 
commodities purchased by its marketing 
operations.
The Group actively monitors the credit quality of its counterparties, including the 
risk of non­ performance by suppliers and customers alike, through internal reviews, 
strong relationships and industry experience and a credit scoring process which in­ cludes, where available, public credit ratings.
Impact: The Group’s marketing activities are exposed to commodity price, foreign 
exchange, interest rate, counterparty (including credit), operational, regulatory and 
other risks. The Group has devoted significant resources to developing and imple­ menting policies and procedures to manage these risks and expects to continue to do 
so in the future. Nonetheless, the Group’s policies and procedures to identify, monitor 
and manage risks have not been fully effective in the past and may not be fully effec­ tive in the future. Some of the Group’s methods of monitoring and managing risk are 
based on historical market behaviour that may not be an accurate predictor of future 
market behaviour. Other risk management methods depend on evaluation of infor­ mation relating to markets, suppliers, customers and other matters that are publicly 
available or otherwise accessible by the Group. This information may not in all cases 
be accurate, complete, up to date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, 
legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to 
properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these poli­ cies and procedures may not be fully effective in doing so.
Failure to mitigate all risks associated with the Group’s business could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group uses, among other techniques, Value­ at­ Risk, or VaR, as a key 
market risk measurement technique for its marketing activities. VaR does not purport 
to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by the 
Group, nor does the Group expect that VaR results are indicative of future market 
movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results. VaR has certain 
limitations; notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, 
market illiquidity risks and tail risks. While the Group recognises these limitations and 
continuously refines its VaR analysis, there can be no assurance that its VaR analy­ sis will be an effective risk management methodology. Management of counterparty 
non­ payment risk is mitigated by substantial use of credit enhancement products, in­ cluding letters of credit, insurance and bank guarantees. Please refer to section 2.1 Fi­ nancial review for further explanation on the use of VaR.
Impact: Any disruptions in the supply of product by factors such as weather and other 
natural disasters, unexpected maintenance problems, collapse or damage to mines, 
labour disruptions and changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the 
Group’s margins. The Group’s business, results of operations, financial condition and 
prospects could be materially adversely impacted if it is unable to continue to source 
required volumes of commodities from its suppliers on reasonable terms or at all.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group sources product from a large range of suppliers (industrial as­ sets and third parties) and is not reliant on any one supplier to satisfy its performance. 
This enables the Group to source alternative product in the event of supply disruption. 
The Group benefits from investments in numerous communities and shared owner­ ship with local entities that helps to mitigate against some country specific risks. 28  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics support
The Group’s marketing activities require 
access to significant amounts of freight, 
storage, infrastructure and logistics sup­ port and it is exposed to increases in the 
costs thereof. In addition, the Group of­ ten competes with other producers, pur­ chasers or marketers of commodities or 
other products for limited storage and 
berthing facilities at ports and freight 
terminals, which can result in delays in 
loading or unloading the Group’s prod­ ucts and expose the Group to significant 
delivery interruptions.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES
Non-controlling stakes, joint ventures and strategic, partnership arrangements
Some of the Group’s industrial assets are 
held through non­ controlling stakes or 
joint ventures and strategic partnership 
arrangements.
Project development
The Group has a number of significant 
expansions planned for its existing op­ erations and plans for certain new pro­ jects, the development of which is ex­ posed to a number of risks outside of its 
control such as technical uncertainties, 
availability of suitable financing, infra­ structure constraints, cost overruns, in­ sufficient labour skills or resources and 
delays in permitting or other regulatory 
matters.
Impact: Increases in the costs of freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics support 
or limitations or interruptions in the supply chain which impedes the Group’s ability 
to deliver its products on time, could adversely affect the Group’s business, results of 
operations or financial condition.
mI t Ig at Io n: The risk of disruptions to or limitations of freight, storage, infrastructure 
and logistics support is mitigated through the Group’s market position, global reach 
and its longstanding relationships with third party suppliers of freight. These give the 
Group an advantage in ensuring its commodity transport needs are met along with its 
investments in storage and logistic assets such as vessels, oil terminals and tank farms, 
metals and other warehouses and grain silos.
Impact: The Group does not control a number of its industrial investments. Although 
the Group has various structures in place which seek to protect its position where it 
does not exercise control, the boards of these companies may:
•  have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with or are opposed 
to those of the Group;
•  exercise veto rights or take shareholders’ decisions so as to block actions that the 
Group believes to be in its best interests and/or in the best interests of all shareholders;
•  take action contrary to the Group’s policies or objectives with respect to its invest­ ments or commercial arrangements; or
•  as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obli­ gations under any joint venture or other agreement, such as contributing capital to 
expansion or maintenance projects.
Improper management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls of a non­ con­ trolled entity could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial 
condition of the relevant investment and, therefore, of the Group.
mI t Ig at Io n: Where projects and operations are controlled and managed by the 
Group’s co­ investors or where control is shared on an equal basis, the Group may 
provide expertise and advice, but it has limited or restricted ability to mandate com­ pliance with the Group’s policies and/or objectives.
Impact: Any future upward revisions in estimated project costs, delays in completing 
planned expansions, cost overruns, suspension of current projects or other operation­ al difficulties after commissioning, may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s 
business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects, in turn requiring the 
Group to consider delaying discretionary expenditures, including capital expendi­ tures, or suspending or altering the scope of one or more of its development projects.
mI t Ig at Io n: Project development risks are mitigated and managed through the Group’s 
continuous project status evaluation and reporting processes, the significant focus of 
such being appropriate approval processes and transparent and timely reporting of 
costs and progress relative to plan. Significant projects are regularly audited against 
the project plan and reporting processes.    |  Annual Report 2012  |  29
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n Operating risks and hazards
The Group’s industrial activities are sub­ ject to numerous operating risks and haz­ ards normally associated with the devel­ opment and operation of natural resource 
projects, many of which are beyond the 
Group’s control. 
These operating risks and hazards include 
unanticipated variations in grade and 
other geological problems, seismic ac­ tivity, climatic conditions such as flood­ ing or drought, metallurgical and other 
processing problems, technical failures, 
unavailability of materials and equip­ ment, interruptions to power supplies, 
industrial actions or disputes, industrial 
accidents, labour force disruptions, un­ anticipated logistical and transportation 
constraints, tribal action or political pro­ tests, force majeure factors, environmen­ tal hazards, fire, explosions, vandalism 
and crime. 
Title to the land, resource tenure and extraction rights
The Group has industrial activities in­ vestments in certain countries where ti­ tle to land and rights in respect of land 
and resources (including indigenous ti­ tle) has not been and may not always be 
clear, creating the potential for disputes 
over resource development. Title to the 
Group’s mining and hydrocarbon rights 
may be challenged or impugned, and  
title insurance may not generally be avail­ able. In many cases, the government of 
the country in which a particular asset is 
located is the sole authority able to grant 
such rights and, in some cases, may have 
limited infrastructure and limited re­ sources which may constrain the Group’s 
ability to ensure that it has obtained se­ cure title to individual exploration licenc­ es or extraction rights.
Availability of infrastructure
The production, processing and product 
delivery capabilities of the Group’s in­ dustrial assets rely on their infrastructure 
being adequate and remaining available. 
Impact: These risks and hazards could result in damage to, or destruction of, proper­ ties or production facilities, may cause production to be reduced or to cease at those 
properties or production facilities, may result in a decrease in the quality of the prod­ ucts, personal injury or death, environmental damage, business interruption and legal 
liability and may result in actual production differing from estimates of production.
The realisation of such operating risks and hazards and the costs associated with them 
could materially adversely affect the Group’s business, results of operations and finan­ cial condition, including by requiring significant capital and operating expenditures to 
abate the risk or hazard, restore the Group or third party property, compensate third 
parties for any loss and/or pay fines or damages.
mI t Ig at Io n: Operating risks and hazards are managed through the Group’s continuous 
assessment, reporting and communication of the risks that affect its business through 
its annual risk review processes and updates to its risk register. In addition, risk is miti­ gated somewhat through geographic and multiple project diversification.
Impact: Any dispute, relating to a material industrial asset, could disrupt or delay 
relevant mining, processing or other projects and/or impede the Group’s ability to 
develop new industrial properties, which may have a material adverse effect on the 
Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
mI t Ig at Io n: Title and tenure risks are managed through geographical diversification 
of commodities and operations, continuous monitoring and dialogue through and 
with the Group’s network of local offices and a commitment to engage proactively 
with employees, governments and the communities in which the Group operates to 
maintain and better its licence to operate.
Impact: The mining, drilling, processing, development and exploration activities of 
the industrial assets in which the Group holds an interest depend on adequate infra­ structure. Certain of these assets are located in areas that are sparsely populated and 
difficult to access. Reliable roads, power sources, transport infrastructure and water 
supplies are essential for the conduct of these operations and the availability and cost 
of these utilities and infrastructure affect capital and operating costs and therefore 
the Group’s ability to maintain expected levels of production and results of opera­ tions. Unusual weather or other natural phenomena, sabotage or other interference 
in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could impact the development 
of a project, reduce production volumes, increase extraction or exploration costs or 
delay the transportation of raw materials to the mines and projects and commodities 
to end customers. Any such issues arising in respect of the infrastructure supporting  30  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Cost control
As commodity prices themselves are 
outside of the Group’s control, the com­ petitiveness and sustainable long­ term  
profitability of its industrial asset port­ folio depends significantly on its ability 
to closely manage costs and maintain 
a broad spectrum of low­ cost, efficient 
operations. Costs associated with the 
operation of the Group’s industrial as­ sets can be broadly categorised into la­ bour costs and other on­ site expenses, 
including power and equipment costs. 
Resources and reserves
The Group’s stated mineral, coal and hy­ drocarbon reserves, resources and min­ eralised potential are only estimates and 
the anticipated volumes or grades may 
not be achieved. 
Environmental hazards
The processes and chemicals used in 
the Group’s extraction and production 
methods, as well as its shipping and 
storage activities, are subject to environ­ mental hazards. 
or on the Group’s sites could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, 
results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 
mI t Ig at Io n: Availability of infrastructure risk is mitigated through the continuous moni­ toring and dialogue through and with the Group’s network of local offices, a com­ mitment to engage proactively with governments and the communities in which the 
Group operates to maintain and improve its licence to operate, and where appropri­ ate, the establishment of back­ up sources of power.
Impact: Production costs are heavily influenced by the extent of ongoing develop­ ment required, ore grades, mine planning, processing technology, logistics, energy 
and supply costs and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on costs of opera­ tions. All of the Group’s industrial assets are, to varying degrees, affected by increas­ es in costs for labour and fuel. Unit production costs are also significantly affected 
by production volumes and therefore production levels are frequently a key factor 
in determining the overall cost competitiveness of the Group’s industrial activities. 
Any increase in input costs will adversely affect the Group’s results of operations and  
financial condition.
mI t Ig at Io n: Maintaining costs and where appropriate lowering them is supported by the 
Group’s continuous reporting on these measures, coupled with the inclusion of certain 
cost control evaluation measures in assessing management performance. In addition, 
risk is mitigated somewhat through geographic and multiple project diversification.
Impact: Actual reserves, resources or mineralised potential may not conform to ge­ ological, metallurgical or other expectations, and the volume and grade of ore or 
product recovered may be below the estimated levels. Lower market prices, increased 
production costs, reduced recovery rates and other factors may render the Group’s 
reserves, resources or mineralised potential uneconomical to exploit and may result 
in revision of its reserve estimates from time to time. If the Group’s actual mineral, 
coal and hydrocarbon reserves and resources are less than current estimates or if the 
Group fails to develop its resource base through the realisation of identified or new 
mineral potential, the Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition 
may be materially and adversely affected.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group updates annually the quantity and quality of the estimated 
proven and probable reserves to reflect extraction, additional drilling and other avail­ able data in accordance with internationally recognised reporting frameworks, includ­ ing JORC, SAMREC and PRMS. For the major deposits, the estimates are prepared and 
signed off by independent competent persons.
Impact: Where the Group holds or has interests in industrial activities, these assets are 
generally subject to environmental hazards as a result of the processes and chemicals 
used in traditional extraction, production, storage, disposal and transportation meth­ ods. Environmental hazards may exist on the Group’s owned or leased properties or 
at those of the industrial activities in which it holds an interest, or may be encountered 
while its products are in transit. The storage of tailings at the Group’s industrial assets 
may present a risk to the environment, property and persons, where there remains a 
risk of leakage from or failure of the Group’s tailings dams, as well as theft and vandal­ ism during the operating life of the assets or after closure.
Additionally, the Group conducts oil exploration and drilling activities and also stores 
and transports crude oil and oil products around the world. Damage to exploration or 
drilling equipment, a vessel carrying oil or a facility where oil is stored could lead to a 
spill, causing environmental damage with significant clean­ up or remediation costs.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  31
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
Emissions and climate change regulation
The Group’s global presence exposes 
it to a number of jurisdictions in which 
regulations or laws have been or are be­ ing considered to limit or reduce emis­ sions. The likely effect of these changes 
will be to increase the cost for fossil fu­ els, impose levies for emissions in excess 
certain permitted levels and increase 
administrative costs for monitoring and 
reporting. 
Community relations
The continued success of the Group’s ex­ isting operations and its future projects 
are in part dependent upon broad sup­ port and a healthy relationship with the 
respective local communities. 
The Group may be liable for losses associated with environmental hazards, have its 
licences and permits withdrawn or suspended or may be forced to undertake exten­ sive remedial clean­ up action or to pay for government­ ordered remedial clean­ up 
actions, even in cases where such hazards have been caused by any previous or subse­ quent owners or operators of the property, by any past or present owners of adjacent 
properties, by independent third party contractors providing services to the Group 
or by acts of vandalism by trespassers. Any such losses, withdrawals, suspensions, ac­ tions or payments may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, results 
of operations and financial condition.
mI t Ig at Io n: Compliance with international and local regulations and standards, pro­ tecting our people, communities and the environment from harm and our operations 
from business interruptions are top priorities for the Group. The Group operating 
procedures and those of its partners in relation to owned tankers conform to industry 
best practise working under the guidelines of the International Maritime Organisa­ tion (“IMO”), relevant Flag States and top tier Classification societies. Tankers char­ tered from third parties are required to meet strict vetting inspection requirements 
in line with OCIMF (Oil Companies International Marine Forum) and the Group’s 
own standards. The Group’s oil exploration activities engage best industry practises 
and procedures and utilise first class drilling contractors with proven expertise and 
experience. Additionally, wide­ spread and comprehensive insurance cover is actively 
procured, to reduce the financial impact of operational risks, property damage, busi­ ness interruption and environmental liabilities to the extent possible.
Impact: Increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including the progressive 
introduction of carbon emissions trading mechanisms and tighter emission reduction 
targets is likely to raise production, transportation and administrative costs. In addi­ tion, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions of the Group’s major 
customers and in relation to international shipping could also have a material adverse 
effect on the demand for some of the Group’s products.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group, through its sustainability program, strives to ensure emissions 
and climate change issues are identified, understood and effectively managed and  
monitored in order to meet international best practice standards and ensure regulatory 
compliance.
Impact: If it is perceived that the Group is not respecting or advancing the economic and 
social progress and safety of the communities in which it operates, the Group’s reputa­ tion and shareholder value could be damaged, which could have a negative impact on 
its ‘‘social licence to operate’’, its ability to secure new resources and its financial perfor­ mance. The consequences of negative community reaction could also have a material 
adverse impact on the cost, profitability, ability to finance or even the viability of an oper­ ation. Such events could lead to disputes with national or local governments or with local 
communities or any other stakeholders and give rise to material reputational damage. If 
the Group’s operations are delayed or shut down as a result of political and community 
instability, its earnings may be constrained and the long­ term value of its business could 
be adversely impacted. Even in cases where no action adverse to the Group is actually 
taken, the uncertainty associated with such political or community instability could nega­ tively impact the perceived value of the Group’s assets and industrial investments and, 
consequently, have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group believes that the best way to manage these vital relationships 
is to adhere to the principles of open dialogue and co­ operation and in doing so it 
engages with local communities to present and demonstrate the positive communal  32  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Employees
The maintenance of positive employee 
and union relations and the ability to at­ tract and retain skilled workers are key to 
the success of the Group. 
Health, safety and environment 
The Group’s operations are subject to 
health, safety and environmental regula­ tions and legislation along with complying 
with the Group’s corporate sustainability 
framework. 
attributes of the Group’s local operations and ensure that appropriate measures are 
taken to prevent or mitigate possible adverse effects on them, along with the regular 
reporting of such.
Impact: Some of the Group’s employees, as well as employees in non­ controlled  
industrial investments, are represented by labour unions under various collective  
labour agreements. The Group or the industrial investments in which it holds an inter­ est may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its collective labour agreements when 
they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher wage demands than would 
be the case for non­ unionised labour. In addition, existing labour agreements may not 
prevent a strike or work stoppage at its facilities in the future, and any strike or other 
work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of 
operations and financial condition. 
The success of the Group’s business is also dependent on its ability to attract and 
retain highly effective marketing and logistics personnel as well as highly qualified 
and skilled engineers and other industrial, technical and project experts to operate its 
industrial activities in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, or in which they 
may be exposed to other hazardous conditions. The Group may not be able to attract 
and retain such qualified personnel and this could have a material adverse effect on 
the Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group understands that one of the key factors in its success is a good 
and trustworthy relationship with its people. This priority is reflected in the principles 
of its corporate practice and its related guidance, which require regular, open, fair and 
respectful communication, zero tolerance for human rights violations, fair remunera­ tion and, above all, a safe working environment.
Im pact: New or amended environmental, health and safety legislation or regula­ tions may result in increased operating costs or, in the event of non compliance or 
accidents or incidents causing personal injury or death or property or environmental 
damage at or to the Group’s mines, smelters, refineries, concentrators, drill rigs or re­ lated facilities (such as logistics and storage facilities) or surrounding areas may result 
in significant losses, interruptions in production, expensive litigation, imposition of 
penalties and sanctions or suspension or revocation of permits and licences, even in 
cases where such hazards have been caused by any previous or subsequent owners 
or operators of the property, by any past or present owners of adjacent properties, by 
independent third party contractors providing services to the Group or by acts of van­ dalism by trespassers. Any such losses, withdrawals, suspensions, actions or payments 
may have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, results of operations and 
financial condition.
mI t Ig at Io n: The Group is committed to comply with or exceed the laws, regulations 
and best practice guidelines applicable to its operations and products in the jurisdic­ tions in which it operates and through its extensive compliance program, including 
continuous monitoring of legislative requirements and engagement with government 
and regulators, it strives to ensure full compliance.
    |  Annual Report 2012  |  33
ove Rview  |  Bu Sin e SS Rev iew  |  Co Rpo RAte Gov e Rn An Ce  |  Fin An Ci Al St Ate Men t S  |  Addition Al i n Fo RMAtio n OTHER RISKS
Mergers and acquisitions
The Group may fail to integrate mergers 
or acquisitions effectively, including in 
connection with the merger with Xstrata, 
or fail to realise the anticipated business 
growth opportunities or other synergies 
in connection with such mergers or ac­ quisitions.
Impact : Business combinations entail a number of risks, including the ability of the 
Group to integrate effectively the businesses acquired with its existing operations 
such as the realisation of anticipated synergies, significant one­ time write­ offs or 
restructuring charges, difficulties in achieving optimal tax structures, unanticipated 
costs, addressing possible differences in business culture, processes, controls, proce­ dures and systems and failing to integrate and motivate key employees and/or retain 
certain individuals during the integration period. For example, the performance of 
the Group in the future will, amongst other things, depend on its ability to integrate 
Xstrata successfully without disruption to the existing business.
Failure to successfully integrate a business, including in connection with the merger 
with Xstrata, could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial 
condition, results of operations and/or prospects. All of these may be exacerbated by 
the diversion of management’s attention away from other ongoing business concerns. 
The Group may also be liable for the past acts, omissions or liabilities of companies 
or businesses it has acquired, which may be unforeseen or greater than anticipated 
at the time of the relevant acquisition. In addition, various factors could impact the 
estimated synergies for potential acquisitions and have a material adverse impact on 
the Group’s business, results of operations and financial condition.
m It Ig at Io n : The Group understands that businesses combinations, whether as a re­ sult of a merger or an acquisition, entail a number of risks. Such risks are mitigated 
through detailed integration planning and by establishing dedicated integration 
teams to ensure effective integration of businesses. In particular, the Group believes 
that, in the case of the merger with Xstrata, integration risks are reduced by bringing 
two highly complementary businesses with a long­ standing relationship.  FPSO Aseng sailaway, Singapore Business  
review 2 | Business review 
 2.1 | Financial review 36
 2.2 | Metals and minerals  46
 2.3 | Energy products 54 
 2.4 | Agricultural products 60
 2.5 | Reserves and resources 64 36  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
2.1 | Financial review
BASIS OF PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The financial information has been prepared on a basis as outlined in note 1 of the financial statements. It 
is presented in the Overview and the Financial review sections before significant items unless otherwise 
stated to provide an enhanced understanding and comparative basis of the underlying financial perfor-
mance. Significant items are items of income and expense which, due to their financial impact and nature or 
the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are separated for internal reporting and analysis 
of Glencore’s results.
PERFORMANCE HIg HLIg HTS
US $ million 2012 2011 Change
Key statement of income and cash flows highlights:
Revenue 214 436 186 152 15%
Adjusted EBITDA 
1
5 943 6 464 – 8%
Adjusted EBIT 
1
4 470 5 398 – 17%
Net income attributable to equity holders pre significant items 
2
3 060 4 060 – 25%
Net income attributable to equity holders 1 004 4 048 – 75%
Earnings per share (Basic) pre significant items (US $) 0.44 0.72 – 39%
Earnings per share (Basic) (US $) 0.14 0.72 – 81%
Funds from operations (FFO) 
3
4 115 3 522 17%
US $ million 2012 2011 Change
Key financial position highlights:
Total assets 105 537 86 165 22%
Equity attributable to equity holders 31 266 29 265 7%
Current capital employed (CCE) ¹ 23 945 22 479 7%
Net debt 
3
15 416 12 938 19%
Net debt, adjusted for the Viterra acquisition 11 457 12 938 – 11%
Ratios:
FFO to Net debt 26.7% 27.2% – 2%
FFO to Net debt, adjusted for the Viterra acquisition 35.9% 27.2% 32%
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA 2.59x 2.00x 30%
Net debt, adjusted for the Viterra acquisition, to Adjusted EBITDA 1.93x 2.00x – 4%
Adjusted EBITDA to net interest 6.13x 7.63x – 20%
 
¹  Refer to glossary on page 166 for definitions and calculations.
2
  Refer to page 39.
³ Refer to page 42.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  37
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
RESu LTS
Adjusted EBIT decreased by 17% to $ 4,470 million in 2012 compared to 2011 due to lower contributions from 
our industrial activities which were affected by generally lower year on year average commodity prices for 
the key commodities which we and our associates (primarily Xstrata) produce. Given the largely fixed cost 
nature of ‘depreciation and amortisation’ (non-cash) over a certain level of production, Adjusted EBITDA 
was only 8% lower in 2012, compared to 2011. Adjusted EBIT contribution from marketing was $ 2,130 million 
(2011: $ 1,911 million) representing 48% of Adjusted EBIT for the year, an increase from 35% in the prior year. 
These results highlight the reinforcing the strength and resilience of Glencore’s business model and the di-
versification benefits associated with combining and integrating, across a broad spectrum of commodities, 
a portfolio of industrial assets with large scale physical sourcing, marketing and logistics capabilities. 
Adjusted EBIT
Adjusted EBIT by business segment is as follows: 
US $ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities
2012
 Adjusted  
EBIT
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities
2011
 Adjusted  
EBIT
Metals and minerals 1 363 708 2 071 46% 1 242 1 357 2 599 48%
Energy products 435 594 1 029 23% 697 375 1 072 20%
Agricultural products 371 – 10 361 8% – 8 – 39 – 47 – 1%
Corporate and other ¹ – 39 1 048 1 009 23% – 20 1 794 1 774 33%
Total 2 130 2 340 4 470 100% 1 911 3 487 5 398 100%
 
¹  Corporate industrial activities include $ 1,174 million (2011: $ 1,893 million) of Glencore’s equity accounted share of 
Xstrata’s income. 
Marketing Adjusted EBIT was $ 2,130 million up 11% over 2011. 2012 saw an improved performance by met-
als and minerals, with generally good volume growth e.g. copper and nickel and healthy physical premia 
for many of Glencore’s core products. The energy result was weaker due to fewer arbitrage opportunities, 
against a backdrop of relatively low volatility and the continuing weak freight markets. Agricultural products 
showed a marked improvement over 2011, with the events surrounding cotton now behind us and on an 
adjusted comparable basis, its performance was relatively stable year over year.
Industrial Adjusted EBIT declined by 33% to $ 2,340 million in 2012, primarily due to weaker average com-
modity prices, including nickel, coal (API 2), zinc and copper, down 23%, 24%, 11% and 10% respectively. 
These lower prices impact our own controlled operations as well as our share of Xstrata’s earnings. The 
commencement of oil production at the Aseng field in Q4 2011 was largely accountable for the increase in 
energy products’ industrial performance.
Corporate and other primarily relates to the equity accounted interest in Xstrata and also includes the  
variable pool bonus cost, the net result of which was down 43% to $ 1,009 million in 2012 compared to 2011.  38  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Revenue
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2012 was $ 214,436 million, a 15% increase compared to 
$ 186,152 million in 2011. The increase was primarily due to higher oil volumes handled (+39%), partially offset 
by lower period-on-period metals prices as noted above. 
Cost of goods sold
Cost of goods sold for the year ended 31 December 2012 was $ 210,435 million, a 16% increase from 
$ 181,938 million in 2011 primarily due to the higher oil volumes noted above.
Selling and administrative expenses 
Selling and administrative expenses for the year ended 31 December 2012 were $ 997 million, a 16% increase 
from $ 857 million in 2011, due to somewhat higher employee compensation charges, commensurate with an 
expansion of business activities and performance.
Share of income from associates and jointly controlled entities 
Share of income from associates and jointly controlled entities for the year ended 31 December 2012 was 
$ 367 million, a 81% decrease from $ 1,972 million in 2011. The decrease reflects reduced earnings flow-
through from Xstrata primarily due to the lower commodity prices and various impairment charges which it 
took ($ 299 million equity earnings, including $ 875 million of significant items; 2011: $ 1,868 million, including 
$ 25 million of significant items). 
(Loss)/gain on disposal of investments
Loss on disposal of investments for the year ended 2012 was $ 128 million, compared to a gain of $ 9 million 
in 2011. The amount in 2012 primarily comprised an accounting dilution loss following an Xstrata share issu-
ance in March 2012 (part of its employee stock ownership plan), which saw Glencore’s effective ownership 
reduce from 34.5% to 34.2%.
Other expense – net 
Net other expense for 2012 was $ 1,214 million, compared to $ 511 million in 2011. 2012 primarily comprised 
impairments of $ 1,650 million, $ 120 million acquisition related expenses and $ 109 million of expense re-
lated to phantom equity awards granted upon Glencore’s listing, offset by a net $ 497 million accounting 
gain mainly related to the revaluation of Glencore’s initial 40% interest in Mutanda upon acquisition of an 
additional 20% interest in April 2012. There were also $ 179 million of positive mark to market adjustments 
related to certain fixed priced forward coal sales contracts in respect of Prodeco’s future production.
The impairment amount mainly comprises $ 1.2 billion of previously recognised negative fair value adjust-
ments reclassified from ‘other comprehensive income’ to the statement of income in respect of Glencore’s 
interest in UC Rusal. This reclassification had no impact on Glencore’s net asset/equity position which has 
consistently, for many years, reflected the mark-to-market fair value of this holding. Evidence of this ‘lack 
of impact’ is clear on page 111, where ‘total comprehensive income attributable to equity holders’ was 
lower by a mere 10% in 2012 compared to 2011, contributing to a 7% increase in total equity, excluding non-
controlling interests. 
The net amount in 2011 primarily comprised $ 344 million of expenses related to Glencore’s listing, a $ 92 mil-
lion of mark-to-market loss in respect of various minority holdings in listed companies, $ 63 million related 
to final costs associated with the settlement of the Prodeco option and $ 32 million of asset impairments. 
See notes 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further explanations.
Interest income
Interest income for the year ended 31 December 2012 was $ 401 million, an 18% increase over 2011 due to 
higher average advance balances outstanding. Interest income includes interest earned on various loans 
extended, including to OAO Russneft.
Interest expense
Interest expense for the year ended 31 December 2012 was $ 1,371 million, a 16% increase from $ 1,186 mil-
lion in 2011. The increase was mainly due to higher average debt levels.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  39
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Income taxes
A net income tax credit of $ 76 million was recognised during the year ended 31 December 2012 compared 
to a tax credit of $ 264 million in 2011. The 2012 credit resulted primarily from the recognition of crystallised 
tax benefits (resulting in losses carried forward), following an internal reorganisation of our existing owner-
ship interest in Xstrata. The 2011 credit resulted primarily from the recognition of tax deductions associated 
with the conversion of the Glencore Group from private to public ownership as part of its listing. It has been 
Glencore’s historical experience that its effective tax rate pre significant items on pre-tax income, excluding 
share of income from associates and jointly controlled entities and dividend income, has been approxi-
mately 10%, particularly in years where the marketing to industrial profit contribution mix is higher. This rate 
has been reflected in the table below. It is likely that the future effective tax rate will increase relative to the 
past, however, as noted above, this will largely be a function of Glencore’s profit mix (marketing vs industrial). 
Earnings
A summary of the differences between Adjusted EBIT and income attributable to equity holders, including 
significant items, is set out below:
US $ million 2012 2011
Adjusted EBIT 4 470 5 398
Net finance costs – 970 – 847
Foreign exchange loss ¹ – 4 – 5
Income tax expense – 224 – 250
Non controlling interests – 212 – 236
Income attributable to equity holders pre significant items 3 060 4 060
Earnings per share (Basic) pre significant items (US $) 0.44 0.72
Other expense – net, excluding foreign exchange loss ¹ – 1 210 – 506
Net (loss)/gain on disposal on investments – 128 9
Mark to market valuation of certain natural gas forward contracts ² – 123 0
Unrealised intergroup profit elimination ² – 84 0
Share of Associates’ exceptional items ³ – 875 – 45
Net deferred tax asset recorded – mainly restructuring benefits  
(2011 – Listing/Restructuring benefits) 
4
300 514
Non controlling interest portion of significant items 
5
64 16
Total significant items – 2 056 – 12
Income attributable to equity holders 1 004 4 048
Earnings per share (Basic) (US $) 0.14 0.72
 
¹  Recognised within other expense – net, see note 4 of the financial statements.
²  Recognised within cost of goods sold, see note 2 of the financial statements. 
3
  Recognised within share of income from associates and jointly controlled entities, see note 2 of the financial statements.
4
  Recognised within income tax credit, see note 6 of the financial statements.
5
  Recognised within non controlling interests. 40  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
SIg NIFICANT ITEMS
Significant items are items of income and expense which, due to their financial impact and nature or the 
expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are separated for internal reporting and analysis 
of Glencore’s results to provide a better understanding and comparative basis of the underlying financial 
performance. 
In 2012, Glencore recognised $ 2,056 million of significant expenses on a net basis which comprised  
primarily impairment charges of $ 1,650 million (2011: $ 32 million) and our share of Xstrata’s exceptional 
items (2012: $ 875 million, 2011: $ 25 million), offset by a $ 497 million accounting gain on the revaluation of 
previously held interests in subsidiaries acquired during the year.
In 2011, Glencore recognised $ 12 million of significant expenses on a net basis which comprised primarily 
$ 344 million of expenses related to Glencore’s listing, a $ 92 million of mark-to-market loss in respect of 
various minority holdings in listed companies, $ 63 million related to final costs associated with the settle-
ment of the Prodeco option and $ 32 million of asset impairments. These expenses were largely offset by the 
recognition of $ 514 million of net tax credits relating primarily to certain income tax deductions that were 
crystallised, following the reorganisation of Glencore prior to Listing.
See comments in other expense – net above and notes 2, 4 and 5 of the financial statements for additional 
details.
LIqu Id ITy ANd CAPITAL RESOu RCES – CASH FLOw
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes for the year ended 31 December 2012 
was $ 4,782 million, an increase of $ 681 million (17%) compared to 2011, reflecting the higher Adjusted  
EBITDA from marketing activities. On a more comparable basis, the increase is 8%, taking into account 
$ 325 million of listing related cash expenses in the 2011 period (see movement in net debt table below).
Working capital changes
Cash net working capital decreased by $ 727 million during the year ended 31 December 2012 compared to an 
increase of $ 3,174 million in 2011. Much of the 2011 increase occurred in Q4 2011, as Glencore was presented 
with highly attractive ‘funded’ commodity sourcing opportunities. 2012 saw a partial release of this increase, 
via the movement in receivables and payables, however marketing related inventory balances increased dur-
ing the year. Inventory levels were higher in metals and naturally in the agricultural division, which took on 
substantial levels of working capital towards the end of 2012, in no small part due to the mid-December ac-
quisition of Viterra – see note 24 of the financial statements. In 2013, we are focused on working capital levels  
associated with the 2012 acquisitions, including a natural release of working capital once various ‘earmarked’ 
non-core components of Viterra have been sold.   
Net cash used by investing activities
Net cash used by investing activities was $ 9,539 million in 2012 compared to $ 3,690 million in 2011. The net 
outflow in 2012 primarily related to the acquisition of Viterra, an additional 32% interest in Optimum, an ad-
ditional 20% interest in Mutanda, two European manganese operations and an 80% interest in Rosh Pinah 
(see note 24 of the financial statements), along with continued capital expenditure programs in respect of 
the various E&P upstream oil development projects, the development of the Mutanda and Kansuki copper/
cobalt operations and the production expansions at Katanga, Cobar and Prodeco.
Net cash generated by financing activities
During 2012, Glencore issued $ 2,951 million bonds – 6 year 4.125% EUR 1,250 million bonds, 10 year 5.5% 
GBP 500 million bonds and 6.5 year 2.625% CHF 450 million bonds.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  41
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
ASSETS, LEVERAg E ANd w ORKINg CAPITAL
Total assets were $ 105,537 million as at 31 December 2012 compared to $ 86,165 million as at 31 Decem-
ber 2011. Over the same time period current assets increased from $ 45,731 million to $ 54,059 million. The 
adjusted current ratio at 31 December 2012 reduced to 1.16x, as the Xstrata secured bank loans and the 
October 2013 Eurobonds moved from non current to current borrowings. Adjusting for these two move-
ments (given our c. $ 9 billion of long term committed liquidity could have been drawn to repay short term 
debt), the Adjusted current ratio improves to 1.27x. Non current assets increased from $ 40,434 million as at 
31 December 2011 to $ 51,478 million as at 31 December 2012, primarily due to the acquisitions and capital 
expenditure programs noted above, including large non controlling interest asset gross-ups in relation to 
Mutanda and Optimum, where Glencore moved from equity to consolidated accounting during the year. 
Consistent with 31 December 2011, 99% ($ 17,290 million) of total marketing inventories were readily market-
able inventories at 31 December 2012. These inventories are readily convertible into cash due to their liquid 
nature, widely available markets, and the fact that any associated price risk is or could be covered either by 
a physical sale transaction or a hedge transaction on a commodity exchange or with a highly rated coun-
terparty. Given the highly liquid nature of these inventories, which represent a significant share of current 
assets, Glencore believes it is appropriate to consider them together with cash equivalents in analysing 
Group net debt levels and computing certain debt coverage ratios and credit trends. Balance sheet liquidity 
remains very healthy such that current capital employed plus investments in listed associates (at book carry-
ing value) covers 115% of Glencore’s total gross debt as at 31 December 2012. 
Net debt
US $ million 2012 2011
Gross debt 35 526 28 068
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities – 2 820 – 1 345
Net funding 32 706 26 723
Readily marketable inventories – 17 290 – 13 785
Net debt 15 416 12 938 42  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Movement in net debt
US $ million 2012 2011
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 4 782 4 101
Listing related cash expenses included in number above (via statement of income) 0 325
Net interest paid – 784 – 798
Tax paid – 344 – 472
Dividends received from associates 461 366
Funds from operations 4 115 3 522
Working capital changes, excluding readily marketable inventory movements 
and other
2 776 – 3 741
Non current advances and loans – 203 – 320
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries, net of asset acquirer loans – 3 602 – 346
Purchase and sale of investments – 610 – 764
Purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment – 3 005 – 2 626
Margin receipts in respect of financing related activities 176 21
Acquisition and disposal of additional interest in subsidiaries – 624 – 315
Dividends paid – 1 066 – 364
Share issuance, net of issue costs and Listing related cash expenses included in 
the statement of income (see above) 0 7 291
Cash movement in net debt – 2 043 2 358
Net debt assumed in business combinations – 359 – 204
Foreign currency revaluation of non current borrowings and other non cash items – 76 – 68
Profit participation certificates redemptions 0 – 268
Non cash movement in net debt – 435 – 540
Total movement in net debt – 2 478 1 818
Net debt, beginning of period – 12 938 – 14 756
Net debt, end of period – 15 416 – 12 938
Net debt as at 31 December 2012 increased to $ 15,416 million from $ 12,938 million as at 31 December 2011. 
$ 359 million of net debt was assumed in the Viterra acquisition and $ 3.6 billion of net debt was incurred to 
finance Glencore’s effective share of the equity purchase consideration. Adjusting for the increase in net debt 
attributable to the Viterra acquisition (completed mid-December 2012), net debt would be $ 11,457 million, 
a decrease of $ 1,481 million compared to 2011. The ratio of Net debt (adjusted for the Viterra acquisition) to 
Adjusted EBITDA improved from 2.00 times in 2011 to 1.93 times as at 31 December 2012, while the ratio of 
FFO to Net debt (adjusted for the Viterra acquisition) improved from 27.2% in 2011 to 35.9% in 2012. A healthy 
positive free cash flow generation/FFO is expected from the Viterra asset base going forward, which is  
expected to offer support to debt coverage ratios and deleveraging initiatives into the future.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  43
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
CAPITAL RESOu RCES ANd FINANCINg
During the year ended 31 December 2012, the following notable financing activities took place:
•  In April 2012, Glencore issued EUR 1,250 million 4.125% bonds maturing in 2018 and GBP 300 million 5.5% 
bonds maturing in 2022, totalling $ 2.15 billion equivalent;
•  In April 2012, Glencore updated its revolving credit facilities totalling $ 12.8 billion. The facilities comprise: 
1) a $ 4,435 million 14 month revolving credit facility with a 10 month term-out option and 10 month ex-
tension option, that refinanced Glencore’s existing $ 3,535 million 364-day revolving credit facility, i.e. an 
increase of $ 900 million and 2) an amount of $ 8,030 million of the existing $ 8,370 million 3-year revolving 
credit facility was extended for a further year to May 2015;
•  In April 2012, Glencore signed a $ 3.1 billion syndicated loan backing the proposed merger with Xstrata, 
after raising $ 11 billion in syndication from 31 banks, a scale-back exceeding 70%; 
•  In June 2012, Glencore concluded a 1 year syndicated term loan facility with a 1 year term out option at 
Glencore’s discretion of some $ 1.5 billion in support of the announced acquisition of Viterra, once again 
scaling back an oversubscribed syndication process; 
•  In July 2012, Glencore issued CHF 450 million 2.625% bonds maturing in 2018;
•  In October 2012, Glencore signed a new 364 day committed $ 2.2 billion secured inventory and receivables 
borrowing base facility, which renewed the existing $ 1.7 billion facility; and
•  In November 2012, Glencore issued GBP 200 million 5.5% bonds maturing in 2022.
As at 31 December 2012, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities and cash amounting to 
$ 9 billion (as an internal financial policy, Glencore has a $ 3 billion minimum threshold requirement). 
Value at risk (VaR)
One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, namely commodity 
price risk related to its physical marketing activities, is the use of a VaR computation. VaR is a risk measure-
ment technique which estimates the potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of move-
ments in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific level of confidence. The VaR methodology 
is a statistically defined, probability based approach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk 
diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between commodities and markets. In 
this way, risks can be measured consistently across all markets and commodities and risk measures can be 
aggregated to derive a single risk value. Glencore has set a consolidated VaR limit (1 day 95%) of $ 100 million 
representing less than 0.3% of equity.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations and is computed at a 95% confidence level 
with a weighted data history using a combination of a one day and one week time horizon.
Average market risk VaR (1 day 95%) during the year ended 31 December 2012 was $ 40 million (2011: $ 39 mil-
lion), representing a modest 0.1% of shareholders’ equity.
Whilst it is Glencore’s policy to substantially hedge its commodity price risks, there remains the possibility 
that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying price 
risk. The hedging instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics 
to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure. Residual 
basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencore’s commodity department teams who actively 
engage in the management of such. 
Credit ratings
In light of our extensive funding activities, investment grade ratings are of utmost importance to us. Follow-
ing the Viterra acquisition, the Xstrata merger shareholder approval and assumed completion thereof, the 
enlarged Group’s credit ratings were confirmed as Baa2 (stable) from Moody’s and BBB (stable) from S&P. 
Glencore’s current ratings are Baa2 (review with direction uncertain) from Moody’s and BBB (stable) from 
S&P. 44  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Dividend
The Directors have proposed a 2012 final dividend of $ 0.1035 per share, amounting to $ 735 million. An  
interim dividend of $ 0.054 per share, amounting to $ 374 million, was paid on 13 September 2012.
Dividend dates 2013
Annual General Meeting 16 May
Ex-dividend date (UK and Hong Kong) 22 May
Last time for lodging transfers in Hong Kong 4:30 pm (HK) 23 May
Record date in Hong Kong Opening of business (HK) 24 May
Record date in UK Close of business (UK) 24 May
Deadline for return of currency election form (Jersey shareholders) 28 May
Applicable exchange rate date 31 May
Payment date 7 June
Shareholders on the Jersey register, may elect to receive the dividend in Sterling, Euro or Swiss Franc. The 
Sterling, Euro or Swiss Franc amount will be determined by reference to the exchange rates applicable to 
the U.S. Dollar seven days prior to the dividend payment date. Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch reg-
ister will receive their dividends in Hong Kong Dollars. Further details on dividend payments, together with 
currency election and dividend mandate forms, are available from Glencore’s website (www.glencore.com) 
or from the Company’s Registrars. The Directors have proposed that the final dividend will be paid out of 
capital contribution reserves. As such, the final dividend would be exempt from Swiss withholding tax.   
As at 31 December 2012, Glencore International plc had CHF 13.4 billion of such capital contribution reserves 
in its statutory accounts.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  45
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Notional allocation of debt and interest expense
Glencore’s indebtedness is primarily arranged centrally, with the proceeds then applied to marketing and 
industrial activities as required. 
Glencore does not allocate borrowings or interest to its three operating segments. However, to assist inves-
tors in the assessment of overall performance and underlying value contributors of its integrated business 
model, Glencore notionally allocates its  borrowings and interest expense between its marketing and indus-
trial activities as follows:
•  At a particular point in time, Glencore estimates the borrowings attributable to funding key working capital 
items within the marketing activities, including inventories, net cash margining and other accounts receiv-
able/payable, through the application of an appropriate loan to value ratio for each item. The balance of 
Group borrowings is allocated to industrial activities (including Glencore’s stake in Xstrata).
•  Once the average amount of borrowings notionally allocated to marketing activities for the relevant period 
has been estimated, the corresponding interest expense on those borrowings is estimated by applying the 
Group’s average variable rate cost of funds during the relevant period to the average borrowing amount. 
The balance of Group interest expense and all interest income is allocated to industrial activities. The al-
location is a company estimate only and is unaudited. The table below summarises the notional allocation 
of borrowings and interest and corresponding implied earnings before tax of the marketing and industrial 
activities for the year ended 31 December 2012.
US $ million
Marketing
 activities
Industrial
 activities Total
Adjusted EBIT 2 130 2 340 4 470
Interest expense allocation – 342 – 1 029 – 1 371
Interest income allocation – 401 401
Allocated profit before tax 1 788 1 712 3 500
Allocated borrowings – 31 December 2012 16 668 18 858 35 526
Allocated borrowings – quarterly average 14 765 15 714 30 479
Based on the implied equity funding for the marketing activities’ working capital requirements, as well as 
the relatively modest level of non current assets employed in the marketing activities (assumed to be equity 
funded), the return on notional equity for the marketing activities continued to be very healthy in 2012. The 
industrial activities’ return on notional equity, although respectable, is being held back by mostly mid stage 
oil, copper, coal and gold development and expansion projects, where significant investments have been 
made to date, however the projects did not contribute to earnings in the year at anywhere near where their 
full production potential is expected to be and given the timing of certain acquisitions, noteably Viterra, the 
full effect of the earnings is yet to be reflected as allocated profits.
Su BSEqu ENT EVENTS AFFECTINg O u R FINANCIAL POSITION
On 26 February 2013, Glencore-controlled Kazzinc purchased an 89.5% interest in two gold deposits in 
northern Kazakhstan with combined resources of 75,727 tonnes of gold for $ 179 million. The transaction was 
accomplished via the purchase of Kazakh company Orion Minerals which owns subsoil rights at the Raigoro-
dok field in the Akmola Region and the Komarovskoye field in the Kostanai region.  46  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
“d uring 2012, the metals and minerals division exhibited a 
solid performance despite lower average metal prices in the 
period impacting our industrial activities. Of particular note 
were the respective performances of Mutanda and Murrin 
Murrin which increased production by 37% and reached  
record production levels respectively. Marketing continued 
its strong track record capitalising on increased volumes. 
w ith continued demand expected from emerging markets, 
we remain confident about future prospects.”
2.2 | Metals and minerals
Highlights
Metal and minerals’ total Adjusted EBIT in 2012 was $ 2,071 million, 20% lower than in 
2011. This was driven by the performance of the industrial activities which was impact-
ed by lower average metal prices. Marketing activities delivered a strong performance 
during 2012. Adjusted EBIT was $ 1,363 million, 10% higher than in 2011 as volumes 
increased and physical premia remained strong. Metals and minerals’ industrial activi-
ties generated Adjusted EBIT of $ 708 million, a decrease of 48% compared to 2011. 
The reduction in EBIT was driven by lower metal prices and production setbacks at 
Katanga and Cobar. However Mutanda delivered an excellent performance, with own 
sourced copper production up 37% and Murrin Murrin registered a record year of 
nickel production. 
Outlook
Significant production ramp-ups are expected at Mutanda and Katanga, underpinned 
by further power supply improvements and the installation of new processing equip-
ment. We expect demand in the markets where we operate to remain healthy with 
emerging market demand increasing with economic development and improving liv-
ing standards. 
Daniel Maté, Telis Mistakidis 
Adjusted EBIT
2010 2011 2012
Marketing activities 1 401 1 242 1 363 
Industrial activities 1 160 1 357 708 
1 500
2 500
1 000
500
0
US $ million
2 000
3 000
2011 2010 2012
3 000
5 000
2 000
1 000
0
Cu equivalent, k MT
4 000
6 000
2011 2010 2012
2010 2011 2012
Volumes 5 986 5 864 6 217
Marketing activities
600
1 000
400
200
0
Cu equivalent, k MT
800
2011 2010 2012
2010 2011 2012
Volumes 692 783 805
Industrial activities   |  Annual Report 2012  |  47
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
US $ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2012
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2011
Revenue 48 254 8 420 56 674 43 317 8 667 51 984
Adjusted EBITDA 1 379 1 625 3 004 1 247 2 122 3 369
Adjusted EBIT 1 363 708 2 071 1 242 1 357 2 599
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 3% 19% – 3% 24% –
Allocated average CE 
1
8 083 18 535 26 618 7 746 15 108 22 854
Adjusted EBIT return on average CE 17% 4% 8% 16% 9% 11%
1
  The simple average of segment current and non current capital employed (see note 2 of the financial statements), adjusted for production 
related inventories, is applied as a proxy for marketing and industrial activities respectively.
MARKET CONd ITIONS
Selected average commodity prices
2012 2011 Change
S&P GSCI Industrial Metals Index 382 440 – 13%
LME (cash) zinc price ($/t) 1 948 2 193 – 11%
LME (cash) copper price ($/t) 7 958 8 813 – 10%
LME (cash) lead price ($/t) 2 062 2 397 – 14%
Gold price ($/oz) 1 669 1 573 6%
Metal Bulletin alumina price ($/t) 319 374 – 15%
LME (cash) aluminium price ($/t) 2 022 2 398 – 16%
LME (cash) nickel price ($/t) 17 530 22 843 – 23%
Metal Bulletin cobalt price 99.3% ($/lb) 13 16 – 19%
Iron ore (Platts 62% CFR North China) price ($/DMT) 130 169 – 23%
Currency table
Average
2012
Spot
31 Dec 2012
Average 
2011 
Spot
31 Dec 2011
Change in  
average prices
AUD : USD 1.04 1.04 1.03 1.02 1%
USD : COP 1 797 1 767 1 848 1 939 – 3%
EUR : USD 1.29 1.32 1.39 1.30 – 7%
GBP : USD 1.59 1.63 1.60 1.55 – 1%
GBP : CHF 1.49 1.49 1.42 1.46 5%
USD : CHF 0.94 0.92 0.89 0.94 6%
USD : KZT 149 150 147 148 1%
USD : ZAR 8.21 8.47 7.26 8.09 13%
Metals prices generally decreased over 2012 compared to 2011 with the GSCI Industrial Metal Index lower by 13%. The main excep-
tion was gold which increased by 6%.  48  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Zinc/Copper/Lead
Global copper markets continued to be impacted by a combination of declining ore grades and delays in new projects which were 
expected to replace lost production from mines that are currently in decline. It is expected that rising costs, on-going production 
disruptions, project delays and declining grades will remain a feature of the copper industry for the foreseeable future despite the 
material scheduled expansions in global mined production.
On the demand side, underlying Chinese copper consumption continued to increase although headline statistics remain subject 
to the inventory cycle. 2012 also saw the first tentative signs of life from the US housing market.
Zinc markets experienced another tough year with demand from Europe and US remaining weak through most of the year. Chinese 
refined zinc metal imports increased during 2012, reaching some 600,000 tonnes.
Looking forward, there are a number of major scheduled zinc mine closures in the next several years which can be expected to 
bring the market closer to balance. This should in turn create an incentive price which better matches the need for sustained invest-
ment in new mines in the longer term.
 
Alumina/Aluminium
The average LME aluminium prices during 2012 were below the averages for 2011. Although premium levels increased significantly 
compared to 2011, pressure on producers remains with many no longer able to cover their production costs. Indications for alu-
minium premiums for duty unpaid, in-warehouse material at the beginning of 2012 were $ 100 to $ 125 per tonne, with an average 
2012 range of approximately $ 140 to $ 165 per tonne and a more recent level of $ 200 to $ 230 per tonne.
Ferroalloys/Nickel/Cobalt/Iron Ore
Global stainless steel production increased by 3% in 2012, thanks largely to increased output in China. However, macroeconomic  
uncertainty and subdued end user demand, especially during Q2 and Q3 2012, ensured that destocking activity continued 
throughout the distribution chain in most stainless steel markets. By contrast, speciality steel markets catering for the oil, gas and 
aerospace industries continued to enjoy robust demand conditions.
Cobalt prices continued to decrease in 2012, losing 19% compared to 2011. This trend was due to lower economic activity in  
Europe, a drop in Japanese metal demand and a Chinese destocking cycle, all of which contributed to an oversupply of cobalt 
metal during the year.
Iron ore prices were in the $ 135 to $ 150 range for the first four months of the year; however the Chinese crude steel industry 
then went through a difficult period during Q3 2012 and aggressively destocked. Iron ore prices fell to a level of $ 86 per DMT in  
September 2012, the lowest in the past three years. From this point, the market recovered quickly to reach $ 140 per DMT by the 
end of the year, fuelled by aggressive restocking and a pick-up in crude steel production.
MARKETINg
Highlights
Adjusted marketing EBITDA and EBIT for 2012 were $ 1,379 million and $ 1,363 million respectively, an increase of 11% and 10% 
compared to 2011. 2012 was characterised by lower prices across all base metals, however volumes and physical premia remained 
strong which enabled the generation of higher profits compared to 2011.
Financial information
US $ million 2012 2011 Change 
Revenue 48 254 43 317 11%
Adjusted EBITDA 1 379 1 247 11%
Adjusted EBIT 1 363 1 242 10%   |  Annual Report 2012  |  49
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Selected marketing volumes sold
Units 2012 2011 Change 
Zinc metal and concentrates 
1
million MT 2.8 2.7 4%
Copper metal and concentrates 
1
million MT 2.3 1.9 21%
Lead metal and concentrates 
1
million MT 0.7 0.7 – 
Gold thousand toz 746 756 – 1%
Silver thousand toz 22 544 11 128 103%
Alumina/aluminium million MT 11.5 11.4 1%
Ferroalloys (incl. agency) million MT 3.0 2.7 11%
Nickel thousand MT 232.3 191.4 21%
Cobalt thousand MT 16.1 22.9 – 30%
Iron ore million MT 19.8 10.3 92%
1
 Estimated metal unit contained.
Zinc/Copper/Lead
While zinc and lead volumes were relatively consistent between 2012 and 2011, copper volumes increased by 21%. The increase was 
partly a timing difference, reflecting Chinese restocking with large shipments arriving Q1 2012 for material contracted in Q4 2011 
when prices were considered low.
Alumina/Aluminium
In 2012, the marketed volumes for alumina/aluminium remained at a strong level with a small increase to 11.5 million tonnes, from 
11.4 million tonnes in 2011.
Ferroalloys/Nickel/Cobalt/Iron Ore
Overall nickel volumes were 21% higher than 2011. For nickel metal, record production at Murrin Murrin and a full year’s production 
from Xstrata’s Falcondo ferronickel operation aided volumes. Nickel ore almost doubled during 2012, attributable to Glencore’s 
continued growth in this particular market segment.
China destocking and a decrease of concentrate production in the DRC, impacted volumes of cobalt in intermediates during the 
year.
In iron ore, spot units offered by the majors have increased substantially enabling us to increase our overall tonnage by 9.5 mil-
lion tonnes to 19.8 million tonnes.
INdu STRIAL ACTIVITIES
Highlights
Metals and minerals’ industrial activities performance was down in 2012, driven primarily by lower average metal prices, including 
nickel, aluminium (impacting alumina), zinc and copper. The production scorecard was mixed with some excellent performances 
including own sourced copper production up 37% at Mutanda and a record year of nickel production at Murrin Murrin. Overall 
volume growth was however lower than expected, particularly due to lost production/power disruption issues in the DRC, (mainly 
impacting Katanga), temporary operational issues at Cobar and nationalisation of the Colquiri tin mine in Bolivia in June 2012. 
Total industrial revenues for metals and minerals were $ 8,420 million, down 3% from $ 8,667 million in 2011. Adjusted EBITDA and 
Adjusted EBIT for 2012 were $ 1,625 million and $ 708 million, down 23% and 48% compared to $ 2,122 million and $ 1,357 million 
in 2011. The higher EBIT % reduction reflects the largely fixed cost nature of ‘depreciation and amortisation’ (non-cash) over a 
constant level of production. 50  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Financial information 
US $ million 2012 2011 Change 
Revenue
Kazzinc 2 839 2 262 26%
Other Zinc 970 1 029 – 6%
Zinc 3 809 3 291 16%
Katanga 497 528 – 6%
Mutanda 511 – –
Mopani 990 1 155 – 14%
Other Copper 1 475 2 493 – 41%
Copper 3 473 4 176 – 17%
Alumina/Aluminium 426 520 – 18%
Ferroalloys/Nickel/Cobalt/Iron ore 712 680 5%
Total 8 420 8 667 – 3%
Adjusted EBITDA 
Kazzinc 890 862 3%
Other Zinc 167 297 – 44%
Zinc 1 057 1 159 – 9%
Katanga 46 198 – 77%
Mutanda 161 – –
Mopani 182 328 – 45%
Other Copper 150 219 – 32%
Copper 539 745 – 28%
Alumina/Aluminium 8 60 – 87%
Ferroalloys/Nickel/Cobalt/Iron ore 19 83 – 77%
Share of income from associates and dividends (includes Mutanda) 2 75 – 97%
Total 1 625 2 122 – 23%
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 19% 24% –
Adjusted EBIT
Kazzinc 537 561 – 4%
Other Zinc 46 191 – 76%
Zinc 583 752 – 22%
Katanga – 47 141 n.m.
Mutanda 100 – –
Mopani 83 207 – 60%
Other Copper 87 161 – 46%
Copper 223 509 – 56%
Alumina/Aluminium – 4 50 n.m.
Ferroalloys/Nickel/Cobalt/Iron ore – 96 – 29 n.m.
Share of income from associates and dividends (includes Mutanda) 2 75 – 97%
Total 708 1 357 – 48%
Capex
Kazzinc 341 439 –
Other Zinc 306 131 –
Zinc 647 570 –
Katanga 586 325 –
Mutanda 76 – –
Mopani 197 163 –
Other Copper 204 116 –
Copper 1 063 604 –
Alumina/Aluminium 25 20 –
Ferroalloys/Nickel/Cobalt/Iron ore 74 76 –
Total 1 809 1 270 –   |  Annual Report 2012  |  51
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Production data
thousand ¹
Using feed 
from own 
sources
Using 
feed from 
third party 
sources 
2012 
Total
 Using feed 
from own 
sources
Using 
feed from 
third party 
sources
2011 
Total
Own feed 
change
Kazzinc
Zinc metal MT 227.3  74.0  301.3  246.0  54.8  300.8 – 8%
Lead metal ² MT 26.8  55.7  82.5  35.6  66.2  101.8 – 25%
Copper metal ³ MT 49.6  3.0  52.6  51.2  1.8  53.0 – 3%
Gold toz 474  87  561  390  39  429 22%
Silver toz 4 777  15 031  19 808  4 299  5 571  9 870 11%
Katanga
Copper metal ³ MT 93.0  – 93.0  91.2  – 91.2 2%
Cobalt MT 2.13  –  2.13  2.43  –  2.43 – 12%
Mutanda
Copper metal ³ MT 87.0  –  87.0  63.7  –  63.7 37%
Cobalt 
4
MT 8.50  –  8.50  7.87  –  7.87 8%
Mopani
Copper metal ³ MT 99.0  88.1  187.1  101.4  103.0  204.4 – 2%
Cobalt 
4
MT 0.07  0.16  0.23  0.56  0.33  0.89 – 88%
Other Zinc (Los Quenuales, Sinchi Wayra, AR Zinc, Portovesme,  
Rosh Pinah)
Zinc metal MT 53.0  81.7  134.7  61.0  92.7  153.7 – 13%
Zinc oxide DMT 52.5  –  52.5  30.9  – 30.9 70%
Zinc concentrates DMT 425.0  –  425.0  461.2  –  461.2 – 8%
Lead metal MT 11.8  –  11.8  11.9  –  11.9 – 1%
Lead concentrates DMT 67.2  –  67.2  61.0  –  61.0 10%
Tin concentrates DMT 2.35  –  2.35  4.74 – 4.74 – 50%
Silver metal toz 783  –  783  754 –  754 4%
Silver in concentrates toz 7 279  –  7 279  7 978  –  7 978 – 9%
Other Copper (Cobar, Pasar, Punitaqui, Sable)
Copper metal MT –  98.4  98.4  –  164.1  164.1 n.m.
Copper concentrates DMT 179.2  0.1  179.3  204.9  –  204.9 – 13%
Cobalt MT –  0.71  0.71  –  0.16  0.16 n.m.
Silver in concentrates toz 941  –  941  1 035  –  1 035 – 9%
Alumina/Aluminium (Sherwin)
Alumina MT –  1 379  1 379  –  1 460  1 460 n.m.
Ferroalloys/Nickel/Cobalt (Glencore Manganese, Murrin Murrin)
Ferro manganese MT –  17.34  17.34  –  –  – n.m.
Silicon manganese MT –  15.91  15.91  –  –  – n.m.
Nickel metal MT 33.41  3.02  36.43  28.50  1.50  30.00 17%
Cobalt MT 2.39  0.10  2.49  2.02  0.07  2.09 18%
Total Zinc contained MT 534.4  155.7  690.1  563.1  147.5  710.6 – 5%
Total Copper contained MT 376.7  189.6  566.3  362.6  268.9  631.5 4%
Total Lead contained MT 76.3  55.7  132.0  82.5  66.2  148.7 – 8%
Total Tin contained MT 1.15  –  1.15  2.23  –  2.23 – 48%
Total Gold (incl. Gold equivalents) 
5
toz 731  367  1 098  706  164  870 4%
Total Alumina MT –  1 379  1 379  –  1 460  1 460 n.m.
Total Ferro manganese MT –  17.34  17.34  –  –  – n.m.
Total Silicon manganese MT –  15.91  15.91  –  –  – n.m.
Total Nickel MT 33.41  3.02  36.43  28.50  1.50  30.00 17%
Total Cobalt MT 13.09  0.97  14.06  12.88  0.56  13.44 2%
 
1
  Controlled industrial assets only (with the exception in 2011 of Mutanda, which was 40% owned). Production is included on a 100% basis.
2
  Lead metal includes lead contained in lead concentrates.
3
  Copper metal includes copper contained in copper concentrates and blister copper.
4
  Cobalt contained in concentrates and hydroxide.
5
  Gold/Silver conversion ratios of 1/53.54 and 1/44.53 for 2012 and 2011 respectively based on average prices.  52  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
OPERATIONAL HIg HLIg HTS
Kazzinc (Glencore interest: 69.6%)
2012 gold production from own sources was 474,000 toz, an increase of 22% compared to 2011. This higher production reflects the 
continued growth at Altyntau as well as the benefits from gold recovered from the copper smelter. Silver production from own 
sources was 4.8 million toz, an increase of 11% compared to the prior year, reflecting an increase in the level of own silver-bearing 
copper concentrates processed. Total silver production also increased significantly during 2012 as a result of processing more high 
silver content concentrates from third parties.
Copper production from own sources in 2012 was 49,600 tonnes, a reduction of 3% compared to 2011. However, copper cathode 
production increased by 25,800 tonnes to 47,300 tonnes, following the ramp-up at Kazzinc’s new copper smelter which was commis-
sioned in 2011.
2012 lead production from own sources was 26,800 tonnes, a decrease of 25% compared to 2011. This reflects the ramp-up at the 
new lead smelter which was commissioned in August 2012 and the processing of gold rich concentrates at the old lead smelter prior 
to its decommissioning.
Zinc production from own sources was 227,300 tonnes, a decrease of 8%, resulting from the expected small reduction in grade  
during 2012.
Katanga (Glencore interest: 75.2%)
Katanga produced 93,000 tonnes of copper in metal and in concentrate from own sources during 2012, a 2% increase compared 
to 2011. Cobalt production in 2012 was 2,100 tonnes, a 12% decrease compared to 2011. Production during the year was severely 
disrupted by the recurrent general power disruptions in the DRC which resulted in 67 days of lost production.
The new power converter (part of the World Bank power project) and new synchronous condenser (under Katanga’s agreement with  
La Société Naturale d’Electricité (‘SNEL’), DRC’s national power operator) were commissioned in December 2012 and have subse-
quently resulted in a decrease in power disruption. Further improvements in the reliability and availability of the electricity supply 
are expected in the medium term as a result of the joint Power Project (announced in March 2012, see below) currently underway 
and being undertaken by Katanga, Mutanda and Kansuki in partnership with SNEL.
Katanga produced its first copper cathode from the new solvent extraction plants and converted electro-winning facility during 
December 2012 as part of the Phase 4 project. The completion of this project will enable Katanga to increase total processing 
capacity and upgrade the quality of copper produced through the application of modern technologies. The Phase 4 project  
remains on target for mechanical completion in Q3 2013.
For further information please visit www.katangamining.com
Mutanda (Glencore interest: 60.0%)
In 2012, Mutanda produced 87,000 tonnes of copper in metal and concentrate from own sources, a 37% increase compared to 2011. 
2012 copper cathodes production increased 90% to 83,500 tonnes.
2012 cobalt production was 8,500 tonnes, an 8% increase from 2011. Mutanda continues to increase cobalt production through the 
use of SO
2
 from its sulphuric acid and SO
2
 plant. A new power generation plant, dedicated to providing reliable power to the acid 
and SO
2
 plant, was commissioned in December 2012. Following completion of the cobalt circuit in Q4 2012, Mutanda has installed 
cobalt in hydroxide capacity of 23,000 tonnes per annum.
The feasibility study for the construction of a 100,000 tonnes (of copper contained) sulphide concentrator remains on track to be 
completed in Q1 2013.
In May 2012, Glencore acquired an additional 20% of Mutanda for a cash consideration of $ 420 million plus acquired shareholder 
debts of approximately $ 60 million. Glencore also has the right, subject to the terms of a put and call option agreement exercis-
able in December 2013, to acquire a further 20% in Mutanda for a cash consideration of $ 430 million.
As previously announced, the above transaction was the first step to achieve the merger of Mutanda and Kansuki, which  
is expected to form a combined entity having an installed capacity of 200,000 tonnes per annum of copper by the end of 2013. It 
is anticipated that the merger will be completed during H1 2013.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  53
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Kansuki (Glencore interest: 37.5%) 
Glencore holds a 50% interest in Kansuki Investments Sprl which in turn holds a 75% interest in the owner of the Kansuki conces-
sion, thereby giving Glencore an effective interest of 37.5%. Kansuki is a 185 square kilometre copper and cobalt pre-development 
project which borders the Mutanda concession. A total of $ 507 million of capital expenditure for mine and plant development 
has been committed to, of which $ 413 million had been spent as at 31 December 2012. Exploration of the Kansuki concession is 
on-going.
Katanga, Mutanda and Kansuki – Power Project
Mutanda, Katanga and Kansuki are collectively undertaking a project to secure power for all three operations via the refurbish-
ment of two turbines at the Inga dam. This project is expected to provide 450 megawatts of power by the end of 2015 (the ‘Power 
Project‘). The project has started and is being executed in partnership with SNEL and EGMF, the project contractor. The estimated 
cost of $ 284 million will be paid by Mutanda, Katanga and Kansuki. This investment will be recovered via lower future energy tariffs.
Mopani (Glencore interest: 73.1%) 
Mopani produced 99,000 tonnes of own copper in 2012 and 187,100 tonnes of total copper including third party sourced and toll 
material, reflecting a 2% and 8% decline respectively compared to 2011.
The reduction in total finished copper production primarily resulted from the planned biennial smelter shutdown. The small reduc-
tion in Mopani’s own copper production was due to the temporary suspension of the heap leach process earlier in the year.
The $ 323 million Synclinorium shaft project to increase mine production, which is expected to come online during 2015, and the 
associated project to improve and modernise the smelter remain on track. In 2012, Mopani announced that the smelter upgrade 
project (including improving SO
2
 emission capture to above 97%) is expected to be completed by December 2013, 18 months 
ahead of the schedule initially agreed with the Zambian authorities.
Other Zinc (Los Quenuales, Sinchi Wayra, AR Zinc, Portovesme, Rosh Pinah)
The acquisition of Rosh Pinah (from 1 June 2012) and a strong performance by AR Zinc resulted in higher production of silver metal 
and lead concentrates in 2012. This was offset by lower production at Los Quenuales and Sinchi Wayra, as a result of the planned 
shift towards lower grade ore bodies, union issues at Los Quenuales and the nationalisation of the Colquiri mine at Sinchi Wayra.
The nationalisation of the Colquiri mine resulted in no tin being produced post June 2012.
Los Quenuales recently received community approval to develop a new ore area at Iscaycruz (Santa Este), which has estimated ore 
resources of five to seven million tonnes. The mine is expected to be operational in Q4 2013 and will reach an annual production 
of 20,000 tonnes of zinc contained in concentrates in 2014.
Other Copper (Cobar, Pasar, Punitaqui, Sable)
Metal production in 2012 was 40% lower than in 2011, due to a fire at Pasar that stopped production for approximately six months. 
Since the restart in July 2012, production has been in line or above levels achieved during 2011.
2012 copper concentrate and silver contained in concentrate production were lower than 2011 levels by 13% and 9% respectively, 
primarily due to temporary operational issues at Cobar resulting from electrical failures and delays in underground development 
activities. Completion of the new mine shaft at Cobar has been delayed due to poor ground conditions and is now expected in 
2015.
Alumina/Aluminium
Sherwin Alumina (Glencore interest: 100%)
2012 production was 1.4 million tonnes, a 6% reduction compared to 2011. This reduction primarily relates to the overhaul of the 
calciner which was completed in Q1 2012. Production since then has been as expected.
Ferroalloys/Nickel/Cobalt 
Glencore Manganese (Glencore interest: 100%)
Glencore acquired 100% of Vale’s European manganese ferroalloys operations on 1 November 2012. The operations, located in 
Dunkirk, France and Mo I Rana, Norway, currently have the capacity to produce 150,000 tonnes and 110,000 tonnes of manganese 
ferroalloys per annum respectively.
Murrin Murrin (Glencore interest: 100%) 
Own sourced production in 2012 was 33,400 tonnes of nickel and 2,400 tonnes of cobalt, an increase of 17% and 18% respectively 
compared to 2011, reflecting a record year of production for Murrin Murrin based on best ever throughput levels and plant avail-
ability.
Murrin Murrin has also successfully contained costs as part of its on-going ‘Margin Improvement Plan’ (in response to the lower 
nickel price and high Australian dollar environment) with further cost savings targeted in 2013. 54  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
“The energy products segment delivered a solid perfor-
mance in 2012 despite the challenging environment faced 
in marketing. The significant increase in production from 
the Aseng oil field and the acquisitions of Optimum and 
u mbeco drove the strong industrial performance and leave 
the division well placed heading into 2013.”
2.3 | Energy products
Highlights
Energy products’ total Adjusted EBIT in 2012 was $ 1,029 million, 4% lower than in 2011. 
Marketing activities delivered Adjusted EBIT of $ 435 million, 38% lower than in 2011. 
The decrease was driven by a combination of low volatility and weak freight markets, 
which limited arbitrage opportunities, and our residual direct long wet freight ex-
posure. This wet freight exposure will decline materially in 2013. Industrial activities  
delivered a strong performance generating Adjusted EBIT of $ 594 million, an increase 
of 58% compared to 2011. The strong performance was driven by the significant in-
crease of oil production from the Aseng oil field, representing its first full year of pro-
duction, and the acquisitions of Optimum and Umcebo.
Outlook 
Looking forward, the oil price is likely to continue to be driven by the interaction of 
economics and geo-politics. We expect the US to continue to drive maximum domes-
tic benefit from its burgeoning energy advantage, rather than export energy. Coal 
markets appear to have stabilised following the shale gas related displacements seen 
in 2012. With the economics of coal remaining compelling globally relative to other 
fuels we would expect demand to continue to increase. At the same time, current spot 
coal prices mean that many of the world’s producers are unable to make a reasonable 
return on their assets. 
Alex Beard, Tor Peterson 
2010 2011 2012
Marketing activities 450 697 435
Industrial activities 235 375 594
600
1 000
400
200
0
US $ million
800
1 200
1 400
2011 2010 2012
Adjusted EBIT
36 000
40 000
3 000
24 000
1 500
28 000
2 000
20 000
1 000
32 000
2 500
44 000 3 500
2011 2010 2012
16 000 500
2010 2011 2012
Coal (k MT) 17 433 20 506 41 835
Oil (k bbls) – 595 4 770
k MT
k bbls
Industrial activities
80 000
100 000
40 000
20 000
k MT
k bbls
60 000
120 000
2011 2010 2012
0
2010 2011 2012
Coal (k MT) 100 900 95 400 82 560
Oil (k bbls) 897 849 849 271 1 163 655
700 000
400 000
500 000
300 000
200 000
100 000
0
600 000
800 000
900 000
Marketing activities
1 000 000
1 100 000
4 000
4 500   |  Annual Report 2012  |  55
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
US $ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2012
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2011
Revenue 133 296 3 641 136 937 114 756 2 309 117 065
Adjusted EBITDA 494 983 1 477 724 571 1 295
Adjusted EBIT 435 594 1 029 697 375 1 072
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 0.4% 27% – 1% 25% –
Allocated average CE 
1
5 065 
2
6 764 
2
11 829 
2
5 168 4 762 
2
9 930 
2
Adjusted EBIT return on average CE 9% 9% 9% 13% 8% 11%
1
  The simple average of segment current and non current capital employed (see note 2 of the financial statements), adjusted for production 
related inventories, is applied as a proxy for marketing and industrial activities respectively.
2
  For the purposes of this calculation, capital employed has been adjusted to exclude various long-term loans (primarily Russneft and Atlas – see 
note 10 of the financial statements), which generate interest income and do not contribute to Adjusted EBIT.
MARKET CONd ITIONS
Selected average commodity prices
2012 2011 Change
S&P GSCI Energy Index 330 333 – 1%
Coal API2 ($/t) 93 122 – 24%
Coal API4 ($/t) 93 116 – 20%
Prodeco realised price ($/t) 
1
85 95 – 11%
South African Coal average realised export price ($/t) 90 108 – 17%
South African Coal average realised domestic price ($/t) 31 43 – 28%
Oil price – Brent ($/bbl) 112 111 1%
1
 As of 31 December 2012, 24 million tonnes had been sold forward at an average price of $ 89 per tonne.
Coal
Atlantic markets
Increased US exports, displaced in a low domestic natural gas price environment, manifestly contributed to significant thermal 
coal price declines during H1 2012. The situation stabilised during H2 2012 with a modest recovery on the back of healthy coal 
consumption across most European markets, due to positive coal versus natural gas spreads and limited availability of hydro and 
other renewables alternatives.
End of year API2 and API4 prices were down 20% and 15% respectively in 2012, compared to 2011.
Pacific markets
Increased exports from Australia and Indonesia, coupled with some customer non-performance, induced downward pressure on 
prices at the beginning of 2012. However, strong overall demand from the traditional Chinese and Indian markets, together with 
improved economic expectations, allowed markets to recover in H2 2012, with Australia’s Newcastle index making significant gains 
towards the end of the year.
Metallurgical markets were relatively depressed throughout the year due to the macroeconomic concerns and slowing steel  
demand in most markets. Signs of a recovery appeared towards the end of the year, with significant increases in spot prices.
Oil
Nearby Brent started 2012 at $ 107 per barrel and finished at $ 111 per barrel, but this belied a yearly range of $ 89 to $ 126, slightly 
wider than the equivalent range for 2011. In particular, H1 2012 saw significant price volatility, wide day ranges and fast price moves, 
reminiscent of the darker days of the financial crisis. Uncertainty over Greece and the Eurozone, combined with unclear fiscal and 
monetary policy backdrops were all contributory factors. At the same time, reasonable refining margins and a renewed focus on 
emerging market demand provided trading opportunities. H2 2012 experienced less volatility, reflecting the broad trend in capital 
markets and seemingly more market optimism in a managed outcome for the economic crisis. 
The growing supply of domestic crude oil in the US, the visible manifestation of the shale oil revolution, provoked an increasing 
dislocation of WTI from other global benchmarks. The WTI/Brent spread started the year at $ 9 per barrel and closed at $ 19 per 
barrel. Brent term structure tended to backwardation during the year. 56  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
MARKETINg
Highlights
Generally low volatility across the oil and coal markets in H2 2012 and the protracted weak freight environment provided fewer 
arbitrage opportunities, contributing to a reduced performance from energy marketing compared to 2011. A direct, but declining, 
long wet freight (tanker) exposure continued to provide headwinds during 2012, however, as we look at 2013, light can be seen at 
the end of this tunnel.
Adjusted marketing EBITDA and EBIT for 2012 were $ 494 million and $ 435 million respectively, a decrease, compared to 2011, of 
32% and 38%. 
Financial information
US $ million 2012 2011 Change 
Revenue 133 296 114 756 16%
Adjusted EBITDA 494 724 – 32%
Adjusted EBIT 435 697 – 38%
Selected marketing volumes sold
million 2012 2011 Change 
Thermal coal (MT) 78.3 91.0 – 14%
Metallurgical coal (MT) 4.1 4.1 – 
Coke (MT) 0.2 0.3 – 33%
Crude oil (bbls) 421.4 271.4 55%
Oil products (bbls) 742.2 577.8 28%
Coal
Thermal coal volumes were lower year on year due to reduced price volatility and lower freight rates, thereby limiting price 
and geographical arbitrage opportunities between markets and accordingly third party volumes sold. Volumes for the more  
specialised metallurgical products were stable year-on-year with a focus on maintaining existing relationships.
Oil
Traded volumes, on an overall basis, increased significantly (by 39%) from 2.3 million barrels per day in 2011 to 3.2 million barrels per 
day in 2012. Higher volumes of crude oil, with Russian origin barrels amongst others a key driving factor, contributed half the gain. 
The remainder of the gain was derived from our marine bunker fuels affiliate Chemoil, into the Oil group figures.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  57
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
INdu STRIAL ACTIVITIES
Highlights
Energy products’ industrial performance delivered a significantly stronger performance during 2012 mainly driven by the growth 
in oil production volumes and the associated strong profit margins from the Aseng oil field.
Own sourced coal production volumes were also up significantly during 2012, following the acquisitions of Optimum and Umcebo 
in South Africa, and a modest increase at Prodeco, despite a three month strike at its La Jagua mine. Notwithstanding the volume 
growth, realised coal prices were substantially lower in 2012, resulting in a decline in overall coal EBITDA of 5%.
Total industrial revenues for energy products were $ 3,641 million, up 58% from $ 2,309 million in 2011. Adjusted EBITDA and 
Adjusted EBIT for 2012 were $ 983 million and $ 594 million, up 72% and 58% compared to $ 571 million and $ 375 million in 2011.
Financial information 
US $ million 2012 2011 Change 
Revenue
Prodeco 1 216 1 344 – 10%
South African Coal 1 123 323 248%
Coal 2 339 1 667 40%
Oil 1 302 642 103%
Total 3 641 2 309 58%
Adjusted EBITDA 
Prodeco 150 418 – 64%
South African Coal 316 75 321%
Coal 466 493 – 5%
Oil 488 23 2 022%
Share of income from associates and dividends 29 55 – 47%
Total 983 571 72%
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 27% 25% –
Adjusted EBIT
Prodeco – 4 281 n.m.
South African Coal 162 49 231%
Coal 158 330 – 52%
Oil 407 – 10 n.m.
Share of income from associates and dividends 29 55 – 47%
Total 594 375 58%
Capex
Prodeco 295 510 –
South African Coal 279 29 –
Coal 574 539 –
Oil 311 706 –
Total 885 1 245 – 58  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Production data
thousand MT 
1
Own 
Buy-in
Coal 
2012 
Total Own 
Buy-in 
Coal
2011 
Total
Own  
production  
change
Thermal coal
Prodeco 14 762 142 14 904 14 586 195 14 781 1%
Shanduka (Export) 440 – 440 498 – 498 – 12%
Shanduka (Domestic) 6 017 1 084 7 101 5 422 802 6 224 11%
Umcebo (Export) 205 – 205 – – – n.m.
Umcebo (Domestic) 6 798 31 6 829 – – – n.m.
Optimum (Export) 7 347 – 7 347 – – – n.m.
Optimum (Domestic) 6 266 495 6 761 – – – n.m.
Total 41 835 1 752 43 587 20 506 997 21 503 104%
 
1
 Controlled industrial assets only. Production on a 100% basis.
thousand bbls 
1
 2012 
Total
2011 
Total Change 
Oil
Block I 22 570 2 785 710%
Total 22 570 2 785 710%
1
  On a 100% basis. Glencore’s ownership interest in the Aseng field is 23.75%.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  59
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
OPERATIONAL HIg HLIg HTS
Prodeco (Glencore interest: 100%)
Own production for 2012 was 14.8 million tonnes, up 1% on 2011. The significant growth at Calenturitas was offset by lower produc-
tion at the La Jagua mine, due to a three month strike that concluded in October 2012.
Prodeco’s expansion project is progressing to plan, excluding the short term impact of the La Jagua strike, and remains on track 
to deliver annualised production of 20 million tonnes by 2014.
The construction of the new direct loading port, Puerto Nuevo, is also on track and to budget, with commissioning expected in 
H1 2013. Puerto Nuevo will provide substantially higher annual throughput capacity with a lower operating cost per tonne.
South African Coal (Glencore interest: Shanduka Coal: 49.99%, Umcebo Mining: 43.66% and Optimum Coal: 67.01%)
2012 own production was 27.1 million tonnes, reflecting a significant increase compared to 2011. This increase largely resulted from 
the consolidation of production from Optimum and Umcebo from 1 January 2012. 
South African Coal is currently focused on a number of expansion and development projects which are progressing well. At  
Umcebo, the Wonderfontein project started production and railed its first coal during December 2012. At Shanduka and  
Umcebo, the definitive feasibility studies relating to the Springboklaagte and Argent projects remain on track to be completed 
in April 2013. At Optimum, construction has started at the Pullenshope underground brownfield project with first coal expected 
in Q2 2013, while licensing for the Koornfontein project has been delayed slightly to Q1 2013, with construction expected to start  
in Q2 2013. In addition, South African Coal, along with the other shareholders, has recently taken an active role in the management 
of the Kusipongo project at Kangra Coal (30% owned by Shanduka Coal).
Oil Exploration & Production (Glencore interest: Block I: 23.75%/Block O: 25.0%) 
The Aseng field (Block I) in Equatorial Guinea has continued to perform well during 2012, producing 22.57 million barrels of  
cumulative gross production at an average gross rate of approximately 61,700 barrels per day.
Development of the Alen field (Block O) in Equatorial Guinea remains on budget with first production scheduled for Q3 2013.  
All of the development wells have been drilled and completed and construction of the production platform continues as planned.
Glencore’s first operated exploration well on the Oak prospect in the Bolongo Block, offshore Cameroon, was successfully drilled 
and declared an oil discovery in July 2012. The appraisal programme is planned for H2 2013. 60  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
2.4 | Agricultural products
Highlights
Grain and oilseed marketing performed satisfactorily in 2012. Cotton’s contribution 
was a small positive following the challenges of 2011. The acquisition of Viterra closed 
on 17 December 2012 and Glencore has since moved rapidly to streamline and fully 
integrate Viterra operations.
Outlook 
Crop production recoveries are expected in 2013, led by a record Brazilian crop.  
Baring weather problems in the Northern Hemisphere, prices and trade patterns are 
likely to normalise. 2013 results are expected to benefit from the incorporation of  
Viterra’s Canadian and Australian operations. Drought in South Australia reduced the 
2012 crop which will adversely impact the 2013 grain handling business in that region. 
2013 will also see a full year contribution from our recent softseed oilseed crushing  
acquisitions and newbuild in Central Europe and the newly constructed soyabean  
facility at Timbues in Argentina. Activity in Russia, including at the recently acquired 
port of Taman, will be limited until the new crop is harvested in July 2013.
Chris Mahoney 
Industrial activities
4 000
6 000
3 000
2 000
1 000
k MT
5 000
7 000
8 000
2011 2010 2012
2010 2011 2012
Volumes 4 312 6 563 7 428
Adjusted EBIT
400
600
200
0
– 200
US $ million
800
2011 2010 2012
2010 2011 2012
Marketing activities 659 – 8 371
Industrial activities 58 – 39 – 10
Marketing activities
30 000
40 000
25 000
20 000
k MT
35 000
50 000
45 000
2011 2010 2012
15 000
2010 2011 2012
Volumes 31 042 37 214 45 875
“2012 saw the division produce a resilient performance 
with a healthy recovery in marketing supported by an 
increase in the profitability of industrial due to higher 
processing volumes. Looking ahead, the integration of  
Viterra’s Canadian and Australian operations in 2013 
should significantly enhance the division. Furthermore, 
the recent softseed oilseed crushing acquisitions, new-
build activities in Central Europe, and the newly con-
structed soyabean facility at Timbues in Argentina should 
also begin to contribute to the division.”   |  Annual Report 2012  |  61
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
US $ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2012
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2011
Revenue 17 751 3 074 20 825 13 744 3 359 17 103
Adjusted EBITDA 394 59 453 – 8 23 15
Adjusted EBIT 371 – 10 361 – 8 – 39 – 47
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 2% 2% – n.m. 1% – 
Allocated average CE 
1
6 046 
2
2 188 
2
8 234 
2
3 323 1 631 4 954
Adjusted EBIT return on average CE 6% 
3
0% 4% 0% – 2% – 1%
1
  The simple average of segment current and non current capital employed (see note 2 of the financial statements), adjusted for production 
related inventories, is applied as a proxy for marketing and industrial activities respectively.
2
  For the purposes of this calculation, capital employed has been adjusted to move the Viterra related property, plant and equipment from 
industrial activities into marketing activities.
3
  Adjusted EBIT return on average capital employed includes the relevant elements of Viterra’s balance sheet, but given the mid-December 
acquisition date, negligible Viterra EBIT has been recorded. This distorts the return ratio in 2012, which otherwise would have exceeded 10%.
MARKET CONd ITIONS
Selected average commodity prices
2012 2011 Change
S&P GSCI Agriculture Index 459 490 – 6%
CBOT corn no.2 price (US¢/bu) 695 680 2%
ICE cotton price (US¢/lb) 80 137 – 42%
CBOT soya beans (US¢/bu) 1 466 1 317 11%
NYMEX sugar # 11 price (US¢/lb) 22 27 – 19%
CBOT wheat price (US¢/bu) 751 709 6%
The year was characterised by severe drought in the US in the May to July  2012 period which resulted in a more than 20%  
decline in the US corn crop from initial expectations. US soyabean production also suffered but not to the extent of corn or 
to the extent initially feared. The drought, combined with poor growing conditions in the FSU and Central Europe, led a sig-
nificant price rally of more than 30%, with grain markets reaching their peak in mid-August 2012 and oilseeds in early  
September 2012. Between September and mid-December 2012, prices consolidated before weakening towards year-end on the 
prospect of record South American new crop production.
Cotton prices, which fell sharply early in 2012, were particularly subdued compared to 2011 and tightly range bound in the second 
half of the year.
MARKETINg /INdu STRIAL
Highlights
Grain and oilseed volumes all exceeded 2011 by more than 20%, in part due to the overall increase in non-US seaborne trade as 
US exports, a market in which Glencore only has a small presence, were particularly curtailed by the drought. Marketing Adjusted 
EBIT/EBITDA for 2012 saw a healthy recovery compared to 2011, a year significantly impacted by the exceptional cotton market 
disruptions.
2012 Industrial EBITDA, admittedly off a low base, was sharply up on 2011, reflecting higher processing volumes, on the back of 
the three recent plant acquisitions and organic expansion initiatives. 2013 should benefit from a full year of crushing at Timbues, 
following its start-up in Q4 2012, increased sugarcane processing in Brazil and the addition of various industrial facilities emanating 
from the Viterra acquisition. 62  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Financial information
US $ million 2012 2011 Change 
Revenue 17 751 13 744 29%
Adjusted EBITDA 394 – 8 n.m.
Adjusted EBIT      371        – 8     n.m.
Selected marketing volumes sold
million MT 2012 2011 Change 
Grains 30.9 25.3 22%
Oil/oilseeds 13.6 10.8 26%
Cotton 0.5 0.5 – 
Sugar 0.9 0.7 29%
INdu STRIAL ACTIVITIES
Financial information 
US $ million 2012 2011 Change 
Revenue 3 074 3 359 – 8%
Adjusted EBITDA 
1
59 23 157%
Adjusted EBIT 
1
– 10     – 39 n.m.
Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 2% 1% –
Capex 260 221 –
1
 Includes share of income from associates and dividends of $ 15 million (2011: $ 18 million).
Production data
thousand MT
2012 
Total
 2011 
Total Change 
Farming 674 827 – 19%
Oilseed crushing 2 779 2 008 38%
Oilseed crushing long term toll agreement 876 948 – 8%
Biodiesel 534 569 – 6%
Rice milling 248 304 – 18%
Wheat milling 1 061 1 001 6%
Sugarcane processing 1 256 906 39%
Total 7 428 6 563 13%   |  Annual Report 2012  |  63
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
OPERATIONAL HIg HLIg HTS
Viterra (Glencore interest: 100%) 
On 17 December 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of Viterra, bringing immediate critical mass in the key grain markets 
of North America, via Viterra’s Canadian operations, as well as materially expanding Glencore’s existing operations in Australia.
Rio Vermelho (Glencore interest: 100%) 
1.3 million tonnes of sugarcane were crushed in 2012, a 39% increase compared to 2011, which in turn produced 108,400 tonnes of 
Very High Pol (‘VHP’) sugar and 34,000 cubic metres of hydrous ethanol. The on-going expansion plan at Rio Vermelho continues 
to progress on schedule. The first phase of the cogeneration plant, eventually capable of supplying 200,000 megawatt hours per 
annum of surplus electricity to the power grid at maturity of the project in 2015, will become operational during H2 2013.
Other Agricultural Products
Oilseed crushing
In 2012, oilseed crushing volumes increased 38%, reflecting the additional volumes crushed at the three acquired plants (Czech 
Republic, Poland and Ukraine) and the completion of the new plant constructed in Hungary.
Following the successful commissioning of Timbues (Argentina) in October 2012, the plant commenced crushing in December 2012. 64  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
2.5 | Reserves and resources
The reserves and resources data in the following tables is presented on a 100% asset basis, unless otherwise stated. All tonnage 
and volume information has been rounded to reflect the relative uncertainty in the estimates; there may therefore be small differ-
ences in the totals. The Measured and Indicated Mineral and Coal Resources are reported inclusive of those resources modified 
to produce reserves.
Ore reserves and mineral resources are reported in accordance with the 2004 edition of the Australian Code for Reporting of  
Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (the ‘JORC Code’) or the 2007 edition (as amended 2009) of the South 
African Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (the ‘SAMREC Code’).
METALS ANd MINERALS
KAZZINC 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
OPERATING MINES
Vasilkovskoye 
3
Open Cut (‘OC’) 69.6% Ore '000 MT 124 740  28 960  153 700  163 600  100 630  264 230  40 820 
Gold Content, g/t 1.88  1.48  1.80  1.78  1.33  1.61  1.72 
Gold Amount, '000 toz 7 540  1 378  8 918  9 363  4 303  13 666  2 257 
Maleevsky 
4
Underground 
(‘UG’) 69.6% Ore '000 MT 11 710  4 950  16 660  14 430  5 240  19 670  5 170 
Gold Content, g/t 0.54  0.42  0.51  0.64  0.56  0.62  0.25 
Silver Content, g/t 69.55  49.53  63.53  81.51  65.14  77.15  50.11 
Copper Content, % 2.10  1.43  1.90  2.46  1.79  2.28  1.16 
Lead Content, % 1.00  0.97  0.99  1.16  1.23  1.18  1.79 
Zinc Content, % 6.04  5.71  5.94  6.86  7.08  6.92  5.82 
Ridder-Sokolny 
5
UG 69.6% Ore '000 MT 9 070  27 850  36 920  24 450  67 780  92 230  32 940 
Gold Content, g/t 1.25  2.15  1.93  1.58  2.16  2.01  1.56 
Silver Content, g/t 5.96  8.80  8.22  10.23  9.27  9.52  9.26 
Copper Content, % 0.64  0.52  0.55  0.72  0.64  0.66  0.47 
Lead Content, % 0.24  0.25  0.25  0.37  0.33  0.34  0.32 
Zinc Content, % 0.60  0.52  0.54  0.87  0.68  0.73  0.72 
Tishinsky 
6
UG 69.6% Ore '000 MT 18 200  4 900  23 100  19 920  7 900  27 820  5 010 
Gold Content, g/t 0.53  0.47  0.52  0.48  0.42  0.46  0.27 
Silver Content, g/t 7.99  9.36 8.28  7.65  6.92  7.44  8.45 
Copper Content, % 0.52  0.40  0.49  0.48  0.40  0.46  0.50 
Lead Content, % 0.91  0.88  0.91  0.83  0.72  0.80  1.41 
Zinc Content, % 4.19  4.13  4.18  3.72  3.66  3.70  3.77 
Shubinsky 
7
UG 69.6% Ore '000 MT 1 452  523  1 975  1 980  870  2 850  1 310 
Gold Content, g/t 0.22  0.22  0.22  0.52  0.41  0.49  0.41 
Silver Content, g/t 9.71  8.30  9.34  18.19  12.87  16.57  11.59 
Copper Content, % 0.83  0.80  0.82  1.51  1.05  1.37  0.95 
Lead Content, % 0.24  0.23  0.24  0.42  0.37  0.40  0.36 
Zinc Content, % 1.44  1.29  1.40  2.44  2.07  2.33  1.77    |  Annual Report 2012  |  65
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Staroye Tailings Dam
OC 69.6% Ore '000 MT –  2 950  2 950 –  3 790  3 790  2 790 
Gold Content, g/t –  1.13  1.13  –  1.14  1.14  0.96 
Silver Content, g/t –  11.83  11.83  –  12.36  12.36  10.96 
Copper Content, % –  0.04  0.04  –  0.04  0.04  0.04 
Lead Content, % –  0.34  0.34  –  0.34  0.34  0.29 
Zinc Content, % –  0.74  0.74  –  0.74  0.74  0.62 
Shaimerden Stockpiles
OC 69.6% Ore '000 MT –  2 180  2 180 –  2 270  2 270 – 
Zinc Content, % –  21.60  21.60  –  21.71  21.71  – 
KAZZINC 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Dolinnoye
UG 69.6% Ore '000 MT 3 660  960  4 620  4 010  3 040 7 050  3 830
Gold Content, g/t 3.93  2.38  3.61 4.47 2.51  3.62  2.11
Silver Content, g/t 53.76  29.82  48.77 61.83 34.03  49.84  29.54
Copper Content, % 0.20  0.14  0.19  0.24  0.14  0.20  0.20 
Lead Content, % 0.75  0.50  0.70  0.92  0.51 0.74  0.68 
Zinc Content, % 1.41  1.02  1.33  1.76  1.01 1.44  1.26 
Obruchevskoye
UG 69.6% Ore '000 MT 890  3 250  4 140  1 150  7 780  8 930 5 500 
Gold Content, g/t 1.73  0.90  1.08  1.62  0.67  0.79  0.50 
Silver Content, g/t 42.80  33.21  35.26  40.68  25.36  27.34  24.97 
Copper Content, % 0.81  0.83  0.82  0.88  0.73  0.75  0.41 
Lead Content, % 4.27  2.66  3.01  4.02  1.78  2.07  0.64 
Zinc Content, % 8.98  6.50  7.03  8.87  4.64  5.19  1.75 
Chashinskoye Tailings Dam
OC 69.6% Ore '000 MT –  55 500  55 500 –  57 800  57 800  30 000 
Gold Content, g/t –  0.67  0.67  –  0.67  0.67  0.50 
Silver Content, g/t –  5.13  5.13  –  5.16  5.16  4.57 
Copper Content, % –  0.05  0.05  –  0.05  0.05  0.06 
Lead Content, % –  0.15  0.15  –  0.15  0.15  0.19 
Zinc Content, % –  0.38  0.38  –  0.38  0.38  0.45 
Tishinsky Tailings Dam
OC 69.6% Ore '000 MT –  1 100  1 100 –  1 150  1 150 – 
Gold Content, g/t –  0.38  0.38  –  0.38  0.38  – 
Silver Content, g/t –  5.10  5.10  –  5.13  5.13  – 
Copper Content, % –  0.23  0.23  –  0.23  0.23  – 
Lead Content, % –  0.44  0.44  –  0.44  0.44  – 
Zinc Content, % –  2.25  2.25  –  2.26  2.26  – 
Novo-Leninogorsky
OC 34.8% Ore '000 MT – – – – – –  38 900 
Gold Content, g/t –  –  –  –  –  –  1.70 
Silver Content, g/t –  –  –  –  –  –  33.39 
Copper Content, % –  –  –  –  –  –  0.19 
Lead Content, % –  –  –  –  –  –  1.29 
Zinc Content, % –  –  –  –  –  –  3.78  66  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
¹  The information in the table above, in relation to mineral resources and ore reserves, has been estimated in accordance with the guidelines of 
the JORC Code and is dated as of 31 December 2012.
²  Remaining mine life: different for each mine, ranging from seven to 21 years. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession licences: different for 
each mine, ranging from 19 June 2013 to 7 July 2028. There is a routine licence extension procedure in Kazakhstan which Kazzinc undertakes 
as required.
3
  V a s i l ko v s ko y e  
Vasilkovskoye is a gold deposit of epigenetic (stockwork) type and beresite subtype of deposits hosting ores of gold-quartz formation. Gold 
ore mineralisation is confined to a steeply dipping zone of beresite alteration (quartz-potassium feldspar metasomatosis) which forms a conic 
stockwork thinning out with depth and located in the near-contact part of granodiorite and gabbro-diorite intrusions.
4
  M al e e v sk y  
Maleevsky is a typical syngenetic VMS deposit hosting ores of sulphide-polymetallic formation (with associated gold and silver). Maleevsky 
comprises seven major (10-150m thick, 80-400m wide and 500-1,750m long) gently dipping stratified massive sulphides of lenticular and 
tabular morphology occurring in volcanogenic-sedimentary deposits changing with depth into steeply dipping linear zones with vein-dissem-
inated ore mineralisation in underlying sequences of brecciated quartzites. In terms of mineral composition the ores express the following 
vertical zoning: in the hanging wall pyrite impregnation is consecutively underlain by massive barite-galena-sphalerite, sphalerite and pyrite-
galena with barite, pyrite-chalcopyrite-sphalerite and chalcopyrite-pyrite ores in the lower part; the footwall contains pyrite vein-disseminated 
mineralisation. 
5
  R i d d e r- S o k o l n y  
Ridder-Sokolny gold-polymetallic deposit is also VMS type of syngenetic deposits hosting ores of gold bearing sulphide-polymetallic formation. 
Ridder-Sokolny comprises over thirty ore bodies of lenticular, vein-stockwork and veined morphology confined to three stratigraphic levels of 
volcanogenic-sedimentary deposits. Gently dipping massive sulphide ores of the upper stratigraphic layer are mostly mined out with the main 
part of Ridder-Sokolny unmined ore bodies being small pitching and steeply dipping veins and vein-stockwork zones. The ores of the upper 
stratigraphic level are mainly gold-barite-galena-sphalerites, with gold-galena-pyrite, chalcopyrite-sphalerite-pyrite and chalcopyrite within the 
middle level and gold-quartz, pyrite and pyrite-chalcopyrite-vein-disseminated mineralisation within the lower level. 
6
  T i sh i n sk y  
The Tishinsky deposit is a syngenetic VMS deposit of Au- and Ag-bearing sulfide polymetallic ores. Tishinsky resources mainly occur in the 
Main ore shoot, which extends in EW direction over a strike length of 1,250m with almost vertical dip to the north. Originally the stratified ore 
body was flat but eventually became steep dipping due to intensive dynamic metamorphism and shearing. The mineralisation was deline-
ated by drilling along the stratified mineralised formation of strongly fissile volcanogenic carbonate-sericite-quartz shale rock to the depth 
of 1,460m. The vein-disseminated polymetallic mineralisation prevails at the deposit though the central part of the Main Orebody contains 
three subvertical lenses of massive sulfides with 60m width, 500m length and thickness varying from 6.5 to 17m. There are two prevalent 
mineral associations: A polymetallic (chalcopyrite-galena-pyrite-sphalerite) association, and (2) A copper-zinc (chalcopyrite-sphalerite-pyrite) 
association. Pb content decreases with the depth while Cu content gradually increases eastward and Au content significantly decreases at the 
western flank of the deposit. 
7
  Shu b in s k y  
Shubinsky polymetallic deposit is a syngenetic VMS deposit hosting ores of sulphide-polymetallic formation (with associated gold and silver). 
Stratified vein-disseminated polymetallic ores in the near-contact part of volcanomictous chlorite-sericite-quartz shales with clayey siltstones 
underwent folded dislocation and occur at 65-80 dip extending down to the 580-725m depth as thin boudinaged lenses changing into sub-
vertical ore shoots. Primary sulphide mineralisation includes four associations: pyrite, chalcopyrite-pyrite, chalcopyrite-sphalerite-pyrite and 
pyrite-galena-sphalerite. Oxidised copper, lead and zinc in the form of chalcosine, covelline, bornite, goslarite and chalcanthite are found 
down to the depth of 90m. 
Competent Persons: the mineral resource and ore reserve estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Phil Newall of Wardell Armstrong  
International. The mineral resource and ore reserve estimates have been prepared in accordance with the JORC Code. Mr Newall is a Competent Person 
as defined by the JORC Code and has sufficient experience which is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and 
to the activity which he is undertaking.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  67
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
KATANGA 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore 
3
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Kamoto
UG 56.4% Ore ’000 MT 11 200 19 400 30 600 30 400 32 900 63 300 11 000 
Copper % 3.40 3.70 3.59 4.36 4.78 4.58 5.00 
Cobalt % 0.50 0.53 0.52 0.58 0.58 0.58 0.59 
T17
OC and UG 56.4% Ore ’000 MT – 2 500 2 500 4 500 9 400 13 900 5 200 
Copper % – 3.51 3.51 2.71 4.44 3.88 4.21 
Cobalt % – 0.56 0.56 0.54 0.65 0.61 0.98 
Mashamba East
OC 56.4% Ore ’000 MT – 5 900 5 900 – 75 000 75 000 65 300 
Copper % – 3.00 3.00 – 1.80 1.80 0.76 
Cobalt % – 0.36 0.36 – 0.38 0.38 0.10 
KOV
OC 56.4% Ore ’000 MT – 51 900 51 900 2 200 114 600 116 800 69 700 
Copper % – 4.76 4.76 4.07 5.42 5.39 3.58 
Cobalt % – 0.42 0.42 0.22 0.42 0.42 0.32 
Kananga
56.4% Ore ’000 MT – – – – 4 100 4 100 4 000 
Copper % – – – – 1.61 1.61 2.00 
Cobalt % – – – – 0.79 0.79 0.98 
Tilwezembe
56.4% Ore ’000 MT – – – – 9 500 9 500 13 800 
Copper % – – – – 1.89 1.89 1.75 
Cobalt % – – – – 0.60 0.60 0.60 
 
1
  As at December 31 2012. The information in the table above, in relation to mineral reserves and resources, is in compliance with the JORC 
Code and has been extracted without material adjustment from the Competent Person’s Report compiled for Katanga.
2
  Remaining life of mine: expected to be in excess of 20 years. Expiry date of relevant permits: 7 May 2022 for the Kananga Extension and 
3 April 2024 for all remaining permits (KTO and Mashamba East Open Pit, T-17 Open Pit, KOV Open Pit, Kananga Mine), renewable in accord-
ance with the DRC mining code for a period of 15 years.
3
  Glencore owns 75.2% of Katanga, which in turn owns 75% of Kamoto Copper Company SARL (‘KCC’). KCC owns the material assets, including 
the mining and exploration rights related to the mining assets. La Generale des Carrieres et des Mines and La Société Immobilière du Congo, 
which are state-owned mining companies in the DRC, own the other 25% of KCC.
With the exception of Tilwezembe, primary mineralisation, in the form of sulphides, within the Lower Roan is associated with the Stratified 
Dolomite and Silicified Rocks for the Ore Body Inferior and the Basal Schists and Upper Dolomitic Shales for the Ore Body Superior and 
is thought to be sys-sedimentary in origin. Typical primary copper sulphide minerals are bornite, chalcopyrite, chalcocite and occasional 
native copper while cobalt is in the form of carrolite. The mineralisation occurs as disseminations or in association with hydrothermal  
carbonate alteration and silicification.
The mineralisation at Tilwezembe Mine is atypical being hosted by the Mwashya or R4 Formation. The mineralisation generally occurs 
as infilling of fissures and open fractures associated with the brecciation. The typical copper minerals are mainly chalcopyrite, malachite 
and pseudomalachite while cobalt is in the form of heterogenite, carrolite and spherocobaltite. Manganese minerals are psilomelane and 
manganite.
Competent Persons: the mineral resources and ore reserve estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Cornelius Willem Ries 
and Jacobus Lotheringen of Golder Associates. The mineral resources and ore reserve estimates have been prepared in accordance with the 
JORC Code. Mr Ries and Mr Lotheringen are Competent Persons as defined by JORC and have sufficient experience which is relevant to the 
style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration. 68  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
MUTANDA 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Mutanda pits
OC 60% Ore ’000 MT 39 100 6 800 45 900 96 500 28 400 124 900 166 600 
Copper % 3.30 3.06 3.27 2.05 1.52 1.93 1.00 
Cobalt % 0.82 1.20 0.88 0.64 0.77 0.67 0.47 
Stockpiles
60% Ore ’000 MT 7 100 – 7 100 – – – –
Copper % 2.30 – 2.30 – – – –
Cobalt % 1.76 – 1.76 – – – –
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012. The information in the table above, in relation to mineral reserves and resources, is in compliance with the JORC 
Code and has been extracted without material adjustment from the Competent Person’s Report compiled for Mutanda.
2
  Remaining mine life: estimated in excess of 15 years. Expiry date of relevant permits: 26 May 2022 for Mutanda and 6 April 2022 for Ki-kolwezi, 
renewable in accordance with the DRC mining code for periods of 15 years.
The main copper oxide minerals present are malachite and pseudomalachite and the main cobalt mineral is heterogenite. Carollite is the main 
Cobalt Sulphide mineral.
Competent Persons: the mineral resources and ore reserve estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Cornelius Willem Ries and 
Jacobus Lotheringen of Golder Associates. The mineral resources and ore reserve estimates have been prepared in accordance with the JORC 
Code. Mr Ries and Mr Lotheringen are Competent Persons as defined by JORC and have sufficient experience which is relevant to the style of 
mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration.
KANSUKI 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Area 3
37.5% Ore ’000 MT – – – 16 700 400 17 100 –
Copper % – – – 1.72 0.93 1.70 –
Cobalt % – – – 0.17 0.14 0.17 –
Area 1
37.5% Ore ’000 MT – – – – 63 900 63 900 –
Copper % – – – – 1.13 1.13 –
Cobalt % – – – – 0.37 0.37 –
Area 2 East
37.5% Ore ’000 MT – – – – – – 38 800 
Copper % – – – – – – 0.44 
Cobalt % – – – – – – 0.08 
Area 2 West
37.5% Ore ’000 MT – – – 48 100 29 100 77 200 13 900 
Copper % – – – 0.73 0.51 0.64 0.47 
Cobalt % – – – 0.34 0.14 0.27 0.11 
Kabwimia
37.5% Ore ’000 MT – – – – – – 6 200 
Copper % – – – – – – 0.75 
Cobalt % – – – – – – 0.02 
1
  As at 31 December 2012. The information in the table above, in relation to mineral resources and ore reserves, is in compliance with the JORC 
Code and has been extracted without material adjustment from the Competent Person’s Report compiled for Kansuki.
2
  Expiry date of relevant permit: 1 July 2022 for Kansuki, renewable in accordance with the DRC mining code for periods of 15 years.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  69
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Drilling undertaken in Area 2 West during 2012 provided an increased level of geological knowledge and confidence in the resource, resulting 
in both an increase in the resource and a movement between resource categories.
Similar to Mutanda, the main copper oxide minerals present are malachite and pseudomalachite and the main cobalt mineral is heterogenite. 
Carollite is the main Cobalt Sulphide mineral.
Competent Person: the mineral resources estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Cornelius Willem Ries of Golder Associates. 
The mineral resources estimates have been prepared in accordance with the JORC Code. Mr Ries is a Competent Person as defined by JORC 
and has sufficient experience which is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration.
MOPANI 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Nkana Sulphides
UG 73.1% Ore ’000 MT 94 400 17 800 112 200 140 100 42 200 182 300 38 200 
Copper % 1.88 1.84 1.88 2.01 1.79 1.96 1.66 
Cobalt % 0.09 0.11 0.09 0.11 0.12 0.11 0.11 
Nkana Oxides
OC and UG 73.1% Ore ’000 MT 2 200 5 400 7 600 8 600 7 400 16 000 1 100 
Total copper % 3.30 0.73 1.46 2.85 1.00 1.99 1.26 
Acid soluble 
copper
% 2.27 0.49 0.99 1.95 0.66 1.35 0.86 
Cobalt % 0.14 0.07 0.09 0.12 0.07 0.10 0.07 
Mufulira Sulphides
UG 73.1% Ore ’000 MT 12 800 3 600 16 400 21 500 8 700 30 200 35 700 
Copper % 2.15 2.21 2.16 2.48 2.62 2.52 2.52 
Mufulira Oxides
UG 73.1% Ore ’000 MT 2 000 300 2 300 4 500 2 000 6 500 1 200 
Total copper % 1.38 1.25 1.36 1.58 1.37 1.52 1.53 
Acid soluble 
copper
% 0.90 0.65 0.87 1.01 0.79 0.94 0.93 
Mufulira Surface
OC 73.1% Ore ’000 MT – – – 3 000 1 800 4 800 1 300 
Total copper % – – – 1.81 1.80 1.81 1.76 
Acid soluble 
copper
% – – – 0.50 0.48 0.49 0.39 
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012. The information in the table above, in relation to mineral reserves and resources, is in compliance with the JORC 
Code and has been extracted without material adjustment from the Competent Person’s Report compiled for Mopani.
2
  Remaining life of mine: 26 years for Nkana and twelve years for Mufulira. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession licences: 31 March 2025 
for both of these mines.
Within the Nkana mining area there are four underground mines and a series of open pits with only one being operational (Area J). All open pits 
and Mindola Mines operations are situated on the eastern limb of the Nkana Syncline. Central and SOB operations are in other structures within 
the Nkana Syncline. Cupriferous Oxide zones are present in the nose and southwest limb of the syncline. The ore bodies are stratiform and are 
mainly confined to a recognisable ore formation, which occurs near the base of the Katangan sequence within the Lower Roan Group of the 
Mine Series. In the underground workings, the principal copper ore minerals are chalcopyrite and bornite with subordinate chalcocite. There is 
a zoning in the geographical distribution of these minerals. Cobalt occurs as carrollite and cobaltiferious pyrite. In the open pits, the principal 
ore minerals are malachite, pseudomalchite, chrysocolla, native copper, cuprite and libethenite in the zone of oxidation closer to the surface. In 
some places however, vermiculite, malachite pseudomalachite and accessory wad are more important. At deeper levels chalcopyrite, bornite 
and chalcocite are predominantly present.
 
In the Mufulira mining area, the Basement Complex topography appears to have exerted a significant structural control during deformation. 
The distribution of ore minerals in all three ore bodies is stratigraphically controlled, occurring dominantly as disseminations, blebs and irregu-
lar masses. The principal copper minerals are chalcopyrite (60%), bornite (40%), and minor/trace chalcocite. Oxide minerals are confined to near 
surface occurrences, and supergene enrichment zones. Generally the deposit is structurally simple being characterised by three main folds that 
are in part overturned with a plunge and dip approximately 10º the northeast. The basin is open and untested at depth.
Competent Persons: the mineral resources and ore reserve estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Cornelius Willem Ries 
and Jacobus Lotheringen of Golder Associates. The reserve and resources estimates have been prepared in accordance with the JORC Code.  
Mr Ries and Mr Lotheringen are Competent Persons as defined by JORC and have sufficient experience which is relevant to the style of 
mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking.  70  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
LOS QUENUALES 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Iscaycruz 
3
UG/OC 97.6% Ore ’000 MT 1 449  4 165  5 614  1 663  4 682  6 345  9 710 
Zinc % 9.21 5.83 6.70 10.80 6.18 7.39 4.44
Lead % 0.44 0.53 0.51 0.50 0.55 0.54 0.35
Copper % 0.24 0.25 0.24 0.29 0.36 0.34 0.62
Silver g/t 14.34 27.76 24.29 16.58 30.01 26.49 22.75
Yauliyacu 
4
UG 97.6% Ore ’000 MT 1 066  2 917  3 983  1 727  8 062  9 789  12 754 
Zinc % 2.12 2.14 2.13 3.57 3.61 3.60 3.52
Lead % 0.89 0.90 0.90 1.24 1.48 1.44 1.33
Copper % 0.22 0.20 0.20 0.37 0.39 0.39 0.36
Silver g/t 96.04 99.96 98.91 145.52 204.50 194.10 178.23
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012.
2
  Remaining mine life: the expected life of Iscaycruz is four years based on reserves and twelve years based on resources. The expected life of 
Yauliyacu is three years based on reserves and 17 years based on resources. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession licences: permanent. 
Iscaycruz shows a +100% increase in the reserve year on year due to the approval of the community surface access agreement for Santa Este 
and the conversion of the indicated resource to a probable reserve.
3
  I s c a yc r u z  
Zinc, lead and copper mineralisation are exposed as subvertical massive sulphide ore bodies; described as skarn, breccias and carbonate 
replacement type along 12km corridor hosted in clay-rich limestone and dolomite rocks. Hydrothermal mineralisation assemblages are mainly 
composed of sphalerite, galena, pyrite, chalcopyrite distributed in five production zones named Limpe Centro, Chupa, Tinyag II, Tinyag I and 
Santa Este from North to South.         
4
  Ya u l i y a c u   
Main mineralisation occurs as sphalerite, galena, tetrahedrite and chalcopyrite in 60° to 80° northwest dipping narrow veins, stockwork and 
minor replacement massive ore bodies exposed in about five kilometers length extension and +2 km depth extension. This hydrothermal 
mineralisation is strongly structurally controlled and hosted in folded rock units as calcareous sandstones (red beds), conglomerates, volcanic 
tuffs, andesites and limestones.
Competent Person: the mineral resources and ore reserve estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Glencore Competent Person, 
Chris Emerson, and have been prepared in accordance with the JORC Code. Mr Emerson is a Competent Person as defined by the JORC Code.  
Mr Emerson is a fellow of the Geological Society of London and a member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and has more 
than ten years experience in underground polymetallic deposits, predominantly in Latin America.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  71
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
SINCHI WAYRA 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Commodity Unit Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Bolivar
UG 50% Ore ’000 MT 194  423  617  815  677  1 492  2 306 
Zinc % 7.78 7.44 7.54 9.52 9.49 9.51 8.12
Lead % 1.10 1.05 1.07 1.27 0.84 1.07 0.69
Silver g/t 204.07 230.32 222.07 290.15 301.34 295.23 274.37
Porco
UG 100% Ore ’000 MT 109  658  767  682  438  1 120  1 218 
Zinc % 7.06 6.60 6.66 8.53 9.15 8.77 8.53
Lead % 0.40 0.43 0.42 0.51 0.74 0.60 0.80
Silver g/t 123.61 95.53 99.52 108.52 120.67 113.27 84.54
Poopo
UG 100% Ore ’000 MT 48  173  221  251  400  651  1 730 
Zinc % 5.18 6.15 5.94 6.86 5.93 6.29 5.21
Lead % 0.14 0.39 0.33 0.35 0.49 0.44 0.49
Silver g/t 77.76 137.51 124.53 138.60 213.32 184.51 217.12
Caballo Blanco
UG 100% Ore ’000 MT 32  378  410  423  446  869  1 339 
Zinc % 9.00 7.12 7.27 8.81 8.55 8.68 7.24
Lead % 0.39 2.01 1.88 2.28 2.29 2.29 1.78
Silver g/t 61.45 151.79 144.74 176.06 189.65 183.03 156.16
 
1
 As at 31 December 2012.
2
  Remaining mine life: the expected life of the mines as a group, considering current production capacities, is an average of two years based on 
reserves and ten years based on resources. Expiry date of relevant mining concessions/authorisations or contracts is different for each mine: 
Porco – June 2014 (lease agreement entered into in 1999), Poopo – January 2027 (lease agreement with a local co-operative entered into in 
2002), Bolivar – May 2023 (joint venture agreement entered into in 1993) and permanent in respect of Caballo Blanco. Exploration drilling in 
the Poopo mine has resulted in the addition of 0.9 million metric tonnes of additional inferred resource base over 2011. The Colquiri mine was 
nationalised on 22 June 2012 and is no longer reported in Sinchi Wayra’s reserves and resources.
According to the new Bolivian Constitution enacted in 2009, natural resources belong to the Bolivian people. The Bolivian State can enter into 
mining contracts with private investors to operate them. As with all private investors in Bolivia, Sinchi Wayra does not hold property rights over 
mining resources in the country, but holds the right to exploit them pursuant to Bolivian legislation. 
The majority of the deposits within the Sinichi Wayra portfolio are epigenetic-hydrothermal base metal type vein and fault filled mineralisation 
hosted within a variety of lithologies from volcanic tuffs to sedimentary packages. The main mineral assemblages are composed of sphalerite, 
marmatite, galena, silver rich galena and silver sulfosalts. The resources are usually based on multiple structures with Porco containing over 
100 different veins. The typical dimensions of these structures is +500m in length and +450m depth profile with mineralisation open at depth; 
average vein widths from 0.2-4.0m.
Competent Person: the mineral resources and ore reserve estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Glencore Competent Person, 
Chris Emerson, and have been prepared in accordance with the JORC Code. Mr Emerson is a Competent Person as defined by the JORC Code.  
Mr Emerson is a fellow of the Geological Society of London and a member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and has more 
than ten years experience in underground polymetallic deposits, predominantly in Latin America. 72  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
AR ZINC 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Aguilar
UG/OC 100% Ore ’000 MT 2 741  982  3 723  4 281  1 070  5 351  1 072 
Zinc % 6.61 6.77 6.65 5.79 7.32 6.10 8.61
Lead % 7.95 8.23 8.02 6.53 8.73 6.97 9.74
Silver g/t 169.78 174.40 171.00 149.05 186.51 156.54 197.79
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012.           
2
  Remaining mine life: approximately six years based on reserves and nine years based on resources. AR Zinc plans to continue exploration with 
the aim of extending the life of mine. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession licences: permanent. The resource tonnage has remained at 
the same levels with continued exploration replacing the 2012 production. An extensive sampling programme has enabled a large portion of 
indicated resource to be converted to measured and subsequently increase the proved reserve.
Mineralisation is classified as sedex type with sulphide layers in between siliciclastic and shale rocks with a post secondary metasomatic over 
print between two intrusive stocks. Galena-rich, sphalerite, marmatite pyrite ore bodies as lenses shape, locally brittle-style hydrothermal 
breccias, minor veinlets-stockworks and dissemination defines the economic portion of mineral inventories. Strike length extension of mineral 
geometries is variable and reaches up to 300m on North-South extension, about 55m width and reaches up to 160m in depth.   
     
Competent Person: the mineral resources and ore reserve estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Glencore Competent Person, 
Chris Emerson, and have been prepared in accordance with the JORC Code. Mr Emerson is a Competent Person as defined by the JORC Code.  
Mr Emerson is a fellow of the Geological Society of London and a member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and has more 
than ten years experience in underground polymetallic deposits, predominantly in Latin America.
COBAR 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Cobar
UG 100% Ore ’000 MT 2 606  3 395  6 001  2 257  3 181  5 438  5 974 
Copper % 4.78 4.40 4.56 6.11 5.87 5.97 5.79
Silver g/t 17.8  18.4  18.1  22.0  26.0 24.3 21.0 
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012.
2
  Remaining mine life: current expected life of mine is approximately five years based on reserves and approximately 10 years based on  
resources, although Cobar has previously been able to extend its expected life of mine through exploratory drilling in the area covered by its 
concession. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession licences: 5 December 2028.
Economic mineralisation at Cobar occurs mostly as narrow lenses with short strike lengths that are depth extensive. Lenses consist of vein or 
semi massive to massive chalcopyrite hosted by sub-vertical quartz-chlorite shear zones within a siltstone unit. The Cobar mineral resource is 
reported within four ‘systems’: Western, Eastern, QTS North and QTS South.       
            
Competent Person: the ore reserves estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Glencore Competent Person, Aaron  
Nankivell. The mineral resources estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Glencore Competent Person, Jason Hosken. The  
ore reserves and mineral resources estimates have been prepared in accordance with the JORC Code. Mr Nankivell has been a member of the  
Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy since 2011 and has more than seven years of experience in underground polymetallic deposits 
in Australia. Mr Hosken has been a member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy for more than 13 years and has more than 
17 years of experience in underground polymetallic deposits in Australia.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  73
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
PUNITAQUI 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Punitaqui
UG 100% Ore ’000 MT 1 891  1 510  3 401  3 734  3 311  7 045  2 081 
Copper % 1.47 1.37 1.43 1.41 1.24 1.33 1.42
Silver g/t 8.85 5.78 7.49 6.05 4.05 5.11 3.03
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012.
2
  Remaining mine life: approximately three and a half years based on reserves and nine years based on resources. Punitaqui plans to continue 
exploration with the aim of extending the life of mine. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession licences: permanent. The total resource for 
the Punitaqui mine has increased by two million metric tonnes due to the inclusion of the Dalmacia satellite deposit.
Several epigenetic stratabound copper mineralisation (manto type) bodies with variable thicknesses between 20 to 40m are distributed along 
900m strike length mineralised corridor named Cinabrio zone. Mineralisation is composed of crisocole, brochantite and malaquite in upper  
oxide levels turning into a mixed zone composed of malaquite, crisocole and chalcopyrite. Main sulphide zones are composed of pyrite, bornite 
and chalcopyrite. All mineralisation is distributed in calcareous shales also within minor pre-existing faults.    
 
Competent Person: the mineral resources and ore reserve estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Glencore Competent Person, 
Chris Emerson, and have been prepared in accordance with the JORC Code. Mr Emerson is a Competent Person as defined by the JORC Code.  
Mr Emerson is a fellow of the Geological Society of London and a member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and has more 
than ten years experience in underground polymetallic deposits, predominantly in Latin America.
PERKOA 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Perkoa
UG/OC 50.1% Ore ’000 MT – 6 300  6 300  1 400  5 660  7 060  5 010 
Zinc % – 13.90 13.90 13.08 10.48 11.00 9.14 
Lead % – – – 0.09 0.18 0.16 0.17 
Silver g/t – – – 38.4  57.9 54.0 54.2 
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012 for 100% of the Perkoa Project. Reserve information produced July 2009, Resource information produced June 2012.
2
  Remaining mine life: current expected life of mine is approximately 9.5 years based on reserves and approximately 12.1 years based on  
resources. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession licences: 20 March 2027.
 
The information in the table above in relation to resources and reserves is in compliance with the JORC Code.
Economic mineralisation at Perkoa occurs mainly as volcanic massive sulfide lenses of sphalerite, galena, pyrite, and pyrrhotite. These massive 
sulphide lenses vary in width from 1m to 30m thick in places. These massive sulfide lenses dip at an average of 75°, striking NorthEast – South-
West and consist of two main ore bodies. Igneous intrusives have also caused endothermic and exothermic skarn like disseminated mineralisa-
tion of remobilised galena, pyrite, and to a lesser extent pyrrhotite and sphalerite. 
Competent Person: The ore reserves estimates set out above were reviewed and approved by Mr John Miles. The mineral resources estimates 
set out above were reviewed and approved by Mr Danny Kentwell. Both Mr Miles and Mr Kentwell are Members of the Institute of Materials, 
Minerals and Mining which is a ‘Recognised Overseas Professional Organisation’ (‘ROPO’), and both have sufficient experience which is relevant 
to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking to qualify as Competent 
Persons as defined in the JORC Code. Mr Kentwell is a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and is a Principal Consultant 
of SRK Consulting (Australasia) Pty Ltd. Mr Miles is a Principal Associate of SRK Consulting (UK). 74  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
ROSH PINAH 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved Probable Total Measured Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Rosh Pinah
UG 80.08% Ore ’000 MT 2 268  1 962  4 230  3 711  4 488  8 199  7 707 
Zinc % 8.46 7.29 7.91 8.44 6.73 7.50 7.92
Lead % 1.89 2.43 2.14 1.95 2.33 2.16 1.12
Silver g/t 34.1  34.3  34.2  52.2  45.4 48.5 32.1 
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012.
2
  Remaining mine life: expected life of mine is 6.2 years based on reserves. Rosh Pinah has previously been able to extend its expected life of 
mine through exploratory drilling in the area covered by its concession. Potential Life of Mine based on resources and expected continuity of 
mineralisation is 20.2 years. The expiry date of ML 39+AW (Mining Licence and Accessory Works) is 11 February 2020.
Mineralisation style: Sedimentary exhalative (SEDEX) type Zinc and lead sulphide ores are contained within the so-called Ore Equivalent Hori-
zon, a stratiform horizon that is extensively folded, resulting in discreet, subvertical ore bodies that vary in size from 0.4– 2.0 million tonnes. 
 
Competent Persons: The mineral resources estimates have been reviewed and approved by Eric Mouton, Technical Service Manager, employed 
on a full time basis by Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation, a Professional Natural Scientist affiliated to the South African Council for Natural Scientific 
Professions (‘SACNASP’). Eric Mouton has twelve years of experience in the style of mineralisation of the Rosh Pinah deposit. The ore reserve 
estimates were compiled by Phil Crowther, Long term Planning Consultant employed on a part-time basis with Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation and 
a South African Council for Professional Land Surveyors and Technical Surveyors (‘PLATO’) affiliated professional. Phil Crowther has 21 years 
of experience in the type of deposit being mined as well as the mining method. The resources and reserve estimates have been prepared in 
accordance with the SAMREC Code.
MURRIN MURRIN 
1, 2
Ore reserves Mineral resources
Mining method Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Proved
3
Probable Total Measured
3
Indicated Measured 
and  
indicated
Inferred
Murrin Murrin
OC 100% Ore ’000 MT 153 814  34 378  188 192  183 448  73 932  257 380  10 827 
Nickel Content, % 
4
 0.98  0.98  0.98  0.99  0.99  0.99  0.94 
Cobalt Content, % 
4
 0.069  0.071 0.069 0.070  0.078  0.072 0.057 
Nickel Cut 
Off Grade
% 0.8  0.8  0.8 
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012. The position has been determined using survey information as at 31 October 2012 with adjustments applied for  
November actuals and December forecast performance. The above Resources and Reserves have been prepared in accordance with the 
JORC Code.
2
  Remaining mine life: at the forecast throughput capacity of 4.0 million tonnes per annum, the project’s operating life is in excess of 30 years. 
Expiry dates for relevant tenements differ for each tenement and range from 2013 to 2032. The Murrin Murrin 31 December 2012 Ore Reserve 
estimate is based on the optimised Base Case pit shells for Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources. 
3
  Includes scats and stockpiles.
4
  Ore Reserve grades have been subject to the application of grade modifying factors. These have been derived from analysis of the previous 
two years mine-to-mill grade performance and result in grade modifying factors of 94% and 88% for nickel and cobalt respectively. The estimated 
Ore Reserve tonnage has had the depletion of 0.6 Mt taken out of the Proved category for Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources.
Competent Persons: The information in this report relating to mineral resources is based on information compiled by Mr Rob Embry (drill  
design, drilling, assay compilation and assay QA/QC) and Mr Stephen King (geostatistical analysis, modelling/estimation and resource clas-
sification), the information relating to ore reserves is based on information compiled by Ms Kellie Gill and the information relating to Metal-
lurgical Results is based on information compiled by Mr Bradley Adamson. Mr Embry, Mr King, Ms Gill and Mr Adamson are all Members of the  
Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and are all full time employees of Minara Resources Ltd. Mr Embry, Mr King, Ms Gill and  
Mr Adamson all have sufficient experience which is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the 
activity which they are undertaking in order to qualify as Competent Persons as defined in the JORC Code and all consent to the inclusion in 
this report of the matters based on their information in the form and context in which it appears.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  75
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
ENERg y PROdu CTS
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
Reserves (MMstb)
Gross field 
1
Glencore working interest 
2
1P 2P 3P 1P 2P 3P
Aseng field 
3, 4
75 84 98 18 20 23
Alen field 
5
47 72 101 12 18 25
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012. The reserves information set out above were reviewed and approved by Gaffney, Cline & Associates (‘GCA’), has 
been prepared in accordance with the Petroleum Resources Management System (PRMS) and has been extracted without material adjustment 
from the GCA Report.
2
  Glencore working interest in Block O is 25 per cent and Glencore working interest in Block I is 23.75 per cent.
3
  Includes oil and condensate.
4
 Aseng is in Block I. 
5
 Alen is 95% in Block O and 5% in Block I. 
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
Contingent Resources 
1
Gross field Glencore working interest 
2
1C 2C 3C 1C 2C 3C
Liquids (MMstb) 
3
39 65 99 10 16 24
Gas (Bscf) 1 707 2 469 3 376 415 601 820
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012. The resources information set out above were reviewed and approved by Gaffney, Cline & Associates (‘GCA’), has 
been prepared in accordance with PRMS and has been extracted without material adjustment from the GCA Report, save for the aggregation, 
which has been performed by Glencore.
2
  Glencore working interest in Block O is 25 per cent and Glencore working interest in Block I is 23.75 per cent.
3
  Includes oil and condensate.
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
Prospective Resources (Unrisked) 
1
Gross Glencore working interest 
2
P90 P50 P10 P90 P50 P10
Liquids (MMstb) 
3
65 176 338 16 42 81
Gas (Bscf) 451 1 039 1 767 111 254 432
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012. The resources information set out above were reviewed and approved by Gaffney, Cline & Associates (‘GCA’), has 
been prepared in accordance with PRMS and has been extracted without material adjustment from the GCA Report, save for the aggregation, 
which has been performed by Glencore.
2
  Glencore working interest in Block O is 25 per cent and Glencore working interest in Block I is 23.75 per cent.
³ Includes oil and condensate. 76  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
PRODECO 
1
Coal resources Coal reserves Marketable coal reserves 
Mining 
method
Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Commodity Unit Measured Indicated Inferred Proved Probable Proved Probable Total 
Calenturitas 
2
OC 100% Thermal coal ’000 MT 160 000  190 000  60 000  107 100  101 000  107 000  101 000  208 000 
CV kcal/kg 6 400  6 300  6 200  6 250  6 150  6 250  6 150 6 200
La Jagua 
3
OC 100% Thermal coal ’000 MT 100 000  20 000 –  92 000  22 000  92 000  22 000  114 000 
CV kcal/kg 7 100  7 100 –  6 750  6 650  6 750  6 650  6 700 
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012.
2
 Remaining mine life: expected to be 20 years. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession licenses: 2035.
3
  Remaining mine life: expected to be 18 years. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession licenses: Carbones El Tesoro and Carbones de La 
Jagua expiring between 2027 and 2038, and Consorcio Minero Unido expiring in 2014 with renewal considered probable due to the fact that 
the integrated La Jagua mine plan has already been approved.
Coal reserves and resources reported in accordance with the JORC Code. Tonnes and quality are reported at in situ moisture basis for coal  
resources and as received basis for coal reserves. Coal resource tonnages were estimated within a ‘geoshell’ defined by the limits of geological 
information within the geological model. As a result, there is minimal extrapolation of resources beyond the areal and vertical limits of the data.
Competent Persons: Mr Grant Walker of Xenith Consulting and Mr Kerry Whitby of McElroy Bryan Geological Services are each Competent  
Persons as defined by JORC and have sufficient experience relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to 
the activity which they are undertaking. The coal reserve and coal resource estimates set out above were reviewed and approved for publication 
by Mr Walker and Mr Whitby respectively.
SHANDUKA 
1, 2
Coal resources Extractable coal
reserves
Saleable coal reserves 
Mining 
method
Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Commodity Unit Measured Indicated Inferred Proved Probable Proved Probable Total 
saleable
Graspan
OC 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 16 477  –  –  13 683  –  9 966  –  9 966 
CV kcal/kg 5 340  –  –  5 340  – 6 300 – 6 300
Townlands
OC 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 19 419  –  –  17 355  –  12 051 –  12 051 
CV kcal/kg 4 860  –  –  4 860  – 5 600 – 5 600
Steelcoal
OC 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 10 542  –  –  9 866  –  6 995  –  6 995 
CV kcal/kg 4 637  –  –  4 637  – 5 600 – 5 600
Lakeside Opencut
OC 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 1 680  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
CV kcal/kg 4 652  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Lakeside Underground
UG 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 3 470  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
CV kcal/kg 4 430  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Leeuwfontein
OC 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 5 260  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
CV kcal/kg 4 621  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Springlake Opencut
OC 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 1 151  –  –  982  – 656 – 656 
CV kcal/kg 6 091  –  –  6 091  – 6 800 – 6 800
Springlake Underground
UG 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 17 562  10 196  6 419  16 916  –  8 277 – 8 277 
CV kcal/kg 6 306  6 306  6 306  6 306  – 6 800 – 6 800   |  Annual Report 2012  |  77
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Coal resources Extractable coal
reserves
Saleable coal reserves 
Mining 
method
Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Commodity Unit Measured Indicated Inferred Proved Probable Proved Probable Total 
saleable
Argent
OC 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 29 125  –  –  –  24 830 – 24 830  24 830 
CV kcal/kg 6 056  –  –  –  6 056 – 6 000 6 000
Springboklaagte Opencut 
3
OC 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 13 249  –  –  –  3 350 – 2 445  2 445 
CV kcal/kg 5 182  –  –  –  5 182 – 6 000 6 000
Springboklaagte Underground 
3
UG 49.99% Thermal coal ’000 MT 66 561  103 930  5 530  –  44 608 – 32 563  32 563 
CV kcal/kg 4 886  4 886  4 886  –  4 886 – 6 000 6 000
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012.
2
  Remaining mine life: individual mining operations have expected lives ranging from three to twelve years, based on their reserves. However, 
the Springboklaagte deposit extends Shanduka’s expected life by approximately 20 to 25 years. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession 
licenses: different for each mine, ranging from October 2015 to March 2027 in respect of Graspan, Townlands, Steelcoal reserve, Lakeside 
and Springlake. Leeuwfontein is still what is known as an ‘old order right’ or mining license, with applications pending for conversion into a 
‘new order right’ or mining license (only upon conversion will the expiry date be known). Springboklaagte is still a prospecting right, which 
are granted for five year periods and are renewable for a further three year period. The main prospecting right expired on 3 August 2011 and 
an application for the renewal of the prospecting right was lodged on 3 June 2011. Further to this an application for a mining right was also 
lodged in April 2011. Argent has a prospecting right valid until 29 June 2013.
3
  Springboklaagte is held as a Joint Venture between Shanduka and Umcebo, 100% of the Springboklaagte reserves and resources is included 
in the table above and also presented in the Umcebo table.
Competent Persons: the mineral resource estimates set out above were compiled and approved by Karin van der Merwe (MSc Geochemistry; 
GSSA 965 295) and the mineral reserve estimates set out above were compiled and approved by Mark Cunney (BEng Hons Mining Engineering, 
MCC; Pr Cert ENg 2007 0114), both of whom are employed by Shanduka Coal (Pty) Ltd. The reserves and resources estimates have been prepared 
in accordance with the SAMREC Code. Both are Competent Persons as defined by SAMREC and each have sufficient experience (16 years each 
respectively) which is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking.
UMCEBO 
1, 2
Coal resources Extractable coal
reserves
Saleable coal reserves 
Mining 
method
Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Commodity Unit Measured Indicated Inferred Proved Probable Proved Probable Total 
saleable
Middelkraal
OC 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 13 265  –  –  11 093  –  9 756  –  9 756 
CV kcal/kg 4 544  –  –  4 544  – 5 000 – 5 000
Kleinfontein
OC 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 1 583  –  –  1 145  –  686  –  686 
CV kcal/kg 5 230  –  –  5 230  – 5 600 – 5 600
Klippan Opencut
OC 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 3 071  600  –  694  –  486  –  486 
CV kcal/kg 5 815  5 815  –  5 815  – 6 300 – 6 300
Klippan Underground
UG 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 1 198  –  –  531  –  385  –  385 
CV kcal/kg 5 803  –  –  5 803  – 6 300 – 6 300
Kleinfontein Jicama
OC 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 12 700  –  5 638  1 908  –  1 427  –  1 427 
CV kcal/kg 5 182  –  5 182  5 182  – 6 300 – 6 300
Wonderfontein Opencast
OC 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 63 118  –  –  45 788  –  35 155  –  35 155 
CV kcal/kg 5 571  –  –  5 571  – 6 300 – 6 300
Wonderfontein Underground
UG 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 35 180  –  –  544  –  423  –  423 
CV kcal/kg 5 571  –  –  5 571  – 6 300 – 6 300 78  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Coal resources Extractable coal
reserves
Saleable coal reserves 
Mining 
method
Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Commodity Unit Measured Indicated Inferred Proved Probable Proved Probable Total 
saleable
Norwesco
OC 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 792  –  –  300  –  195  –  195 
CV kcal/kg 4 991  –  –  4 991  – 5 600 – 5 600
Doornrug
OC 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 4 000  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
CV kcal/kg 5 015  –  –  –  –  –  –  – 
Hendrina
UG 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 177 000  181 600  8 500  –  –  –  –  – 
CV kcal/kg 4 239  4 239  4 239  –  –  –  –  – 
Belfast
UG 21.83% Thermal coal ’000 MT 107 710  –  6 640  –  –  –  –  – 
CV kcal/kg 5 110  –  5 110  –  –  –  –  – 
Springboklaagte Opencut 
3
OC 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 13 249  –  –  –  3 350  –  2 445  2 445 
CV kcal/kg 5 182  –  –  –  5 182 – 6 000 6 000
Springboklaagte Underground 
3
UG 43.66% Thermal coal ’000 MT 66 561  103 930  5 530  –  44 608  –  32 563  32 563 
CV kcal/kg 4 886  4 886  4 886  –  4 886 – 6 000 6 000
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012.
2
  Remaining mine life: individual mining operations have expected lives ranging up to ten years, based on their reserves. However, the Spring-
boklaagte deposit extends Umcebo’s expected life by approximately 20 to 25 years. Expiry date of relevant mining/concession licenses: dif-
ferent for each mine, ranging from October 2015 to December 2021 in respect of Middelkraal, Kleinfontein, Klippan and Doornrug. Norwesco 
mining right lapsed on 28 September 2011, however a renewal has been lodged. Springboklaagte is still a prospecting right, which are granted 
for five year periods and are renewable for a further three year period. The main prospecting right expired on 3 August 2011 and an applica-
tion for the renewal of the prospecting right was lodged on 3 June 2011. Further to this an application for a mining right was also lodged 
in April 2011. Wonderfontein prospecting right lapsed on 17 November 2011 however a renewal was lodged on 28 July 2011. A mining right  
application has been submitted and was granted in February 2012, but is not yet executed.
3
  Springboklaagte is held as a Joint Venture between Shanduka and Umcebo. 100% of the Springboklaagte reserves and resources is included 
in the table above and also presented in the Shanduka table.
Competent Persons: the mineral resource estimates set out above were compiled and approved by Gerrit Cronjé (BSc Hons Geology; Pr Sc Nat 
400128/86) and the mineral reserve estimates set out above were compiled and approved by Thys de Bruin (BEng Mining Engineering, MCC; Pr 
Cert Eng 2008 900 31), both of whom are employed by Shanduka Coal (Pty) Ltd. The reserves and resources estimates have been prepared in 
accordance with the SAMREC Code. Both are Competent Persons as defined by SAMREC and each have sufficient experience (34 and 17 years re-
spectively) which is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking.
OPTIMUM 
1, 2
Coal resources Extractable coal
reserves
Saleable coal reserves 
Mining 
method
Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Commodity Unit Measured Indicated Inferred Proved Probable Proved Probable Total 
saleable
Overvaal
UG 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 23 490  21 120  28 470  3 980  15 730  2 360  8 736 11 096 
CV kcal/kg 6 272  6 272  6 272  6 272  6 272 6 500 6 500 6 500
Vlakfontein
OC 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 35 500  4 200  1 400  24 741  1 150  15 339  713 16 052
CV kcal/kg 5 087  5 087  5 087  5 087  5 087 5 900 5 900 5 900
Koornfontein mines
UG 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 182 730 25 390  – 53 543 7 237 28 795 3 986 32 781
CV kcal/kg 4 653  4 653  –  4 653  4 653 5 400 5 400 5 400
TNC
OC 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 29 320  41 110  –  –  40 981 – 23 475 23 475
CV kcal/kg 5 331  5 331  –  –  5 331 – 5 900 5 900   |  Annual Report 2012  |  79
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Coal resources Extractable coal
reserves
Saleable coal reserves 
Mining 
method
Attributable  
interest to 
Glencore
Commodity Unit Measured Indicated Inferred Proved Probable Proved Probable Total 
saleable
Kwagga Opencast
OC 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 158 170  47 281  –  88 122  2 099  53 716  1 256 54 972
CV kcal/kg 5 237  5 237  –  5 237  5 237 6 020 6 020 6 020
Pullenshope Opencast
OC 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 11 704  39 576  3 037  2 296  –  1 217 – 1 217
CV kcal/kg 4 641  4 641  4 641  4 641  – 6 020 – 6 020
Zevenfontein Opencast
OC 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 21 587  12 370  9 241  3 167  –  1 708 – 1 708
CV kcal/kg 3 939  3 939  3 939  3 939  – 6 020 – 6 020
Kromdraai Opencast
OC 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 11 815  55 170  –  13 642  17 420  7 761  11 730 19 491
CV kcal/kg 4 378  4 378  –  4 378  4 378 6 020 6 020 6 020
Eikeboom
OC 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 3 419  18 238  –  1 905  6 665  1 005  3 955 4 960
CV kcal/kg 5 485  5 485  –  5 485  5 485 6 020 6 020 6 020
Boschmanspoort Underground
UG 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 45 389  50 739  –  12 643  20 538  6 783  11 018 17 801
CV kcal/kg 4 729  4 729  –  4 729  4 729 6 020 6 020 6 020
Pullenshope Underground
UG 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 61 928  40 037 – 14 847  15 977  9 869  10 620 20 489
CV kcal/kg 4 775  4 775 – 4 775  4 775 6 020 6 020 6 020
Schoonoord
UG/OC 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT 19 179  34 667  –  –  –  –  – –
CV kcal/kg 4 738  4 738  –  –  –  –  – –
BMP Expl.
UG 67.01% Thermal coal ’000 MT –  25 910 – – – –  – –
CV kcal/kg –  4 527 – – – –  – –
 
1
  As at 31 December 2012.
2
  Remaining mine life. Individual mining operations have expected lives ranging from one to 17 years, based on their reserves. The Kwagga  
reserve is made up of different sub areas which includes Kwagga North, Kwagga Central, Kwagga Rail and Kwagga Mini Pits. The various number 
of years available to mine in the mentioned sub-areas range from two to twelve years. Pullenshope, Zevenfontein and Kromdraai reserves have 
an estimated nine years of mining left combined, as several overlapping of the reserves are done during the life of mine – in other words the 
reserves are at some points mined simultaneously. The Eikeboom reserve is planned to be mined over a total period (mining years) of 15 years –  
not in one continuous period though. The reserve is divided up into a portion of in situ coal and a portion of pillar areas. There is a planned  
period in-between when dewatering of the old underground mining areas will be done, prior to commencing with pillar mining. The 
Boschmanspoort Underground reserve has got eleven years remaining to be mined, and the Pullenshope Underground reserve is cur-
rently plan to be mined out in 17 years (at the current rates). The BMP Expl. reserve block serves as an extension to the Boschmanspoort  
Underground reserve and more detailed work needs to be done around the block prior to inclusion in the life of mine. The Schoonoord reserve 
currently has not been included in the life of mine due to marginal economics associated with the specific project. Expiry date of relevant 
mining/concession licences: June 2028 for Optimum and October 2032 for Koornfontein. 
Competent Persons (Koornfontein Mines and TNC): the mineral resource estimates set out above were compiled and approved by Kobus 
Dippenaar (BSc Hons Geology; Pr Sc Nat 400079/94) and the mineral reserve estimates set out above were compiled and approved by Willem 
Heyneke (B Tech Mining Engineering, MCC; Pr Cert Eng 2008 900 44), both of whom are employed by subsidiary company of Optimum Coal 
(Pty) Ltd. The reserves and resources estimates have been prepared in accordance with SAMREC. Both are Competent Persons as defined by 
SAMREC and each have sufficient experience (22 and 30 years respectively) which is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit 
under consideration and to the activity which they are undertaking.
Competent Persons (all other mines): the mineral reserve and resource estimates set out above were compiled and approved by Victor Nkam-
bule (MSc Geology; Pr Sc Nat 400110/91) with support from Theunis van der Linde (B Tech Mining Engineering; MCC) and Hlayiseka Chauke  
(B Tech Mining Engineering; MCC), all of whom are employed by Optimum Coal (Pty) Ltd. The reserve and resource estimates have been pre-
pared in accordance with the SAMREC Code. All are Competent Persons as defined by SAMREC and each have sufficient experience (33, eight 
and twelve years respectively) which is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity which 
they are undertaking. Kazzinc, Kazakhstan Corpora te 
Governan Ce 3 | Corporate Governance 
 3.1 | Chairman’s introduction  82
 3.2 | Officers 83
 3.3 | Corporate governance report 86
 3.4 | Directors’ remuneration report 93
 3.5 | Directors’ report 101 82  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
3.1 | Chairman’s introduction
Welcome to our second Corporate Governance report.
In preparing this report we have been mindful of the conflicting challenges of governance reporting – the 
objective on the one hand of keeping the report concise and the aim on the other of providing a full and 
complete report.
Throughout 2012 the Company believes that it has been fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code (as published in June 2010) (the ‘Code’) except in respect of board evaluation as stated below.
We have sought to report on our governance in a user friendly and direct a manner as possible, giving a 
clear summary of the considered leadership which the Board and its Committees provides to the Group.  
We would welcome feedback on this report.
Simon Murray
Chairman   |  Annual Report 2012  |  83
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
3.2 | Officers
BOARd Of di ReCt ORs
All of the Directors were appointed in March or April 2011, shortly before the Company’s IPO.
si MON MURRAY 
4
Chairman (age 72)
Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Chairman in April 2011. He is the founder and current chairman 
of GEMS Limited, a private equity investment group operating across Asia. Previously, Mr Murray led Jar-
dine Matheson’s engineering and trading operations from 1966 to 1980, after which he set up Davenham 
Investments, a project advisory company. From 1984 until 1993, Mr Murray was group managing director of 
Hutchison Whampoa, leading its entry into the mobile telecommunication business, developing its energy 
business and expanding its container and port operations. Mr Murray served as a member of the Hutchison 
Whampoa Board until May 2007. From 1994 to 1997, Mr Murray was the executive chairman of Deutsche Bank 
group for the Asia Pacific region. 
Mr Murray is currently a member of the Board of Directors of a number of public companies including IRC, 
Essar Energy, Orient Overseas, Wing Tai Properties, Greenheart and Compagnie Financiere Richemont.  
Mr Murray was a non-executive director of Vodafone between July 2007 and July 2010. In 1993, Mr Murray was 
appointed a CBE in honour of his contribution to the Hong Kong community. Mr Murray has also been award-
ed the Order of Merit of the French Republic and is a Chevalier de la Legion d’honneur. He holds an honorary 
B.A. degree in law from Bath University and has attended the Stanford Executive Programme (SEP) in the U.S.
iVAN GLAse NBe RG 
2, 4
Chief Executive Officer (age 56)
Ivan Glasenberg joined Glencore in April 1984 and has been Chief Executive Officer since January 2002. 
Mr Glasenberg initially spent three years working in the coal/coke commodity department in South Africa 
as a marketer, before spending two years in Australia as head of the Asian coal/coke commodity division.  
Between 1988 and 1989, he was based in Hong Kong as head of Glencore’s Hong Kong and Beijing offices, as 
well as head of coal marketing in Asia, where his responsibilities included overseeing the Asian coal market-
ing business of Glencore and managing the administrative functions of the Hong Kong and Beijing offices. 
In January 1990, he was made responsible for the worldwide coal business of Glencore for both marketing 
and industrial assets, and remained in this role until he became Chief Executive Officer in January 2002.
Mr Glasenberg is a Chartered Accountant of South Africa and holds a Bachelor of Accountancy from the 
University of Witwatersrand. Mr Glasenberg also holds an M.B.A. from the University of Southern California. 
He is currently a director of Xstrata plc, United Company Rusal plc and JSC Zarubezhneft. Before joining 
Glencore, Mr Glasenberg worked for five years at Levitt Kirson Chartered Accountants in South Africa.
ste Ve N KALMiN
Chief Financial Officer (age 42)
Steven Kalmin joined Glencore in September 1999 as general manager of finance and treasury functions at 
Glencore’s coal industrial unit (now part of Xstrata). Mr Kalmin moved to Glencore’s Baar head office in October 
2003 to oversee Glencore’s accounting and reporting functions, becoming Chief Financial Officer in June 2005.
Mr Kalmin holds a Bachelor of Business (with distinction) from the University of Technology, Sydney and is 
a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Australia and the Financial Services Institute of Aus-
tralasia. He is currently a director of Century Aluminum Co. Before joining Glencore, Mr Kalmin worked for 
nine years at Horwath Chartered Accountants in Sydney, leaving the firm as a director. 84  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
ANt HONY HAYWARd 
2, 3, 4*
Senior Independent Director (age 55)
He is CEO of Genel Energy plc, a partner and member of the European advisory Board of AEA Capital and 
a Member of the Advisory Board of Numis Corporation plc. He was group chief executive of BP plc from 
2007 to 2010, having joined BP in 1982 as a rig geologist in the North Sea. Following a series of technical 
and commercial roles in Europe, Asia and South America, he returned to London in 1997 as a member of 
the upstream executive committee. He became group treasurer in 2000, chief executive for BP upstream 
activities and member of the main Board of BP in 2003. Dr. Hayward studied geology at Aston University in 
Birmingham and completed a PhD at Edinburgh University. He is also a fellow of the Royal Society of Edin-
burgh and holds honorary doctorates from the University of Edinburgh, Aston University and the University 
of Birmingham.
Li NiNG 
4
Non-Executive Director (age 56)
Li Ning has been an executive director of Henderson Land Development Company Limited since 1992. He 
was also an executive director of Henderson Investment Company Limited from 1990 to 2010. He has also 
been an executive director of Hong Kong (Ferry) Holdings Company Limited since 1989. Prior to joining the 
Henderson group, he began his career in the banking industry with Chekiang First Bank Limited.
Mr Li holds a B.Sc. degree from Babson College. Mr Li also graduated in 1983 from the University of South-
ern California with an M.B.A. degree.
Pete R COAte s 
1, 2*
Non-Executive Director (age 67)
Currently a non-executive director and chairman of Santos Ltd., and a non-executive director of Amalga-
mated Holdings. Until April 2011, he was a non-executive director and chairman of Minara Resources Ltd, a 
position he had held since May 2008. Mr Coates has occupied many senior positions in a diverse range of  
resource companies, including those mining silver, lead, zinc, nickel, iron ore, bauxite and coal. Mr Coates 
was previously the chief executive of Xstrata’s coal business, having joined the company in 2002 when 
Glencore sold its Australian and South African coal assets to Xstrata. Mr Coates is a past chairman of the 
Minerals Council of Australia, the NSW Minerals Council and the Australian Coal Association.
He was appointed to the Office of the Order of Australia in June 2009 and awarded the Australasian Institute 
of Mining and Metallurgy Medal for 2010. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Mining Engineering from 
the University of New South Wales.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  85
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
LeONHARd f is CHe R 
1*, 3
Non-Executive Director (age 50)
Leonhard Fischer was appointed chief executive officer of RHJ International S.A. in January 2009, having 
been co-chief executive officer from May 2007. He has been a member of the board of directors of RHJ 
International S.A. since 18 September, 2007. He is also chief executive officer of Kleinwort Benson Group 
and chairman of the board of directors at Kleinwort Benson Bank Ltd. He is also a member of the board of 
directors at Julius Baer Gruppe AG (formerly Julius Bär Holding AG). 
Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of Winterthur Group from 2003 to 2006 and a member of the execu-
tive board of Credit Suisse Group from 2003 to March 2007. He joined Credit Suisse Group from Allianz AG, 
where he had been a member of the management board and head of the Corporates and Markets Division. 
Prior to this, he had been a member of the executive boards of Dresdner Bank AG in Frankfurt.
 
Mr Fischer holds an M.A. in Finance from the University of Georgia.
WiLLiAM MACAULAY 
1, 3*
Non-Executive Director (age 67)
He is the chairman and chief executive officer of First Reserve Corporation, a private equity investment firm 
focused on the energy industry, and has been with the company since its founding in 1983. Prior to joining 
First Reserve he was a co-founder of Meridien Capital Company, a private equity buyout firm. From 1972 to 
1982, he was with Oppenheimer & Co., where he served as director of corporate finance with direct respon-
sibility for the firm’s buyout business. He also served as president of Oppenheimer Energy Corporation. 
Mr Macaulay is chairman of the Board of Dresser-Rand and is a director of Weatherford International. He 
also serves on numerous private energy company Boards. In addition, he is chairman of the advisory Board 
of the City University of New York.
Mr Macaulay holds a B.B.A. degree (with honours) in Economics from City College of New York, and an 
M.B.A. from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He has also received an Honorary Doctor 
of Humane Letters degree from Baruch College.
Committee membership for 2012 is designated as follows: 
1
 Audit 
2
 Health, Safety, Environment and Communities (HSEC)
3
 Remuneration 
4
 Nomination
* denotes Committee chair
COMPANY seCRet ARY
JOHN BURt ON
Company Secretary (age 48) 
John Burton was appointed Company Secretary in September 2011. He was formerly Company Secretary 
and General Counsel of Informa plc and before that a partner at CMS Cameron McKenna in London special-
ising in corporate law. Mr Burton holds a B.A. degree in Law from Durham University. He was admitted as a 
Solicitor in England and Wales in 1990. 86  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
3.3 | Corporate governance report
BOARd GOVe RNANCe
Overview
The Board believes that the Company has throughout the year 
complied with all relevant provisions contained in the Code  
except with regard to the implementation of an evaluation  
process as described below. The governance section sets out 
how Glencore has applied the main principles of the Code in 
a manner which enables shareholders to evaluate how these  
principles have been applied.
The disclosures in this report relate to our responsibilities for 
preparing the annual report (including compliance with the 
Code to the extent required), our report on the effectiveness 
of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems, 
the functioning of our Audit Committee and our going concern 
statement.
Details of the Company’s significant shareholders, voting rights, 
Directors’ powers and rules concerning the appointment and 
replacement of Directors and amendments to the articles of as-
sociation are either contained in this section 3.3 or section 3.4. 
Glencore’s Board comprises six Non-Executive Directors (in-
cluding the Chairman) and two Executive Directors. A list of the 
Directors, with brief biographical details, is provided in section 
3.2. For the Chairman, those details include his other significant 
commitments.
CEO CFO Audit
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
HSEC 
Committee
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Business segment heads
Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors
Board of Directors
Risk management
Internal audit
Corporate finance
Legal & compliance
Sustainability
Treasury, accounting 
& tax
IT
Human resources
NB: All board committees are chaired by Independent Non-Executive Directors
Energy products Agricultural products
Zinc/copper/lead 
Alumina/aluminium
Ferroalloys/nickel/cobalt/iron ore
Oil
Coal/coke
Grains
Oils/oilseeds
Cotton/sugar
Metals and minerals
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Glencore has established a clear division between the respec-
tive responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman of the 
Board, and the Chief Executive Officer, which are set out in 
a schedule of responsibilities that has been approved by the 
Board. While the Non-Executive Chairman is responsible for 
leading the Board’s discussions and decision-making, the Chief 
Executive Officer is responsible for leading Glencore’s operat-
ing performance and day-to-day management. This, coupled 
with the schedule of reserved matters described below, en-
sures that no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
Non-Executive Directors
The Company’s Non-Executive Directors provide a broad range 
of skills and experience to the Board which assists in their roles 
in formulating the Company’s strategy and in providing con-
structive challenge to the Executive Directors. All of them are 
regarded by the Company as independent Non-Executive Di-
rectors within the meaning of ‘‘independent’’ as defined in the 
Code and free from any business or other relationship which 
could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent 
judgment. This view has been taken having regard to all facts 
including the following: 
William Macaulay is chairman and chief executive of First Re-
serve Corporation (First Reserve). First Reserve was, on Mr Ma-
caulay’s appointment to the Board, the holder of a tranche of 
$ 2.3 billion Convertible Bonds due 2014 issued by Glencore 
Finance (Europe) S.A. (First Reserve subsequently sold these 
bonds and now holds shares, or economic interests in respect 
of shares, totalling 160,909,810 in number, as further detailed in 
section 3.5).   |  Annual Report 2012  |  87
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Peter Coates was until April 2011 the independent non-execu-
tive chairman of Minara Resources Ltd., while that company was 
70.6% owned by Glencore, and was until August 2009 a non-ex-
ecutive chairman of Xstrata Australia and a former chief execu-
tive of Xstrata Coal, part of Xstrata plc, a listed entity in which 
Glencore then held a 34.5% interest. Mr Coates joined Xstrata 
in 2002 with Glencore’s coal assets in Australia and South Africa 
when they were sold to Xstrata, simultaneous with its primary 
listing and capital raising in London.
Board Committees
There are in place the following Committees to assist the Board 
in exercising its functions: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration 
and Health, Safety, Environmental and Communities (HSEC). A 
report from each Committee is set out in section 3.3.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference  
approved by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee 
meetings are reviewed by the Board. These terms of reference 
are available at www.glencore.com/corporate-governance.php.
Board Meetings
The Board has approved a formal schedule which sets out those 
matters which are reserved for its decision making alone such 
as strategy, the annual budget and material acquisitions and 
disposals.
The Board held 5 scheduled meetings during the year togeth-
er with numerous additional meetings as required. All of the 
Board’s scheduled meetings were held at the Company’s head-
quarters in Baar, Switzerland.
The Board and its Committees have standing agenda items to 
cover their proposed business at their scheduled meetings. The 
Chairman seeks to ensure that the very significant work of the 
Committees feeds into, and benefits as to feedback from, the 
full Board. Most Board meetings also benefit from a presenta-
tion by the head of a division and some technical and investor 
relations updates.
The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Direc-
tors without the Executive Directors present, and at least once a 
year the Senior Non-Executive Director chairs a meeting of the 
Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
Attendance during the year for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings is given in the table below:
 
Board
of 5
Audit
of 4
Nomination
of 1
Remuneration 
of 3
HSEC
of 5
Simon Murray 5 – 1 – –
Ivan Glasenberg 5 – 1 – 5
Steven Kalmin 5 – – – –
Peter Coates 5 4 – – 5
Leonhard Fischer 4 4 – 3 –
Anthony Hayward 5 – 1 3 5
William Macaulay 5 4 – 3 –
Li Ning 5 – 1 – –
 
In addition, two unscheduled meetings of the Audit Committee took place and numerous unscheduled meetings of the Board took place, 
mainly concerning the Xstrata Merger.
Appointment and re-election of Directors
The work of the Nomination Committee in respect of the ap-
pointment and reappointment of Directors is contained in the 
Committee’s report below.
As previously announced, changes to the composition of the 
Board and its Committes are due to take place upon comple-
tion of the Merger with Xstrata. Specific details will be set out in 
the Notice of the 2013 Annual General Meeting (AGM). All con-
tinuing members of the Board as described above (including 
the Xstrata appointees) will be offering themselves for election 
or re-election at the 2013 AGM. 
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of  
appointment and the details of their terms are set out in the 
Remuneration Report. No other contract with the Company or 
any subsidiary undertaking of the Company in which any Direc-
tor was materially interested subsisted during or at the end of 
the financial year. 
Information and professional development
It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive 
Directors (1) attain a good knowledge of the Company and 
its business and (2) allocate sufficient time to Glencore to dis-
charge those responsibilities effectively. New Directors receive 
a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, in-
cluding meetings with senior management and advisers and 
visits to the Group’s operational locations. The Board calendar 
is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide range 
of topics. Directors are also given the opportunity to visit the 
Group’s industrial assets and discuss aspects of the business 
with employees, and regularly meet the heads of the Group’s  88  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
main departments. As well as internal briefings, Directors at-
tend appropriate external seminars and briefings.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Com-
pany Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring 
the Board procedures are complied with, and have access to 
independent and professional advice at the Company’s ex-
pense, where they judge this to be necessary to discharge their 
responsibilities as Directors.
Board performance evaluation
We have reviewed the interests declared by the Directors which 
could conflict with those of the Company, and we are satisfied 
that the Board’s powers to authorise potential conflicts is operat-
ing effectively.
Given that a majority of new Directors has been proposed to be 
appointed as part of the Xstrata Merger, the Board concluded 
that a full evaluation process should not be carried out in respect 
of 2012.
Remuneration
Remuneration is covered in the Remuneration report in section 
3.4 which includes a description of the work of the Remunera-
tion Committee.
ACCOUNt ABiLit Y ANd AUdit
Financial reporting
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review cycle, 
which includes a detailed annual budgeting process where busi-
ness units prepare budgets for approval by the Board. The Group 
uses a large number of performance indicators to measure both 
operational and financial activity in the business. Depending on 
the measure these are reported and reviewed on a daily, weekly 
or monthly basis. In addition, management in the business re-
ceive weekly and monthly reports of indicators which are the 
basis of regular operational meetings, where corrective action 
is taken if necessary. At a Group level a well-developed man-
agement accounts pack, including income statement, balance 
sheet, cash flow statement as well as key ratios is prepared and 
reviewed monthly by management. As part of the monthly re-
porting process a forecast of the current year numbers is carried 
out. To ensure consistency of reporting, the Group has a global 
consolidation system as well as a common accounting policies 
and procedures manual. Management monitors the publication 
of new reporting standards and work closely with their external 
auditors in evaluating the impact of these standards.
Risk management and internal control
The Board has applied Principle C.2 of the Code by establishing 
a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing 
the risks that are considered significant by the Group in accord-
ance with the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control 
published by the Financial Reporting Council. This process has 
been in place for the period under review and up to the date 
of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. The process 
is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mate-
rial misstatement or loss. The Directors confirm that they have 
reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal 
control systems. This review excludes associates of the Group 
as Glencore does not have the ability to dictate or modify the 
internal controls of these entities. This report describes how 
the effectiveness of the Group’s structure of internal controls 
including financial, operational and compliance controls and 
risk management systems is reviewed.
1) Approach to risk management
Effective risk management is crucial in helping the Group to 
achieve its objectives of preserving its overall financial strength 
for the benefit of all shareholders and other stakeholders and 
safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern while 
generating sustainable long term profitability. Spanning the or-
ganisational structure, Glencore’s disciplined approach to risk 
management and control originates with strategic responsibil-
ity in the hands of the Board, which also retains operational au-
thority on matters exceeding agreed thresholds of materiality. 
The Board retains final authority for assessing and approving 
the Group’s overall risk appetite and sets overall limits which 
are subject for review annually. Through delegation to the Audit 
Committee for oversight and to senior management for day-to-
day operational issues, an effective risk management govern-
ance apparatus has been established for the Group.    |  Annual Report 2012  |  89
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
The Audit Committee retains responsibility for reviewing the 
overall effectiveness of Glencore’s risk management approach 
and systems.
As a primary oversight and control, the CEO engages in a regu-
lar and ongoing interrogatory exchange with the management 
team. He is supported in this challenge process by the Group’s 
organisational structure with its concentration of major decision 
making, as well as by the alignment of the economic interest of 
key senior staff with the medium term performance of the com-
pany through shareholdings. The significant dilution of these 
shareholdings upon completion of the likely merger with Xstrata, 
implying a meaningful reduction in the proportionality of the 
existing senior management’s alignment (although no change 
to the dollar size of stakes) and the addition of new senior fig-
ures from outside the existing shareholder model, look set to, 
over time, render the existing operational governance structure 
of the combined Group more generically that of a PLC. The 
CRO, the Group Risk Management Team and the multi-sourced 
reporting available to them, help to equip the CEO and senior 
management with appropriate analysis in order to allow them to 
conduct appropriate risk management of the group.
The CRO and Group Risk Management Team act as facilitators 
of the control process with elements of consolidated reporting 
including counterparty credit exposure, the co-ordination of 
Group and departmental Value at Risk (“VaR”), stress and sce-
nario testing amongst others. The departments and Group risk 
team are engaged in an ongoing dialogue concerning general 
aspects of risk management policy and the central team pro-
vide oversight and input on those aspects of risk management 
and risk mitigation that remain the functional responsibility of 
the Group’s individual departments. The internal audit, compli-
ance and business ethics committees also play key roles in man-
aging Group operational risk and verifying process controls.
Glencore recognises the need for continuous focus on this key 
area in the context of both the evolution of its business risks, and 
the unpredictable and volatile global economic environment. 
The Group continues to maintain and expand the resources and 
information systems used in its centralised risk management, 
whilst also adopting and following policies which are intended 
to mitigate and manage market price and credit risks.
2) Risk assessment and control tools
Glencore’s finance and risk professionals, working in coordina-
tion with the Group’s departments, monitor and report regularly 
to management on the financial risks and exposures Glencore is 
facing. The Group monitors its commodity price risk exposure 
by using a VaR computation assessing open commodity posi-
tions which are subject to price risk. The credit quality of its coun-
terparties is actively and continuously monitored by the Group 
through internal reviews and a credit scoring process which  
includes, where available, public credit ratings. The Group makes 
active and widespread use of credit enhancement through the 
use of products such as letters of credit and credit insurance  
to help manage and mitigate credit risk exposures.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which Glencore uses to 
monitor and limit its primary market exposure related to its 
physical marketing exposures and related derivative positions. 
VaR estimates the potential loss in value of open positions that 
could occur as a result of adverse market movements over a 
defined time horizon, given a specific level of confidence. The 
methodology is a statistically defined, probability based ap-
proach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk 
diversification benefits by recognising offsetting positions and 
correlations between commodities and markets. In this way, 
risks can be compared across all markets and commodities and 
risk exposures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value. 
The Board has maintained a one day, 95% VaR limit of $ 100 mil-
lion which is typically subject to review and approval on an an-
nual basis, and will be reviewed again following the proposed 
Xstrata Merger. The purpose of this Group limit is to assist 
senior management in controlling the Group’s overall risk pro-
file. During 2012 Glencore’s average VaR was approximately 
$ 40 million, a similar amount to 2011.
Glencore’s VaR computation covers the key base metals, coal, 
oil/natural gas and the main risks in the Agricultural products 
department (grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton). It assesses 
open priced positions and those which are subject to price risk, 
but due to a lack of liquid terminal market, Glencore does not 
extend its VaR calculation to a number of business lines where 
price transparency is less dependable. Glencore reports VaR 
across the Group and also by commodity department, as well 
as at a variety of more detailed levels.
VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in 
fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does 
Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future 
market movements or representative of any actual impact on 
its future results. VaR should always be viewed in the context of 
its limitations; notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for 
estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and risks asso-
ciated with longer time horizons as well as tail risks. The Group 
recognises these limitations and so complements and refines 
its risk analysis through the use of stress and scenario analysis. 
Glencore regularly backtests its VaR to establish adequacy of 
accuracy and to facilitate analysis of breaks.
Whilst it is Glencore’s policy to actively make use of hedging 
strategies to manage unwanted commodity price risk associ-
ated with its marketing businesses, there remains the possibility 
that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide 
effective mitigation of the underlying price risk. The hedging 
instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ 
in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to the hedged, 
resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure. 
Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for 
Glencore’s commodity department teams who actively engage 
in the management of such.
Internal and External Audit
Glencore has a dedicated Internal Audit function reporting  
directly to the Audit Committee. The role of Internal Audit is 
to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, 
control, and governance processes.  90  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Internal Audit reviews areas of potential risk within the business 
and suggests control solutions to mitigate exposures iden-
tified. The Audit Committee is regularly informed on audits 
performed and relevant findings, as well as the progress on  
implementing the actions agreed with management.
During each financial year the Audit Committee reviews the  
external and internal audit work programmes and considers  
reports from internal and external auditors on the system of 
internal control and any material control weaknesses. It also 
receives responses from management regarding the actions 
taken on issues identified in audit reports.
The Group’s policy on non-audit services provided by the  
external auditors is designed to ensure the external auditor’s 
independence and objectivity is safeguarded. A specified wide 
range of services may not be provided as they have the poten-
tial to impair the external auditor’s independence (Excluded 
Services). The Audit Committee’s approval is required for (1) 
any Excluded Service (2) and other engagement where either 
(i) the fee is contingent, (ii) the fee may exceed $ 500,000, or 
(iii) where the fees for all non-audit work may exceed $ 15 mil-
lion. The external auditors are requested to provide certain 
non-audit services when it is concluded that they are the most 
appropriate supplier due to efficiency and status as a lead-
ing firm for the specific services being requested. For 2012 the  
total non-audit fees paid to the auditors were $ 15 million,  
$ 4 million of which related to the auditors’ role as Reporting Ac-
countant in connection with the pending Xstrata merger; further 
details are contained in note 27 to the financial statements.
Relationships with shareholders
The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the Group 
in communications with shareholders and believes that being 
transparent in describing how we see the market and the pros-
pects for the business is extremely important. 
We communicate with shareholders in a number of different ways. 
The formal reporting of our full and half year results and interim 
management statements are a combination of presentations, 
group calls and one on one meetings. The full and half year re-
porting is then followed by investor meetings in a variety of loca-
tions where we have institutional shareholders. We also regularly 
meet with existing and prospective shareholders to update or to 
introduce them to the Company and periodically arrange visits 
to the business to give analysts and major shareholders a better  
understanding of how we manage our operations. These visits and 
meetings are principally undertaken by the CEO, CFO and Head 
of Investor Relations. In addition, many major shareholders have 
meetings with the Chairman and appropriate senior personnel of 
the Group including other Non-Executive Directors, the Company 
Secretary and Head of Sustainability.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders  
through a briefing, which is a standing agenda item for all Board 
meetings, from the Company’s Head of Investor Relations, which 
is supplemented by input from the Chairman, CEO and CFO. In 
addition, the Senior Independent Director is available to meet 
shareholders if they wish to raise issues separately from the  
arrangements as described above.
The Company’s next AGM is due to be held in Zug on 16 May 
2013. Full details of the meeting are set out in the letter from the 
Chairman and Notice of Meeting. Shareholders unable to attend 
are encouraged to vote using the proxy card mailed to them or 
electronically as detailed in the Notice of Meeting. All documents 
relating to the AGM are available on the Company’s website at: 
www.glencore.com.    |  Annual Report 2012  |  91
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
AUdit COMMit tee Re PORt
Chairman
Leonhard Fischer  
Other members
Peter Coates
William Macaulay
All members of the Committee served throughout the year. 
Each is considered to be an independent Non-Executive  
Director and deemed to be financially literate by virtue of their 
business experience. Each of Leonhard Fischer and William Ma-
caulay is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant fi-
nancial experience and has competence in accounting. The Com-
mittee met five times (two meetings being unscheduled) during 
the year and all the Committee members attended all of the 
scheduled meetings. John Burton is Secretary to the Committee.
Role and responsibilities
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the 
Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to financial  
reporting, external and internal audit, risk management and 
controls. This includes:
•   monitoring and reviewing the Group’s financial and account-
ing policies and practices;
•   monitoring  the  integrity  of  the  annual  and  half  yearly  finan-
cial statements and any formal announcements relating to the 
Group’s financial performance and reviewing significant finan-
cial reporting judgments relating to them;
•   considering the reappointment of the external auditors;
•   considering  the  scope  of  the  annual  external  audit  and  the 
work undertaken by external auditors;
•   reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external 
auditor and the provision of additional services by it;
•   monitoring matters that influence or could distort the presen-
tation of accounts and key figures;
•   reviewing Glencore’s internal financial, operational and com-
pliance controls and internal controls and risk management 
systems;
•   monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencore’s in-
ternal audit function;
•   overseeing  the  Group’s  procedures  for  detecting  fraud  and 
handling allegations from whistleblowers; and
•   making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be 
put to the shareholders for their approval on the appointment 
of the external auditors and to authorise the Board to fix the 
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external audi-
tors.
Governance processes
The Audit Committee usually invites the CEO, CFO, Group 
Financial Controller, Head of Risk and Head of Internal Audit 
and the lead partner from the external auditors to attend each 
meeting. Other members of management may attend as and 
when required. The Committee also holds private sessions with 
the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit without 
members of management being present. The Committee has 
adopted guidelines allowing non-audit services to be contract-
ed with the external auditors on the basis as set out above.
Main Activities
During the year, the Committee’s principal work included the 
following:
•  reviewed the Company’s policy for the provision of non-audit 
services by the external auditors;
•  reviewed material engagements with the auditors in respect of 
non-audit services;
•  reviewed the policies detecting, reporting and preventing 
fraud and serious breaches of business conduct and whistle-
blowing procedures;
•   reviewed  the  Internal  Audit  Department’s  annual  audit  plan 
and the performance assessment of the Internal Audit function; 
•   evaluated the effectivness of the external auditors;  
•  reviewed and agreed the global audit plan, scope and fees of 
the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors;
•  considered the output from the Group-wide process used to 
identify, evaluate and mitigate risks;
•  monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of Glencore’s inter-
nal controls;
•  reviewed and discussed the full year (audited), and half-year 
(unaudited), financial statements with management and the 
external auditors;
•  discussed various material accounting issues with manage-
ment and the external auditors, particularly those involving 
key judgements and estimates primarily in relation to business 
combinations, fair value measurements, taxation and impair-
ment considerations; and
•  reviewed and agreed the preparation and scope of the year-
end reporting process.
Reappointment of external Auditor
The Committee has recommended to the Board that a pro-
posal be put to shareholders at the 2013 AGM for the reap-
pointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor. There are no 
contractual restrictions on the Company’s choice of external 
auditor, and in making our recommendation we took into ac-
count, amongst other matters, the objectivity and indepen-
dence of Deloitte LLP and their continuing effectiveness and 
cost. 
Leonhard Fischer
Chairman of the Audit Committee
22 March 2013 92  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
NOMiNAti ON COMMit tee
Chairman
Anthony Hayward
Other members
Simon Murray
Ivan Glasenberg
Li Ning
As part of the deliberations concerning the Xstrata Merger, the 
Board agreed with the Xstrata Board the composition of the 
enlarged Board upon the Merger taking effect. Accordingly, 
there were no meetings of the Committee during 2012 other 
than to consider the composition of the Board prior to the 2012 
AGM. It was agreed that the Board operated in a satisfactory  
manner and the Board agreed with the Committee’s view 
that all current serving Directors be recommended to share-
holders for re-election at that following meeting, subject to 
the changes contemplated in connection with the proposed  
Xstrata Merger.
 
Anthony Hayward
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
22 March 2013
He ALt H, sAfe t Y, e NViRONMe Nt & COMMUNit ies 
(Hse C) COMMit tee
Chairman
Peter Coates
Other members
Ivan Glasenberg
Anthony Hayward
Michael Fahrbach
The Committee met five times during the year and each Com-
mittee member attended all of the meetings. Every meeting 
had a substantial agenda, reflecting the Committee’s objective 
of providing leadership for the Group to achieve higher HSEC 
standards over time. 
Role and responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the Committee are, in respect of 
the Group, to:
•   Evaluate the effectiveness of policies and systems for identi-
fying and managing environmental, health, safety and com-
munity risks;
•   Assess the policies and systems for ensuring compliance with 
environmental, health and safety regulatory requirements;
•   Assess performance with regard to the impact of HSEC relat-
ed decisions and actions upon employees, communities and 
other third parties;
•   Receive reports concerning all fatalities and serious accidents 
and actions taken as a result of such incidents;
•   Evaluate and oversee the quality and integrity of any report-
ing to external stakeholders concerning HSEC matters; and
•   Review the results of any independent reviews of performance 
in regard to HSEC matters and strategies and action plans  
developed by management in response to issues raised.
Main Activities
During the year, the Committee
•   Reviewed  the  current  corporate  practice  framework  for  the 
Group, approved ongoing changes and reviewed their imple-
mentation and practice;
•   Reviewed  and  oversaw  the  Group’s  sustainability  report  for 
2011;
•   Undertook site visits;
•   Set a clear objective to reduce fatalities. For this purpose it 
received a report on, reviewed and made recommendations 
in respect of, each fatality;
•   Received and considered baseline assessments of the Group’s 
health, safety and environmental standards for the Group’s main 
zinc/copper assets in South America, Africa and Kazakhstan; 
and
•   Considered  a  variety  of  other  material  HSEC  issues  such  as 
resettlement programmes, incident reporting and emergency 
response preparedness.
Peter Coates
Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environmental and Communi-
ties Committee
22 March 2013   |  Annual Report 2012  |  93
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
3.4 | d irectors’ remuneration report
Re MUNe RAti ON COMMitt ee
Chairman
William Macaulay
Other members
Anthony Hayward
Leonhard Fischer
Secretary
John Burton
Lette R f ROM t He CHAiRMAN 
Of t He Re MUNe RAti ON COMMit tee
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am providing an 
introduction to our Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year 
ending 31 December 2012. As with last year, we have sought  
to make this report as short, simple and straightforward as  
possible. 
I would like to highlight the following:
•   We received strong shareholder support for our remuneration 
arrangements for 2011, reflected in a 99% vote in favour of the 
2011 Directors’ Remuneration Report at the 2012 AGM.
•   There was no change to the structure of executive remunera-
tion for 2012 and no change to base salaries. In addition, in 
2012 the CEO again waived entitlement to both bonus and 
long term incentive awards (LTIs). The CFO also waived any 
entitlement to any LTIs.
•   In recognition of his performance against a number of criteria 
in 2012 the Committee determined that the CFO should be 
awarded a bonus of 200% of salary, half of which will be de-
ferred into shares for three years.
•   There was also no increase during 2012 in the fees paid to the 
Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors over their 
fees paid for 2011.
•   We have prepared this 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report 
taking into account the UK Government’s proposals on exec-
utive remuneration disclosure. Given, however, that the final 
regulations were not published at the time that this report was 
compiled, it was not considered feasible to reflect all of the 
UK Government’s current proposals.
A resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at 
the Company’s 2013 AGM 
William Macaulay
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
 
OUR PHiLOs OPHY ON Re MUNe RAti ON
We have the same philosophy as any other Remuneration Com-
mittee, namely to set the Company’s remuneration policies  
and practices so that they facilitate the attraction, retention and 
motivation of the Executive Directors and other senior executives 
of appropriately high calibre to implement the Group’s strat-
egy while aligning the interests of the Executive Directors and  
executives with those of shareholders generally. This policy  
has consistently underpinned our entire approach to executive 
remuneration at Glencore.
One exceptional aspect of our Executive Directors’ remunera-
tion is that, with their agreement and reflecting their status as 
major shareholders, the Executive Directors do not currently 
participate in our long term incentive arrangements, while the 
CEO has also agreed not to participate in our bonus arrange-
ments. As a result, we are currently able to set overall remunera-
tion for our Executive Directors at significantly lower levels than 
in comparable companies and for comparable performance. 
The Committee believes that the Executive Directors’ significant 
personal shareholdings create sufficient alignment of interest 
with shareholders in the absence of participation in a long term 
incentive arrangement. 
Since 2012 there have been no changes to the structure of the 
Executive Directors’ remuneration or any increase in base salary. 
Similarly, there have been no changes to the fees payable to the 
Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors.  
GOVe RNANCe
This Remuneration Report has been prepared on behalf of the 
Board by the Remuneration Committee. The Committee adopts 
the principles of good governance as set out in the UK Cor-
porate Governance Code and complies with the Listing Rules 
of the Financial Services Authority and the relevant schedules 
of the UK Companies Act 2006 and the UK Directors’ Remu-
neration Report Regulations in Schedule 8 to the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
Regulations 2008. These regulations require the Company’s  
auditors to report on the ‘Audited Information’ in the report and 
to state that this section has been properly prepared in accord-
ance with these regulations. As such, the report is divided into 
audited and unaudited information.
Membership and experience of the Remuneration Committee
We believe that the members of the Committee provide a use-
ful balance of abilities, experience and perspectives to provide 
the critical analysis required in carrying out the Committee’s 
function. In particular: 
•   William  Macaulay  has  had  a  long  tenure  in  private  equity 
which has involved exposure to compensation issues many 
times and in a variety of situations;
•   Leonhard Fischer is a career banker who similarly has had con-
siderable exposure to issues of pay and incentives; and 94  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
•   Tony Hayward has for many years been a senior employee and 
executive in the resources industry, most notably as CEO of 
BP, and therefore brings considerable experience as a senior 
executive to the Committee’s deliberations. 
All members of the Remuneration Committee are considered 
to be independent.
Role of the Remuneration Committee 
The terms of reference of the Committee set out its role. They 
are available on the Company’s website at www.glencore.com/
corporate-governance.php.
Its principal responsibilities are, on behalf of the Board, to:
•   Set the Company’s executive remuneration policy (and review 
its ongoing relevance and appropriateness);
•   Establish the remuneration packages for the Executive Direc-
tors including the scope of pension payments;
•   Determine  the  remuneration  package  for  the  Chairman,  in 
consultation with the Chief Executive;
•   Have  responsibility  for  overseeing  schemes  of  performance 
related remuneration (including share incentive plans) for, and 
determine awards for, the Executive Directors;
•   Ensure  that  the  contractual  terms  on  termination  for  the  
Executive Directors are fair and not excessive; and 
•   Monitor senior management remuneration.
The Committee considers corporate performance on HSEC and 
governance issues when setting remuneration for the Executive 
Directors. The Committee seeks to ensure that the incentive 
structure for the Group’s senior management does not raise 
HSEC or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irrespon-
sible behaviour. 
Remuneration Committee activities in 2012
The Committee met three times and considered, amongst  
other matters, the following:
•   The remuneration policy applicable to the Executive Directors; 
•   Senior  management  remuneration  policy,  including  its  level 
and structure;
•   The form and structure of the inaugural grants to employees 
under the Company’s Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance 
Share Plan;
•   The  amount  of  bonus  payable  to  the  CFO  in  respect  of  his 
performance in 2011; and
•   Monitoring the CFO’s bonus plan for 2012.
Internal advisers to the Remuneration Committee
The Chairman, CEO and CFO are usually invited to attend some 
or all of the proceedings of Remuneration Committee meet-
ings. They do not participate in any decisions concerning their 
own remuneration. In addition, the Committee received advice 
from John Burton, the Company Secretary. 
External advisers to the Remuneration Committee
The remuneration consultancy practice of Deloitte LLP remained 
the provider of independent advice to the Committee during 
2012. Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 
Group and as such, voluntarily operates the Code of Conduct in 
relation to executive remuneration in the UK. Deloitte LLP is the 
Company’s retained auditor and also provided other services to 
the Company. The Committee considers Deloitte to be inde-
pendent. The Remuneration Committee adviser’s terms of refer-
ence are in accordance with APB Ethical Standard 5 and restrict 
the provision of certain services in order to maintain auditor in-
dependence. The scope and value of services to the Company 
is kept under review. Advice is provided with use of established 
methodologies and the advisers are not involved in the decision 
making process. Advisory partners and staff have no involvement 
in audit, and are not involved in the preparation of audited infor-
mation. 
sHARe HOLde R VOti NG
The table below shows the percentage and number of votes for, 
against and abstentions for the 2011 Directors’ Remuneration 
Report at the 2012 AGM:
Votes “For” Votes “Against” Votes “Abstentions”
99.0%
(5,027,476,872)
0.2%
(12,038,368)
0.8%
(41,185,667)   |  Annual Report 2012  |  95
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
e Xe CUti Ve d iRe Ct ORs’ Re MUNe RAti ON
All emoluments to the Directors are paid in UK Pounds Sterling except for pension contributions and insurance benefits provided to 
the Executive Directors. As noted in the emoluments table below, these are presented in UK Pounds Sterling. In addition, as the finan-
cial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars, we have also provided the total remuneration figures for each Director in U.S. Dollars. 
Remuneration Framework
The key elements of the current Executive Directors’ remuneration framework are shown in the table below. Each component is 
discussed in more detail on the pages that follow.
Executive Directors
Component Purpose and link to strategy Overview Policy for 2013
Fixed Base salary •   Provides market competi-
tive fixed remuneration that 
rewards individual skills, 
responsibilities and contri-
bution
•   Salaries are positioned within a market 
competitive range for companies of a  
similar size and complexity
•   Reviewed annually with the next review  
due to take place in December 2013
• CEO: £ 925,000 
1
 ($ 1,470,750)
• CFO: £ 700,00 
1
 ($ 1,113,000)
• No changes for 2013
Pension •   Provides basic retirement 
benefits which reflects local 
market practice
•   Defined contribution scheme for all Swiss 
employees
• Contributions are based on age
• Both Executive Directors participate
•   Annual contribution of  
15 – 19% of up to  
$ 296,170  
(CHF 278,400)
• No change for 2013
Other Benefits •   Provides appropriate insur-
ance cover benefits which 
contribute to a market 
competitive package
•   Provision of standard company Swiss  
insurances
• No change for 2013
Variable Annual bonus •   Supports delivery of short 
term operational, financial  
& strategic goals
•   Award of maximum of 200% of salary
•   Performance criteria described below
•   The CEO continues not to 
participate in the plan
•   The CFO continues to  
participate in the plan
Deferred Bonus 
Plan
•   Incentivises the creation of 
shareholder value over the 
longer-term
•   Applicable to CFO and certain senior 
employees
•   Provides for deferral of annual bonus  
into Glencore shares above an agreed 
amount for a period of up to 3 years
• Malus clauses apply
•   No changes for 2013 –  
half of CFO bonus for 2012 
was deferred into shares
Performance 
Share Plan
•   Incentivises the creation of 
shareholder value over the 
longer-term
•   Overall plan limit of 500% of salary
•   Executive Directors do not participate  
in the plan; accordingly, no performance 
conditions have yet been established for 
Executive Directors
• Malus clauses apply
•   Both Executive Directors will 
continue not to participate
Significant Personal 
 Shar eholdings
•   Aligns the interests of execu-
tives and shareholders
•   No formal shareholding requirements are 
needed given the size of shareholdings
•   The CEO has a beneficial 
ownership of c.15.5% 
•   The CFO has a beneficial 
ownership of c.1%
¹  These amounts are set in UK Pounds Sterling and have been converted to U.S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the currency table 
on page 47.
Non-Executive Directors
Component Purpose and link to strategy Overview Policy for 2013
Fees •   Reflects time commitment, 
experience and size of the 
Company
•   Non-Executive Directors and the Senior 
Independent Director receive a base fee. 
•   Additional fees are paid for chairing or 
membership to a Board committee
•   Chairman receives a single inclusive fee  
for the role
•   Non-Executive Directors are not eligible  
to participate in the Company’s share 
incentive or pension scheme and do not 
receive any other remuneration or benefits
•   Reviewed every year with the next review 
due to take place in December 2013
•   Refer to Audited section 
below for details of fees. 96  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
The Role of Variable Pay at Glencore
Throughout the organisation, a significant proportion of the re-
muneration of our senior employees is based on performance 
during the year and, through partial deferral, including into 
shares, to incentivise the creation of shareholder value over the 
long term. These principles have served the Company well over 
a number of years and remain firmly in place. 
Our Executive Directors have significant personal sharehold-
ings. They, and the Committee, believe that this currently pro-
vides sufficient alignment between their interests and those 
of shareholders, regarding long term Company performance  
and shareholder value. As a result, the CEO does not currently 
participate in the annual or long term incentive arrangements 
and receives just a base salary and pension/benefits which are 
set at a lower level than for comparable companies. The CFO 
participates in the annual bonus plan but does not currently 
participate in any long term incentive arrangements.
Although this results in a higher proportion of fixed remunera-
tion (as a percentage of total remuneration) than would be the 
case in comparable companies the Committee believes this is 
appropriate given the current alignment created through the 
significant share ownership described above. 
The Committee also notes that it results in a lower level of over-
all remuneration for the Executive Directors than would be the 
case in similar companies, which is beneficial to shareholders.
Base Salary
In 2012, the annual base salaries for the Executive Directors 
remained  unchanged  from  the  prior  year  at  £  925,000  and 
£ 700,000 for the CEO and CFO respectively, which the Com-
mittee considers to be within the market competitive range and 
appropriate. 
When the Committee originally set the remuneration for the  
Executive Directors in early 2011, it took into account market 
data from listed companies of a similar financial size, and pay 
and conditions in the wider Glencore group to ensure that pay 
for our most senior employees is consistent with, and aligned 
to, the rest of the organisation.
When reviewed in December 2012 for the following year, it was 
decided that the base salaries for the Executive Directors would 
also remain unchanged for 2013.
Annual bonus
The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in 
2012 was 200% of base salary and will remain unchanged for 
2013. This opportunity is conservatively positioned against 
market practice in UK-listed resources companies of a similar 
size, which the Committee believes is appropriate at the cur-
rent time. 
As described above, the CEO did not participate in the annual 
bonus arrangements in 2012 while the CFO did. This will remain 
the case for 2013. 
In respect of 2012, the Committee considered the performance 
of the CFO against a number of performance criteria including 
refinancing of the Group’s sizeable borrowings, management of 
the Group’s credit ratings/capital structure, ongoing input into 
development and improvement of the Group’s risk systems and 
having a pivotal role in the execution of major transactions. On 
this basis, the Committee determined that the CFO should be 
awarded a bonus of £ 1.4m, 200% of salary (the maximum op-
portunity) for the 2012 financial year. Half of this will be deferred 
into shares over a three year period under the Deferred Bonus 
Plan (discussed below). 
The Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP)
Under the DBP , all or part of a participant’s bonus is deferred as 
an award of ordinary shares (Bonus Awards) which vests at the 
end of a specified period subject to continued employment (for 
an Executive Director) and forfeiture for malus events. The use 
of a deferral plan strengthens the link between executive re-
ward and long-term shareholder value. The award period of de-
ferral may be up to three years depending on quantum. There 
will be no change in the structure of the plan for 2013. 
Half of the CFO’s 2012 bonus payment was deferred into shares 
which shall vest in three equal tranches on each of the three  
anniversaries following grant.
Long term incentives
As described above, the Executive Directors do not currently 
participate in any long term incentive arrangements, reflect-
ing the significant alignment achieved through large personal 
shareholdings. 
The Committee will keep this under review to ensure it remains 
appropriate. In the event that long term incentive awards are 
made to Executive Directors, they would normally be made 
under the Glencore Performance Share Plan (described below) 
and would include performance targets measured over a pe-
riod of at least three years.    |  Annual Report 2012  |  97
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
The Glencore Performance Share Plan (PSP)
The PSP was adopted on Admission. The table below sets out 
the key features of the plan, which the Committee believes to 
be aligned with UK best practice. 
Key features Details
Form of award •   Conditional shares or nil-cost options
Individual limits •   500% of base salary
Aggregate limits •   The Company’s share plans include best 
practice dilution limits: 10% in ten years under 
all share plans and 5% in ten years under 
discretionary plans.
Malus clauses •   Awards can be reduced or extinguished in the 
event that a participant’s actions or behaviour 
results in a material loss, or detriment, to the 
Company.
Change of control •   Participants may be required or permitted to 
exchange awards for equivalent awards over 
shares in the acquiring company; and
•   Alternatively, the Committee has discretion to 
determine that awards vest immediately,  
subject to time and (if applicable) perfor-
mance proration.
Leaver conditions •   Awards generally lapse except for death,  
disability and when the Committee exercises 
its discretion otherwise;
•   On death, awards generally vest in full, unless 
the Committee decides otherwise; and
•   In other circumstances the terms of vesting 
will be determined by the Committee.
Shareholding
The Remuneration Committee believes that a significant share-
holding by Executive Directors aligns their long-term economic 
interests with those of our shareholders and demonstrates their 
commitment to the business.
Given the status of our current Executive Directors as major 
shareholders (see the Directors’ share interests table in section 
3.5), the Committee considers formal shareholding require-
ments unnecessary at this time. However, the Committee will 
keep this under review and may introduce a shareholding re-
quirement if it becomes appropriate to do so in the future.
Pensions
The Executive Directors participate in the Group’s defined 
contribution pension scheme which is operated for all staff at 
its Baar office. Contributions are paid in CHF and represented 
amounts equivalent to c.15 – 19% (contributions are age related) 
of CHF 278,400 for each Executive Director. 
Other benefits
The Executive Directors benefit from the same insurance ar-
rangements provided to all its Swiss employees being salary 
loss (long term sickness) and accident insurance cover.
Total shareholder return relative performance
The graph below shows the Company’s performance, measured 
by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of 
the FTSE Mining Sector index. The Company is a constituent of 
this index and it has been chosen as it is the widely recognised 
performance comparison for large UK-listed mining companies. 
The time line on the graph starts on 24 May 2011, the date of 
Admission. In drawing up this graph it has been assumed that 
all dividends paid have been reinvested, which the Company 
believes is a fair method of calculation.
70
100
60
5/11 8/11 11/11 2/12 5/12 11/12 8/12
50
90
110
FTSE 350 Mining 
Glencore
80 98  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Executive Directors’ Contracts 
The table below summarises the key features of the Executive Directors’ service contracts.
Provision Service contract terms
Notice period •   12 months’ notice by either party
Contract date •   Employment contracts for the CEO and CFO are dated 28 April 2011
Expiry date •   Rolling service contract
Termination payment •   No special arrangements or entitlements on termination
Change in control •   In the event of a change of control of the Company, the contracts of the Executive Directors do not provide for any 
enhanced payments, nor for any liquidated damages 
External appointments
The Executive Directors each held external appointments (being directorships of non-subsidiary companies) during 2012. These 
are referred to at the end of their respective biographical summaries in section 3.2. The Executive Directors assign to the Group 
any compensation which they receive from such external Board directorships. 
AUdited se Cti ON
Directors’ emoluments
The total emoluments, including contributions made in respect of pension plans, for the Directors for the 2012 financial year were:
GBP thousand Base salary/fees Annual bonus
Pension and 
 other benefits 
1
2012 Total 2011 Total  
2
Total US $
thousand  
3
Executive Directors
Ivan Glasenberg 925 – 39 964 964 1 533
Steven Kalmin 700 1 400 30 2 130 1 431 
4
3 387
1 625 1 400 69 3 094 2 395 4 920
Non-Executive Directors
Simon Murray 675 – – 675 456 1 073
Peter Coates 179 – – 179 128 285
Leonhard Fischer 129 – – 129 92 205
Anthony Hayward 159 – – 159 113 253
William Macaulay 127 – – 127 90 202
Li Ning 91 – – 91 65 145
1 360 – – 1 360 944 2 163
Total 2 985 1 400 69 4 454 3 339 7 083
¹  This constitutes the cost to the Company of the provision of the benefits referred to under Pension and Other Benefits above. These costs have 
been borne in Swiss Francs and have been converted to UK Pounds Sterling using the exchange rates stated in the currency table on page 47.
2
  For the period from incorporation of Glencore International plc to 31 December 2011. The same methodology applies in the next table.
3
  These amounts are paid in a foreign currency and have been converted to U.S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the currency table 
on page 47.
4
  For the 2011 financial year, Mr Kalmin was awarded the same bonus as 2012, however he chose to waive half the award, which explains the 
difference between 2012 and 2011.
Directors’ contracts
All Directors’ contracts will be available for inspection on the terms to be specified in the Notice of the 2013 AGM.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  99
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Single number for total remuneration
This table presents a single figure of remuneration earned by the Executive Directors in respect of 2012, taking into account the 
draft UK government remuneration regulations. 
GBP thousand
Base salary/ 
fees ¹ Benefits 
2
 Pension 
2
Annual 
bonus 
3
Long term 
incentives 
4
2012 
Total 
2011 
Total
2012 
Total US $ 
5
Executive Directors
Ivan Glasenberg 925 2 36 – – 964 964 1 533
Steven Kalmin 700 2 28 1 400 – 2 130 1 431 3 387
¹  Base salary/fees paid during the year. 
2
  This constitutes the cost to the Company of the provision of the benefits referred to under Pension and Other Benefits above. These costs have 
been borne in Swiss Francs and have been converted to UK Pounds Sterling using the exchange rates stated in the currency table on page 47.
3
  Value of annual bonus awarded to the CFO, including any deferral amounts, in respect of 2012. For the 2011 financial year, Mr Kalmin was 
awarded the same bonus as 2012, however he chose to waive half the award, which explains the difference between 2012 and 2011. The CEO 
did not participate in the annual bonus plan in 2011 on 2012. 
4
  Executive Directors did not participate in the Company’s Performance Share Plan or in any other form of LTI. 
5
  These amounts are paid in a foreign currency and have been converted to U.S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the currency table 
on page 47. 
Non-Executive Directors
Letters of appointment and re-election – all Non-Executive  
Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for 
an initial period of three years from their date of appointment, 
subject to reappointment at each AGM. Each letter is dated 
28 April 2011. The Company may terminate each appointment 
by immediate notice and there are no special arrangements or 
entitlements on termination.
Policy for determining Non-Executive Directors (NED) fees – 
the initial remuneration of the NEDs was determined by the 
Board prior to the IPO in 2011 within the limits set by the Arti-
cles of Association. NEDs are only remunerated through fees. 
No increases in fees were made in respect of 2012 and none 
have been made for 2013. Further details are provided below. 
In particular, they are not eligible to participate in any of the 
Company’s share incentive schemes or join any Company pen-
sion scheme.
The Board’s policy is to review NED remuneration levels peri-
odically to ensure that they remain aligned with those of other 
major listed companies.
Annual fees for 2012 were paid in accordance with a Non-Exec-
utive Director’s role and responsibilities as follows:
2012
GBP 
thousand
US $
thousand 
1
Directors
Chairman 675 1 073
Senior Independent Director 109 173
Non-Executive Director 79 126
Remuneration Committee
Chairman 28 44
Member 15 24
Audit Committee
Chairman 35 56
Member 20 32
Nomination Committee
Chairman 23 37
Member 12 19
HSEC Committee
Chairman 80 127
Member 12 19
 
¹  These amounts are set in UK Pounds Sterling and have been con-
verted to U.S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the currency 
table on page 47.  100  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
di Re Ct ORs’ Pe Nsi ON e Nti t Le Me Nts
Non-Executive Directors have no entitlement in respect of any 
pension arrangements. The Executive Directors have never 
been members of defined benefit schemes provided by the 
Group and accordingly they have no accrued entitlements un-
der these schemes. 
For the Executive Directors, the following contributions have 
been made in 2012 to the Group’s defined contribution pension 
scheme which it operates for its Swiss based employees (which 
amounts have been included in the third numeric column in the 
table above):
2012
GBP 
thousand
US $
thousand
Ivan Glasenberg 36 ¹ 51
Steven Kalmin 28 ¹ 39
¹  These payments have been converted from Swiss Francs to UK 
Pounds Sterling and US dollars using the exchange rates stated in 
the Currency table on page 47.
di Re Ct ORs’ sHARe iNte Re sts
The Directors who held office at 31 December 2012 have the 
beneficial interests in the issued share capital of the Company 
shown in the Directors’ share interests table in section 3.5.
Approval
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
William Macaulay
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
22 March 2013   |  Annual Report 2012  |  101
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
3.5 | d irectors’ report
Introduction
This Annual Report is presented by the Directors on the affairs 
of Glencore International plc (the Company) and its subsidiaries 
(the Group or Glencore), together with the financial statements 
and auditors’ report, for the year ended 31 December 2012. The 
Directors’ Report including details of the business, the develop-
ment of the Group and likely future developments as set out 
in the Overview and Business review section, which together 
forms the management report for the purposes of the UK Finan-
cial Services Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rule (DTR) 
4.1.8R. The notice concerning forward looking statements is set 
out at the end of the Annual Report. References to the Company 
may also include references to the Group or part of the Group.
Corporate structure
Glencore International plc is a public company limited by shares, 
incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Switzerland and its 
shares are listed on the London and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges.
Principal activities 
Glencore is one of the world’s leading integrated producers 
and marketers of commodities. It has worldwide activities in  
the production, sourcing, processing, refining, transporting, 
storage, financing and supply of metals and minerals, energy 
products and agricultural products. 
Financial results and dividends
The Group’s financial results are set out in the financial state-
ments and in the Financial review section of this annual report.
The Board recommends a final dividend of $ 0.1035 per share; 
including the interim dividend of $ 0.054 per share which has  
already been paid, this provides for a total dividend for the 2012 
financial year of $ 0.1575 per share. Shareholders will be asked to 
approve the final dividend at the Annual General Meeting due to 
be held on 16 May 2013, for payment on 7 June 2013 to ordinary 
shareholders whose names are on the register on 24 May 2013.
Review of business, future developments and post balance 
sheet events
A review of the business and the future developments of the 
Group is presented in the Overview and the Business review.
A full description of acquisitions, disposals, and material chang-
es to Group companies undertaken during the year, including 
post balance sheet events, is included in the Financial review 
and in note 24 of the financial statements.
 
Financial instruments
Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and Glencore 
financial risk management objectives and policies, including 
hedging activities and exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquid-
ity risk and cash flow risk are included in section 1.7 Principal 
risks and uncertainties and in notes 25 and 26 of the financial 
statements.
Corporate Governance
A report on corporate governance and compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code is set out in sections 3.1 to 3.4 and 
forms part of this report by reference.
Creditor payment policy and practice
In view of the international nature of the Group’s operations 
there is no specific Group-wide policy in respect of payments 
to suppliers. Individual operating entities are responsible for 
agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions 
and ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment. 
It is Group policy that payments are made in accordance with 
those terms, provided that all trading terms and conditions 
have been met by the supplier.
Glencore International plc is a holding company with no busi-
ness activity other than the holding of investments in the Group 
and therefore had no trade creditors at 31 December 2012.
Health, safety, environment & communities (HSEC)
An overview of health, safety and environmental performance and 
community participation is provided in section 1.5 Sustainability.
Exploration and research and development
The Group business units carry out exploration and research 
and development activities that are necessary to support and 
expand their operations.
Charitable donations
In addition to our large-scale community programmes, Glencore 
makes donations and provides sponsorship to various causes. 
Guidance on Glencore’s policy towards charitable contribu-
tions is set out in the Glencore Corporate Practice programme. 
For the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group spent a total  
of $ 95 million (2011: $ 140 million), a large part of this difference 
due to the conclusion of an extensive investment project at  
Kazzinc on both purely philanthropic and community invest-
ment initiatives.
Employee policies and involvement
Glencore operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to 
treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of 
sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other basis. Applica-
tions for employment and promotion are fully considered on 
their merits, and employees are given appropriate training and 
equal opportunities for career development and promotion.
Where disability occurs during employment, the Group seeks 
to accommodate that disability where reasonably possible, in-
cluding with appropriate training.  102  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of 
its employees which is reflected in the principles of Glencore  
Corporate Practice and its related guidance, which requires 
regular, open, fair and respectful communication, zero toler-
ance for  human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above 
all, a safe working environment. 
Employee communication is mainly provided by the Group’s in-
tranet and corporate website. A range of information is made 
available to employees including all policies applicable to them 
as well as information on the Group’s financial performance 
and the main drivers of its business. Employee consultation de-
pends upon the type and location of operation or office. The 
Group made its first grants under its Performance Share Plan 
in 2012. 
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Under Jersey law and the Company’s Articles of Association 
(which mirror section 175 of the UK Companies Act 2006), a Direc-
tor must avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct or 
indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the 
interests of the Company. The duty is not infringed if the mat-
ter has been authorised by the Directors. Under the Articles, the 
Board has the power to authorise potential or actual conflict situ-
ations. The Board maintains effective procedures to enable the 
Directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential conflict 
situations and for those situations to be reviewed and, if appropri-
ate, to be authorised by the Board. Directors’ conflict situations 
are reviewed annually. A register of authorisations is maintained.
Directors’ liabilities and indemnities
The Company has granted third party indemnities to each of its 
Directors against any liability that attaches to them in defend-
ing proceedings brought against them, to the extent permit-
ted by the Jersey Law. In addition, Directors and Officers of the 
Company and its subsidiaries are covered by Directors & Offic-
ers liability insurance.
Directors
The names of the Company’s Directors who served during the 
year, together with their biographical details and other informa-
tion, are shown in section 3.2.
Directors’ interests
Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of those 
Directors who held office at 31 December 2012 are given below:
Name of Director
Ordinary shares 
held as at 
31 December 2012
Percentage 
of issued 
share capital
Executive
Ivan Glasenberg 1 101 848 752 15.52%
Steven Kalmin 70 523 154 1.0%
Non executive
Simon Murray 0 0.0%
Peter Coates 82 700 0.0%
Leonhard Fischer 0 0.0%
Anthony Hayward 0 0.0%
William Macaulay ¹ 139 996 976 1.97%
Li Ning 123 000 0.0%
 
¹  Of these shares, 129,372,165 ordinary shares are held by FR Galaxy Hold-
ings S.a.r.l. (FR) and 10,624,811 by ECP Galaxy Holdings S.a.r.l. (ECP). 
The Company has been notified that (1) FR is a connected person of 
William Macaulay and (2) ECP is an affiliate of FR. In addition, FR has an 
economic interest under swap arrangements in 19,787,834 shares and 
ECP in 1,125,000 shares (being an aggregate 20,912,834 shares, which is 
approximately 0.3% of the issued share capital of the Company).
No Director has any other interest in the share capital of the 
Company whether pursuant to any share plan or otherwise.
No changes in Directors’ interests have occurred between 
31 December 2012 and 22 March 2013.
Each of Mr Glasenberg and Mr Kalmin has executed a Lock-Up 
Deed, pursuant to which they have agreed, subject to certain 
customary exceptions, that during the period from 24 May 2011 
to 24 May 2016 they will not dispose of the ordinary shares held 
by them at 24 May 2011. The percentage of Executive Director’s 
Ordinary Shares held at 24 May 2011 that is subject to restric-
tions on disposal decreases on each anniversary date by 20 per 
cent of the original holding.
Share capital and shareholder rights
At the date of this report, the ordinary share capital of the  
Company was $ 70,994,560.31 represented by 7,099,456,031 or-
dinary shares of $ 0.01 each. 
Major interests in shares
As at 22 March 2013 Glencore had been notified of the following 
interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share 
capital of the Company:
Name of holder
Number 
of shares
Percentage 
of issued 
share capital
Ivan Glasenberg 1 101 848 752 15.52%
Daniel Francisco Maté Badenes 417 468 330 5.88%
Aristotelis Mistakidis 414 730 597 5.84%
Tor Peterson 366 074 885 5.16%
Alex Beard 320 260 410 4.51%
Share capital
The rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, being 
the only share class of the Company, are set out in the Com-
pany’s Articles of Association (the ‘Articles’), which can be 
found at www.glencore.com. Subject to Jersey law, any share 
may be issued with or have attached to it such preferred, de-
ferred or other special rights and restrictions as the Company 
may by special resolution decide or, if no such resolution is in 
effect, or so far as the resolution does not make specific provi-
sion, as the Board may decide. No such resolution is currently 
in effect. Subject to the recommendation of the Board, holders 
of ordinary shares may receive a dividend. On liquidation, hold-
ers of ordinary shares may share in the assets of the Company.    |  Annual Report 2012  |  103
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Com-
pany’s Annual Report and Accounts (or a summarised version) 
and, subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition 
the Board to convene a general meeting (‘GM’) or the proposal 
of resolutions at AGMs. None of the ordinary shares carry any 
special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at 
GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if 
the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate representa-
tive. On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who 
(being an individual) is present in person or (being a corpora-
tion) is present by a duly appointed corporate representative, 
not being himself a member, shall have one vote and on a poll, 
every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy 
shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder. 
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instruc-
tions must be received not later than 48 hours before a GM. 
A holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to vote at 
GMs where that holder has been served with a disclosure no-
tice and has failed to provide the Company with information 
concerning interests held in those shares. Except as (1) set out 
above and (2) permitted under applicable statutes, there are no 
limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, 
number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated 
share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not 
prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on 
an open and proper basis or where the Company has a lien over 
that share. The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer 
of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: (i) 
lodged, duly stamped (if necessary), at the registered office of 
the Company or any other place as the Board may decide ac-
companied by the certificate for the share(s) to be transferred 
and/or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably 
require as proof of title; or (ii) in respect of only one class of 
shares.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using 
CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an 
uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations govern-
ing the operation of CREST.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of trans-
fers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of share-
holders. The Directors cannot suspend the registration of trans-
fers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining consent from 
CREST.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares 
in the Company except: (1) certain restrictions may from time to 
time be imposed by laws and regulations (for example insider 
trading laws); (2) pursuant to the Company’s share dealing code 
whereby the Directors and certain employees of the Company 
require approval to deal in the Company’s shares; and (3) where 
a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Company’s is-
sued share capital has been served with a disclosure notice and 
has failed to provide the Company with information concern-
ing interests in those shares. There are no agreements between 
holders of ordinary shares that are known to the Company 
which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or 
on voting rights.
The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors 
are set out in the Articles. Directors can be appointed by the 
Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board upon 
the recommendation of the Nomination Committee. The Com-
pany can remove a Director from office, including by passing 
an ordinary resolution or by notice being given by all the other 
Directors. 
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and pro-
vide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the Com-
pany including to borrow money. The Company may by ordinary 
resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, and increase, 
consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in accordance with 
its Articles and Jersey law. 
The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution ap-
proved at a GM.
Purchase of Own Shares
At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a 
shareholders’ resolution passed on 9 May 2012, to purchase 
through the market up to 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary 
shares immediately following the IPO. This authority expires at 
the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2013. 
No  shares have been purchased by the Company since its IPO.
Going concern
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity posi-
tion and borrowing facilities are set out in the Overview and the 
Business review sections. Furthermore, note 25 of the consoli-
dated financial statements includes the Group’s objectives and 
policies for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging ac-
tivities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk. Significant 
financing activities that took place during the year are detailed in 
the Business review section. As a consequence, the Directors be-
lieve that the Group is well placed to manage its business despite 
the current highly uncertain economic environment.
The Directors believe, having made appropriate enquiries that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue its operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason they con-
tinue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 
statements. The Directors have made this assessment after con-
sideration of the Group’s budgeted cash flows and related as-
sumptions, which incorporate the acquired operations of Viterra 
Inc. (see note 24), including appropriate stress testing thereof, 
key risks and uncertainties, undrawn debt facilities, debt maturity 
review, the likely impact on the Group of the proposed merger 
with Xstrata plc (see Note 28) and in accordance with the Going 
Concern and Liquidity Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 
2009 published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.  104  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
AUdit ORs
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of 
this annual report confirms that:
(a)  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit infor-
mation of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
(b)  the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any rel-
evant audit information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in of-
fice as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be pro-
posed at the forthcoming AGM.
st Ate Me Nt Of d iRe Ct ORs’ Res PONsi BiLit ies
The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report 
and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and 
regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare  
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use 
in the European Union (together ‘IFRS’). The financial state-
ments are required by law to be properly prepared in accord-
ance with the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. International Ac-
counting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present 
fairly for each financial year the Company’s financial position, 
financial performance and cash flows. This requires the faithful 
representation of the effects of transactions, other events and 
conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition 
criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in 
the International Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Framework for 
the preparation and presentation of financial statements’. 
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved 
by compliance with all applicable IFRSs. However, the Directors 
are also required to:
•    properly select and apply accounting policies; 
•    present information, including accounting policies, in a man-
ner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and under-
standable information; 
•    provide  additional  disclosures  when  compliance  with  the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable us-
ers to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 
events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and 
financial performance; and
•    make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern. 
 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure 
that the financial statements comply with the Companies (Jer-
sey) Law 1991. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps 
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregulari-
ties. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and  
integrity of the corporate and financial information included 
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the UK governing  
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the board:
John Burton
Company Secretary
22 March 2013   |  Annual Report 2012  |  105
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N Viterra, outer harbour, South Australia financial 
Statement S
4 | Financial Statements
 Confirmation of directors’ responsibilities 108
 Independent auditors’ report 109
 Consolidated statement of income 110
 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 111
 Consolidated statement of financial position 112
 Consolidated statement of cash flows 113
 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 114
 Notes to the financial statements 115 Financial Statement S
108  |  Annual Report 2010  |  108  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Confi Rm Ati on of di Re Cto Rs’ Res ponsibilities We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
•  the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as adopted 
by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as issued by the International Account -
ing Standards Board and the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and 
profit of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and 
•  the management report, which is incorporated in the Overview and Business review sections, includes a fair review of the  
development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Ivan Glasenberg Steven Kalmin
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial officer
22 March 2013 Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  109  |  Annual Report 2012  |  109
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
independent AUdi to R’s Rep o Rt t o t He m embe Rs o f Gl en Co Re i nte Rn Ati on Al pl C
We have audited the group financial statements (the “financial 
statements”) of Glencore International plc for the year ended 
31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated State-
ment of Income, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehen-
sive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, 
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated 
Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 32. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 
their preparation is applicable law and International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by European Union.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a 
body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies (Jersey) 
Law 1991. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or as-
sume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this re-
port, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsi -
bilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the 
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true 
and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an opin-
ion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable 
law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). 
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Prac-
tices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give rea-
sonable assurance that the financial statements are free from 
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This 
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 
appropriate to the group’s circumstances and have been con-
sistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness 
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and 
the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, 
we read all the financial and non-financial information in the an-
nual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 
financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent mate-
rial misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implica-
tions for our report. 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the financial statements: 
•  give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s affairs as at 
31 December 2012 and of the group’s profit for the year then 
ended;
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as 
adopted by European Union; 
•  have been properly prepared in accordance with the Compa-
nies (Jersey) Law 1991.
Separate opinion in relation to iFRS as issued by the ia SB
As explained in the accounting policies to the financial state-
ments, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obliga-
tion to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, 
has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Account-
ing Standards Board (IASB). In our opinion the Group financial 
statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 we are required to  
report to you if, in our opinion:
•  proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not 
been received from branches not visited by us; or
•  the financial statements are not in agreement with the ac-
counting records and returns; or
•  we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the 
Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s 
compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Gov-
ernance Code specified for our review.
Other matters
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had 
applied to the company.
We have reviewed the directors’ statement, contained within 
the Directors’ Report, in relation to going concern as if the 
company had been incorporated in the UK and have nothing  
to report to you in that respect.
David Quinlin
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor
London, UK
22 March 2013 Financial Statement S
110  |  Annual Report 2010  |  110  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Consolid Ate d st Ate ment of in Com e 
fo R t He ye ARs en ded 31  d e Cem be R
US $ million Notes 2012 2011
Revenue 214 436 186 152
Cost of goods sold – 210 435 – 181 938
Selling and administrative expenses – 997 – 857
Share of income from associates and jointly controlled entities 367 1 972
(Loss) /gain on sale of investments 3 – 128 9
Other expense – net 4 – 1 214 – 511
Dividend income 17 24
Interest income 401 339
Interest expense – 1 371 – 1 186
income before income taxes 1 076 4 004
Income tax credit 6 76 264
income for the year 1 152 4 268
a ttributable to:
Non controlling interests 148 220
Equity holders 1 004 4 048
earnings per share 
Basic (US $) 16 0.14 0.72
Diluted (US $) 16 0.14 0.69
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  111  |  Annual Report 2012  |  111
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Consolid Ate d st Ate ment of Com pRe Hen sive in Com e 
fo R t He ye ARs en ded 31  d e Cem be R
US $ million Notes 2012 2011
Income for the year 1 152 4 268
Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations – 170 – 59
Loss on cash flow hedges – 93 – 15
Loss on available for sale financial instruments 0 – 1 206
Share of other comprehensive income /(loss) from associates and jointly controlled entities 221 – 25
Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 0 – 2
n et loss recognised directly in equity – 42 – 1 307
Loss on available for sale financial instruments transferred to the statement of income 5 1 181 0
Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income 297 6
Effect of foreign currency exchange differences transferred to the statement of income – 23 0
Other comprehensive income /(loss) 1 413 – 1 301
total comprehensive income 2 565 2 967
a ttributable to:
Non controlling interests 94 214
Equity holders 2 471 2 753
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Financial Statement S
112  |  Annual Report 2010  |  112  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Consolid Ate d st Ate ment of fin An Ci Al po sition
As At 31  d e Cem be R
 
US $ million Notes 2012 2011
a ssets
n on current assets
Property, plant and equipment 7 23 238 14 639
Intangible assets 8 2 664 210
Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities 9 18 767 18 858
Other investments 9 1 589 1 547
Advances and loans 10 3 758 4 141
Deferred tax assets 6 1 462 1 039
51 478 40 434
c urrent assets
Inventories 11 20 682 17 129
Accounts receivable 12 24 882 21 895
Other financial assets 26 2 650 5 065
Prepaid expenses and other assets 235 297
Marketable securities 38 40
Cash and cash equivalents 13 2 782 1 305
51 269 45 731
Assets held for sale 14 2 790 0
54 059 45 731
total assets 105 537 86 165
equity and liabilities
c apital and reserves – attributable to equity holders
Share capital 15 71 69
Reserves and retained earnings 31 195 29 196
31 266 29 265
Non controlling interests 3 034 3 070
total equity 34 300 32 335
n on current liabilities
Borrowings 19 19 028 19 844
Deferred income 20 601 158
Deferred tax liabilities 6 2 955 1 399
Provisions 21 1 504 953
24 088 22 354
c urrent liabilities
Borrowings 19 16 498 8 224
Viterra asset acquirer loans 14 2 580 0
Accounts payable 23 23 501 18 136
Deferred income 20 116 24
Provisions 21 62 98
Other financial liabilities 26 3 388 4 804
Income tax payable 257 190
46 402 31 476
Liabilities held for sale 14 747 0
47 149 31 476
total equity and liabilities 105 537 86 165
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  113  |  Annual Report 2012  |  113
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Consolid Ate d st Ate ment of CAs H f lows 
fo R t He ye ARs en ded 31  d e Cem be R
US $ million Notes 2012 2011
Operating activities
Income before income taxes 1 076 4 004
a djustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 1 473 1 066
Share of income from associates and jointly controlled entities – 367 – 1 972
Loss/(gain) on sale of investments 3 128 – 9
Impairments 5 1 650 32
Other non cash items – net – 148 133
Interest expense – net 970 847
c ash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 4 782 4 101
Working capital changes
Decrease /(increase) in accounts receivable 
1
720 – 1 797
(Increase) /decrease in inventories – 1 611 239
Increase /(decrease) in accounts payable 
2
1 618 – 1 616
total working capital changes 727 – 3 174
Income tax paid – 344 – 472
Interest received 206 121
Interest paid – 990 – 919
n et cash generated/(used) by operating activities 4 381 – 343
investing activities
Payments of non current advances and loans – 203 – 320
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 24 – 6 463 – 350
Disposal of subsidiaries 24 281 4
Purchase of investments – 633 – 919
Proceeds from sale of investments 23 155
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – 2 970 – 2 606
Payments for exploration and evaluation – 147 – 204
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 112 184
Dividends received from associates 461 366
n et cash (used) by investing activities – 9 539 – 3 690
Financing activities
Share issuance, net of issue costs 15 0 7 616
Repayment of Perpetual bonds 19 0 – 681
Repayment of Euro bonds 19 0 – 700
Proceeds from Xstrata secured bank loans 19 0 384
Proceeds from issuance of Sterling, Swiss Franc and Euro bonds 19 2 951 237
Proceeds from other non current borrowings 19 303 200
Repayment of other non current borrowings 19 – 594 – 169
Margin receipts in respect of financing related hedging activities 176 21
Viterra asset acquirer loans 24 2 580 0
Net proceeds from/(repayment of) current borrowings 19 3 463 – 1 493
Acquisition of additional interest in subsidiaries – 669 – 315
Disposal of interest in subsidiaries 45 0
Payment of profit participation certificates 19 – 554 – 861
Dividend paid to non controlling interests 0 – 18
Dividend paid to equity holders of the parent 17 – 1 066 – 346
n et cash generated by financing activities 6 635 3 875
Increase /(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1 477 – 158
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 1 305 1 463
c ash and cash equivalents, end of year 2 782 1 305
 
1
  Includes movements in other financial assets, prepaid expenses, other assets and other non cash current assets.
2  
 Includes movements in other financial liabilities, liabilities held for sale and current provisions.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Financial Statement S
114  |  Annual Report 2010  |  114  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Consolid Ate d st Ate ment of CHAn Ge s in eq Uit y fo R t He ye ARs en ded 31  d e Cem be R
US $ million
Retained 
earnings
Share 
premium 
1
 
Other 
reserves 
1
 
Total  
reserves 
a n d   
retained 
earnings
Share 
capital
Total 
equity 
attribut-
able to 
equity 
holders
Non 
control-
ling 
interests
Total 
equity
a t 1 January 2011 5 659 0 – 272 5 387 37 5 424 2 894 8 318
Income for the year 4 048 0 0 4 048 0 4 048 220 4 268
Other comprehensive loss – 25 0 – 1 270 – 1 295 0 – 1 295 – 6 – 1 301
total comprehensive income 4 023 0 – 1 270 2 753 0 2 753 214 2 967
Conversion of HPPS and PPS profit participation plans ¹ 0 13 821 0 13 821 16 13 837 0 13 837
Conversion of LTS and LTPPS profit participation plans ¹ – 5 701 5 694 0 – 7 7 0 0 0
Issue of share capital 
1
0 7 607 0 7 607 9 7 616 0 7 616
Tax on Listing related expenses 
2
0 21 0 21 0 21 0 21
Equity settled share-based payments 
3
58 0 0 58 0 58 0 58
Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 0 0 – 98 – 98 0 – 98 – 235 – 333
Acquisition of subsidiaries 
4
0 0 0 0 0 0 215 215
Dividends paid 
5
0 – 346 0 – 346 0 – 346 – 18 – 364
a t 31 December 2011 4 039 26 797 – 1 640 29 196 69 29 265 3 070 32 335
a t 1 January 2012 4 039 26 797 – 1 640 29 196 69 29 265 3 070 32 335
Income for the year 1 004 0 0 1 004 0 1 004 148 1 152
Other comprehensive income 221 0 1 246 1 467 0 1 467 – 54 1 413
total comprehensive income 1 225 0 1 246 2 471 0 2 471 94 2 565
Issue of share capital 
1
0 957 0 957 2 959 0 959
Equity settled share-based payments 
3
111 0 0 111 0 111 0 111
Put option relating to additional interest in subsidiary 
4
0 0 0 0 0 0 – 419 – 419
Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 0 0 – 474 – 474 0 – 474 – 971 – 1 445
Acquisition of subsidiaries 
4
0 0 0 0 0 0 1 260 1 260
Dividends paid 
5
0 – 1 066 0 – 1 066 0 – 1 066 0 – 1 066
a t 31 December 2012 5 375 26 688 – 868 31 195 71 31 266 3 034 34 300
 
1
  See note 15.
²  See note 6.
³  See note 18.
4
  See note 24.
5
  See note 17.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  115  |  Annual Report 2012  |  115
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
n otes to t He fi n An Ci Al st Ate ments 1. ACCo Unt in G poli Cie s c orporate information
The Glencore Group (Glencore) is a leading integrated marketer  
and producer of natural resources, with worldwide activities 
in the marketing of metals and minerals, energy products and  
agricultural products and the production, refinement, process-
ing, storage and transport of these products. Glencore operates 
on a global scale, marketing and distributing physical commod-
ities sourced from third party producers and own production 
to industrial consumers, such as those in the automotive, steel, 
power generation, oil and food processing industries. Glencore 
also provides financing, logistics and other services to produ-
cers and consumers of commodities. Glencore’s long experi-
ence as a commodity merchant has allowed it to develop and 
build upon its expertise in the commodities which it markets 
and cultivate long-term relationships with a broad supplier and 
customer base across diverse industries and in multiple geo-
graphic regions. Glencore’s marketing activities are supported 
by investments in industrial assets operating in Glencore’s core 
commodities. 
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for 
issue in accordance with a Directors’ resolution on 22 March 2013. 
l isting/Restructuring of the Group
On 24 May 2011, Glencore International plc (the “Company”) 
was admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and 
commenced trading on the London Stock Exchange’s premium 
listed market and on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 25 May 
2011 via a secondary listing (the “Listing”). The Company is  
incorporated in Jersey, domiciled in Switzerland, and is the  
ultimate parent company of Glencore and owner of 100% of  
the issued share capital of Glencore International AG, following 
a restructuring of the ownership interests in Glencore Interna-
tional AG immediately prior to admission (the “Restructuring”) 
(see note 15). The Company’s registered office is at Queensway 
House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES.
The following accounting treatment was applied to account for 
the Restructuring in 2011:
•  the consolidated assets and liabilities of the subsidiary 
Glencore International AG were recognised and measured at 
the pre-Restructuring carrying amounts, without restatement 
to fair value; and
•  the retained earnings and other equity balances recognised 
in the consolidated statement of financial position reflect the 
consolidated retained earnings and other equity balances of 
Glencore International AG, as at 24 May 2011, immediately 
prior to the Restructuring, and the results of the period from 
1  January 2011 to 24  May 2011, the date of the Restructur-
ing, are those of Glencore International AG as the Company 
was not active prior to the Restructuring. Subsequent to the  
Restructuring, the equity structure reflects the applicable 
movements in equity of Glencore International plc, including 
the equity instruments issued to effect the Restructuring and 
the Listing.
Statement of compliance
The accounting policies adopted are in accordance with:
•  International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and inter-
pretations as adopted by the European Union (EU) effective 
as of 31 December 2012; and
•  IFRS and interpretations as issued by the International  
Accounting Standards Board (IASB) effective as of 31 Decem-
ber 2012.
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost 
convention except for the revaluation to fair value of certain 
financial assets, liabilities and marketing inventories and have 
been prepared on a going concern basis. The Directors have 
made this assessment after consideration of the Group’s budg-
eted cash flows and related assumptions, which incorporate 
the acquired operations of Viterra Inc. (see note 24), including  
appropriate stress testing thereof, key risks and uncertain-
ties, undrawn debt facilities, debt maturity review, the likely 
impact on the Group of the proposed merger with Xstrata 
plc (see Note 28) and in accordance with the Going Con-
cern and Liquidity Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 
2009 published by the Financial Reporting Council. Further  
information on Glencore’s business activities, cash flows, liquid-
ity and performance are set out in the Business review and its 
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and 
financial risks are detailed in note 25.
All amounts are expressed in millions of United States Dollars, 
unless other wise stated, consistent with the predominant func-
tional currency of Glencore’s operations.
Under Article 105(11) of the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 the 
directors of a holding company need not prepare separate ac-
counts (i.e. company only accounts) if consolidated accounts 
for the company are prepared, unless required to do so by the 
members of the company by ordinary resolution. The members 
of the Company have not passed a resolution requiring separate 
accounts and, in the Directors’ opinion, the Company meets the 
definition of a holding company. As permitted by the law, the 
Directors have elected not to prepare separate accounts.
c hanges in accounting policies and comparability
The following relevant amendments to the existing standards 
and interpretations were adopted as of 1 January 2012:
•  Amendments to IFRS 7 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures;
•  Amendments to IAS 12 – Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underly-
ing Assets. 
The adoption of these revised standards and interpretations 
did not have a material impact on the recognition, measure-
ment or disclosure of reported amounts. Financial Statement S
116  |  Annual Report 2010  |  116  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the 
following standards and interpretations applicable to Glencore 
were issued but not yet effective:
•  IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments 
•  IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements
•  IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements
•  IFRS 12 – Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
•  IFRS 13 – Fair Value Measurement
•  IAS 19 – Employee Benefits (2011)
•  IAS 27 – Separate Financial Statements (2011)
•  IAS 28 – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011)
•  Amendments to IAS 1 – Presentation of Items of Other Com-
prehensive Income
•  Amendments to IAS 32 – Offsetting Financial Assets and  
Financial Liabilities
•  Amendments to IFRS 7 – Disclosures – Offsetting Financial 
Assets and Financial Liabilities
•  IFRIC 20 – Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface 
Mine
The Directors are currently evaluating the impact these new 
standards and interpretations will have on the financial state-
ments of Glencore. An outline of the significant impacts identi-
fied to date is set out below.
IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 (the “Consolidation Standards”)
Glencore will adopt the Consolidation Standards on 1 Janu-
ary 2013 with retrospective application. IFRS 10 provides a single 
basis for consolidation with a new definition of control based on 
having the power to direct the relevant activities of the investee. 
IFRS 11 impacts the accounting for joint arrangements, defined 
as investments or arrangements which are subject to joint con-
trol through contractual agreed sharing of control between two 
or more parties. A joint arrangement is classified as either a joint 
operation or a joint venture, and the option to proportionately 
consolidate joint ventures has been removed, consistent with 
current Group policy under which joint ventures are accounted 
for using the equity method. IFRS 12 combines the disclosure 
requirements previously covered by existing standards and  
includes additional disclosure requirements. To date, Glencore 
has not identified any material changes in the accounting that 
is currently being applied to the Group’s subsidiaries, invest-
ments or joint arrangements as a result of the Consolidation 
Standards.
IAS 19 (2011)
Glencore will adopt the amendments to IAS 19 on 1 January 2013 
with modified retrospective application. The amendments 
require all actuarial gains and losses to be recognised imme-
diately in other comprehensive income (which differs from 
Glencore’s current policy which applies the corridor method) 
and require the expected return on plan assets (recognised in 
the statement of income) to be calculated based on the rate 
used to discount the defined benefit obligation. Upon adop-
tion, Glencore will recognise $ 164 million of unrecognised actu-
arial losses as at 1 January 2012, increasing the post retirement 
benefits provision (Note 21) with a corresponding adjustment to 
shareholders’ equity and associated deferred tax impact. 
Amendments to IAS 1
Glencore will adopt the amendments to IAS 1 on 1 Janu-
ary 2013 with retrospective application. The amendments to 
IAS 1 will not impact Glencore’s financial statement balances 
however they will impact the presentation within the Statement 
of Comprehensive Income as Glencore will classify components 
of other comprehensive income based on whether they may 
eventually be recycled into income (e.g. currency translation 
adjustments) versus those items that will never be recycled into 
income (e.g. actuarial gains and losses on pension plans).
IFRIC 20
Glencore will adopt IFRIC 20 on 1 January 2013 with retrospec-
tive application. IFRIC 20 provides a model for accounting for 
costs associated with the removal of waste during the produc-
tion phase of a surface mine, including guidance on the appor-
tionment of the costs incurred for obtaining a current and future 
benefit and how capitalised costs are depreciated. 
 
Principles of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements of Glencore include the 
accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. A subsidiary is 
an entity that is ultimately controlled by the Company. Control 
is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of 
an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. Control is 
usually assumed where Glencore ultimately owns or controls 
more than 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to 
the contrary. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed 
of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of  
acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appro-
priate. All intercompany balances, transactions and unrealised 
profits are eliminated.
Non controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified sepa-
rately from Glencore’s equity and are initially measured either 
at fair value or at the non controlling interests’ proportionate 
share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. 
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non control-
ling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recog-
nition plus the non controlling interests’ share of subsequent 
changes in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to 
non controlling interests even if this results in the non controlling 
interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in Glencore’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result  
in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions with 
any difference between the amount by which the non control-
ling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the considera-
tion paid or received being recognised directly in equity and 
attributed to equity holders of Glencore.
investments in associates, jointly controlled entities and joint 
venture operations
Associates and jointly controlled entities (together Associates) 
in which Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control 
are accounted for using the equity method. Significant influ-
ence is the power to participate in the financial and operating 
policy decisions of the investee but is not control over those 
policies. Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds be-
tween 20% and 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists 
to the contrary. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing  Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  117  |  Annual Report 2012  |  117
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
of control over an economic entity where strategic and/or key 
operating decisions require unanimous decision making.
Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the 
Associate’s net income and equity. Glencore’s interest in an  
Associate is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently  
adjusted for Glencore’s share of changes in net assets of the 
Associate, less any impairment in the value of individual invest-
ments. Where Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised 
profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencore’s  
interest in that Associate.
Changes in Glencore’s interests in Associates are accounted for 
as a gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the 
amount by which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted 
and the fair value of the consideration received being recog-
nised directly in the statement of income.
Where Glencore undertakes activities under joint venture op-
eration or asset arrangements, Glencore reports such interests 
using the proportionate consolidation method. Glencore’s 
share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows 
of jointly controlled operations or asset arrangements are con-
solidated with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial 
statements on a line by line basis.
Business combinations
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for 
using the acquisition method of accounting, whereby the iden-
tifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities (identifiable 
net assets) are measured on the basis of fair value at the date 
of acquisition. Acquisition related costs are recognised in the 
statement of income as incurred. 
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencore’s 
previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured 
to fair value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date Glencore  
attains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recog-
nised in the statement of income. 
Where the fair value of consideration transferred for a business 
combination exceeds the fair values attributable to Glencore’s 
share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated 
as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but is reviewed  
annually for impairment and when there is an indication of 
impairment. Any impairment identified is immediately recog-
nised in the statement of income. If the fair value attributable 
to Glencore’s share of the identifiable net assets exceeds the 
consideration transferred, the difference is immediately recog-
nised in the statement of income.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases 
of interests in Associates. Any goodwill arising from such pur-
chases is included within the carrying amount of the invest-
ment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter. Any excess of 
Glencore’s share of the net fair value of the Associate’s identifi-
able net assets over the cost of the investment is included in the 
statement of income in the period of the purchase.
The main operating and finance subsidiaries and investments of 
Glencore are listed in note 32.
n on current assets held for sale and disposal groups
Non current assets and assets and liabilities included in dispos-
al groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount 
will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather 
than through continuing use, they are available for immediate  
disposal and the sale is highly probable. Non current assets 
held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount 
or fair value less costs to sell.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when the seller has transferred to the 
buyer all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the  
assets sold. Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes and 
is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or  
receivable to the extent that it is probable that economic ben-
efits will flow to Glencore and the revenues and costs can be  
reliably measured. In most instances sales revenue is recognised 
when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the  
customer, which is typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the 
destination port or the customer’s premises.
For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a 
provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price is 
subject to movements in market prices up to the date of final 
pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial book-
ing. Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based 
on the estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable. 
The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provi-
sionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a com-
modity derivative. Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales 
price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in 
fair value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue. In all cas-
es, fair value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
Interest and dividend income is recognised when the right to 
receive payment has been established, it is probable that the 
economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of  
income can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on 
a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at 
the applicable effective interest rate.
Foreign currency translation
Glencore’s reporting currency and the functional currency of 
the majority of its operations is the U.S. Dollar as this is assessed 
to be the principal currency of the economic environment in 
which they operate.
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the func-
tional currency of each entity using the exchange rate pre-
vailing at the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities 
outstanding at year end are converted at year end rates. The  
resulting exchange differences are recorded in the consolidat-
ed statement of income. Financial Statement S
118  |  Annual Report 2010  |  118  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Translation of financial statements
For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group 
companies whose functional currency is in a currency other than 
the U.S. Dollar are translated into U.S. Dollars using year end 
exchange rates, while their statements of income are translat-
ed using average rates of exchange for the year. Goodwill and 
fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign 
 operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign 
 operation and are translated at the closing rate. Translation 
adjustments are included as a separate component of share-
holders’ equity and have no statement of income impact to the 
extent that no disposal of the foreign operation has occurred.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they 
relate to the financing of construction or development of quali-
fying assets in which case they are capitalised up to the date 
when the qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
Retirement benefits
Glencore operates various pension schemes in accordance 
with local requirements and practices of the respective coun-
tries. The annual costs for defined contribution plans that are 
funded by payments to separate trustee administered funds or 
insurance companies equal the contributions that are required  
under the plans and are accounted for as an expense. Glencore 
uses the projected unit credit actuarial method to determine 
the present value of its defined benefit obligations and the  
related current service cost and, where applicable, past service 
cost. 
Actuarial gains and losses are accounted for using the corridor 
method. Under this method, to the extent that any cumulative 
unrecognised actuarial gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater 
of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the 
fair value of plan assets, that excess is recognised in income 
over the expected average remaining working lives of the  
employees participating in the plan. Past service cost is recog-
nised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already 
vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over 
the average period until the benefits become vested.
Share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair 
value of the awards based on the market value of the shares at 
the grant date. Fair value excludes the effect of non market-
based vesting conditions. The fair value is charged to the state-
ment of income and credited to retained earnings on a straight-
line basis over the period the estimated number of awards are 
expected to vest. 
At each balance sheet date, Glencore revises its estimate of the 
number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of 
the effect of non market-based vesting conditions. The impact 
of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised 
in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the 
revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to retained 
earnings.
Cash-settled share-based payments
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is initially rec -
ognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards 
that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non market 
based performance conditions. Subsequently, at each report-
ing period until the liability is settled, the liability is remeasured 
to fair value with any changes in fair value recognised in the 
statement of income.
income taxes
Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes. 
Current taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable 
based on enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the  
period end and expected current taxable income, and any  
adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Deferred 
taxes are recognised for temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial state-
ments and the corresponding tax bases used in the computa-
tion of taxable income, using enacted or substantively enacted 
income tax rates which will be effective at the time of reversal 
of the underlying temporary difference. Deferred tax assets and 
unused tax losses are only recognised to the extent that their 
recoverability is probable. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at 
reporting period end and amended to the extent that it is no 
longer probable that the related benefit will be realised. To the 
extent that a deferred tax asset not previously recognised fulfils 
the criteria for recognition, an asset is recognised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate 
to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has 
both the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis. The tax effect of 
certain temporary differences is not recognised principally with 
respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability (other 
than those arising in a business combination or in a manner 
that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit) and tem-
porary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and 
associates to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of 
the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable the 
temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. 
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments 
on acquisitions. These adjustments may relate to assets such 
as extraction rights that, in general, are not eligible for income 
tax allowances.
Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies/taxes are treated 
as taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics 
of an income tax including being imposed and determined 
in accordance with regulations established by the respective  
government’s taxation authority.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or  
income in the statement of income, except when they relate 
to items that are recognised outside the statement of income 
(whether in other comprehensive income or directly in equity) 
or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business 
combination. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  119  |  Annual Report 2012  |  119
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
exploration and evaluation expenditure
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs in-
curred on the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral 
and petroleum resources and includes costs such as research-
ing and analysing historical exploration data, exploratory drill-
ing, trenching, sampling and the costs of pre-feasibility studies. 
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of inter-
est, other than that acquired from the purchase of another com-
pany, is charged to the statement of income as incurred except 
when the expenditure is expected to be recouped from future 
exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned to 
continue with active and significant operations in relation to 
the area, or at the reporting period end, the activity has not 
reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the 
existence of commercially recoverable reserves, in which case 
the expenditure is capitalised. Purchased exploration and eval -
uation assets are recognised at their fair value at acquisition. 
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is recorded 
as a component of mineral and petroleum rights in property, 
plant and equipment.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is moni-
tored for indications of impairment. Where a potential impair-
ment is indicated, an assessment is performed for each area of 
interest or at the cash generating unit level. To the extent that 
capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is 
charged to the statement of income.
Development expenditure
When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and 
such development receives the appropriate approvals, capital-
ised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred to 
construction in progress. Upon completion of development 
and commencement of production, capitalised development 
costs are transferred as required to either mineral and petro-
leum rights or deferred mining costs and depreciated using the 
unit of production method (UOP).
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
Property, plant and equipment, port allocation rights and  
intangible assets are stated at cost, being the fair value of the 
consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, includ-
ing directly attributable costs required to bring the asset to the  
location or to a condition necessary for operation and the direct 
cost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated 
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Intangi-
ble assets include goodwill, future warehousing fees and trade-
marks.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimat -
ed residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific 
asset concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associ-
ated mine, field or lease. Depreciation commences when the 
asset is available for use. Identifiable intangible assets with a 
finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis and/or UOP ba-
sis over their expected useful life. Goodwill is not depreciated.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets are depreciated/amortised on a UOP and/or 
straight-line basis as follows:
Buildings 10 – 45 years
Land not depreciated
Plant and equipment 3 – 30 years/UOP
Mineral rights and development costs UOP
Deferred mining costs UOP
Port allocation rights 25 – 40 years
Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are 
capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on 
the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of 
the relevant lease. All other leases are classified as operating 
leases, the expenditures for which, are charged against income 
over the accounting periods covered by the lease term.
Biological assets
Biological assets are carried at their fair value less estimated 
selling costs. Any changes in fair value less estimated selling 
costs are included in the statement of income in the period in 
which they arise.
Deferred stripping costs
Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine (or pit) 
before production commences are capitalised as part of the 
cost of constructing the mine (or pit) and subsequently amor-
tised over the life of the mine (or pit) on a unit of production 
basis. Production stripping costs are deferred when the actual 
stripping ratio incurred significantly exceeds the expected long 
term average stripping ratio and are subsequently amortised 
when the actual stripping ratio falls below the long term aver-
age stripping ratio. Where the ore is expected to be evenly dis-
tributed, waste removal is expensed as incurred.
mineral and petroleum rights
Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights (together 
Mineral Rights) which can be reasonably valued, are recognised 
in the assessment of fair values on acquisition. Mineral Rights 
for which values cannot be reasonably determined are not rec-
ognised. Exploitable Mineral Rights are amortised using the 
UOP over the commercially recoverable reserves and, in cer-
tain circumstances, other mineral resources. Mineral resources 
are included in amortisation calculations where there is a high  
degree of confidence that they will be extracted in an economic 
manner.
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs  arising 
from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, 
discounted to their net present value, are provided for and 
capitalised at the time such an obligation arises. The costs are 
charged to the statement of income over the life of the opera-
tion through depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the 
discount on the provision. Financial Statement S
120  |  Annual Report 2010  |  120  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Costs for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is 
created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided 
for at their net present values and charged to the statement of 
income as extraction progresses.
Other investments
Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, are 
recorded at fair value unless such fair value is not reliably de-
terminable in which case they are carried at cost. Changes in 
fair value are recorded in the statement of income unless they 
are classified as available for sale, in which case fair value move-
ments are recognised in other comprehensive income and are 
subsequently recognised in the statement of income when real-
ised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value is 
judged to be a significant or prolonged decline.
impairment
Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of as-
set values which is used as a source of information to assess 
for any indications of impairment. Formal impairment tests are 
carried out, at least annually, for cash generating units contain-
ing goodwill and for all other non current assets when events or 
changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not 
be recoverable. 
A formal impairment test involves determining whether the car-
rying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts. An 
asset’s recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its 
fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Such reviews are 
undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do 
not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which 
case the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable 
amount, an impairment loss is recorded in the income statement 
to reflect the asset at the lower amount. 
An impairment loss is reversed in the statement of income if 
there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recover-
able amount since the prior impairment loss was recognised. The 
carrying amount is increased to the recoverable amount but not 
beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation or amortisation 
which would have arisen if the prior impairment loss had not been 
recognised. Goodwill impairments and impairments of available 
for sale equity investments are not subsequently reversed.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obliga-
tion, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow 
of resources embodying economic benefits that can be reliably 
estimated will be required to settle the liability.
inventories
The majority of marketing inventories are valued at fair value 
less costs to sell with the remainder valued at the lower of cost 
or net realisable value. Unrealised gains and losses from chang-
es in fair value are reported in cost of goods sold.
Production inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net real -
isable value. Cost is determined using the first in first out (FIFO) 
or the weighted average method and comprises material costs, 
labour costs and allocated production related overhead costs. 
Financing and storage costs related to inventory are  expensed 
as incurred.
c ash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash 
in hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity 
of three months or less. The carrying amount of these assets  
approximates their fair value.
Financial instruments
Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair 
value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-
maturity investments or available for sale financial assets  
depending upon the purpose for which the financial assets 
were acquired. Financial assets are initially recognised at fair 
value on the trade date, including, in the case of instruments 
not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly attrib-
utable transaction costs. Subsequently, financial assets are car-
ried at fair value (other investments, derivatives and marketable 
secur ities) or amortised cost less impairment (accounts receiv-
able and  advances and loans). Financial liabilities other than 
derivatives are initially recognised at fair value of consideration 
received net of transaction costs as appropriate and subse-
quently carried at amortised cost.
c onvertible bonds
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component 
is determined by discounting the contractual future cash flows 
using a market rate for a similar non convertible instrument. The 
liability component is recorded as a liability on an amortised 
cost basis using the effective interest method. The equity com-
ponent is recognised as the difference between the fair value of 
the proceeds as a whole and the fair value of the liability com-
ponent and it is not subsequently remeasured. On conversion, 
the liability is reclassified to equity and no gain or loss is recog-
nised in the statement of income and upon expiry of the conver-
sion rights, any remaining equity portion will be transferred to 
retained earnings.
Derivatives and hedging activities
Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell 
or purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exemp-
tion, are initially recognised at fair value when Glencore be-
comes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument 
and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of 
each reporting period. Fair values are determined using quoted 
market prices, dealer price quotations or using models and oth-
er valuation techniques, the key inputs for which include current 
market and contractual prices for the underlying instrument, 
time to expiry, yield curves, volatility of the underlying instru-
ment and counterparty risk.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge 
 accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment 
mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are 
recognised in cost of goods sold. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  121  |  Annual Report 2012  |  121
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are 
 either (i) a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a 
recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commit-
ment, or (ii) a Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cashflows to 
be received or paid relating to a recognised asset or liability or 
a highly probable transaction.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair 
Value Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair 
value of the hedged item in the statement of income. 
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash 
Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge  reserve 
in shareholders’ equity. The deferred amount is then released 
to the statement of income in the same periods during which 
the hedged transaction affects the statement of income. 
Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the statement of income 
when it occurs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge 
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumula-
tive gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in share-
holders’ equity and is recognised in the statement of income 
when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately rec-
ognised in the statement of income. However, if a forecast or  
committed transaction is no longer expected to occur, the  
cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immedi-
ately transferred to the statement of income.
A derivative may be embedded in a “host contract”. Such com-
binations are known as hybrid instruments and at the date of 
issuance, the embedded derivative is separated from the host 
contract and accounted for as a stand alone derivative if the 
criteria for separation are met. The host contract is accounted 
for in accordance with its relevant accounting policy.
c ritical accounting policies, key judgments and estimates
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements re-
quires management to make estimates and assumptions that 
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as 
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of 
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues 
and expenses during the reporting period. 
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on his-
torical experience and other factors that are considered to be 
relevant. Actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Glencore has identified the following areas as being critical 
to understanding Glencore’s financial position as they require 
management to make complex and/or subjective judgments 
and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain:
Valuation of derivative instruments (Note 26)
Derivative instruments are carried at fair value and Glencore 
evaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data 
used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level 1, 
2 and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 7. Fair values are determined in 
the following ways: externally verified via comparison to quoted 
market prices in active markets (Level 1); by using models with 
externally verifiable inputs (Level 2); or by using alternative pro-
cedures such as comparison to comparable instruments and/
or using models with unobservable market inputs requiring 
Glencore to make market based assumptions (Level 3). 
Depreciation and amortisation of mineral and petroleum rights, 
project development costs and plant and equipment (Note 7)
Mineral and petroleum rights, project development costs and 
certain plant and equipment are depreciated/amortised using 
UOP. The calculation of the UOP rate of depreciation/amortisa -
tion, and therefore the annual charge to operations, can fluctu-
ate from initial estimates. This could generally result when there 
are significant changes in any of the factors or assumptions used 
in estimating mineral or petroleum reserves, notably changes in 
the geology of the reserves and assumptions used in determin-
ing the economic feasibility of the reserves. Such changes in 
reserves could similarly impact the useful lives of assets depre-
ciated on a straight line basis, where those lives are limited to 
the life of the project, which in turn is limited to the life of the 
proven and probable mineral or petroleum reserves. Estimates 
of proven and probable reserves are prepared by experts in  
extraction, geology and reserve determination. Assessments of 
UOP rates against the estimated reserve and resource base and 
the operating and development plan are performed regularly.
Impairments (Notes 5, 7, 8 and 9)
Investments in Associates and other investments, advances and 
loans and property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in  
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully 
recoverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefi-
nite life intangible assets. If an asset’s recoverable amount is 
less than the asset’s carrying amount, an impairment loss is rec-
ognised. Future cash flow estimates which are used to calculate 
the asset’s fair value are based on expectations about future 
operations primarily comprising estimates about production 
and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves and resourc-
es, operating, rehabilitation and restoration costs and capital  
expenditures. Changes in such estimates could impact recover-
able values of these assets. Estimates are reviewed regularly by 
management.
Provisions (Note 21)
The amount recognised as a provision, including tax, legal, res-
toration and rehabilitation, contractual and other exposures or 
obligations, is the best estimate of the consideration required 
to settle the related liability, including any related interest 
charges, taking into account the risks and uncertainties sur-
rounding the obligation. The Group assesses its liabilities and 
contingencies based upon the best information available, rel-
evant tax laws and other appropriate requirements. Financial Statement S
122  |  Annual Report 2010  |  122  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs (Note 21)
A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and decommis-
sioning costs requires estimates and assumptions to be made 
around the relevant regulatory framework, the magnitude of 
the possible disturbance and the timing, extent and costs of 
the required closure and rehabilitation activities. To the extent 
that the actual future costs differ from these estimates, adjust-
ments will be recorded and the statement of income could be 
impacted. The provisions including the estimates and assump-
tions contained therein are reviewed regularly by management.
Recognition of deferred tax assets (Note 6)
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is con-
sidered probable that those assets will be recoverable. This 
involves an assessment of when those deferred tax assets are 
likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether or not there 
will be sufficient taxable income available to offset the tax  
assets when they do reverse. These judgements are subject 
to risk and uncertainty and hence, to the extent assumptions  
regarding future profitability change, there can be an increase 
or decrease in the amounts recognised in income in the pe-
riod in which the change occurs. The recoverability of deferred 
tax assets including the estimates and assumptions contained 
therein are reviewed regularly by management.
Fair value measurements (Notes 9, 11, 18, 24, 25 and 26)
In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, 
as discussed above, an assessment of fair value of assets and 
liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, 
most notably, business combinations and disclosures related to 
fair values of marketing inventories, financial assets and liabili-
ties. In such instances, fair value measurements are estimated 
based on the amounts for which the assets and liabilities could 
be exchanged at the relevant transaction date or reporting  
period end, and are therefore not necessarily reflective of 
the likely cashflow upon actual settlements. Where fair value 
measurements cannot be derived from publicly available infor-
mation, they are estimated using models and other valuation 
methods. To the extent possible, the  assumptions and inputs 
used take into account externally verifiable inputs. However, 
such information is by nature subject to uncertainty, particularly 
where comparable market based transactions rarely exist. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  123  |  Annual Report 2012  |  123
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
2. se Gment info Rm Ati on
Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in three core business segments – metals and minerals, energy products 
and agricultural products, with each business segment responsible for the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial 
investment activities of their respective products and reflecting the structure used by Glencore’s management to assess the 
 performance of Glencore.
The business segments’ contributions to the Group are primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from physical 
marketing activities (net sale and purchase of physical commodities), provision of marketing and related value-add services and 
the margin earned from industrial asset activities (net resulting from the sale of physical commodities over the cost of production 
and/or cost of sales) and comprise the following underlying key commodities: 
•  Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, ferro alloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, refining,  
mining, processing and storage related operations of the relevant commodities; 
•  Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and metallurgical coal supported by investments in coal mining and oil 
production operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities; 
•  Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, canola, barley, rice, oil seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported by  
investments in farming, storage, handling, processing and port facilities. 
Corporate and other: statement of income amounts represent Glencore’s share of income related to Xstrata and other unallocated 
Group related expenses (including variable pool bonus accrual). Statement of financial position amounts represent Group related 
balances. 
 
The financial performance of the segments is principally evaluated with reference to Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA which is the net result 
of revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of income from associates and jointly con-
trolled entities and dividend income as disclosed on the face of the consolidated statement of income. 
 
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting 
 policies. Glencore accounts for inter-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, 
i.e. at arm’s length commercial terms. Financial Statement S
124  |  Annual Report 2010  |  124  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
2012
US $ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy
products
Agricultural
products
Corporate 
and other Total
Revenue from third parties 56 674 136 937 20 825 0 214 436
marketing activities
Adjusted EBIT 1 363 435 371 – 39 2 130
Depreciation and amortisation 16 59 23 0 98
a djusted eBit Da 1 379 494 394 – 39 2 228
industrial activities
Adjusted EBIT 708 594 – 10 1 048 2 340
Depreciation and amortisation 917 389 69 0 1 375
a djusted eBit Da 1 625 983 59 1 048 3 715
total adjusted eBit Da 3 004 1 477 453 1 009 5 943
Depreciation and amortisation – 933 – 448 – 92 0 – 1 473
total adjusted eBit 2 071 1 029 361 1 009 4 470
Significant items ¹
  Other expense – net ² – 1 214
  Share of Associates’ exceptional items ³ – 875
  Mark to market loss on certain natural gas contracts 
4
– 123
  Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 
5
– 84
Interest expense – net – 970
Loss on sale of investments – 128
Income tax credit 76
income for the year 1 152
¹  Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to 
them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencore’s results. 
²  See note 4.
³  Share of Associates’ exceptional items comprise Glencore’s share of exceptional charges booked directly by Xstrata relating mainly to various 
impairment charges including that associated with its platinum investments and operations in South Africa and nickel operations in Australia 
which were impacted by the challenging market environments and costs incurred by Xstrata in connection with the proposed merger with 
Glencore (see note 28).
4
  Represents movements in fair value of certain fixed price forward natural gas purchase contracts entered into to hedge the price risk of 
this cost exposure in our alumina production activities. These contracts were initially concluded in 2008 with mark to market movements  
accounted for in equity (cash flow hedge reserves). Consistent with Glencore’s current policy not to hedge future operating expenditures 
there are no such contracts covering periods beyond 2012.
5
  Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions. For Glencore, such adjustments 
arise on the sale of product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial operations to its Marketing arm and management assesses 
segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the sales were to third parties. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  125  |  Annual Report 2012  |  125
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
2012
US $ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy
products
Agricultural
products
Corporate 
and other Total 
Current assets 20 024 18 256 9 520 649 48 449
Current liabilities – 9 500 – 13 941 – 3 746 – 137 – 27 324
a llocatable current capital employed 10 524 4 315 5 774 512 21 125
Property, plant and equipment 14 134 5 347 3 757 0 23 238
Intangible assets 180 1 098 1 386 0 2 664
Investments in Associates and other investments 2 881 799 461 16 215 20 356
Non current advances and loans 921 2 688 149 0 3 758
a llocatable non current capital employed 18 116 9 932 5 753 16 215 50 016
Other assets 
1
7 072 7 072
Other liabilities 
2
– 43 913 – 43 913
total net assets 28 640 14 247 11 527 – 20 114 34 300
Additions to non current assets 5 761 3 311 4 262 0 13 334
1
  Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents and assets held for sale.
2
  Other liabilities include borrowings, non current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non current provisions, Viterra asset acquirer loans 
and liabilities held for sale.
2011
US $ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy
products
Agricultural
products
Corporate 
and other Total
Revenue from third parties 51 984 117 065 17 103 0 186 152
marketing activities
Adjusted EBIT 1 242 697 – 8 – 20 1 911
Depreciation and amortisation 5 27 0 11 43
a djusted eBit Da 1 247 724 – 8 – 9 1 954
industrial activities
Adjusted EBIT 1 357 375 – 39 1 794 3 487
Depreciation and amortisation 765 196 62 0 1 023
a djusted eBit Da 2 122 571 23 1 794 4 510
total adjusted eBit Da 3 369 1 295 15 1 785 6 464
Depreciation and amortisation – 770 – 223 – 62 – 11 – 1 066
total adjusted eBit 2 599 1 072 – 47 1 774 5 398
Significant items ¹
  Other expense – net ² – 511
  Share of Associates’ exceptional items ³ – 45
Interest expense – net – 847
Gain on sale of investments 9
Income tax credit 264
income for the year 4 268
 
¹  Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to 
them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencore’s results. 
²  See note 4.
³  Share of Associates’ exceptional items comprise Glencore’s share of exceptional charges booked directly by Xstrata ($ 25 million) and Century 
($ 20 million). Financial Statement S
126  |  Annual Report 2010  |  126  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
2011
US $ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy
products
Agricultural
products
Corporate 
and other Total 
Current assets 18 506 17 605 5 110 3 165 44 386
Current liabilities – 7 676 – 11 312 – 1 589 – 2 675 – 23 252
a llocatable current capital employed 10 830 6 293 3 521  490 21 134
Property, plant and equipment 9 367 4 210 1 062 0 14 639
Intangible assets 169 29 12 0 210
Investments in Associates and other investments 2 950 1 060 206 16 189 20 405
Non current advances and loans 1 280 2 723 138 0 4 141
a llocatable non current capital employed 13 766 8 022 1 418 16 189 39 395
Other assets 
1
2 384 2 384
Other liabilities 
2
– 30 578 – 30 578
total net assets 24 596 14 315 4 939 – 11 515 32 335
Additions to non current assets 1 508 1 921 406 0 3 835
 
1
  Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
2
  Other liabilities include borrowings, non current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities and non current provisions.
Geographical information
US $ million 2012 2011
Revenue from third parties 
1
The Americas 42 295 45 836
Europe 108 904 70 323
Asia 44 274 47 759
Africa 16 910 20 538
Oceania 2 053 1 696
214 436 186 152
n on current assets 
2
The Americas 6 918 4 535
Europe 17 707 17 293
Asia 5 652 5 838
Africa 11 255 4 555
Oceania 3 137 1 486
44 669 33 707
 
1
  Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty however this may not necessarily be 
the country of the counterpart’s ultimate parent and/or final destination of product.
²  Non current assets are non current operating assets other than other investments, advances and loans, and deferred tax assets.
3. (loss)/ GAin o n s Ale o f investments – net
US $ million 2012 2011
Loss on sale on investment in associates – net – 133 – 10
Gain on sale of subsidiaries – net 5 19
total – 128 9
The net loss on sale of investments in 2012 comprised primarily an accounting dilution loss of $ 121 million following Xstrata’s share 
issuance in March 2012, which saw Glencore’s effective ownership reduce from 34.5% to 34.2%. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  127  |  Annual Report 2012  |  127
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
4. o t He R e xpense – net
US $ million Notes 2012 2011
Changes in mark to market valuations on investments held for trading – net 2 – 92
Changes in mark to market valuation of certain coal forward contracts ¹ 179 25
Changes in mark to market valuation of certain foreign currency forward contracts 65 0
Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses 497 0
Acquisition related expenses – 120 – 2
Impairments 5 – 1 650 – 32
Phantom equity awards granted on Listing 18 – 109 – 58
Listing related expenses 0 – 286
Foreign exchange loss – 4 – 5
Other ² – 74 – 61
total – 1 214 – 511
 
¹  This item, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold. All other amounts in Other  expense – net are  
classified by function.
² Includes $ 7 million loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (2011: $ nil million).
Together with foreign exchange gains /(losses) and mark to market movements on investments held for trading, other expense – 
net includes other significant items of income and expense which due to their non operational nature or expected infrequency of 
the events giving rise to them are reported separately from operating segment results. Other expense – net includes, but is not 
limited to, impairment charges, revaluation of previously held interests in business combinations, restructuring and closure costs.
c hanges in mark to market valuation of certain coal forward contracts
Represents movements in fair value of certain fixed price forward coal sales contracts relating to Prodeco Group’s (Prodeco) 
future production, into which it plans to physically deliver. Following the legal reacquisition of Prodeco in March 2010, from an 
 accounting perspective, these forward sales contracts could not technically be classified as ‘own use’ or as cashflow hedges, which 
would have deferred the income statement effect until performance of the underlying future sale transactions. As at year end, 
 approximately 4.6 million tonnes (2011: 8.4 million tonnes) of such coal had been sold forward at a fixed price in respect of quarterly 
periods to the end of 2013. 
c hanges in mark to market valuation of certain foreign currency forward contracts
Represents the realised gain on the settlement of CAD 2.7 billion forward foreign currency purchase contracts entered into to 
partially hedge foreign currency price risk associated with the Viterra transaction (see note 24). 
Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses
In March 2012, Glencore purchased an additional 31.8% interest in Optimum Coal Holdings Limited (“Optimum”) and in April 2012, 
acquired an additional 20% interest in Mutanda Group (Mutanda) (see note 24). At the date of the acquisitions, the previously held 
interests were revalued to their fair value and as a result, a $ 20 million loss and $ 517 million gain, respectively, were recognised.
a cquisition related expenses
Professional advisor and other costs relating mainly to the Viterra (see note 24) and Xstrata (see note 28) transactions.
l isting related expenses
Expenses incurred in connection with the Listing including the Restructuring and/or change in the employee shareholder profit 
attribution model, rather than the costs incurred solely in relation to the issuance of the new (primary) equity (see note 15), compris-
ing $ 91 million of stamp duty costs, $ 42 million of professional advisors’ costs and $ 153 million of compensation related costs. Financial Statement S
128  |  Annual Report 2010  |  128  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
5. i mp Ai Rme nts US $ million Notes 2012 2011
Available for sale instruments previously recognised in other comprehensive income – 1 181 0
Non current loans 10 – 213 0
Property, plant and equipment – 210 – 6
Non current inventory and other ¹ – 46 – 26
total impairments ² – 1 650 – 32
¹  These items, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold. 
²  The impairment charges incurred during the year are allocated to the operating segments as follows: Metals and minerals $ 1,337 (2011:  
$ 32 million), Energy products $ 248 million (2011: $ nil million) and Agricultural products $ 65 million (2011: $ nil million).
a vailable for sale instruments
Glencore accounts for its interest in United Company Rusal plc (“UC Rusal”) as an available for sale investment at fair value with 
mark to market movements recognised in other comprehensive income (“OCI”). IAS 39 requires an entity to assess whether the  
cumulative loss recognised in OCI is of a significant and prolonged nature and if so, it shall be reclassified from OCI to the state-
ment of income. As a result of the continuing challenging macro economic environment impacting the global aluminium market, 
UC Rusal’s share price has remained below Glencore’s acquisition fair value for what has now been determined to be of a pro-
longed nature and therefore, as at 31 December 2012, $ 1.2 billion of previously recognised negative fair value adjustments have 
been reclassified from OCI to the statement of income. This reclassification had no impact on the balance sheet value which con-
tinues to be carried at fair value (see note 9).
Property, plant and equipment
During the regular assessment of whether there is an indication of an asset impairment or whether a previously recorded impair-
ment may no longer be required (as part of our regular portfolio review), the continuing challenging European biodiesel margin 
environment, the change in legal status of certain of our operations, particularly in Bolivia, and evaluation of below expectation  
exploration programs, resulted in impairment charges (none of which were individually material) of $ 110 million, $ 35 million and 
$ 65 million being recognised in our Metals and minerals, Energy and Agricultural products segments respectively. The recover-
able amounts, where applicable, of the underlying assets were determined based on the fair value less costs to sell using dis-
counted cash flow techniques.
6. i n Come t Axe s Income taxes consist of the following:
US $ million 2012 2011
Current income tax expense – 295 – 417
Deferred income tax credit 371 681
total tax credit 76 264 Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  129  |  Annual Report 2012  |  129
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the following 
reasons:
US $ million 2012 2011
income before income tax and attribution 1 076 4 004
Less: Share of income from associates – 367 – 1 972
Parent company’s and subsidiaries’ income before income tax and attribution 709 2 032
Income tax expense calculated a the Swiss income tax rate – 106 – 312
Effect of different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate – 233 – 102
Tax exempt income, net of non-deductible expenses and other permanent differences – 50 14
Tax implications of restructuring, including deductions/losses triggered¹ 544 687
Effect of available tax losses not recognised, and other changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets – 76 – 19
Effect of change in tax rate on deferred tax balances – 4 – 2
Other 1 – 2
income credit 76 264
¹  The 2012 credit amounting to $ 544 million resulted primarily from recognition of crystallised tax benefits (resulting in losses carried forward), 
following an internal reorganisation of our existing ownership interest in Xstrata. All of the resulting tax losses have been brought to account 
as a deferred tax asset. The 2011 tax benefit of $ 687 million resulted from income tax deductions and losses arising in Switzerland and other 
countries following settlement of various profit participation plans. $ 305 million (2011: $ 381 million) of deferred tax assets related to future 
deductible amounts and tax losses from the settlement have not been brought to account.
The tax credit/(expense) relating to components of other comprehensive income/(loss) and share premium is as follows:
US $ million 2012 2011
Cash flow hedges ¹ 0 – 2
Listing related expenses ² 0 21
income tax relating to components of other comprehensive loss and share premium 0 19
 
¹ Recognised in other comprehensive income.
² Recognised in share premium. Financial Statement S
130  |  Annual Report 2010  |  130  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2012 and 2011, are attributable to the items detailed in the table below:
US $ million Notes 2012 2011
Deferred tax assets 
1
Tax losses carried forward 1 345 892
Mark to market valuations 27 12
Other 90 135
total 1 462 1 039
Deferred tax liabilities 
1
Depreciation and amortisation – 2 606 – 1 217
Mark to market valuations – 29 – 19
Other – 320 – 163
total – 2 955 – 1 399
Deferred tax – net – 1 493 – 360
Reconciliation of deferred tax – net
Opening balance – 360 – 939
Recognised in income for the year 371 681
Recognised in other comprehensive loss and share premium 0 19
Business combination 24 – 1 571 – 121
Disposal of subsidiaries 24 7 0
Other 60 0
c losing balance – 1 493 – 360
 
1
  Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be 
offset against tax assets and liabilities arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit 
is probable. As at 31 December 2012, $ 1,816 million (2011: $ 1,445 million) of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry  
forwards have been brought to account, of which $ 1,345 million (2011: $ 892 million) are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the  
remaining balance being offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same respective entity. $ 1,373 million (2011: 
$ 889 million ($ 861 million relating to tax losses and $ 28 million relating to temporary differences)) of net deferred tax  
assets arise in entities that have been loss making for tax purposes in 2012 and/or 2011. In evaluating whether it is prob-
able that taxable profits will be earned in future accounting periods, all available evidence was considered, including  
approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, analysis of historical operating results. These forecasts 
are consistent with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes. Following this 
evaluation, it was determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax  
assets.  Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  131  |  Annual Report 2012  |  131
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been rec-
ognised in the consolidated financial statements are detailed below and will expire as follows:
US $ million 2012 2011
1 year 114 11
2 years 165 28
3 years 253 127
Thereafter 1 786 956
Unlimited 590 978
total 2 908 2 100
As at 31 December 2012, unremitted earnings of $ 19,952 million (2011: $ 18,573 million) have been retained by subsidiaries and 
associates for reinvestment. No provision is made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings. 
7. pRope Rty , pl Ant And e q Uip ment
US $ million Notes
Land
and
buildings
Plant
and 
equipment
Mineral and
petroleum
rights
Deferred
mining
costs Total
Gross carrying amount:
1 January 2012 1 521 12 045 4 617 675 18 858
Business combination 24 953 3 429 3 284 48 7 714
Disposal of subsidiaries 24 0 – 301 – 7 0 – 308
Additions 92 2 054 866 89 3 101
Disposals – 21 – 200 0 0 – 221
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements – 5 – 65 – 92 0 – 162
Other movements 69 2 6 – 69 8
31 December 2012 2 609 16 964 8 674 743 28 990
 
a ccumulated depreciation and impairment:
1 January 2012 323 2 997 770 129 4 219
Depreciation 87 1 087 233 31 1 438
Disposal of subsidiaries 24 0 – 29 0 0 – 29
Disposals – 10 – 74 1 – 19 – 102
Impairments 5 0 151 59 0 210
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 0 – 4 – 5 0 – 9
Other movements – 3 – 98 119 7 25
31 December 2012 397 4 030 1 177 148 5 752
n et book value 31 December 2012 2 212 12 934 7 497 595 23 238 Financial Statement S
132  |  Annual Report 2010  |  132  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
US $ million Notes
Land
and
buildings
Plant
and 
equipment
Mineral and
petroleum
rights
Deferred
mining
costs Total
Gross carrying amount:
1 January 2011 1 281 9 187 4 484 542 15 494
Business combination 24 108 591 76 0 775
Additions 36 2 411 416 148 3 011
Disposals – 17 – 431 0 – 2 – 450
Other movements 113 287 – 359 – 13 28
31 December 2011 1 521 12 045 4 617 675 18 858
 
a ccumulated depreciation and impairment:
1 January 2011 239 2 556 548 63 3 406
Depreciation 36 710 260 56 1 062
Disposals – 6 – 263 2 0 – 267
Impairments 5 7 15 0 10 32
Other movements 47 – 21 – 40 0 – 14
31 December 2011 323 2 997 770 129 4 219
n et book value 31 December 2011 1 198 9 048 3 847 546 14 639
Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of $ 2,294 million (2011: $ 1,389 million) and a net book 
value of $ 281 million (2011: $ 317 million) of obligations recognised under finance lease agreements. Mineral and petroleum 
rights include expenditures for exploration and evaluation of $ 277 million (2011: $ 306 million) and biological assets of $ 66 million  
(2011: $ 3 million). Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are $ 1,421 million (2011: $ 1,049 million) and in selling and  
administrative expenses $ 17 million (2011: $ 13 million).
During 2012, $ 37 million (2011: $ 44 million) of interest was capitalised within property, plant and equipment. With the exception of 
project specific borrowings, the rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 4% (2011: 4%).
8. i nt An Gi ble Assets US $ million Notes
Port
 allocation 
rights Goodwill Other Total
c ost:
1 January 2012 0 169 45 214
Business combination 24 1 182 1 251 104 2 537
Addition 21 0 33 54
Effect of foreign exchange differences – 102 0 0 – 102
31 December 2012 1 101 1 420 182 2 703
a ccumulated amortisation and impairment:
1 January 2012 0 0 4 4
Amortisation expense ¹ 16 0 19 35
31 December 2012 16 0 23 39
n et carrying amount 31 December 2012 1 085 1 420 159 2 664
¹ Recognised in cost of goods sold. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  133  |  Annual Report 2012  |  133
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
US $ million Notes Goodwill Other Total
c ost:
1 January 2011 0 0 0
Business combination 24 36 13 49
Reclassified from held for sale 133 32 165
31 December 2011 169 45 214
a ccumulated amortisation and impairment:
1 January 2011 0 0 0
Amortisation expense ¹ 0 4 4
31 December 2011 0 4 4
n et carrying amount 31 December 2011 169 41 210
 
¹ Recognised in cost of goods sold.
Port allocation rights
Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay 
Coal Terminal in South Africa and have been recognised as part of the acquisitions of Optimum and Umcebo, see note 24. The 
rights are being amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated economic life of the port of 40 years.
impairment testing of goodwill
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit 
from the synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management will monitor and manage the 
goodwill.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment for all CGUs containing goodwill with exception of goodwill acquired in a business 
combination in the current year which is tested at the date of acquisition, and when there is an indicator that the goodwill may be 
impaired.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash generating units (CGUs), or groups of CGUs as follows:
US $ million 2012 2011
Grain marketing business 1 251 0
Metals warehousing business 133 133
Other 36 36
total 1 420 169
Grain marketing business
Goodwill of $ 1,251 million has been recognised as part of the acquisition of Viterra, see note 24. The goodwill is primarily related 
to the Viterra grain marketing and merchandising business and is substantively attributable to synergies which are expected to 
arise in conjunction with the grain marketing division’s increased geographic coverage and scale of activities. As at 31 Decem-
ber 2012, the purchase price allocation, including the allocation of the goodwill to CGUs, has not been finalised, as the acquisition 
completed close to year end.
Metals warehousing business
Goodwill of $ 133 million relates to the Pacorini metals warehousing business and is attributable to synergies which arise in con-
junction with the metals marketing division’s expected increased activities. In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the 
carrying amount of the cash generating unit was compared with its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount was determined 
by reference to the value in use which utilises pre-tax cash flow projections based on the approved financial budgets for 5 years 
which includes factors, such as inventory levels, volumes and operating costs (key assumptions are based on past experience and, 
where available, observable market data), discounted to present value at a rate of 10%. The cash flows beyond the 5 year period 
have been extrapolated using a declining growth rate of 10% per annum which is the projected long term reduction in average 
inventory levels for the warehousing business. Glencore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key  
assumptions would cause the carrying value of the CGU to exceed the recoverable amount. Financial Statement S
134  |  Annual Report 2010  |  134  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Other goodwill
Goodwill held by other CGUs is $ 36 million (2011: $ 36 million), representing less than 1% of net assets at 31 December 2012 (2011: 
less than 1%). The goodwill has been allocated across a number of CGUs in the Energy products segment, with no CGU account-
ing for more than $ 30 million of total goodwill. This goodwill has been tested for impairment and concluded to be recoverable.
Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets primarily consist of trademarks, licences, software and future warehousing fees. 
9. i nvestments in Ass o Ci Ate s And o t He R i nvestments A list of the principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and Associates and other investments is included in note 32. 
US $ million 2012 2011
Xstrata plc 16 215 16 187
Other listed Associates 888 1 337
l isted a ssociates 17 103 17 524
Non listed Associates 1 664 1 334
investments in a ssociates 18 767 18 858
l isted associates
As at 31 December 2012, the fair value of listed Associates using published price quotations was $ 17,876 million (2011: $ 16,157 mil-
lion). Following the recognition of Glencore’s share of impairments booked by its Associates, Glencore completed a detailed 
assessment of the recoverable amount of investments where indicators of impairment were identified and concluded that the 
recoverable value supports the carrying value of these investments and that no further impairment is required.
During the year, Glencore acquired controlling interests in two companies which had been accounted for as Associates, Mutanda  
and Optimum. Refer to note 24 for further details.
US $ million 2012 2011
a vailable for sale
United Company Rusal (“UCR”) 840 842
840 842
Fair value through profit and loss
Volcan Compania Minera S.A.A. 410 359
Nyrstar N.V. 78 105
Century Aluminum Company cash settled equity swaps 80 78
Jurong Aromatics Corporation Pte Ltd 55 55
Blackthorn Resources Ltd 34 8
Other 92 100
749 705
Other investments 1 589 1 547 Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  135  |  Annual Report 2012  |  135
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencore’s Associates, reflecting 100% of the underlying Associate’s relevant 
 figures, are set out below. 
US $ million 2012 2011
Current assets 15 979 12 129
Non current assets 77 226 69 884
Current liabilities – 10 109 – 8 919
Non current liabilities – 32 401 – 24 620
n et assets 50 695 48 474
Revenue 42 647 39 940
Net profit 1 491 6 194
The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of joint venture entities as at 31 December 2012 was $ 22 million (2011: $ 50 million). 
Glencore’s share of joint venture entities’ capital commitments amounts to $ 34 million (2011: $ 301 million).
10. Adv An Ces And l o Ans US $ million 2012 2011
Loans to Associates 347 840
Other non current receivables and loans 3 411 3 301
total 3 758 4 141
Loans to Associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium. The decrease in loans to Associ-
ates during the year is due to the acquisition of Mutanda (see note 24) which, at the time of acquisition, had outstanding loans to 
Glencore of $ 698 million (2011: $ 653 million).
Other non current receivables and loans comprise the following:
US $ million 2012 2011
c ounterparty
OAO Russneft 
Interest bearing loan at 7.75% per annum (see note below) 2 080 2 211
Atlas Petroleum International Limited (“Atlas”)
Interest bearing loans at LIBOR plus 3% 
1
0 246
Secured marketing related financing arrangements 
2
549 451
PT Bakrie & Brothers Tbk
Interest bearing secured loans at LIBOR plus 9% 200
 
80
Funds deposited in respect of rehabilitation and restoration obligations 248 74
Other 334 239
total 3 411 3 301
1
  Primarily relates to carried interest loans associated with the development of the Aseng oil project in Equatorial Guinea, where Atlas is one of the  
equity partners. The operator of the field and project is Noble Energy, based in Houston. The Aseng project commenced oil production in Q4 2011, and  
loans are being repaid from oil proceeds.
2
  Various marketing related financing facilities, generally secured against certain assets and/or payable from the future sale of production of the 
counterparty. The weighted average interest rate of the loans is 10% and on average are to be repaid over a 3 year period. Financial Statement S
136  |  Annual Report 2010  |  136  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Russneft loans
In November 2012, as part of a comprehensive agreement between OAO Russneft (“Russneft”), Glencore and Russneft’s other 
major creditor, Sberbank, Glencore agreed to amend the terms of its $ 2,080 million, 9% per annum loan. The revised terms lower 
the interest rate to 7.75% interest per annum and extend the expected maturity of the loan from 2020 to 2024. In exchange for this 
amendment, Glencore will receive additional annual payments of $ 50 million until substantial repayments of the loan will then 
commence, once Russneft’s debt reduces to certain thresholds and/or existing debt is refinanced. The loan is accounted for at 
amortised cost using the effective rate method with an effective interest rate of 8.4%.
The new carrying amount of the loan was required to be recalculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows under 
the revised terms using the loan’s original effective interest rate. In estimating the expected cash flows to be received over the 
life of the loan, a comprehensive cash flow forecast was prepared utilising Russneft’s current budget and strategic plan and an 
economic analysis of Russneft’s oil fields prepared by an independent petroleum engineering firm. The difference between the 
recalculated carrying value of $ 2,093 million and the pre-amendment carrying value of $ 2,306 million resulted in an income state-
ment charge of $ 213 million (see note 5).
11. i nvento Rie s US $ million 2012 2011
Production inventories 3 153 3 150
Marketing inventories 17 529 13 979
total 20 682 17 129
Production inventories consist of materials, spare parts and work in process. Marketing inventories are saleable commodities held 
primarily by the marketing entities as well as finished goods and certain other readily saleable materials held by the industrial  
assets. Marketing inventories of $ 16,027 million (2011: $ 13,785 million) are carried at fair value less costs to sell.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its marketing inventories. In each case, the 
inventory has not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership. The proceeds received 
are recognised as current borrowings (see note 19). As at 31 December 2012, the total amount of inventory secured under such 
facilities was $ 2,946 million (2011: $ 1,834 million). The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were $ 2,248 mil-
lion (2011: $ 1,670 million). 
12. ACCo Unt s Re Cei v Abl e
US $ million 2012 2011
Trade receivables 
1
18 386 15 903
Trade advances and deposits 
1
3 270 3 022
Associated companies 
1
1 031 643
Other receivables 2 195 2 327
total 24 882 21 895
 
1
  Collectively referred to as receivables presented net of allowance for doubtful debts.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 29 days (2011: 28 days).  Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  137  |  Annual Report 2012  |  137
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
As at 31 December 2012, 8% (2011: 8%) of receivables were between 1–  60 days overdue, and 5% (2011: 3%) were greater than 
60 days overdue. Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been 
a significant change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into  
account customary payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances. 
The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed in the table below:
US $ million 2012 2011
Opening balance 129 155
Released during the year – 7 – 28
Charged during the year 112 43
Utilised during the year – 22 – 41
c losing balance 212 129
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables. In each case, the receivables have 
not been derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership. The proceeds received are recognised 
as current borrowings (see note 19). As at 31 December 2012, the total amount of trade receivables secured was $ 4,398 million 
(2011: $ 2,934 million) and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to $ 3,146 million (2011: $ 2,265 million).
13. CAs H And CAs H e q Uiv Ale nts US $ million 2012 2011
Bank and cash on hand 2 496 981
Deposits and treasury bills 286 324
total 2 782 1 305
As at 31 December 2012, $ 4 million (2011: $ 80 million) was restricted. As at 31 December 2011, $ 47 million was placed in escrow 
for the acquisition of Rosh Pinah (see note 24).
14. Assets And l i Abi lities Hel d fo R s Ale
As part of Glencore’s acquisition of Viterra, Glencore entered into agreements with Agrium Inc (“Agrium”) and Richardson Inter-
national Limited (“Richardson”) which provide for the ’back-to-back’ sale of certain operations of Viterra. Upon closing, Agrium 
and Richardson advanced the agreed consideration for these operations amounting to CAD 1,775 million ($ 1,781 million) and CAD 
796 million ($ 799 million) respectively (the “Asset Acquirer Loans”). Upon future closing of these divestitures, the relevant net  
assets will be transferred to Agrium and Richardson in satisfaction of the Asset Acquirer Loans advanced. See note 24. 
As a result of these agreed disposals, the corresponding assets of $ 2,790 million and liabilities of $ 747 million as at 31 Decem-
ber 2012 have been classified as held for sale.  Financial Statement S
138  |  Annual Report 2010  |  138  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
15. sHAR e CApi t Al And Res e Rve s Number of 
shares 
(thousand)
Share 
capital 
(US $ million)
Share 
premium
(US $ million)
a uthorised:
31 December 2012 Ordinary shares with a par value of $ 0.01 each 50 000 000 – –
issued and fully paid up:
1 January 2011 – Ordinary shares 3 716 495 37 0
Ordinary shares issued in exchange for HPPS and PPS profit participation obligations 1 617 268 16 13 821
Ordinary shares issued in exchange for LTS and LTPPS profit participation obligations 666 237 7 5 694
Ordinary shares issued at Listing (“primary issuance”) 922 714 9 7 887
Share issue costs associated with the primary issuance – – – 280
Tax on Listing related expenses – – 21
Dividends paid – – – 346
31 December 2011 – Ordinary shares 6 922 714 69 26 797
Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of an 18.91% interest in Kazzinc 176 742 2 957
Dividends paid – –  – 1 066
31 December 2012 – Ordinary shares 7 099 456 71 26 688
Restructuring
Prior to the Listing, Glencore’s articles of incorporation authorised the issuance of non voting profit participation certificates 
(“PPC”) with no nominal value to its employees enabling them to participate in four profit sharing arrangements: Hybrid Profit 
Participation Shareholders (HPPS), Ordinary Profit Participation Shareholders (PPS), Glencore L.T.E. Profit Participation Sharehold -
ers (LTS) and Long Term Profit Participation Shareholders (LTPPS). The profit sharing arrangements entitled the employees to a 
portion of Glencore shareholders’ funds accumulated during the period that such employees held the PPCs. The PPCs attributed 
Glencore International AG’s consolidated net income pro rata based on the 150,000 Class B shares issued as at 31 December 2010. 
Immediately prior to the Listing, Glencore implemented a Restructuring whereby amounts owing to the then shareholder employ -
ees under the various active profit participation plans were settled in exchange for new ordinary shares and the ultimate ownership 
interests in Glencore International AG were assumed via Glencore International plc. The accounting outcome of these transactions 
is outlined below:
Settlement of the profit participation plans
The accounting for the settlement of the four profit participation plans was similar, whereby the outstanding balances under each
plan prior to Listing were exchanged for an equivalent number of ordinary shares at the Listing price of 530 pence ($ 8.56) per 
share. The difference between the nominal and fair value of the new ordinary shares issued was recognised as a share premium.
l isting
On 24 May 2011, Glencore International plc issued 922,713,511 ordinary shares which comprised 891,463,511 shares to institutional
investors (the “International Offer”) at a price of 530 pence ($ 8.56) per share on the London Stock Exchange, and 31,250,000 shares
to professional and retail investors in Hong Kong (the “Hong Kong Offer”) at a price of HK$ 66.53 ($ 8.56) per ordinary share. 
The gross proceeds raised were $ 7,896 million and total transaction (Restructuring and Listing) and related expenses incurred 
were $ 566 million. $ 280 million of the transaction costs were attributable to the issue of new (primary) equity and have been  
deducted against share premium while $ 286 million were attributable to stamp duty and other expenses associated with the 
above noted Restructuring as well as an allocation of transaction costs that jointly related to the issuing of the new (primary) equity 
and the listing of the Company and as such have been charged to income during the year (see note 4). Joint transaction costs were 
allocated based on the ratio of new shares issued, in relation to total shares outstanding.
Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of an 18.91% interest in Kazzinc
In October 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of an additional 18.91% interest in Kazzinc from Verny Investments, for a cash 
consideration of $ 400 million and the issue of 176,742,520 new ordinary shares of the Company (closing transaction date value of 
$ 959 million), thereby increasing its ultimate ownership in Kazzinc to 69.61%.  Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  139  |  Annual Report 2012  |  139
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Acquiring an additional interest in a subsidiary is considered to be a transaction between owners rather than an acquisition of 
a business. Therefore, this was accounted for as an equity transaction with the resulting difference of $ 506 million between the 
change in the Kazzinc non-controlling interest and the consideration paid charged to equity as a reserve. 
Other reserves
US $ million
Transla-
tion 
adjust-
ment
Equity 
portion 
of Con-
vertible 
bonds
Cash 
flow 
hedge 
reserve
Net  
unre-
alised 
gain/ 
(loss)
Net 
ownership 
changes in  
subsidiaries
Other 
reserves Total
a t 1 January 2011 1 89 – 263 25 – 134 10 – 272
Exchange gain on translation of foreign operations – 53 0 0 0 0 0 – 53
Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 0 0 – 17 0 0 0 – 17
Loss on available for sale financial instruments 0 0 0 – 1 206 0 0 – 1 206
Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of 
income, net of tax 0 0 6 0 0 0 6
Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 0 0 0 0 – 98 0 – 98
a t 31 December 2011 – 52 89 – 274 – 1 181 – 232 10 – 1 640
a t 1 January 2012 – 52 89 – 274 – 1 181 – 232 10 – 1 640
Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations – 116 0 0 0 0 0 – 116
Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 0 0 – 93 0 0 0 – 93
Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of 
income, net of tax 0 0 297 0 0 0 297
Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 0 0 0 0 – 474 0 – 474
Loss on available for sale financial instruments trans-
ferred to the statement of income, net of tax 0 0 0 1 181 0 0 1 181
Effect of foreign currency differences transferred to the 
statement of income – 23 0 0 0 0 0 – 23
a t 31 December 2012 – 191 89 – 70 0 – 706 10 – 868
16. eAR nin Gs pe R s HARe
US $ million Notes 2012 2011
Profit attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 1 004 4 048
Interest in respect of Convertible bonds ¹ 0 135
Profit attributable to equity holders for diluted earnings per share 1 004 4 183
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share (thousand) 6 961 936 5 657 794
effect of dilution:
Equity settled share-based payments 18 26 847 22 790
Convertible bonds ¹ 19 0 406 738
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share (thousand) 6 988 783 6 087 322
Basic earnings per share (US $) 0.14 0.72
Diluted earnings per share (US $) 0.14 0.69
¹ In 2012, the convertible bonds have been anti-dilutive and therefore have been excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.  Financial Statement S
140  |  Annual Report 2010  |  140  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
17. d ividends US $ million 2012 2011
Paid during the year:
Final dividend for 2011 – $ 0.10 per ordinary share (2010 – $ nil per class B share) 692 0
Interim dividend for 2012 – $ 0.054 per ordinary share (2011 – $ 0.05 per ordinary share) 374 346
total 1 066 346
Proposed final dividend for 2012 – $ 0.1035 per ordinary share (2011 – $ 0.10 per ordinary share) 735 692
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included 
as a liability in these financial statements. Dividends declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012 will be paid on 
7 June 2013. The 2012 interim dividend was paid on 13 September 2012.
18. sHAR e-b Ase d p Aym ents 2011 Phantom equity a wards
In April and May 2011 in connection with the Listing, 24,024,765 phantom equity awards were made to certain employees in lieu 
of interests in Glencore’s existing equity ownership schemes. At grant date, each phantom equity award is equivalent to one  
ordinary share of Glencore. The phantom equity awards vest on or before 31 December 2013, subject to the continued employ-
ment of the award holder. Phantom equity awards may be satisfied, at Glencore’s option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary 
shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash 
(with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including dividends paid between Listing and vesting). Glencore 
currently intends to settle these awards in shares. The aggregate number of ordinary shares underlying the awards was 24,024,765. 
The fair value of the awards at the issue date was $ 8.56 per award for an aggregate fair value of $ 206 million determined by refer-
ence to the Listing price at the grant date. As at 31 December 2012, the number of shares underlying the awards was 20,141,592 
(2011: 22,789,924). The total expense recognised in the period was $ 109 million (2011: $ 58 million).
2012 Deferred Bonus Plan
Under the Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP), the payment of a portion of a participant’s annual bonus is deferred for a period 
of one to two years as an award of either ordinary shares (a ‘‘Bonus Share Award’’) or cash (a “Bonus Cash Award”). The awards 
are vested at grant date with no further service condition however they are subject to forfeiture for malus events. In May 2012, 
awards were made under Glencore’s annual bonus arrangements. Bonus Cash Awards amounted to $ 15 million and will be paid on 
30 June 2013. Bonus Share Awards equivalent to 3,710,652 ordinary shares will be settled on either 30 June 2013 or 30 June 2014. 
The share price at the issue date of the Bonus Share Awards settling on 30 June 2013 was $ 4.82 per award for an aggregate fair 
value of $ 9 million and the share price at the issue date of the Bonus Share Awards settling on 30 June 2014 was $ 5.40 per award 
for an aggregate fair value of $ 11 million. The Bonus Share Awards may be satisfied, at Glencore’s option, in shares by the issue of 
new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market 
or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at settling, including dividends paid between award and settling. 
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares. 
As at 31 December 2012, the number of shares underlying the awards was 3,442,057 (2011: nil). The associated expense was  
recorded in the statement of income as part of the regular accrual for performance bonuses.
2012 Performance share plan
Under the Glencore Performance Share Plan (PSP), participants are awarded PSP awards which vest in annual tranches over a speci -
fied period, subject to continued employment and forfeiture for malus events. At grant date, each PSP award is equivalent to one 
ordinary share of Glencore.
In 2012, 3,262,938 awards were granted that will vest in three equal tranches on 30 June 2013, 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2015  
respectively. The fair value of the awards (determined by reference to the market price of Glencore’s ordinary shares at grant date) 
was $ 5.40 per award for an aggregate fair value of $ 18 million. The PSP awards may be satisfied, at Glencore’s option, in shares by 
the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased 
in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including dividends paid between award 
and vesting. Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares. 
As at 31 December 2012, the number of shares underlying the awards was 3,262,938 (2011: nil). The expense recognised in the 
period was $ 2 million (2011: $ nil million). Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  141  |  Annual Report 2012  |  141
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
19. b o RRowin Gs US $ million Notes 2012 2011
n on current borrowings
144A Notes 948 947
Xstrata secured bank loans 0 2 688
Convertible bonds 2 172 2 152
Euro, Sterling and Swiss Franc bonds 7 530 5 490
Perpetual notes 348 347
Ordinary profit participation certificates 332 750
Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 5 881 5 907
Viterra senior unsecured notes 24 592 0
Finance lease obligations 28 233 278
Other bank loans 992 1 285
total non current borrowings 19 028 19 844
c urrent borrowings
Committed secured inventory/receivables facilities 3 702 2 640
Uncommitted secured inventory/receivables facilities 1 692 1 295
U.S. commercial paper 726 512
Xstrata secured bank loans 2 696 0
Eurobonds 1 061 0
Viterra acquisition financing facility 1 503 0
Ordinary profit participation certificates 418 533
Finance lease obligations 28 48 39
Other bank loans 
1
4 652 3 205
total current borrowings 16 498 8 224
 
¹  Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
144a n otes
$ 950 million 6% coupon Notes due April 2014. The Notes are recognised at amortised cost at an effective interest rate of 6.15% 
per annum. 
Xstrata secured bank loans
In June 2011, Glencore refinanced the $ 2.8 billion facilities with 2 year $ 2.7 billion equivalent facilities. The facilities have been 
accounted for as secured bank loans which bear interest at a rate of U.S. $ LIBOR plus 95 basis points per annum. As at 31 Decem-
ber 2012, shares representing $ 5,397 million (2011: $ 5,343 million) of the carrying value of Glencore’s  investment in Xstrata were 
pledged as security.
c onvertible bonds
$ 2,300 million 5% coupon convertible bonds due December 2014. The bonds are convertible at the option of the investors into 
417,491,096 ordinary shares of Glencore International plc. The bonds consist of a liability component and an equity component. 
The fair values of the liability component ($ 2,211 million) and the equity component ($ 89 million) were determined, using the 
residual method, at issuance of the bonds. The liability component is measured at amortised cost at an effective interest rate of 
5.90% per annum.  Financial Statement S
142  |  Annual Report 2010  |  142  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
euro, Sterling and Swiss Franc bonds
The Group has issued bonds denominated in Euro, Sterling and Swiss Franc where upon issuance, the principal amounts and the 
future interest payments were swapped (using instruments which qualify as cash flow hedges) into their U.S. Dollar equivalent. The 
details of amounts issued and outstanding are as follows:
US $ million Maturity
Initial US $ 
equivalent
US $ fixed 
interest 
rate in % 2012 2011
Euro 850 million 5.250% coupon bonds Oct 2013 – – 0 1 045
Euro 750 million 7.125% coupon bonds April 2015 1 200 6.86 982 944
Euro 1 250 million 5.250% coupon bonds March 2017 1 708 6.07 1 648 1 623
Euro 1 250 million 4.125% coupon bonds April 2018 1 667 4.46 1 626 0
eurobonds 4 575 4 256 3 612
GBP 650 million 6.50% coupon bonds Feb 2019 1 266 6.58 1 045 996
GBP 500 million 5.50% coupon bonds April 2022 800 5.50 837 0
Sterling bonds 2 066 1 882 996
CHF 825 million 3.625% coupon bonds April 2016 828 4.87 903 882
CHF 450 million 2.625% coupon bonds Dec 2018 492 4.33 489 0
Swiss Franc bonds 1 320 1 392 882
total non current 7 961 7 530 5 490
Euro 850 million 5.250% coupon bonds Oct 2013 1 078 6.60 1 061 0
total current 1 078 1 061 0
In April 2012, Glencore issued EUR 1,250 million ($ 1,667 million) 4.125% interest bearing bonds due April 2018 and GBP 300 million 
($ 480 million) 5.5% interest bearing bonds due April 2022. In November 2012, Glencore issued a further GBP 200 million ($ 320 mil -
lion) bonds under the same terms as the April issuance.
In July 2012, Glencore issued CHF 450 million ($ 492 million) 2.625% interest bearing bonds due December 2018.
Perpetual notes
$ 350 million of 7.5% Perpetual bonds outstanding. The bonds are callable at par every quarter starting October 2015. 
Ordinary profit participation certificates
Profit participation certificates bear interest at 6 month U.S. $ LIBOR, are repayable over 5 years (with final payments due in 2016) 
and in the event of certain triggering events, which include any breach of a financial covenant, would be subordinated 
to unsecured lenders.
c ommitted syndicated revolving credit facility
In April 2012 Glencore signed new committed revolving credit facilities, which renewed existing revolving credit facilities. Funding 
terms are essentially unchanged in comparison to the previous facilities. The facilities comprise a $ 4,435 million 14 month revolving 
credit facility with a borrower’s 10 month term-out option and a 10 month extension option, that refinanced Glencore’s existing 
$ 3,535 million 364-day revolving credit facility. The facility has two tranches of $ 3,725 million and $ 710 million respectively. In  
addition, the maturity of $ 8,030 million of the existing $ 8,370 million 3-year revolving credit facility has been extended for a further 
year to May 2015.
Viterra senior unsecured notes
As part of the acquisition of Viterra, Glencore assumed $ 596 million senior unsecured notes, of which $ 400 million mature in  
August 2020 and CAD 200 million ($ 196 million) in February 2021. The notes bear interest at 6.19% and 7.45% respectively.  Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  143  |  Annual Report 2012  |  143
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
c ommitted secured inventory/receivables facilities
US $ million Maturity
Borrowing 
base Interest 2012 2011
Metals inventory/receivables facility Oct 2013 2 220 U.S. $ LIBOR + 120 bpa 2 220 1 700
Agricultural products inventory/receivables 
facility Nov 2013 300 U.S. $ LIBOR + 130 bpa 232 –
Oil receivables facilities
Jun/Aug 
2013 1 250
U.S. $ LIBOR/EURIBOR +
105 to 115 bpa 1 250 940
total 3 770 3 702 2 640
U.S. commercial paper
Glencore has in place a stand alone U.S. commercial paper program for $ 1,000 million rated A2 and P2 respectively by S&P’s and 
Moody’s rating agencies. The notes issued under this program carry interest at floating market rates and mature not more than 
270 days from the date of issue.
Viterra acquisition financing facility
In June 2012, Glencore signed a $ 1.5 billion multi-currency committed one year credit facility with a one year term-out option at 
Glencore’s discretion. Funds drawn under the facility bear interest at U.S. $ LIBOR plus 200 basis points per annum.
20. defe RRed i n Com e
 
US $ million Notes
Unfavourable 
contract Prepayment Total
1 January 2011 – 190 190
Utilised in the year – – 8 – 8
31 December 2011 – 182 182
1 January 2012 – 182 182
Assumed in business combination 24 688 0 688
Utilised in the year – 72 – 19 – 91
Effect of foreign currency exchange difference – 62 0 – 62
31 December 2012 ¹ 554 163 717
¹ Includes the current portion of $ 92 million in respect of the unfavourable contract and $ 24 million in respect of the prepayment.
Unfavourable contract
Upon acquisition of Optimum in March 2012 (see note 24), Glencore recognised a liability of $ 688 million related to an acquired 
contractual agreement to deliver 44 million tonnes of coal over a period ending 31 December 2018 at fixed prices lower than the 
prevailing market price for coal of equivalent quality. This amount will be released to revenue as the underlying tonnes of coal are 
delivered to the buyer over the life of the contract at the rate consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the 
acquisition. As at year end, approximately 39 million tonnes of coal remain to be delivered.
Prepayment
During 2006, Glencore entered into an agreement to deliver, depending on mine production, up to 4.75 million ounces per year of 
silver, a by-product from its mining operations, for a period of 15 years at a fixed price for which Glencore received a partial upfront 
payment of $ 285 million. The outstanding balance represents the remaining portion of the upfront payment. The upfront payment 
is released to revenue at a rate consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction and the actual quanti-
ties delivered. As at 31 December 2012, 17.9 million ounces (2011: 15 million ounces) have been delivered. Financial Statement S
144  |  Annual Report 2010  |  144  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
21. pRovisions
 
US $ million Notes
Post
retirement 
benefits ¹
Employee
entitlement
Rehabilita-
tion
costs 
Onerous 
contracts
Demurrage 
and related 
claims Other ² Total
1 January 2011 60 98 379 93 61 200 891
Provision utilised in the year – 1 – 17 – 14 – 89 – 10 – 64 – 195
Accretion in the year 0 0 24 0 0 0 24
Assumed in business combination 24 0 0 43 0 0 14 57
Additional provision in the year 2 35 142 0 23 72 274
31 December 2011 61 116 574 4 74 222 1 051
1 January 2012 61 116 574 4 74 222 1 051
Provision utilised in the year – 1 – 2 – 41 – 4 – 60 – 80 – 188
Accretion in the year 0 0 33 0 0 0 33
Assumed in business combination 24 19 19 325 0 0 49 412
Additional provision in the year 14 14 83 0 0 170 281
Effect of foreign currency 
exchange difference 0 0 – 23 0 0 0 – 23
31 December 2012 ³ 93 147 951 0 14 361 1 566
 
¹  See note 22.
2
  Other includes provisions in respect of mine concession obligations of $ 54 million (2011: $ 52 million), construction related contractual provi-
sions of $ 79 million (2011: $ 27 million), export levies of $ 37 million (2011: $ 45 million) and deferred purchase consideration of $ 8 million 
(2011: $ 33 million).
³  Includes $ nil million (2011: $ 4 million) in respect of onerous contracts, $ 14 million (2011: $ 74 million) in respect of demurrage and related 
claims and $ 48 million (2011: $ 20 million) in respect of other disclosed as current.
employee entitlement
The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their  
termination of employment. The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise 
their entitlements.
Rehabilitation costs
Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the comple -
tion of extraction activities. These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a project’s life, 
which ranges from 2 to 50 years. 
22. pe Rsonnel Cos ts And e mployee benefits Total personnel costs, which includes salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments, incurred 
for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, were $ 2,013 million and $ 1,723 million, respectively. Personnel costs related to 
consolidated industrial subsidiaries of $ 1,368 million (2011: $ 1,203 million) are included in cost of goods sold. Other personnel 
costs, including the 2012 deferred bonus and performance share plans, are included in selling and administrative expenses and 
the 2011 phantom equity awards are included in other expense.
The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices.  
Eligibility for participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date of 
hire. The plans provide for certain employee and employer contributions, ranging from 5% to 16% of annual salaries, depending on 
the employee’s years of service. Among these schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans. The main 
locations with defined benefit plans are Switzerland, the UK, Canada and the US.
Defined contribution plans
Glencore’s contributions under these plans amounted to $ 28 million in 2012 and $ 21 million in 2011. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  145  |  Annual Report 2012  |  145
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Defined benefit plans
The amounts recognised in the statement of income are as follows:
US $ million 2012 2011
Current service cost 24 19
Interest cost 22 19
Expected return on plan assets – 15 – 15
Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 15 13
Past service cost 5 2
Exchange differences 1 – 2
total 52 36
The actual return on plan assets amounted to a gain of $ 40 million (2011: gain of $ 4 million).
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are determined as follows:
US $ million Notes 2012 2011
Present value of defined benefit obligations 617 513
Less: fair value of plan assets – 347 – 284
Unrecognised actuarial losses – 176 – 164
Restrictions of assets recognised – 1 – 4
l iability in the statement of financial position 21 93 61
Movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
US $ million Notes 2012 2011
Opening defined benefit obligation 513 422
Current service cost 24 19
Interest cost 22 19
Past service cost 5 2
Benefits paid – 15 – 26
Actuarial loss 32 67
Exchange differences on foreign plans – 1 1
Business combination 21 19 0
Other movements 18 9
c losing defined benefit obligation 617 513
Movement in the present value of the plan assets is as  follows:
US $ million 2012 2011
Opening fair value of plan assets 284 267
Expected return on plan assets 15 15
Contribution from the employer 24 26
Actuarial gain /(loss) 17 – 20
Exchange differences on foreign plans – 3 3
Other movements 10 – 7
c losing fair value of plan assets 347 284 Financial Statement S
146  |  Annual Report 2010  |  146  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
The plan assets consist of the following:
US $ million 2012 2011
Cash and short term investments 4 10
Fixed income 161 109
Equities 132 120
Other 50 45
total 347 284
The overall expected rate of return is a weighted average of the expected returns of the various categories of plan assets held. 
Glencore’s assessment of the expected returns is based on historical return trends and analysts’ predictions of the market for the 
asset class in the next twelve months. 
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows:
2012 2011
Discount rate 3 – 6% 3 – 7%
Expected return on plan assets 3 – 7% 3 – 8%
Future salary increases 2 – 5% 2 – 5%
Future pension increases 3 – 4% 3 – 4%
Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned. 
These tables imply expected future lifetimes (in years) for employees aged 65 as at the 31 December 2012 of 18 to 24 for males  
(2011: 18 to 24) and 20 to 25 (2011: 20 to 25) for females. The assumptions for each country are reviewed each year and are adjusted 
where necessary to reflect changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
The Group expects to make a contribution of $ 24 million (2011: $ 26 million) to the defined benefit plans during the next financial 
year.
Summary historical information:
US $ million
Present value of 
defined benefit 
obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
2010 422 267
2009 363 232
2008 324 190
23. ACCo Unt s pAy Abl e
US $ million 2012 2011
Trade payables 19 890 14 523
Trade advances from buyers 546 828
Associated companies 1 552 1 511
Other payables and accrued liabilities 1 513 1 274
total 23 501 18 136 Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  147  |  Annual Report 2012  |  147
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
24. ACq Uisition And d ispos Al of s Ubs idi ARie s 2012
Acquisitions
US $ million Viterra ¹ Mutanda ¹ Optimum ¹ Rosh Pinah ¹
European
Manganese ¹ Other ¹ Total
n on current assets
Property, plant and equipment 2 505 3 496 1 311 231 72 259 7 874
Intangible assets 102 0 1 096 0 0 0 1 198
Investments in Associates 76 0 0 1 0 0 77
Loans and advances ² 6 11 175 0 0 0 192
Deferred tax asset 1 0 0 0 5 0 6
2 690 3 507 2 582 232 77 259 9 347
c urrent assets
Inventories 1 572 223 50 13 127 44 2 029
Accounts receivable ² 1 063 99 57 8 85 11 1 323
Cash and cash equivalents 1 097 38 25 8 16 11 1 195
Assets held for sale 2 677 0 0 0 0 0 2 677
6 409 360 132 29 228 66 7 224
n on controlling interest 0 – 807 – 460 – 28 0 – 28 – 1 323 
n on current liabilities
Non current borrowings – 592 – 5 – 99 – 1 0 – 1 – 698 
Other non current liabilities 0 – 6 – 9 0 0 0 – 15
Non current deferred income 0 0 – 591 0 0 0 – 591
Non current provisions – 114 – 7 – 235 – 10 0 – 40 – 406
Deferred tax liabilities – 279 – 882 – 335 – 56 0 – 25 – 1 577
– 985 – 900 – 1 269 – 67 0 – 66 – 3 287
c urrent liabilities
Current borrowings – 1 222 0 – 6 0 – 2 0 – 1 230
Accounts payable – 1 496 – 152 – 100 – 16 – 113 – 43 – 1 920
Current deferred income 0 0 – 97 0 0 0 – 97
Current provision – 6 0 0 0 0 0 – 6
Liabilities held for sale – 461 0 0 0 0 0 – 461
– 3 185 – 152 – 203 – 16 – 115 – 43 – 3 714 
total fair value of net assets acquired 4 929 2 008 782 150 190 188 8 247
Goodwill arising on acquisition ³ 1 251 0 0 0 0 0 1 251
Less: Amounts previously recognised 
through investments and loans 0 1 528 381 0 0 51 1 960
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 1 097 38 25 8 16 11 1 195
Acquisition related costs 
4
120
n et cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 5 083 442 376 142 174 126 6 463
Less: Asset acquirer loans 2 580 0 0 0 0 0 2 580
n et cash outflow 2 503 442 376 142 174 126 3 883
1
  The fair values are provisional due to the complexity of the valuation process. The finalisation of the fair value of the assets and liabilities  
acquired will be completed within 12 months of the acquisition.
²  There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
3
 The goodwill arising on acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes.
4
 Includes $ 58 million related to the Xstrata acquisition, see note 28. Financial Statement S
148  |  Annual Report 2010  |  148  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Viterra
On 17 December 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Viterra Inc., a leading global agricultural commod-
ity business for a cash consideration of $ 6.2 billion ($ 3.6 billion net of asset acquirer loans).
As part of the acquisition, Glencore entered into agreements with Agrium and Richardson which provide for the on-sale of certain 
assets of Viterra.
Agrium has agreed to acquire assets which comprise a majority of Viterra’s retail agri-products business including its 34% interest 
in Canadian Fertilizer Limited (“CFL”) for CAD 1,775 million ($ 1,781 million) in cash, subject to any final specified purchase price 
adjustments such as payment for working capital and required regulatory approvals. Richardson has agreed to acquire 23% of 
Viterra’s Canadian grain handling assets, certain agri-centres and certain processing assets in North America for CAD 796 million 
($ 799 million) in cash, subject to any final specified purchase price adjustments such as payment for working capital. Upon clos-
ing of the Viterra acquisition, Agrium and Richardson advanced the agreed consideration. The businesses which they will acquire 
have been presented in single line items as assets and liabilities held for sale (see note 14). Upon closing of these divestitures, the 
relevant net assets will be transferred to Agrium and Richardson and set off against the asset acquirer loans.
The acquisition of Viterra brings Glencore critical mass in the key grain markets of North America through Viterra’s substantial 
Canadian operations and greatly expands Glencore’s existing operations in Australia. This acquisition is consistent with Glencore’s 
strategy to enhance its position as a leading participant in the global grain and oil seeds markets. It has been accounted for as a 
business combination.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $ 12,816 mil-
lion and an increase in attributable income of $ 264 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $ 5 million and 
$ 898 million to Glencore’s attributable income and revenue, respectively.
Glencore incurred acquisition related costs of $ 54 million and a realised foreign currency gain of $ 65 million on Canadian dollar 
hedges entered into in May in expectation of the acquisition (both items included within other expense – net, see note 4).
Optimum
In March 2012, Glencore acquired an additional 31.8% interest in Optimum, a South African coal mining company, for a total con-
sideration of $ 401 million thereby increasing its ultimate ownership in Optimum from 31.2% to 63.0% and enhancing its existing 
South African coal market presence. Prior to acquisition, Glencore owned a 31.2% interest in Optimum which, in accordance with 
IFRS 3, at the date of acquisition was revalued to its fair value of $ 381 million and as a result, a loss of $ 20 million was recognised 
in other expense – net (see note 4). The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination with the non controlling 
interest being measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $ 196 mil-
lion and additional attributable income of $ 19 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $ 27 million and 
$ 541 million to Glencore’s attributable income and revenue, respectively.
mutanda
In April 2012, Glencore concluded its agreement to acquire an additional 20% interest in Mutanda, a copper and cobalt mining 
company located in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for a total cash consideration of $ 480 million (equity of $ 420 million 
and shareholder debt of $ 60 million) thereby increasing its ultimate ownership in Mutanda from 40% to 60% and enhancing its 
attributable copper production base. Prior to acquisition, Glencore owned a 40% interest in Mutanda which, in accordance with 
IFRS 3, at the date of acquisition was revalued to its fair value of $ 837 million and as a result, a gain of $ 517 million was recognised 
in other expense – net (see note 4). The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination with the non controlling 
interest being measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $ 236 mil-
lion and additional attributable income of $ 9 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $ 23 million and 
$ 533 million to Glencore’s attributable income and revenue, respectively.
In addition to the acquisition of the 20% interest in Mutanda noted above, Glencore concurrently entered into a put and call option 
arrangement, whereby Glencore has the right to acquire and the seller has the ability to force Glencore to acquire an additional 
20% interest in Mutanda for a total cash consideration of $ 430 million. The put and call options are exercisable in the period  
between 15 December 2013 and 31 December 2013. The present value of the put option ($ 419 million) has been accounted for as 
an other financial liability with the corresponding amount recognised against non controlling interest. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  149  |  Annual Report 2012  |  149
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Rosh Pinah
In June 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of an 80.1% interest in Rosh Pinah, a Namibian zinc and lead mining operation, 
for a cash consideration of $ 150 million increasing our zinc and lead production footprint. The acquisition has been accounted for 
as a business combination with the non controlling interest being measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $ 78 million 
and a decrease in attributable income of $ 2 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $ 1 million and $ 51 mil -
lion to Glencore’s attributable income and revenue, respectively.
european manganese
In November 2012, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Vale’s European manganese ferro alloys operations, 
located in Dunkirk, France and Mo I Rana, Norway, for a cash consideration of $ 190 million. This is the first time that Glencore has 
expanded into manganese production, strengthening its marketing offer and complementing existing production of steel-making 
products. The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $ 303 mil-
lion and a decrease in attributable income of $ 18 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $ 49 million to 
revenue and a reduction in attributable income of $ 7 million.
Other
Other comprises primarily an acquisition of a 100% interest in a sunseed crushing operation in Ukraine for a cash consideration of 
$ 80 million. If the acquisitions had taken place effective 1 January 2012, the operations would have contributed additional revenue 
of $ 2 million and a decrease in attributable income of $ 1 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $ 1 million 
and $ 16 million to Glencore’s attributable income and revenue, respectively.
2012 
Disposals
In December 2012, Glencore disposed of its 100% interest in Chemoil Storage Limited (part of Chemoil Group), which owned and 
operated the Helios Terminal, for a cash consideration of $ 287 million.
US $ million Total
Property, plant and equipment 279
Accounts receivable 1
Cash and cash equivalents 2
Non current borrowings – 7
Deferred tax liabilities – 7
Current borrowings – 1
total net assets disposed 267
Net gain on disposal 20
n et cash proceeds 287
Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of – 2
n et cash received on disposal of subsidiary 285 Financial Statement S
150  |  Annual Report 2010  |  150  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
2011
Acquisitions
During 2011, Glencore acquired interests in various businesses, the most significant being Umcebo Mining (Pty) Ltd (“Umcebo”). 
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of 
acquisition are detailed below:
US $ million Umcebo
 
Other
 
Total
Provisional 
as previously 
reported
Fair value 
adjustments¹
Final fair value 
at acquisition
Fair value at 
acquisition
Property, plant and equipment 555 – 160 395 220 615
Intangible assets 0 88 88 13 101
Investments in Associates 10 0 10 0 10
Loans and advances ² 30 0 30 6 36
Inventories 10 0 10 13 23
Accounts receivable ² 34 0 34 19 53
Cash and cash equivalents 4 0 4 14 18
Non controlling interest – 208 63 – 145 – 7 – 152
Non current borrowings – 57 0 – 57 – 12 – 69
Deferred tax liabilities – 118 9 – 109 – 3 – 112
Provisions – 53 0 – 53 – 4 – 57
Accounts payable – 84 0 – 84 – 28 – 112
Current borrowings 0 0 0 – 7 – 7
total fair value of net assets acquired 123 0 123 224 347
Goodwill arising on acquisition ³ 0 0 0 36 36
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 0 4 14 18
Less: contingent consideration 
4
0 0 0 15 15
n et cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 119 0 119 231 350
 
1
  The accounting was provisional at 31 December 2011 due to the timing and complexity of the transaction. These adjustments arose due to the 
revisions to the valuations of property, plant and equipment, the recognition of port allocation rights, the recognition of tax liabilities and the 
resulting impact on minority interests. In 2012, the acquisition accounting was finalised.
2
  Represents the gross contractual amount for loans and advances and accounts receivable.
3
   None of the goodwill arising on acquisition is deductible for tax purposes.
4
  The contingent consideration of $ 15 million related to the purchase of assets of OceanConnect has been settled in 2012 for $ 10 million and 
a gain of $ 5 million has been realised.
Umcebo
In December 2011, in order to increase its South African coal market presence, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 43.7% stake 
in Umcebo, an unlisted South African coal mining company, for $ 123 million cash consideration. Although Glencore holds less than 
50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as the shareholder agreements allow Glencore to control 
the Board of Directors through the ability to appoint half of the Directors and the CEO, who has the casting vote in respect of the 
financial and operating policies of Umcebo. The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination with the non controlling 
interest being measured at its percentage of net assets acquired. 
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2011, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $ 309 mil-
lion and a decrease in attributable income of $ 3 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $ nil million and 
$ nil million to Glencore’s income and revenue, respectively, due to the fact that the acquisition was completed in late Decem-
ber 2011. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  151  |  Annual Report 2012  |  151
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Other
Other comprises primarily acquisitions of crushing operations in the Czech Republic and a 90.7% interest of crushing operations in 
Poland for cash consideration of $ 82 million and $ 71 million, respectively, a 100% interest in Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited, a Zambian 
metal-processing operation for cash consideration of $ 29 million and certain assets related to the business of OceanConnect  
for total consideration of $ 30 million. The goodwill recognised in connection with these acquisitions principally related to Ocean-
Connect.
If these acquisitions had taken place effective 1 January 2011, the operations would have contributed revenue of $ 104 million 
and a decrease in attributable income of $ 19 million. From the date of acquisition the operations contributed $ 1,321 million 
and –  $ 9 million to Glencore’s revenue and income, respectively.
Disposals
In 2011, there were no material disposals of subsidiaries.
25. f in An Ci Al And CApi t Al Ris k m An AGe ment
Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencore’s operations comprise market risk (including commodity 
price risk, interest rate risk and currency risk), credit risk (including performance risk) and liquidity risk. It is Glencore’s policy and 
practice to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks to support its objectives in managing its 
capital and future financial security and flexibility. Glencore’s overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of 
financial markets and seeks to protect its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible 
to substantially hedge these financial risks. Glencore’s finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity 
departments, monitor, manage and report regularly to senior management, the Audit Committee and ultimately the Board of 
 Directors on the approach and effectiveness in managing financial risks along with the financial exposures facing the Group.
Glencore’s objectives in managing capital attributable to equity holders include preserving its overall financial health and strength 
for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility 
at an attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable long term 
profitability. Paramount in meeting these objectives is Glencore’s policy to maintain an investment grade rating status. Following 
the Xstrata merger and Viterra acquisition announcements, Glencore’s current credit ratings are Baa2 (stable) from Moody’s and 
BBB (stable) from S&P.
Dividend policy
The Company intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy with the intention of maintaining or increasing its total ordinary divi-
dend each year. Dividends are expected to be declared by the Board semi-annually (with the half-year results and the preliminary 
full year results). Interim dividends are expected to represent approximately one-third of the total dividend for any year. Dividends 
will be declared and paid in U.S. dollars, although Shareholders will be able to elect to receive their dividend payments in pounds 
sterling, Euros or Swiss Francs based on the exchange rates in effect around the date of payment. Shareholders on the Hong Kong 
branch register will receive their dividends in Hong Kong dollars.
c ommodity price risk
Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced 
forward contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts. Glencore manages a significant portion of this expo-
sure through futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter (OTC) markets, to the 
extent available. Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencore’s physical commodity 
marketing activities and the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to 
derivative counterparties, including clearing brokers and exchanges. Whilst it is Glencore’s policy to substantially hedge its com-
modity price risks, there remains the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation 
of the underlying price risk. The hedging instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to 
the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure. Residual basis risk exposures repre-
sent a key focus point for Glencore’s commodity department teams who actively engage in the management of such. 
In previous years Glencore entered into futures transactions (designated as cash flow hedges) to hedge the price risk of specific 
future operating expenditure with a notional sell amount of $ 181 million and a recognised fair value liability of $ 101 million as at 
31 December 2011. These cash flow hedges matured and were closed in 2012. As at 31 December 2012, there were no open cash 
flow hedge positions related to future operating expenditure. Financial Statement S
152  |  Annual Report 2010  |  152  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Value at risk
One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, namely commodity price risk related to its 
physical marketing activities, is the use of a value at risk (VaR) computation. VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates 
the potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a 
specific level of confidence. The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability based approach that takes into account 
market volatil ities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between commodities and 
markets. In this way, risks can be measured consistently across all markets and commodities and risk measures can be aggregated 
to derive a single risk value. Glencore’s Board has set a consolidated VaR limit (1 day 95%) of $ 100 million representing less than 
0.5% of total equity.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations and is computed at a 95% confidence level with a weighted data 
history using a combination of a one day and one week time horizon.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and weekly Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups’ 
net marketing positions to determine potential future exposures. As at 31 December 2012, Glencore’s 95%, one day market risk VaR was 
$ 49 million (2011: $ 28 million). Average market risk VaR (1 day 95%) during 2012 was $ 40 million compared to $ 39 million during 2011.
VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore 
claim that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results. 
VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations; notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future 
events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks. Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines 
its VaR analysis by ana lysing forward looking stress scenarios and back testing calculated VaR against actual movements arising in 
the next business day and week.
Glencore’s VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals (aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper, lead, etc), coal, 
iron ore, oil/natural gas and the main risks in the Agricultural products business segment (grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton) and 
assesses the open-priced positions which are those subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities. Due to the 
lack of a liquid terminal market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina or certain ferro alloy com -
modities as it does not consider the nature of these markets, nor the Group’s underlying exposures to these products to be suited 
to this type of analysis. Alternative tools have been implemented and are used to monitor exposures related to these products.
n et present value at risk
Glencore’s future cash flows related to its forecast energy, metals and minerals and agricultural production activities are also 
exposed to  commodity price movements. Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, 
occasional shorter term hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, 
reporting and quantification of the underlying operations’ estimated cashflows and valuations.
interest rate risk
Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on 
its assets and liabilities and cash flows. Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate 
risks. Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund fast turning working capital (interest is internally charged on the fund -
ing of this working capital) is primarily based on U.S. $ LIBOR plus an appropriate premium. Accordingly, prevailing market interest 
rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 
50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables held constant, Glencore’s income and equity for the year ended 31 Decem-
ber 2012 would decrease/increase by $ 109 million (2011: $ 98 million).
c urrency risk
The U.S. Dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group. Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange 
rates related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Such transactions include operating expendi-
ture, capital expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency. Purchases 
or sales of commodities concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at 
industrial operations which act as a hedge against local operating costs, are hedged through forward exchange contracts. Con-
sequently, foreign exchange movements against the U.S. Dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial 
impact. Glencore enters into currency hedging transactions with leading financial institutions.
Glencore’s debt related payments (both principal and interest) are denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into 
U.S. Dollars. Glencore’s operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which 
the U.S. Dollar, Swiss Franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian Dollar, Australian Dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian Peso and South 
African Rand are the predominant currencies. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  153  |  Annual Report 2012  |  153
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss Franc and Sterling denominated bonds (see note 19). Cross currency swaps were concluded to 
hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds. These contracts were designated as cash 
flow hedges of the foreign currency risks associated with the bonds. The fair value of these derivatives is as follows:
Notional amounts Recognised fair values Average 
US $ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities maturity ¹
Cross currency swap agreements – 2012 0 9 039 0 82 2017
Cross currency swap agreements – 2011 0 6 080 0 174 2015
 
¹ Refer to note 19 for details.
c redit risk
Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed 
payment terms. Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, 
receivables and advances, derivative instruments and non current advances and loans. Glencore’s credit management process 
includes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis. Glencore’s cash and cash equiva-
lents are placed overnight with a diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions. Credit risk with respect to receivables 
and advances is mitigated by the large number of customers comprising Glencore’s customer base, their diversity across various 
industries and geographical areas, as well as Glencore’s policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, netting, collateral 
and insurance arrangements where appropriate. Additionally, it is Glencore’s policy that transactions and activities in trade related 
financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting of balances 
due to/from a common counterparty in the event of default by the counterparty. Glencore actively and continuously monitors 
the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a credit scoring process, which includes, where available, 
public credit ratings. Balances with counterparties not having a public investment grade or equivalent internal rating are typically 
enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit or insurance 
products. Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 3% (2011: 3%) of its trade receivables 
(on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements) or accounting for more than 2% of its revenues over the year ended 
2012 (2011: 2%).
The maximum exposure to credit risk, without considering netting agreements or without taking account of any collateral held or 
other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencore’s financial assets plus the guarantees to third parties and 
Associates (see note 29).
Performance risk
Performance risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical 
sale or purchase obligations to/from Glencore. Glencore undertakes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance 
risk within its overall credit management process. Glencore’s market breadth, diversified supplier and customer base as well as the 
standard pricing mechanism in the majority of Glencore’s commodity portfolio which does not fix prices beyond three months, 
with the main exceptions being coal and cotton where longer term fixed price contracts are common, ensure that performance 
risk is adequately mitigated. The commodity industry has trended towards shorter fixed price contract periods, in part to mitigate 
against such potential performance risk, but also due to the development of more transparent and liquid spot markets, e.g. coal 
and iron ore and associated derivative products and indexes.
l iquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, 
to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments. 
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents through the availability of adequate 
committed funding facilities. Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, available commit-
ted undrawn credit facilities of $ 3 billion (2011: $ 3 billion). Glencore’s credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed 
credit facilities, ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements. As part of its liquidity manage-
ment, Glencore closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure and proposed investments, as well as credit facility 
refinancing/extension requirements, well ahead of time.
Certain borrowing arrangements require compliance with specific financial covenants related to working capital, minimum cur-
rent ratio and a maximum long term debt to tangible net worth ratio. During the period, the Company has complied with these 
requirements. Financial Statement S
154  |  Annual Report 2010  |  154  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
As at 31 December 2012, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities, cash and marketable securities amounting to 
$ 9,018 million (2011: $ 6,831 million). The maturity profile of Glencore’s financial liabilities based on the contractual terms is as follows:
2012
US $ million
After
 5 years
Due 
3 – 5 years
Due 
2 – 3 years
Due
 1 – 2 years
Due
 0 –1 year
 
Total
Borrowings 4 680 2 757 2 312 9 279 16 498 35 526
Expected future interest payments 417 684 662 927 1 067 3 757
Viterra assets acquirer loans 0 0 0 0 2 580 2 580
Accounts payable 0 0 0 0 23 501 23 501
Other financial liabilities 0 0 0 0 3 388 3 388
total 5 097 3 441 2 974 10 206 47 034 68 752
Current assets 54 059 54 059
2011
US $ million
After
 5 years
Due 
3 – 5 years
Due 
2 – 3 years
Due
 1 – 2 years
Due
 0 –1 year
 
Total
Borrowings 3 285 2 178 9 985 4 396 8 224 28 068
Expected future interest payments 270 547 768 849 942 3 376
Accounts payable 0 0 0 0 18 136 18 136
Other financial liabilities 0 820 39 394 3 551 4 804
total 3 555 3 545 10 792 5 639 30 853 54 384
Current assets 45 731 45 731 Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  155  |  Annual Report 2012  |  155
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
26. f in An Ci Al i ns t RUme nts Fair value of financial instruments
The following table presents the carrying values and fair values of Glencore’s financial instruments. Fair value is the amount at 
which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arm’s length transaction between informed and willing parties, other than 
in a forced or liquidated sale. Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values. When market values are 
not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates. The 
estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, but are not  
necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course of business.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approxi-
mate to the fair values. In the case of $ 35,526 million (2011: $ 28,029 million) of borrowings, the fair value at 31 December 2012 
is $ 36,371 million (2011: $ 28,247 million).
2012 
US $ million
Carrying
value 
1
Available
for sale
 
FVtPL 
2
 
Total
a ssets
Other investments 
3
0 840 749 1 589
Advances and loans 3 758 0 0 3 758
Accounts receivable 24 882 0 0 24 882
Other financial assets 0 0 2 650 2 650
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 0 0 2 820 2 820
total financial assets 28 640 840 6 219 35 699
l iabilities
Borrowings 35 526 0 0 35 526
Viterra asset acquirer loans 2 580 0 0 2 580
Accounts payable 23 501 0 0 23 501
Other financial liabilities 0 0 3 388 3 388
total financial liabilities 61 607 0 3 388 64 995
1
  Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2
  FVtPL – Fair value through profit and loss – held for trading.
3
  Other investments of $ 1,414 million are classified as Level 1 with the remaining balance of $ 175 million classified as Level 3. The change in the 
Level 3 other investments is a result of purchases made during the year.
2011 
US $ million
Carrying
value 
1
Available
for sale
 
FVtPL 
2
 
Total
a ssets
Other investments 
3
0 842 705 1 547
Advances and loans 4 141 0 0 4 141
Accounts receivable 21 895 0 0 21 895
Other financial assets 0 0 5 065 5 065
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 0 0 1 345 1 345
total financial assets 26 036 842 7 115 33 993
l iabilities
Borrowings 28 068 0 0 28 068
Accounts payable 18 160 0 0 18 160
Other financial liabilities 0 0 4 804 4 804
total financial liabilities 46 228 0 4 804 51 032
1
  Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2
  FVtPL – Fair value through profit and loss – held for trading.
3
  Other investments of $ 1,429 million are classified as Level 1 with the remaining balance of $ 118 million classified as Level 3. Financial Statement S
156  |  Annual Report 2010  |  156  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical for-
ward purchase and sale commitments by type of contract as at 31 December 2012 and 2011. Fair values are primarily determined 
using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where available and are presented to 
reflect the expected gross future cash in/outflows. Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial instruments into a three level 
hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive the fair value of the financial 
asset or liability as follows:
Level 1  unadjusted quoted inputs in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; or
Level 2  inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are directly or indirectly observable in the market; or
Level 3  unobservable market inputs or observable but can not be market corroborated, requiring Glencore to make market 
  based assumptions.
Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than one year and options that are exchange traded. Level 2 
classi fications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than one year, over the counter options, swaps and physical forward 
transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes. Level 3 classifica-
tions primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominately from models that use broker quotes 
and applicable market based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials. In circumstances where Glencore 
cannot verify fair value with observable market inputs (Level 3 fair values), it is possible that a different valuation model could  
produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
It is Glencore’s policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting 
agreements or long form confirmations to enable balances due to/from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default 
by the counterparty. 
Other financial assets
2012
US $ million
 
Level 1
 
Level 2
 
Level 3
 
Total
c ommodity related contracts
Futures 564 141 0 705
Options 27 0 4 31
Swaps 75 304 0 379
Physical forwards 12 778 485 1 275
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps 5 147 0 152
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 63 45 0 108
total 746 1 415 489 2 650
2011
US $ million
 
Level 1
 
Level 2
 
Level 3
 
Total
c ommodity related contracts
Futures 2 521 528 0 3 049
Options 50 0 0 50
Swaps 67 239 0 306
Physical forwards 0 1 015 458 1 473
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps 0 76 0 76
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 61 50 0 111
total 2 699 1 908 458 5 065   |  Annual Report 2012  |  157
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Other financial liabilities
2012
US $ million
 
Notes
 
Level 1
 
Level 2
 
Level 3 Total
c ommodity related contracts
Futures 712 283 0 995
Options 96 1 37 134
Swaps 25 267 0 292
Physical forwards 14 439 393 846
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps 0 633 0 633
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 48 21 0 69
Put option over non controlling interest 24 0 0 419 419
total 895 1 644 849 3 388
2011
US $ million
  
Level 1
 
Level 2
 
Level 3 Total
c ommodity related contracts
Futures 1 643 758 0 2 401
Options 61 51 25 137
Swaps 31 372 0 403
Physical forwards 0 590 416 1 006
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps 0 766 0 766
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 76 15 0 91
total 1 811 2 552 441 4 804
The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities:
US $ million Notes
Physical
forwards
 
Options
Total 
Level 3
1 January 2011 355 – 99 256
Total gain /(loss) recognised in cost of goods sold – 269 1 – 268
Realised – 44 73 29
31 December 2011 42 – 25 17
1 January 2012 42 – 25 17
Total gain /(loss) recognised in cost of goods sold 10 – 33 – 23
Put option over non controlling interest 24 0 – 419 – 419
Realised 44 21 65
31 December 2012 96 – 456 – 360 Financial Statement S
158  |  Annual Report 2010  |  158  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
27. AUdito Rs ’ Rem Une RAti on
US $ million 2012 2011
Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencore’s consolidated financial statements 4 3
Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 13 13
total audit fees 17 16
Audit-related assurance services 2 2
Corporate finance services ¹ 6 12
Taxation compliance services 3 2
Other taxation advisory services 2 1
Other services 2 1
total non-audit fees 15 18
total professional fees 32 34
 
1
  Included within corporate finance services for the year ended 31 December 2012 is $ 4 million (2011 – $ nil million) of professional fees related 
directly to the auditors role as Reporting Accountant in connection with the merger with Xstrata plc (see note 28). Within corporate finance 
services for the year ended 31 December 2011 is $ 9 million of professional fees related directly to the auditors role as Reporting Accountant 
in connection with the Listing.
28. fU t URe Com mitments Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is generally funded through the cash flow generated by 
the respective industrial entities. As at 31 December 2012, $ 756 million (2011: $ 884 million), of which 63% (2011: 92%) relates to 
expenditure to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Certain of Glencore’s exploration tenements and licenses require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development  
activities, a significant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations. As at 31 December 2012, 
$ 343 million (2011: $ 549 million) of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 41% (2011: 57%) are for commit-
ments to be settled over the next year.
Glencore procures seagoing vessels/chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments. At year end, 
Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations of $ 1,419 mil-
lion (2011: $ 2,171 million) of which $ 596 million (2011: $ 570 million) are with associated companies. 55% (2011: 50%) of the total 
charters are for services to be received over the next 2 years. 
As part of Glencore’s ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the 
selling party may request that a financial institution act as either a) the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying 
documents through the issuance of a letter of credit or b) the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility 
for Glencore’s contractual obligations. As at 31 December 2012, $ 10,509 million (2011: $ 8,642 million) of such commitments have 
been issued on behalf of Glencore, which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse/storage facilities. Rental expenses 
for these leases totalled respectively $ 99 million and $ 77 million for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011. Future net  
minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases are as follows:
US $ million 2012 2011
Within 1 year 110 76
Between 2 and 5 years 213 147
After 5 years 160 120
total 483 343 Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  159  |  Annual Report 2012  |  159
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery. Future net mini-
mum lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows:
Undiscounted minimum
lease payments
Present value of minimum
lease payments
US $ million 2012 2011 2012 2011
Within 1 year 62 50 48 39
Between 2 and 5 years 188 197 146 164
After 5 years 109 136 87 114
total minimum lease payments 359 383 281 317
Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 78  66
Present value of minimum lease payments 281 317 281 317
Future development and related commitments
Xstrata
On 7 February 2012, the Glencore Directors and the Independent Xstrata Directors announced that they had reached an agree-
ment on the terms of a recommended all-share merger (the “Merger”) between Glencore and Xstrata to create a unique $ 90 bil -
lion natural resources group. The final terms of the Merger provide Xstrata shareholders with 3.05 newly issued shares in Glencore 
for each Xstrata share held. The Merger, which received shareholder approval in November 2012, is to be effected by way of a court 
sanctioned scheme of arrangement of Xstrata under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act, pursuant to which Glencore will acquire 
the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of Xstrata not already owned by the Glencore Group. Completion of the 
Merger remains conditional upon the receipt of the outstanding regulatory approval in China and completion of the Xstrata court 
process as further set out in the New Scheme Document in connection with the Merger published by Xstrata on 25 October 2012 
and Glencore giving effect to the commitments required by the European Commission. Glencore will be required to repay the 
Xstrata secured bank loans (see note 19) prior to completion of the Merger. Costs of $ 58 million (included within other expense – 
net, see note 4 ) have been expensed to date.
Kansuki 
In August 2010, Glencore acquired an ultimate 37.5% interest in the Kansuki concession (Kansuki), a 185 square kilometre cop-
per and cobalt pre-development project which borders Glencore’s partly owned Mutanda concession in the DRC. In exchange, 
Glencore has a) an obligation to finance the first $ 400 million of development related expenditures, b) the right to operate the  
operations and c) a life of mine off-take agreement for all copper and cobalt produced by Kansuki. In addition, one of the part-
ners in Kansuki has the right to sell an additional 18.75% ultimate interest to Glencore at the then calculated equity value of the 
operation, at the earlier of the date the operation produces a minimum annual 70,000 tonnes of copper and August 2013. A total 
of $ 507 million of capital expenditure for mine and plant development has been committed of which $ 413 million has been spent. 
Exploration of the Kansuki concession is ongoing. Discussions with respect to a potential combination of the Mutanda and Kansuki 
operations are ongoing, with a view to ultimately obtaining a majority stake in the merged entity.
Prodeco
Prodeco currently exports the majority of its coal through Puerto Prodeco which operates under a private concession awarded by 
the Colombian government. This concession expired in March 2009, however the Colombian government has continued to grant 
Prodeco the right to use the port under annual lease agreements, currently expiring around the time of the expected commission -
ing of Puerto Nuevo in the first half of 2013 as discussed below. To comply with new government regulations on loading methods, 
which became effective from July 2010, Prodeco commenced construction of a new, wholly owned, port facility (Puerto Nuevo) 
which is estimated to cost $ 553 million and be commissioned over the first half of 2013. As at 31 December 2012, $ 449 million of 
the estimated initial investment has been incurred and $ 38 million has been contractually committed and is included in the capital 
expenditure commitments disclosure above.
Sne l power project
In early 2012, a joint programme with Société Nationale d’Electricité (SNEL), the DRC’s national electricity utility, was signed. 
Glencore’s operations will contribute $ 284 million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment programme of transmission 
and distribution systems. This will facilitate a progressive increase in power availability to 450 megawatts by the end of 2015. Fund -
ing started in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until the end of 2015. As at 31 December 2012, $ 13 million has been 
advanced under this joint agreement. Financial Statement S
160  |  Annual Report 2010  |  160  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
c had oil investments
In December 2012, Glencore signed a farm-in agreement (the “FIA”) with Griffiths Energy International Inc. and its subsidiaries 
(“Griffiths”) to acquire a 33.3% participating interest stake in each of Griffiths’ three production sharing contracts in the Republic 
of Chad (the “PSCs”). In addition, under the terms of the FIA, Glencore will acquire a 25% participating interest in the Mangara and 
Badila Exclusive Exploitation Authorizations (the “EXA’s”) from Griffiths.
In consideration for the 33.3% participating interests in Mangara and Badila, in addition to its own share of expenditure, Glencore 
will fund $ 300 million of Griffiths’ share of joint venture expenditures in the Mangara and Badila oil fields up to a maximum of 
$ 100 million per year, starting from 1 July 2012 (“Effective Date”). 
In consideration for the assignment of the participating interests in the PSC’s, Glencore will pay Griffiths approximately $ 31 mil-
lion on closing of the FIA, representing 33.3% of Griffiths’ unrecoverable costs related to the three PSCs as of the Effective Date.
 
The above transaction is subject to approval by the Government of Chad and waiver of certain pre-emption rights.
Rosneft
On 21 December 2012, Glencore and Vitol agreed heads of terms for long term crude and oil products offtake contracts with  
Rosneft under which Rosneft will deliver up to 67 million metric tonnes of crude oil and oil products (by mutual agreement) over a 
period of 5 years split 70/30 between Glencore and Vitol. This long term supply contract was finalised and signed on 4 March 2013. 
Additionally, Glencore and Vitol will jointly arrange up to a $ 10 billion prepayment facility in favor of Rosneft, in which Glencore 
expects to hold a participation of up to $ 500 million alongside a broad syndicate of banks. The closing of such facility is expected 
by the end of Q1 2013.  
29. Contin Ge nt li Abi lities The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of associated and third parties as at 31 December 2012, was $ 46 million (2011: 
$ 53 million). Also see note 9.
l itigation
Certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore. Whilst Glencore cannot predict the 
results of any litigation, it believes that it has meritorious defenses against those actions or claims. Glencore believes the likelihood 
of any material liability arising from these claims to be remote and that the liability, if any, resulting from any litigation will not have 
a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cashflows.
environmental contingencies
Glencore’s operations, mainly those arising from the ownership in industrial investments, are subject to various environmental 
laws and regulations. Glencore is in material compliance with those laws and regulations. Glencore accrues for environmental 
contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable. Such accruals are adjusted as new information 
develops or circumstances change. Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from insurance companies and other parties 
are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain. At this time, Glencore is unaware of any material environmental 
incidents at its locations.
Bolivian constitution
In 2009 the Government of Bolivia enacted a new constitution. One of the principles of the constitution requires mining entities 
to form joint ventures with the government. Glencore, through its subsidiary Sinchi Wayra, has, in good faith, entered into negoti-
ations with the Bolivian government regarding this requirement. Whilst progress was being made, in June 2012 the Government 
of Bolivia nationalised Sinchi Wayra’s Colquiri mine. Sinchi Wayra continues to negotiate joint venture arrangements for its other 
mines along with restitution in respect of its nationalised mine, the final outcome and the timing thereof cannot be determined at 
this stage. 
t ax audits
Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available. For 
those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, 
including related interest charges. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpreta-
tion and changes in tax laws. Whilst Glencore believes it has adequately provided for the outcome of these matters, future results 
may include favourable or unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or 
resolved. The final outcome of tax examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  161  |  Annual Report 2012  |  161
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
30. Rel Ated p ARty t RAns ACtio ns
In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arm’s length transactions with related parties (including Xstrata and 
Century), including fixed price commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, agency 
agreements and management service agreements. Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs  
in cash (see notes 10, 12, 15 and 23). There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or 
payables.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses
between its subsidiaries and Associates. Glencore entered into the following transactions with its Associates:
US $ million 2012 2011
Sales 1 661 1 666
Purchases – 10 244 – 10 414
Interest income 24 42
Interest expense – 1 – 1
Agency income 95 69
Information on post employment benefits that are classified as funded defined benefit plans in accordance with IAS 19 is included 
in note 22. There were no further material transactions with the defined benefit plans.
Note 15 provides details of the acquisition of an 18.91% further stake in Kazzinc. The seller of that interest, JSC Verny Capital 
(“Verny”), is a substantial shareholder in Kazzinc, which is a subsidiary undertaking of Glencore. Accordingly, the acquisition from 
Verny constitutes a “related party transaction” for the purposes of the UK FSA Listing Rules. Due to the amount of the considera -
tion payable by Glencore pursuant to the transaction (being the issue of 176,742,520 new ordinary shares in Glencore and the 
payment of $ 400 million in cash), the UK Listing Authority confirmed on 24 September 2012 that the transaction falls within the 
modified requirements for a “smaller related party transaction” set out in Listing Rule 11.1.10.
Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the statement of income includ-
ing salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $ 7 million (2011: $ 175 million). Immediately prior to the Listing, 
Glencore implemented a Restructuring whereby $ 6,130 million of PPS and HPPS amounts owing to the Directors and other mem-
bers of key management personnel were settled in exchange for new ordinary shares (see note 15). Further details on remuneration 
of Directors is set out in the Directors’ Remuneration report in section 3.4.
31. sU bseq Uen t events On 26 February 2013, Glencore-controlled Kazzinc purchased an 89.5% interest in two gold deposits in northern Kazakhstan with 
combined resources of 75,727 tonnes of gold for $ 179 million. The transaction was accomplished via the purchase of Kazakh com -
pany Orion Minerals which owns subsoil rights at the Raigorodok field in the Akmola Region and the Komarovskoye field in the 
Kostanai region. Due to the timing of the transaction, management is in the preliminary stages of determining the nature of the op-
erations, the associated values of the assets and liabilities acquired and the accounting for the acquisition. Accordingly, certain dis-
closures relating to the business combination such as the provisional fair value of the net assets acquired have not been presented.
   Financial Statement S
162  |  Annual Report 2010  |  162  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
32. l ist of p Rin Cip Al op e RAti n G, fi n An Ce And i nd Ust Ri Al s Ubs idi ARie s And i nvestments Method of 
consolidation
in 2012 
1 
Country of
incorporation
% 
interest 2012
% 
interest 2011
 
 
Main activity
Glencore International plc P Jersey
 Glencore International AG F Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating
  Glencore AG F Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating
   Allied Alumina Inc. (Sherwin) F United States 100.0 100.0 Alumina production
   Century Aluminum Company 
2
E United States 46.6 46.4 Aluminium production
   Glencore Funding LLC F United States 100.0 100.0 Finance
  Glencore UK Ltd F U.K. 100.0 100.0 Operating
   Glencore Commodities Ltd F U.K. 100.0 100.0 Operating
   Glencore Energy UK Ltd F U.K. 100.0 100.0 Operating
  Glencore Group Funding Limited F UAE 100.0 100.0 Finance
   Glencore Finance (Bermuda) Ltd F Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Finance
    AR Zinc Group F Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc/Lead production
    Perkoa Group F Burkina Faso 55.7 55.7 Zinc development
    Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S.A. F Peru 97.6 97.5 Zinc/Lead production
    Glencore Exploration (EG) Ltd. F Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production
    Glencore Finance (Europe) S.A. F Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Finance
    Kansuki Group E DRC 37.5 37.5 Copper production
    Minera Altos de Punitaqui F Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production
    Mopani Copper Mines plc F Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production
    Mutanda Group F DRC 60.0 40.0 Copper production
    Prodeco Group F Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
    Recylex S.A. E France 32.2 32.2 Zinc/Lead production
    Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation F Namibia 80.1 0.0 Zinc/Lead production
    Sinchi Wayra Group F Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc/Tin production
    United Company Rusal Limited O Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production
  Finges Investment B.V. F Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Finance
   Biopetrol Industries AG 
3
F Switzerland 67.5 60.3 Biodiesel production
   Glencore Grain B.V. F Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Operating
   Nyrstar N.V. O Belgium 7.8 7.8 Zinc/Lead production
   Optimum Coal Holdings Limited F South Africa 67.0 31.2 Coal production
   Pannon Vegetable Oil Manufacturing F Hungary 100.0 100.0 Vegetable oil production
   Rio Vermelho F Brazil 100.0 100.0 Sugar cane/ethanol production
   Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited F Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production
   Umcebo Mining (Pty) Ltd 
4
F South Africa 43.7 43.7 Coal production
   Usti Oilseed Group F Czech Republic 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production
   Xstrata plc E U.K. 34.2 34.5 Diversified production
   Zaklady Tluszczowe w Bodaczowie F Poland 99.9 90.7 Edible oil production
  Chemoil Energy Limited 
5
F Hong Kong 89.2 51.5 Oil storage and bunkering
  Cobar Group F Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production
  Glencore Manganese Group F France/Norway 100.0 0.0 Manganese furnace
  Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd F Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating
  Kazzinc Ltd. F Kazakhstan 69.6 50.7 Zinc/Lead/Copper production
   Vasilkovskoye Gold F Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 Gold production
1
  P = Parent; F = Full consolidation; E = Equity method; O = Other investment
2
  Represents Glencore’s economic interest in Century, comprising 41.8% (2011: 41.6%) voting interest and 4.8% (2011: 4.8%) non voting interest.
3
    Publicly traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol A0HNQ5. Glencore owns 52,329,946 shares.
4
  Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agree-
ments which provide Glencore the ability to control the Board of Directors.
5
   Publicly traded on the Singapore Exchange under the symbol CHEL.SI. Glencore owns 1,150,933,594 shares. Financial Statement S
  |  Annual Report 2010  |  163  |  Annual Report 2012  |  163
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r eview  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
Method of 
consolidation
in 2012
Country of
incorporation
% 
interest 2012
% 
interest 2011
 
 
Main activity
  Katanga Mining Limited 
6
F Canada 75.2 75.2 Copper production
  Murrin Murrin Group F Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production
  Correcta Industria e Comercio Ltdo. F Brazil 100.0 100.0 Wheat flour milling
  Moreno Group F Argentina 100.0 100.0 Edible oils production
  Pacorini Group F Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Metals warehousing
  Pasar Group F Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production
  Polymet Mining Corp. E Canada 25.7 24.1 Copper production
  Portovesme S.r.L. F Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc/Lead production
  Renova S.A. E Argentina 33.3 33.5 Vegetable oil production
  Russneft Group (various companies) 
7
O Russia 40.0 – 49.0 40.0 – 49.0 Oil production
  Shanduka Coal (Pty) Ltd 
8
F South Africa 49.9 70.0 Coal production
  ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd F Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating
  Topley Corporation F B.V.I. 100.0 100.0 Ship owner
  Viterra Group F Canada 100.0 0.0 Grain handling
  Volcan Compania Minera S.A.A. O Peru 7.3 6.9 Zinc production
6
  Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.TO. Glencore owns 1,433,702,634 shares.
7
  Although Glencore holds more than 20% of the voting rights, it has limited management influence and thus does not exercise significant influ-
ence.
8
  Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Shanduka as a result of shareholder agree-
ments.  Murrin Murrin, Australia Addition Al 
 i nf or m A tio n 5 | Additional information 
 5.1 | Glossary 166
 5.2 | Shareholder information 167 166  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
5.1 | Glossary
Av Ail Able committed liquidity
US $ million 2012 2011
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2 820 1 345
Headline committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 12 805 11 905
Amount drawn under syndicated revolving credit facilities – 5 881 – 5 907
Amount drawn under U.S. commercial paper program – 726 – 512
Total 9 018 6 831
Ad Ju Sted c u RRe Nt RAtio
Current assets over current liabilities, both adjusted to exclude other financial liabilities.
Ad Ju Sted eb it /ebi td A 
US $ million 2012 2011
Revenue 214 436 186 152
Cost of goods sold – 210 435 – 181 938
Selling and administrative expenses – 997 – 857
Share of income from associates and jointly controlled entities 367 1 972
Share of Associates’ exceptional items 875 45
Dividend income 17 24
Mark to market valuation of certain natural gas forward contracts 123 0
Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 84 0
Adjusted EBIT 4 470 5 398
Depreciation and amortisation 1 473 1 066
Adjusted EBITDA 5 943 6 464
cu RRe Nt c APit Al e m Plo yed
Current capital employed is current assets, presented before assets held for sale, less accounts payable, 
deferred income, provisions, other financial liabilities and income tax payable.
c o PPe R equiv Ale Nt
Glencore has adopted a copper equivalent measure to assist in analysing and evaluating across its varied 
commodity portfolio. The copper equivalent measure is determined by multiplying the volumes of the re-
spective commodity produced or marketed by the ratio of the respective commodity’s average price over 
the average copper price in the prevailing period.
Re Adily m ARke t Abl e i Nve Nto Rie S
Readily marketable inventories are readily convertible into cash due to their very liquid nature, widely  
available markets and the fact that the price risk is or could be covered either by a physical sale transaction 
or hedge transaction on a commodity exchange or with a highly rated counterparty.   |  Annual Report 2012  |  167
overview  |  BUSi Ne SS r evie w  |  Cor Por ATe Gov er NANCe  |  Fi NANCi AL STATe Me NTS  |  Addi Tio NAL i NFor MATio N
5.2 | Shareholder information
Glencore International plc is registered in Jersey, with headquarters in Switzerland 
and operations around the world.
Headquarters Baarermattstrasse 3
P .O. Box 777
CH-6341 Baar
Switzerland
Registered Office Queensway House
Hilgrove Street
St Helier
Jersey
JE1 1ES
The Company has a primary quote on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) and a secondary quote 
on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEx).
Share registrar Computershare Investor Services (Jersey) Limited
Queensway House
Hilgrove Street
St Helier, Jersey
JE1 1ES
Channel Islands
Tel.: +44 (0) 870 707 4040
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
Hopewell Centre 46
th
 Floor
183 Queen’s Road East
Wan Chai
Hong Kong
Tel.: +852 2862 8628
Enquiries Company Secretary
John Burton
john.burton@glencore.com 
Assistant Company Secretary
Ivy Chan
ivy.chan@glencore.com
Glencore International plc
Baarermattstrasse 3
CH-6340 Baar
Switzerland 
Tel.: +41 41 709 2000
Fax: +41 41 709 3000
E-mail: info@glencore.com
London Stock Exchange (LSE)
Reuters Code: GLEN.L
Bloomberg Code: GLEN LN
ISIN: JE00B4T3BW64
Sedol Number: LON B4T3BW6
Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEx)
Reuters Code: 0805.HK
Bloomberg Code: 805
ISIN: JE00B4T3BW64
Sedol Number: XHKG B3NFYS8  168  |  Annual Report 2012  |  
Forward looking statements
This document contains statements that are, or may be deemed to be, “forward looking statements”. These forward looking statements may 
be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, including the terms “believes”, “estimates“, “plans“, “projects”, “anticipates“, “will“, 
“could“, or “should“ or in each case, their negative or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, 
objectives, goals, future events or intentions. These forward looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts and include, but 
are not limited to, statements regarding Glencore’s beliefs, opinions or current expectations concerning, among other things, the business, 
financial condition, results of operations, prospects, strategies and plans of Glencore.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Glencore’s control. 
Forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may and often do differ materially from actual results. Important  
factors that could cause these uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed under “Principal risks and uncertainties” in section 
1.7 of this document. 
No assurance can be given that such future results will be achieved; actual events or results may differ materially as a result of risks and uncer-
tainties facing Glencore. Such risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary materially from the future results indicated, expressed 
or implied in such forward looking statements.
Forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this document. Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations  
(including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Rules Governing 
the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited), Glencore is not under any obligation and Glencore and its affiliates 
expressly disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise.
No statement in this document is intended as a profit forecast or a profit estimate and no statement in this document should be interpreted 
to mean that earnings per Glencore share for the current or future financial years would necessarily match or exceed the historical published 
earnings per Glencore share.
This document does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase or subscribe 
for any securities. The making of this document does not constitute a recommendation regarding any securities.  
