 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Inside this report:
4 Highlights
5 Chief Executive Officer’s review
6 Where we operate
8 Our business model
14 Sustainable development
19 Our strategy
22 Key performance indicators
26 Principal risks and uncertainties 
34 Financial review
42 Business review
 – Metals and minerals
 – Energy products
 – Agricultural products
 – Resources and reserves
80 Chairman’s introduction & Board of Directors
84 Corporate governance report
99 Directors’ remuneration report
105 Directors’ report
112 Independent Auditor’s Report
118 Consolidated statement of income/(loss)
119  Consolidated statement of comprehensive  
income/(loss)
120 Consolidated statement of financial position
121 Consolidated statement of cash flows
123 Consolidated statement of changes of equity
124 Notes to the financial statements
191 Glossary
197 Production by quarter – Q4 2013 to Q4 2014
204 Shareholder information
IBC Forward looking statements
Further details on our sustainability approach and performance can be found in 
our annual sustainability report and on our website www.glencore.com
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
1
We are a leading integrated producer 
and marketer of commodities operating 
worldwide. Our commodities comprise 
metals and minerals, energy products and 
agricultural products.
We market and distribute physical commodities 
sourced from third party producers as well 
as our own production. Our customer base is 
highly diversified and includes consumers of 
raw materials in the automotive, steel, power 
generation, oil and food processing industries. 
We also provide financing, processing, storage, 
logistics and other services to both producers 
and consumers of commodities.
Who we are 2 Glencore Annual Report 2014
PAGE 4–77
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
Mt Owen coal, 
Australia Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
3
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
3
4 Highlights
5 Chief Executive Officer’s review
6 Where we operate
8 Our business model
14 Sustainable development
19 Our strategy
22 Key performance indicators
26 Principal risks and uncertainties 
34 Financial review
42 Business review
 – Metals and minerals
 – Energy products
 – Agricultural products
 – Resources and reserves
In this section 10,169
Funds from operations 
US$ million
per million hours worked
6,706
Adjusted EBIT 
US$ million
13,071 2013 12,764 2014
10,375 2013 10,169 2014
7,434 2013 6,706 2014
2014
2014 2013
1.58
Lost time injury 
frequency rate  
1.87 2013 1.58 2014
2013 2014
2014 2013
2013
Adjusted EBITDA 
US$ million
12,764
30,532
Net debt/FFO to net debt 
US$ million
33
Earnings per share 
(pre-significant items) 
US cents per share
16.5 2013 18.0 2014
35,798 2013 30,532 2014
35 2013 33 2014
2013 2014
2013 2014
2014
Full year distribution 
US cents per share
18.0
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
2013
FFO to net debt
4 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Highlights Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
5
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Background
2014 was a year of challenges and opportunities for Glencore. 
The gradual process of normalisation following the financial 
crisis has continued, but at a slower pace than many expected. 
In fact, some of the most important legacies of the crisis 
continue to drag on, including those relating to Europe. 
From a geopolitical perspective we have seen heightened 
tension in the Middle East and the resurgence of conflict 
in Ukraine.
Financial performance
Against this background we completed the integration 
of Xstrata during 2014 and achieved the targeted pre-tax 
margin and cost synergies of $2.4 billion. Further cash flow 
improvements are expected over the next two years as the 
balance of our legacy expansionary capital programmes are 
realised. In marketing, the integration of Xstrata’s coal, copper 
and zinc production, combined with Viterra’s infrastructure, 
helped deliver Adjusted EBIT of $2.8 billion, up 18% on 2013. 
This performance, despite weaker commodity prices for 
many of our key commodities, was particularly pleasing 
and once again demonstrates the resilience of our business 
model. The performance of our industrial activities inevitably 
reflected the weaker price environment, particularly 
in energy products, where price falls were the greatest. 
Industrial Adjusted EBITDA was down 7% to $9.8 billion. 
However, despite the weaker market environment, overall 
Group Adjusted EBITDA only declined by a modest 2% to 
$12.8 billion.
We also continued to selectively recycle capital. Notable deals 
included the sale of the Las Bambas copper project in Peru for 
$6.5 billion (net of tax) and the consolidation of the Caracal 
oil assets in Chad. Despite the generally weaker commodity 
price backdrop, we are pleased to announce a final cash 
distribution for 2014 of $12 cents per share. We were able to 
grow our base cash distribution in 2014. Additionally, we 
have also recently announced an in specie distribution of 
our non-core stake in Lonmin and we have now completed 
the buy-back of $1 billion of our equity, delivering c. 1.2% 
EPS accretion. Glencore will have returned $9.3 billion to its 
shareholders since the IPO in 2011 (inclusive of $639 million 
of repurchased convertible bonds).
Corporate governance
We have strengthened our Board of Directors with the 
appointment of Patrice Merrin and the elevation of Tony 
Hayward to the role of permanent Chairman. Peter Grauer 
has assumed the role of Senior Independent Director.
Sustainability
It is with great sadness that we report 16 fatalities at our 
operations in 2014. This regrettably high level partly reflects 
the nature, location and history of some of the operations 
which Glencore has acquired. 13 of the 16 fatalities occurred 
at a small number of assets employing 71,000 people, located 
in challenging geographies where a culture of safety did not 
exist prior to our involvement. The remaining 3 incidents 
occurred at our more developed operations, employing 
110,000 people, representing a world class safety performance; 
our ongoing challenge and commitment is to embed this 
performance into the aforementioned ‘focus assets’ . We are 
overall encouraged that the number of fatalities is lower 
than in previous years, and remain determined to eliminate 
fatalities completely. During 2013 we initiated the SafeWork 
programme to enhance safety in the workplace. SafeWork has 
now been rolled out worldwide and 118,000 employees were 
trained during 2014. The long-term injury frequency rate 
declined from 1.87 to 1.58. These improvements reflect the 
focused implementation of safety best practice procedures at 
our operations, championed and led by our Board and senior 
management team. In May 2014 we joined the International 
Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM): recognition that we 
have been implementing best practices across the Group.
Looking forwards
We remain committed to a strong BBB/Baa balance sheet and 
our clearly established disciplined approach to allocating 
capital. We will focus only on high-returning opportunistic 
M&A and brownfield growth opportunities. Our ultimate 
goal remains to grow our free cash flow and return excess 
capital in the most sustainable and efficient manner. As the 
most diversified raw material producer and marketer, 
Glencore is well positioned to react to and benefit from 
changes in commodity fundamentals. Glencore will continue 
to focus on maximising the value of the potential within 
our businesses. 
In response to the challenging market environment we have 
decided to curtail coal production at Optimum in South 
Africa and a number of our coal operations in Australia 
to better align volumes and qualities with current market 
demand. Further to these coal production changes and 
associated capex reductions/ deferrals, following a recent 
review of the Group’s overall asset portfolio in response to 
weaker prices (and aided by lower input costs), we are now 
guiding 2015 industrial capex to the $6.5-6.8 billion range, 
compared to our earlier Investor Day guidance of $7 .9 billion.
While there remains the potential for future economic 
setbacks and no shortage of bearishness towards commodities 
in financial markets, physical demand for our raw materials 
remains healthy. We anticipate tightening supply conditions 
to materialise in our key commodities in response to lower 
prices, production/investment cutbacks and falling grades.
We would like to thank our employees, debt capital providers 
and shareholders for their support during 2014 and look 
forward to the future with confidence.
Ivan Glasenberg
Chief Executive Officer 6 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Metals and minerals
Copper, zinc/lead, nickel, ferroalloys, alumina/
aluminium and iron ore production and marketing. 
We have interests in both controlled and non-
controlled industrial assets that include mining, 
smelting, refining and warehousing operations.
Energy products
Coal and oil industrial and marketing. Our Energy 
products businesses include controlled and non-
controlled coal mining and oil production operations 
and investments in strategic handling, storage and 
freight equipment and facilities.
Agricultural products
Focused on grains, oils/oilseeds, cotton and sugar. 
Our Agricultural products group is supported by both 
controlled and non-controlled storage, handling and 
processing facilities in strategic locations.
A global diversified natural resources company
Diversity by geography: Operations around the world 
spanning a global network of more than 90 offices located 
in over 50 countries, employing around 181,000 people, 
including contractors.
Diversity by product and activity: We produce 
and market over 90 commodities from around 
150 mining and metallurgical sites, oil production assets 
and agricultural facilities.
We are organised into 3 distinct business segments, 
consistent with management’s oversight and accountability 
and conducive to ensuring value is extracted at every point 
of the operating chain:
Key
Metals and minerals
Energy products
Agricultural products
Corporate offi ce
Marketing
Where we operate Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
7
Americas
Asia
Europe
Africa
Oceania
Revenue
1
 by geography 2014
$221bn
Americas
Asia
Europe
Africa
Oceania
Non-current assets
2
 by region 2014
$91bn
1 Revenue by geographic destination is based on the country of incorporation   
of the sales counterparty however this may not necessarily be the country of the   
counterparty’s ultimate parent and/or final destination of the product.
2 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, 
advances and loans and deferred tax assets. GLOBAL OPERAT A IONS
INSIGHT
EXPLORE,
ACQUIRE
& DEVELOP
BLENDING 
& OPTIMISING
LOGISTICS & DELIVERY
PROCESS   
& REFINE
EXTRACT 
& PRODUCE
THIRD PARTY
ENERGY
AGRICULTURE
META T T LS & MINERALS
FINANCIAL PROFILE
SUSTA T T INABLE APPROACH
8 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Our business model
Who we are
We are one of the world’s largest diversified and vertically-integrated 
producers, processors and marketers of commodities. We market and 
distribute physical commodities sourced from our own production 
and from third party producers to a highly diversified customer base 
that includes consumers from the industrial, automotive, steel, power 
generation, oil and food processing industries.
What we do
Operating under a framework that 
balances social, environmental, ethical 
and commercial interests we produce 
and market over 90 commodities, key 
ingredients that help feed, power, 
move and build our world.
Our business model
We seek to extract a value added 
margin at each stage of the commodity 
chain – from extraction to delivery 
– to create value for all Glencore 
stakeholders. We have three business 
segments: metals and minerals, energy 
products and agricultural products. 
Each business segment is responsible 
for managing the marketing and 
industrial investment activities of their 
commodities. We are not only focused 
on minimising costs and maximising 
operational efficiencies; we focus on 
maximising returns through the entire 
supply chain.
Optimising our business model
We have set up our business model to 
generate superior returns by ensuring 
it focuses on complementary and high 
return investments, is of a scale and 
breadth to endure short-term volatility 
and benefit from economies of scale 
and an entrepreneurial culture that 
permeates throughout it. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
9
Diversification
We are one of the largest resources 
companies by any measure, producing 
and marketing over 90 commodities. 
We are uniquely diversified in 
respect of commodity, geography 
and activity. We benefit, together 
with our consumers and suppliers, 
from our scale and diversity, enabling 
us to deliver value throughout the 
commodity chain.
Our portfolio of industrial assets 
comprises over 150 mining and 
metallurgical facilities, oil production 
facilities and agricultural facilities. 
Our asset portfolio mainly contains 
long-life low-cost assets which have 
ample attractive growth options. 
As our industrial asset base grows it 
enhances the quality and scale of our 
marketing activities, thereby creating 
greater choice for our customers. 
For over 40 years, we have established 
a formidable reputation as a reliable 
supplier of high quality and 
competitively priced commodities 
on a timely basis, irrespective 
of the vagaries of market or 
geopolitical conditions. 
Our competitive position and 
business model enables us to provide 
a compelling commodity offering 
for the thousands of counterparties 
who are our long-term suppliers and 
consumers. Additionally, through 
buying commodities from thousands 
of third party producers worldwide, 
we are better able to identify 
opportunities to grow our business 
through acquisitions. Some of our 
valuable producing assets were formed 
through the diligent acquisition of 
numerous smaller operations which 
we then patiently integrated and 
developed over a number of years. 
Although we monitor all industrial 
asset performance on a standalone 
basis, their purpose is also to improve 
the competitive offering, financial 
performance and value of our 
overall business.
Optimising our business model
DISCIPLINED INVESTMENT
DIVERSIFICATION
ENTREPRENEURIAL CULTURE
  
 
Entrepreneurial culture
Our management team, led by Ivan 
Glasenberg, has a strong track record 
of developing and growing our 
business since the management buyout 
in 1994. A strong entrepreneurial 
culture has been key to this success. 
This culture remains, underpinned 
by management and employee 
ownership of around one third of the 
Company’s shares. This degree of 
alignment with external shareholders’ 
interests is unique amongst major 
resource companies.
Disciplined investment
The deployment of capital in a highly 
disciplined manner has been and 
always will remain key to our ability 
to create superior value for our 
shareholders. Glencore management’s 
substantial stake in the equity of the 
company ensures that the interests of 
our executive team and shareholders 
remain closely aligned – we act like 
owners of the business because we are.
Commitment to strong BBB/Baa 
reflects our optimal investment rating 
target. Once we have ensured that our 
desired capital structure is maintained 
and our base cash distributions 
covered, we evaluate two options: 
return excess capital to shareholders or 
reinvest it through M&A or brownfield 
projects. The decision is assessed 
by a robust analysis process which 
considers the risks versus returns, cash 
payback duration and the alternative 
of buying back shares. In the case 
of the redeployment of capital we 
also consider commodity supply 
and demand balance, our existing 
presence in a country and the geo-
political outlook.
Changing trade flows
Commodity trade flows continue to 
shift as demand growth increasingly 
gravitates towards emerging market 
economies. The supply of commodities 
is increasingly sought from more 
remote, challenging and often 
logistically constrained locations, 
many with a range of new industry 
participants who lack infrastructure, 
funding and established routes 
to market.
In the emerging markets, standards 
of living remain substantially 
below those in developed countries. 
A long-term driver for our business 
remains the continued urbanisation 
and industrialisation of highly 
populous emerging economies and 
the associated growth in demand for 
key commodities. Technology will 
continue to encourage and facilitate 
this progress. It will also influence 
patterns of demand in the future 
which are different from those which 
currently apply.
We are confident that Glencore’s scale, 
diversification and asset base ensures 
we remain well positioned to facilitate 
both the growth and the changes that 
will be required. 10 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Sustainable approach 
Through our investments in 
our assets and the long-term 
commitments we make to the 
countries in which we operate, 
we believe that our global 
presence and economic strength 
contribute positively to socio-
economic development in our 
host countries.
Our corporate sustainability 
framework balances social, 
environmental, ethical and 
commercial interests at 
every level of our Group. 
This framework is called 
Glencore Corporate Practice 
(GCP). We designed and 
implemented GCP to be in line 
with internationally recognised, 
good practice, sector specific 
standards and we continue 
to monitor its performance 
to ensure it is fit for purpose. 
Our Code of Conduct is an 
important part of the GCP and 
sets out our corporate values 
and provides clear guidance 
to our employees and other 
key stakeholders about how 
we do business.
See pages 14 to 18 for 
more information.
Our business model
How we create value
Financial profile 
We have a long track-record of 
value creation across economic 
cycles. Unlike most other 
natural resources companies, a 
material portion of our earnings 
is less correlated to movements 
in commodity prices. The use 
of hedging strategies to protect 
against price risks ensures 
that marketing profitability 
is primarily determined by 
volume activity associated 
value added supply chain 
margins and other market 
conditions rather than the 
absolute price itself. This lower 
correlation with commodity 
prices should ensure that our 
overall earnings have greater 
protection from commodity 
price reductions than those of 
producers of metals, mining 
and energy products that do not 
also have significant marketing 
and logistics operations.
Our industrial assets are 
competitively positioned 
around the first quartiles of 
their respective cost curves, 
benefiting from the integration 
and streamlining of Xstrata’s 
industrial assets along with 
higher volumes of new lower 
cost production.
Insight 
We are an established marketer 
of commodities and have, 
over a period of years, built an 
outstanding market reputation 
as a reliable supplier of 
quality product on a timely 
basis. In addition, our long 
experience has allowed us 
to build extensive market 
knowledge and insight, as well 
as full logistics capabilities. 
This enables us to generate 
value added margins, as well as 
seeking arbitrage opportunities 
throughout the physical 
commodity supply chain.
Our global network of offices 
and long-standing relationships 
provide us with valuable insight 
into the broad production and 
demand spectrum and access to 
strategic markets. In addition, 
these factors provide us with 
valuable access to a range of 
industrial asset investment 
opportunities and, more 
broadly, enable us to manage 
our industrial assets portfolio, 
including production volume 
and expansion decisions, 
as well as asset purchases 
and disposals.
Explore, acquire 
and develop
We prefer to develop 
brownfield sites and explore 
close to our existing assets, 
which have a lower risk 
profile and enable us to utilise 
existing infrastructure, realise 
synergies and save costs.
We usually look for investment 
opportunities in the countries 
where we are already operating 
and in the commodities 
that we are producing. 
This focus allows us to build 
on our economies of scale, our 
familiarity with a political and 
cultural landscape and our 
understanding of commodity 
dynamics. The nature of 
new investments will often 
vary, ranging from an offtake 
agreement to an equity stake 
in a business either as a 
minority or a joint venture 
partner. This approach 
helps us mitigate the risks 
involved and over time, as 
the relationship develops, we 
accumulate valuable experience 
and information should an 
opportunity arise to acquire 
the asset outright.
We evaluate each industrial 
asset investment opportunity 
both on a standalone basis 
and on its potential to 
support and strengthen our 
physical marketing activities 
or existing industrial asset 
base. Similarly, we evaluate 
disposals of investments in 
industrial assets when they are 
no longer deemed to support 
our marketing activities and/
or when compelling selling 
opportunities arise. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
11
Extract  
and produce
We are the operators of the 
assets that we wholly own 
or have majority ownership. 
We mine and beneficiate 
minerals across a broad range 
of commodities, mining 
techniques and countries, 
for processing and/or refining 
at our own facilities or for sale 
to third parties. 
Extraction (including oil), 
by its very nature, is a long-
term commitment carrying 
considerable risks in the form 
of unknown future commodity 
prices, project development, 
sovereign and community 
risks. Development of major 
assets can often take more than 
10 years from the date of first 
discovery to first production. 
An integral part of developing 
new and maintaining 
existing projects is earning 
our social licence to operate 
from the host governments 
and communities around 
our operations.
Process  
and refine
Smelting is a form of 
extractive metallurgy, 
which produces crude 
metal from ore. Refining is 
a purification process and a 
variety of techniques are used 
depending on the commodity. 
Our expertise and technology 
advantage in this area enables 
us to optimise the end 
product to meet the needs of 
a wider range of customers. 
Our smelting and refining 
facilities provide volumes 
that are utilised by our 
marketing teams.
We see the ownership of 
industrial assets not solely 
as sources of self-produced 
commodities, but also as 
tools for increasing flexibility, 
optionality and security 
of supply and for gaining 
valuable market knowledge. 
We purchase additional 
product, as required, from 
smaller operators that do not 
enjoy the same economies 
of scale.
Blending  
and optimising
Our integrated business 
model means we can provide 
a superior service to our 
customers. We can provide 
them with a wide range of 
product specifications, which 
increases our ability to meet 
their exact requirements. It also 
provides us with valuable 
market and local knowledge, 
which combined with the 
oversight of supply we get 
from working with third 
party suppliers, enables us to 
better understand the balance 
between supply and demand.
Logistics  
and delivery
Our ownership of global 
distribution capabilities and our 
long-term customer/supplier 
relationships differentiates 
us from our peers and allows 
us to handle large volumes of 
commodities. It enables us to 
fulfil our marketing obligations 
and to take advantage 
of demand and supply 
imbalances. We own vessels 
and complement our fleet with 
time-chartered vessels. We have 
global storage and logistics 
assets in key strategic locations, 
including metal warehouses 
accredited by the LME and 
numerous oil and grain storage 
facilities worldwide. 
The physical sourcing and 
marketing of commodities 
requires highly professional 
handling and transfer from 
the supplier to the customer. 
The employees that handle the 
physical movement of goods are 
known as the “traffic teams” 
which account for a significant 
proportion of the people in 
our marketing activities. 
Our dedicated chartering 
teams actively trade freight to 
gain market knowledge and 
volume benefits. The freight 
element of transactions is also 
used to maintain maximum 
physical optionality so that full 
value can be extracted from 
the underlying commodity 
positions of each department. 
This complements our ability to 
take advantage of geographic 
and time spread arbitrage 
opportunities as they arise. 
The broad range of value added 
services we can offer fulfils the 
needs of customers that do not 
have the equivalent internal 
capability and cannot outsource 
to other providers who can offer 
these services as seamlessly 
or efficiently as we can 
provide them.
See “Our marketing activities” on page 12 for more information. 12 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Our business model
Our marketing activities
We have more than 90 marketing offices in over 
50 countries across the globe. Our marketing 
activities source a diversified range of physical 
commodities from third party suppliers and 
from industrial assets in which we have full or 
part ownership. These commodities are sold, 
often with value added services such as freight, 
insurance, financing and/or storage, to a broad 
range of consumers and industrial commodity 
end users. Our customer base is highly diversified 
and contains a high proportion of long-term 
commercial relationships.
We focus on maximising fee-like returns from the 
entire marketing process, taking into account our 
extensive and global third party supply base, our 
logistics, risk management and working capital 
financing capabilities, extensive market insight, 
business optionality, extensive customer base, 
strong market position and penetration in most 
commodities and economies of scale.
In addition, many of the physical commodity 
markets in which we operate are fragmented 
or periodically volatile. As a result, price 
discrepancies often occur between the prices 
that commodities can be bought or sold in 
different geographic locations or time periods. 
Other factors include freight and product 
quality. These pricing discrepancies can present 
us with arbitrage opportunities that enable us 
to generate profit by sourcing, transporting, 
blending, storing or otherwise processing the 
relevant commodities. While the strategies used 
to generate such margin vary from commodity 
to commodity, the main opportunities can be 
generally described as being:
• geographic arbitrage: we leverage our 
relationships and production, processing 
and logistical capabilities in order to source 
physical commodities from one location and 
deliver them to another location where such 
commodities can command a higher price (net 
of transport and/or other transaction costs);
• product arbitrage: it is possible to blend 
particular commodities being marketed, 
such as the various crude oil products, coal 
or concentrates, in order to supply bespoke 
products which attract higher prices than their 
base constituents or exploit existing  
and/or expected price differentials; and
• time arbitrage: differences often arise between 
the price of a commodity to be delivered at a 
future date and the price of a commodity to 
be delivered immediately, where the available 
storage, financing and other related costs are 
less than the forward pricing difference.
The credit (including performance) risk in 
relation to suppliers and customers is mitigated 
through the systematic application of measures 
such as credit insurance, letters of credit, security 
arrangements and/or bank and corporate 
guarantees. We also leverage our network of 
global offices, which have direct access to and 
keep close relationships with our customers 
and suppliers.
The marketing teams also manage Glencore’s 
market exposure via the reduction of price risks 
arising from timing differences between the 
purchase and sale of commodities to acceptably 
low levels. Comprehensive risk management 
systems and procedures established over the 
past 40 years are in place to monitor these 
activities. Similarly, we have extensive compliance 
policies and procedures in place and use third 
party screening software systems to manage 
compliance with sanctions and other regulations.
See Governance section on page 89 for 
more information on risk management and 
internal control. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
13
Have access to logistics and physically 
transport products across key regions
Provide competitively priced transport 
and storage
Blend concentrates and other bulk 
commodities at/within storage facilities
Marketing – arbitrage strategies
Glencore operates in markets which are fragmented and periodically 
volatile, which results in price differentials that Glencore is able to 
benefit from due to its capabilities across the value chain.
1 2 3
Geographic arbitrage
Logistics & delivery
Product arbitrage Time arbitrage
Disparity
Pricing differences 
for the same 
product in different 
geographic regions, 
taking into account 
transportation or 
transaction costs
Disparity
Pricing differences 
between blends, 
grades or types 
of commodity, 
taking into account 
processing or 
substitution costs
Disparity
Pricing differences 
on a commodity 
between delivery 
immediately, 
or at a future 
date, taking into 
account storage 
and financing costs 
until future date
Execution
Leverage global 
relationships 
and production, 
processing 
and logistical 
capabilities to 
source product in 
one location and 
deliver in another
Execution
Ensure optionality 
with commodity 
supply contracts, 
and look to lock-in 
price differentials 
through blending, 
processing or end-
product substitution
Supply products 
which attract 
a higher price 
after blending 
or processing 
than their base 
constituents
Execution
Book “carry 
trades” benefiting 
from competitive 
sources of storage, 
insurance and 
financing
Size and economies of scale, freight and logistics operations support these strategies enabling us to: 14 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Sustainable development
We recognise that by conducting our operations in a responsible 
manner, our activities and behaviour bring about lasting benefits to 
our stakeholders and to society. Our presence generates considerable 
local benefits and we are proud of the role we play in creating and 
supporting sustainable socio-economic value in our local communities. 
Our ability to deliver long-term value to all our stakeholders is based 
on our responsible management of our assets, operational processes 
and business activities. 
We are committed to operating in a transparent and 
responsible manner. Our statement of values and Code of 
Conduct, which are available on our website, underpin our 
approach to sustainability and embody the expectations 
we place on our employees, our contractors and our 
business partners. Our policies and procedures support 
the upholding of good business practices and we expect 
all our operations to meet or exceed the applicable laws 
and to apply other external requirements as appropriate.
Glencore Corporate Practice (GCP), our corporate 
responsibility management system, provides a framework 
for the integration of our sustainability principles, guidance 
and policies throughout our business. GCP underpins our 
approach towards societal, environmental and compliance 
indicators, providing clear guidance on the standards we 
expect all our operations to achieve. GCP supports the 
implementation of our health, environment, safety and 
community (HSEC) policies by our assets and helps them 
to determine the procedures necessary to attain our targets 
and expected behaviour. 
Our robust risk management framework allows us 
to identify and mitigate sustainability-related risks. 
The framework identifies material matters and supports 
our ongoing assessment of what matters most to our 
business and to our stakeholders.
We strive to adopt a safe and sustainable approach to 
our business practices, and to contribute to the socio-
economic growth of the communities in which we operate. 
Through the reporting function within GCP , our Board 
receives regular updates and has detailed oversight 
of how our business is performing across all of the 
sustainability indicators.
We publish an annual sustainability report, which meets 
the requirements of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Level 
A+. This report covers in considerable detail our approach 
and our performance across all of the sustainability topics. 
Our sustainability reports are available on our website: 
www.glencore.com/sustainability. 
Our human rights policy was 
developed in line with the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, 
the ILO Labour Standards 
and the UN Guiding Principles
Human rights 
policy launched
16
%
Lost time injury frequency 
rate* 1.58 in 2014: a
decrease compared to 
1.87 in 2013
* Lost time injuries recorded  
per million hours worked
Joined the 
International 
Council on 
Mining and 
Metals Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
15
Our human rights policy, developed in 
2013, was rolled out to all our assets 
16
fatalities
We did not achieve our target of zero 
fatalities. Tragically, 16 people lost their 
lives while working for Glencore
We continued to support public health 
programmes for major health issues 
such as HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria. 
We are committed to improving the 
health of the communities living near 
our assets
0
major or catastrophic 
environmental incidents
We recorded no major or catastrophic 
environmental incidents
1.58
lost time injury 
frequency rate
Water strategy 
progressed
We achieved a 16% reduction in our lost 
time injury frequency rate compared 
to 2013
$11 4m in 2014
At least 1% of profits before tax 
set aside to support community 
investment initiatives
10 operational HSEC policies developed 
and implemented across the Group 
during 2014
We are developing a water strategy to 
better manage our impact on water 
resources; this will be rolled out in 2015 
Human rights policy 
rolled out globally
On track to meeting 
the REACH deadline
Registration of the substances we 
produce and import is on track to meet 
the REACH deadline of 2018
Key priorities for 2015
• Elimination of fatalities, with particular attention on our 
“focus assets” and underground operations where most 
fatalities have historically occurred
• Continued focus on reducing our lost time injury 
frequency rate to achieve our 2016 target, and reducing by 
50% our total recordable injury frequency rate by 2020
• Complete our occupational disease prevention framework 
in the first half of the year and roll it out across all our 
assets by the end of 2015
• Continued development and strengthening of our 
employees’ skills
• Review the social strategies at our operations and, where 
necessary, revise to maximise our contribution to local 
socio-economic development
• Complete our water management framework by the end of 
the year. This framework includes consistent definitions, 
a water accounting tool, water quality management and 
reporting systems
• Review training on the Voluntary Principles on Security & 
Human Rights to ensure a consistent approach across all 
our assets
Performance during 2014
2014 2013 2012
Fatalities at managed operations 16 26 27
Lost time injury frequency rate  
(per million hours worked) 1.58 1.87 2.06
CO2 emissions (million tonnes)
Scope 1 23.2 24.4 22.4
CO2 emissions (million tonnes)
Scope 2 13.4 13.8 12.4
Total energy usage (petajoules) 250 244 212
Water withdrawn (million m
3
) 958 942 724
Community investment spend ($ million) 114 168 201
Number of employees and contractors 181,349 203,637 188,555
Progress against commitments in 2014
per million hours
10 HSEC policies 
developed and rolled out 16 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Sustainable development
SafeWork
SafeWork is a Group-wide initiative that focuses on eliminating 
fatalities and serious injuries through encouraging life-saving 
behaviours and developing a better understanding of the 
consequences of unsafe actions. 
Our aim is to ensure that every single person working for us 
understands that they have the authority to stop work if they 
consider a workplace or situation unsafe.
SafeWork has identified 12 fatal hazards and developed related 
protocols for addressing these hazards. All our sites have 
reviewed and assessed their current procedures for dealing 
with these fatal hazards, enabling each site to identify areas 
for improvement. All employees and contractors, regardless of 
function or location, are required to follow specific protocols 
when working with fatal hazards.
By the end of 2014, 118,000 employees and contractors had 
undertaken awareness training on the fatal hazard protocols 
and life-saving behaviours. 
We expect all our workers to take responsibility for their safety 
and for that of their colleagues. Every single individual is 
empowered to stop unsafe work: “SafeWork or StopWork.”
Safety
The health and safety of our people is our number one 
priority – safety is one of our five Values. We are committed 
to continuous improvement in all areas of health and 
safety management. 
We recognise that we all have responsibility for maintaining 
a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees, 
regardless of their location of function. We believe that 
a zero-harm environment is achievable and that all 
occupational fatalities, diseases and injuries are preventable.
We take a proactive, preventative approach towards health 
and safety and our aim is to establish a positive safety 
culture in which everyone practices their authority to stop 
work if it is unsafe. We place great emphasis on the role of 
the individual to take responsibility for both their own safety 
and that of their colleagues.
We are greatly saddened to report that we did not meet 
our goal of zero fatalities. 16 people lost their lives at our 
operations during the year, compared to 26 in 2013; any loss 
of life is unacceptable and we are determined to eliminate 
fatalities across our Group.
The two sides of our safety performance need to be 
considered to fully understand where our safety challenges 
lie. Our business is very diverse in terms of geographical 
locations, working conditions, organisational cultures and 
workforces. Across most of these we are seeing continuous 
improvement in health and safety and many of our assets 
have achieved best in class performance. 
Three fatalities occurred at these operations, which are 
located across 46 countries and represent a work force of 
approximately 110,000, compared to 8 in 2013. We are sharing 
people and the leading approaches and practices from 
these operations with the assets that we have identified as 
’focus assets’. 
13 fatalities occurred at our focus assets during 2014, down 
from 18 in 2013. These assets are located in Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, Zambia, Bolivia, Kazakhstan and 
Ukraine, with a total workforce of around 71,000 people, 
which represents 39% of the Group’s workforce. We are 
undertaking a broad range of activities to improve our 
safety culture through the SafeWork initiative, which is 
being rolled out across the Group. World class training 
initiatives are being implemented to support upskilling 
and competence development. 
We believe that the commitment shown by our management 
team, our identification and mitigation of risk, and our 
ability to share leading practices will improve the health 
and safety at our focus assets. We recognise that every 
fatality is unacceptable, however, we believe that the reduced 
number of fatalities recorded in 2014 indicates that our focus 
on identifying and managing fatal hazards, as well as the 
commitment and determination of our leadership is starting 
to show results. We understand that eliminating fatalities 
will take time and we remain committed to this goal at all 
our operations.
Our long-term goal of reducing employee and contractor 
injuries continues to deliver year-on-year reductions in our 
lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR
1
). Lost time incidents 
(LTIs) are recorded when an employee or contractor is unable 
to work following an incident. In 2014, our LTIFR was 1.58 
per million hours worked, a 16% improvement against 2013 
and 47% improvement against our long-term goal of a 50% 
reduction by 2016, set against the 2010 baseline LTIFR of 2.74.
Occupational health
Ensuring we have the correct procedures in place to 
prevent occupational disease is an important aspect of our 
commitment to maintain safe workplaces. The most common 
health hazards in our workplaces continue to be heavy loads, 
noise, silica, lead, diesel exhaust particles, acid mist and 
particulate matter (dust) containing heavy metals. 
We are constantly assessing improvements to our 
management of occupational diseases that reflect the 
diverse nature of our assets. We have established a wide 
range of occupational disease programmes that are specific 
to each operation. We undertake regular risk assessments 
of our workplaces to ensure all health risks are being 
correctly addressed.
1 LTIFR is the total number of LTIs recorded per million working hours. LTIs do not 
include Restricted Work Injuries (RWI) and fatalities (fatalities were included until 
2013). Prior to 2014, minor LTI definition differences existed between Glencore and 
Xstrata in relation to the day from which an LTI was recorded. Historic data has been 
restated to exclude fatalities. Community investment by region
%
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
N. America
S. America
Capacity 
building
Environment
Health
Identified 
local or 
regional need
Community investment by spend
%
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
17
Our people
Our people are fundamental to our success, underpinning 
our ability to succeed and grow. Our success relies strongly 
on our ability to attract, develop and retain the best talent 
at every level. We choose the best people for each position; 
people who think and act like entrepreneurs, are willing to 
learn, are passionate about their work and strive to be leaders 
in their field. We provide our people with the opportunity to 
develop and grow their skills, expertise and experience and 
the confidence to grow their careers.
We are committed to upholding the International Labour 
Organization’s (ILO) Declaration of Fundamental Principles 
and Rights at Work and their Core Labour Standards. 
We prohibit any form of child, forced or bonded labour at 
any of our operations and do not tolerate discrimination or 
harassment. We endeavour to have a positive and constructive 
relationship with the unions in the locations where we operate.
We treat our people fairly and with respect. We recognise and 
uphold the rights of our people to a safe workplace, freedom 
of association, collective representation, just compensation, 
job security and opportunities for development.
We believe that a diverse workforce is essential for a 
successful business and seek to ensure that our workforce 
reflects the diversity of the communities in which we operate. 
We value diversity and treat employees and contractors fairly, 
providing equal opportunities throughout the organisation. 
During 2014, our workforce was made up of 17 ,093 (16%) 
female employees, compared to 19,147 (17%) in 2013.
Supporting our commitment to local employment, our 
assets have programmes that support the provision of high 
value jobs for local community members. These include 
apprenticeships, scholarships, training and mentoring 
opportunities. Our assets are also considering how best 
to replace ex-pats with local employees as part of our 
commitment to support local socio-economic development. 
The number of employees and contractors decreased in 2014 
to 181,349 from 203,637 in 2013; this was primarily the result 
of the divestment of Las Bambas during 2014.
Communities
The communities surrounding our operations are our 
neighbours, employees, business partners and future 
workforce. Through our commitment to two-way dialogue 
with our local communities we aim to secure a broad base of 
support for our activities.
We look to ensure that our presence adds value and 
contributes to a sustainable future for local communities, 
delivering benefits that extend beyond the life of our 
operations. We achieve this through local employment, 
our procurement spend, investment into infrastructure 
development and investment in community projects. 
Our most significant impact on the regions where we are 
present is through employment, both directly and via 
contractors. Local employment is particularly significant in 
developing countries, where our local employees can support 
as many as nine people each. The improved prosperity 
created through the wages we pay creates ripple effects 
throughout the region, resulting in further job creation.
Wherever possible, we aim to work with local suppliers of 
goods and services and develop skills and local capacities. 
We see this as a cost-effective way to reduce their reliance 
on our operations and an important building block for 
development of the local economy. 
We have invested in infrastructure and local services. 
Our operations are frequently located in remote and 
underdeveloped areas, where we can share infrastructure 
such as roads, water and electricity with our host 
communities. The projects that we have invested in are 
available during and after the life of our operations. 
During the year, we contributed $114 million to initiatives 
that benefit the communities living close to our assets. 
Our community development projects are in three focus 
areas: capacity building, including education, enterprise 
development and economic diversification; health 
and environment. 
We are an EITI-supporting company and support EITI’s 
efforts to ensure greater transparency with respect to how 
a country’s natural resources are governed and the full 
disclosure of government revenues from the extractive sector. 
Human rights
We have an integral role in the communities living close 
to our operations and regard respect for human rights 
as fundamental to our activities. We are committed to 
upholding the human rights of our people and our local 
communities, including vulnerable groups such as women, 
indigenous people and victims of conflict.  18 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Our approach to respecting fundamental human rights is 
aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework, 
as well as the ILO Core Conventions.
Each of our operations is required to identify human rights 
risks as part of their risk assessment processes. These cover 
the workplace, risk of conflict, the rights of our local 
communities and the risk of infringement by our partners.
All our operations are required to have in place grievance 
mechanisms that are accessible, accountable and fair, and 
that enable our stakeholders to raise concerns without fear 
of recrimination.
Environment
We recognise that our operations have a direct and indirect 
impact on the environment in the regions where we operate. 
We are committed to identifying, understanding and 
mitigating our environmental impact, with environmental 
responsibility integrated into our strategic planning, 
management systems and day-to-day operations. 
Our approach to environmental management is defined 
by our environmental policy, which is aligned with 
international environmental standards.
We work to minimise and mitigate any negative impact from 
our activities; we constantly review our approach and look 
for ways to improve our performance. We reduce our use of 
resources wherever possible, including active investment in 
renewable energy projects and technologies that help reduce 
our emissions.
Our acquisitions resulted in us inheriting operations with 
specific environmental challenges. Our recent efforts have 
focused on resolving these legacy issues. We are proud 
that in all cases, we have made substantial upgrades 
without shutting down production or reducing the size of 
the workforce. 
We are committed to eliminating material environmental 
incidents and incurring zero fines, penalties or prosecutions. 
Any material environmental incidents are reported to 
the Board HSEC committee and, in particularly severe 
cases, presentations are made by operational management 
teams. During 2014, our operations did not record any 
environmental incidents that were classed as major 
or catastrophic. 
Water is an essential component of our business activities. 
More than half of our operations are located in water-
challenged areas. We are committed to managing our 
impact on water resources responsibly. We work to minimise 
any impact on local biodiversity and communities, by 
minimising our effect on the quality and quantity of nearby 
bodies of water and preserving our neighbours’ access 
to water.
Our mining and agricultural operations minimise their 
water use and discharge wherever possible. We reuse 
and recycle as much water as we can, and waste water is 
Sustainable development
treated, for instance using tailing facilities or settlement 
ponds, before discharge into public sewers or surface water. 
We are implementing new technologies to help minimise or 
eliminate water discharge.
During 2014, we withdrew 958 million m
3
 of water, a 2% 
increase on 2013. This slight increase reflected improved 
definitions of reporting indicators.
We are aware of the increasing regulatory pressure and societal 
demand for a low-emission economy to address the global 
climate change situation. We play an active role in engaging 
with governments and other interested stakeholders to 
develop strategies for reducing the impact of climate change.
We are working to mitigate the physical impacts of climate 
change where we can and take resource efficiency into 
account when making operational decisions. Wherever we 
operate, we seek to optimise our energy and carbon footprint. 
We actively support the development of low emission 
technologies and prioritise renewable energy sources. 
We divide CO 2 emissions reporting into three different 
scopes, in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 
We measure both the direct and indirect emissions generated 
by the operational activities, entities and facilities in which 
we have a controlling stake. 
During 2014, we emitted 23.2 million tonnes CO 2 of Scope 1 
(direct emissions) from the fuel we consumed. This figure 
includes emissions from reductants used in our metallurgical 
smelters and from the incineration of biomass. It also 
includes CO 2e of methane emissions from our operations, 
which is equal to around 30% of our Scope 1 emissions. 
The total excludes emissions from time-chartered vessels, 
as these are now considered to be Scope 3 emissions.
We emitted 13.4 million tonnes CO 2 of Scope 2 (indirect 
emissions), being emissions arising from our consumption 
of purchased electricity, steam or heat. Our Scope 3 
emissions include emissions from a broad range of sources, 
including shipping and land transportation. More details 
on our Scope 3 emissions will be available in our 2014 
Sustainability Report.
We do not provide normalised figures for our CO 2 emissions 
nor ratios of CO 2 to production, financial results or employee 
headcount, as we do not believe that reporting a normalised 
figure meaningfully contributes to an understanding of 
our performance. The scope and diversity of our products 
make a single production figure impossible to calculate 
and our financial results are impacted by commodity 
prices and foreign exchange rates, which are outside of our 
control. In addition, due to the nature of the exploration, 
development and the production cycle, our CO 2 emissions 
do not necessarily correlate to our employee headcount.
We report to the CDP Carbon Disclosure and Water 
Disclosure programmes.
Further information on our approach to sustainability is 
available on our website: www.glencore.com/sustainability Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
19
Our strategy
Our objective is to grow total shareholder returns 
while maintaining a strong BBB/Baa investment grade 
credit rating.
In order to achieve this, we aim to increase returns on 
capital and also cash flows. Incremental capital is only 
deployed where strict and clearly defined financial 
criteria, in respect of returns and payback, can be met.
We seek to maintain and, where possible, strengthen 
our overall competitive position within our existing, 
highly diversified suite of commodities. These  
commodities are ones where long-term demand 
growth drivers remain robust. 
Our major industrial assets are long life and low cost. 
This partly reflects substantial investment in recent 
years, often into commodities where our large-cap 
competitors are exiting or have already done so. 
Our industrial activities are focused on generating 
sustainable operating and capital efficiencies. 
Safety is paramount and our number one priority. 
Our industrial assets also provide an essential 
source of flows for our marketing operations, 
where incremental value can be added via critical 
mass, blending, storage and geographical arbitrage. 
Our priorities in the marketing activities are to 
maximise the returns and cash flows from the pool 
of capital allocated to it. The structure of the business 
remains highly conservative in respect of risk,  
whether that be market, credit or liquidity.
Our culture remains highly entrepreneurial with an 
ability to be opportunistic within our clearly set-out 
financial criteria. This is supported by the high level 
of ownership by management and employees. 20 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Our strategy
Description Strategic objectives Key highlights in 2014
Integration of sustainability 
throughout the business
Continuously improve our 
standards of health, safety and 
environmental performance, 
and be viewed as a responsible 
partner within the communities 
in which we operate. 
Develop and strengthen 
relationships with all our 
stakeholders
• Roll-out of “SafeWork” initiative to key high risk operations in the 
Democratic Republic of Congo, Zambia, Bolivia, Kazakhstan 
and the Ukraine; 118,000 employees received training
• Continued progress towards zero fatalities (16 in 2014, 26 in 2013)
• Continued improvement in lost time injury frequency rate to 
1.58 per million hours in 2014 (1.87 in 2013)
• Zero major or catastrophic environmental incidents
• $114 million spent on community investments
Maintain conservative 
financial profile and strong 
BBB/Baa investment grade 
ratings
Maintain a strong and flexible 
capital structure, capable of 
supporting growth and 
shareholder returns and 
providing continued access 
to bank and international 
debt capital markets on 
competitive terms
• Issued USD, EUR, CHF and AUD bonds totalling $5.3bn
• Renewed the multi-tranche committed revolving credit bank 
facilities totalling $15.3bn
• Credit rating reaffirmed at BBB/Baa2
• Committed available liquidity of $9.4bn
Focus on cost control and 
operating efficiencies
Increase the net present value 
of our business by improving 
the competitiveness of our assets 
through an ongoing focus on 
cost management and logistical 
capabilities, including operating 
safely and efficiently
• Realisation of Xstrata integration synergies of $2.4bn p.a.
• Continued progress with the completion and commissioning of 
legacy growth programmes (e.g. Ernest Henry Mine)
• First quartile cost positions being achieved through higher volumes 
of lower cost production; further improvements expected
• Australian coal operations suspended for 3 weeks at the end of 
December, given market oversupply; output reduced by 5Mt
Capitalise on investments 
in industrial assets
Evaluate investments for 
acquisitions, development and 
disposal, particularly when 
assets no longer support core 
business and/or when attractive 
selling opportunities arise
• Sale of Las Bambas copper project in Peru to meet MOFCOM 
requirement for Xstrata acquisition
• Sale of the Frieda River copper project in Papua New Guinea
• Ramp up of Mutanda copper asset in the Democratic Republic of 
Congo achieved on time and within budget
• Review/slow-down of Askaf iron ore project in Mauritania, in light 
of declining iron ore prices
• Acquisition of Zhairemsky in Kazakhstan, adding lead-zinc-silver 
to Kazzinc’s mineral resource base
Capitalise on marketing 
opportunities/activities
Recognise opportunities through 
our extensive industry insight and 
unrivalled market intelligence. 
Provide a superior service to 
customers and a reliable supply 
of quality product
• Marketing contribution/synergies from Xstrata and Viterra 
acquisitions rebased the EBIT range from $2bn-$3bn to $2.7bn-
$3.7bn p.a.
• Growing base of strategically located logistics infrastructure 
provides global distribution capabilities
• Agreed JV with ADM in Brazilian Portos do Pará, strategically 
located to serve the Brazilian agricultural sector
Leverage the geographic 
scope and diversification 
of operations
Target opportunities in 
geographies where we 
currently operate and further 
expansion in traditional 
and emerging markets
• Acquisition in partnership with Sumitomo of 50.1% stake in 
Clermont coal mine in Australia
• Acquisition of Caracal Energy, an oil exploration and development 
company with operations in the Republic of Chad
Additional information
www.glencore.com/investors Further details on our performance can be found in the Financial and 
Business review sections. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
21
Priorities going forward
Key performance 
indicators Risks
Business model 
reference
• Completion of SafeWork roll-out 
for all employees
• Zero fatalities
• Continue reduction in our lost time 
injury frequency rate
• Continue to report zero major 
or catastrophic environmental 
incidents
• Continued engagement with, and 
investment in, the communities in 
the regions where we operate
• Zero fatalities
• LTIFR, TRIFR
• Major/catastrophic 
environmental incidents
• Community investments
• Sustainable development 
risks
• Ensure strong liquidity position is 
maintained through continued 
access to global bond and bank 
markets
• Extend and renew Group bank 
facilities on competitive terms, as 
appropriate
• Maintain commitment to strong 
BBB/Baa investment grade credit 
rating
• Strong BBB/Baa target
• Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA
• Funds from operations
• FFO to net debt
• External risks
• Business activities risks
• Sustainable development 
risks
• Ongoing focus on improving the 
quality of assets through year-on-
year cost reductions, mine life 
extensions and productivity and 
safety improvements
• Focus on sourcing competitively 
priced physical commodities from 
reliable third party suppliers
• Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA
• Funds from operations
• FFO to net debt
• Net income
• External risks
• Business activities risks
• Sustainable development 
risks
• Ongoing evaluation of existing 
operations, processes and new 
opportunities in an effort to achieve 
industry-leading returns on capital
• Ramp-up at Katanga, McArthur 
River and Mount Isa zinc expansions
• Ramp-up of the challenging 
Koniambo nickel project; finalise 
investigation into and recover from 
the metal leak which occurred in 
December 2014
• Sale of Sinclair nickel mine (subject 
to approvals)
• Exit/sale of non-core platinum 
business
• Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA
• Funds from operations
• FFO to net debt
• Net income
• External risks
• Business activities risks
• Continue to leverage our capability 
to realise value at each stage of the 
commodity supply chain
• Ongoing evaluation of commodities’ 
flows and market changes to 
maximise product and geographical 
arbitrages
• Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA
• Funds from operations
• FFO to net debt
• Net income
• External risks
• Business activities risks
• Maintain a disciplined approach 
towards acquisitions and disposals, 
including the exit/sale of our 
non-core platinum business
• Ongoing review of project portfolio
• Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA
• Funds from operations
• FFO to net debt
• Net income
• External risks
• Business activities risks
• Sustainable development 
risks
• Further details on our KPI 
performance can be found on 
pages 22 to 25
• Further details on risks can 
be found on pages 26 to 33
Key:
1. Sustainable approach
2. Financial profile
3. Insight
4. Explore, acquire & develop
5. Extract & produce
6. Process & refine
7. Blending & optimising
8. Logistics & delivery
9. Global operations
  
 
3 2 4
5
6
7 8 9
1 22 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Key performance indicators
Definition
Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA, as defined 
in note 2 to the financial statements, 
are measures that provide insight 
into our overall business performance 
(a combination of cost management, 
seizing market opportunities and 
growth), and the corresponding 
flow driver towards achieving 
an industry-leading return on 
equity. Adjusted EBIT is revenue 
less cost of goods sold and selling 
and administrative expenses plus 
share of income from associates 
and joint ventures, and dividend 
income as disclosed on the face 
of the consolidated statement of 
income, excluding significant 
items. Adjusted EBITDA consists 
of Adjusted EBIT plus depreciation 
and amortisation.
2014 performance
2014 Adjusted EBITDA was 
$12.8 billion, broadly consistent 
with 2013, while Adjusted EBIT was 
$6.7 billion, down 10% compared to 
2013. This reflects generally lower 
commodity prices on our industrial 
assets, offset by the benefits of a net 
production increase, currency related 
cost benefits and an 18% increase 
in marketing Adjusted EBIT to 
$2.8 billion.
Key performance indicators
Our financial and sustainable development key performance indicators (KPIs) provide some measure of our performance 
against the key drivers of our strategy. All 2013 financial KPIs are presented on a pro forma basis.
Financial key performance indicators
Definition
FFO is a measure that reflects our 
ability to generate cash for investment, 
debt servicing and distributions to 
shareholders. FFO comprises cash 
provided by operating activities 
before working capital changes, less 
tax and net interest payments plus 
dividends received.
2014 performance
2014 FFO was $10.2 billion, broadly 
in line with 2013, reflective of the 
consistent year over year Adjusted 
EBITDA result of $12.8 billion 
where increased marketing results, 
production and currency related cost 
benefits mitigated the impact of the 
weaker commodity price environment.
Definition
Net debt is a measure of how we are 
managing our debt, one of the key 
drivers in ensuring we maintain an 
investment grade rating status and an 
attractive cost of capital. In addition, 
the relationship of FFO to net debt 
is an indication of our financial 
flexibility and strength, a key driver 
of our strategy to take advantage of 
capital disciplined opportunism. 
Net debt is defined as total current and 
non-current borrowings less cash and 
cash equivalents, marketable securities 
and readily marketable inventories.
2014 performance
During 2014, net debt decreased 
to $30.5 billion, reflecting the net 
proceeds of the Las Bambas/Caracal 
transactions as well as still elevated 
levels of capital expenditure relating 
to some of our key expansion projects 
which have been commissioned or are 
nearing completion during 2014 and 
which should start to accrue benefits 
in the near future. Capital expenditure 
is expected to continue on its 
declining trajectory.
Funds from operations (FFO)
US$ million
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
2013 2014
Net debt/FFO to net debt
US$ million
40,000
30,000
20,000
10,000
0
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
2013 2014
%
Net debt FFO to net debt
2013
Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA
US$ million
14,000
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,000
4,000
2,000
0
2014
EBIT EBITDA Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
23
Net income
US$ million
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
2013 2014
Definition
Net income is that attributable 
to equity shareholders 
pre-significant items. 
2014 performance
2014 net income was $4.3 billion, down 
7% compared to 2013, reflecting the 
10% reduction in EBIT, explained on 
page 22.
Non-financial key performance indicators
2013
Fatalities
number
30
20
10
0
2014
Definition
We believe that every work-related 
incident, illness and injury is 
preventable and we are committed 
to providing a safe workplace. 
We do not distinguish between 
contractors and employees; the safety 
of all our workforce is of paramount 
importance. We insist that our 
contractors comply fully with our 
safety standards and procedures, 
and monitor their compliance.
Our safety-related initiatives and 
performance are discussed at every 
Board HSEC Committee meeting.
2014 performance 
It is with regret that we report that 
16 people lost their lives at our 
managed operations in 2014. 13 of 
the 16 fatalities occurred at a small 
number of assets employing 71,000 
people, located in challenging 
geographies where a culture of safety 
did not exist prior to our involvement. 
The remaining 3 incidents occurred 
at our more developed operations, 
employing 110,000 people, 
representing a world class safety 
performance; our ongoing challenge 
and commitment is to embed this 
performance into the aforementioned 
“focus assets”.
Definition
The lost time injury frequency rate 
(LTIFR) is a key measure of how we 
are delivering against our commitment 
to the safety of our total workforce, 
including contractors. 
Lost time incidents (LTIs) are recorded 
when an employee or contractor is 
unable to work following an incident. 
Prior to 2014, Glencore recorded lost 
days from the calendar day following 
the incident while Xstrata recorded 
as lost days from the next rostered 
day after the incident. As a result, the 
combined LTI figure, prior to 2014, is 
not based on a consistent definition. 
From 2014, LTIs are recorded for lost 
days beginning on the first rostered 
day that the worker is absent after the 
day of the injury. The day of the injury 
is not included. 
LTIFR is the total number of LTIs 
recorded per million working hours. 
LTIs do not include Restricted Work 
Injuries (RWI) and fatalities (fatalities 
were included until 2013). Historic data 
has been restated to exclude fatalities.
2014 performance
In 2014, our Group LTIFR was 
1.58 injuries recorded per million 
working hours, down from 1.87 in 
2013. The decrease reflects ongoing 
initiatives that are working towards 
bringing about a long-term change 
to safety culture at a handful of 
focus assets. 
2013
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)
per million hours worked
2.0
1.8
1.6
1.4
1.2
1.0
2014 24 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Key performance indicators
Definition
We undertake an extensive and 
complex range of activities, which 
are not limited to the extraction of 
natural resources, but also include 
significant logistical operations such 
as maritime transportation. One way 
in which we measure the robustness 
of our procedures and policies 
is the frequency and severity of 
environmental incidents in the Group. 
We grade environmental incidents 
according to severity. We classify 
incidents against a five-point 
scale from catastrophic (Category 
5) to negligible (Category 1). 
We aim for zero major to catastrophic 
environmental incidents. 
2014 performance
During 2014, there were zero major to 
catastrophic environmental incidents, 
compared to one in 2013, which arose 
from an arson incident. 
Definition
Our CO 2 emissions reporting is 
separated into Scope 1 and Scope 2 
emissions. Scope 1 includes emissions 
from combustion in owned or 
controlled boilers, furnaces and 
vehicles/vessels, coal seam emissions 
and rice cultivation. Scope 2 consists 
of those generated in creating the 
electricity, steam and heat provided 
to the organisation by external 
utility companies.
2014 performance
In 2014, our business accounted for 
23.2 million tonnes of CO 2 Scope 1 
(direct) emissions. This was a 5% 
decrease on 2013 Scope 1 emissions, 
which was mainly the result 
of improved reporting of coal 
seam emissions. 
A revised approach to reporting 
resulted in the exclusion of emissions 
arising from time-chartered vessels 
(which are allocated to Scope 3 as 
Glencore does not operate these 
vessels) and the inclusion of CO 2 
emissions from biomass. This resulted 
in the restatement of prior year figures.
We also emitted 13.4 million tonnes 
of CO 2 Scope 2 (indirect) emissions, 
a 3% decrease on 2013.
Definition
Energy is measured in petajoules (PJ), 
and includes both electricity usage and 
energy from the combustion of fuel. 
Many of our operations use energy 
intensively and energy use is a 
significant component of our total 
operation costs. As such, we aim to 
continually improve energy efficiency 
across our operations. Our commodity 
businesses have bespoke energy 
efficiency plans and regular energy 
audits are carried out.
2014 performance
Differing from previous years, our 
2014 calculations excluded emissions 
arising from time-chartered vessels 
(which Glencore does not operate) 
and reductants. This also resulted in 
a restatement of prior years’ figures. 
The net 2014 total energy usage was 
250 PJ, an increase of 2% on 2013. 
This slight increase was due to 
various projects ramping up towards 
full production.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Million tonnes CO
2
40
30
20
10
0
Scope 1 Scope 2
2013 2014
Energy usage
Petajoules
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Direct energy Indirect energy
2013 2014
Electricity
renewable
Electricity
non-renewable
Oil products
Coal/coke
Natural gas
Renewables
Other 
sources
Energy source (% of Group total)
Environmental incidents  
Major/catastrophic incidents
2013: one 
2014: none  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
25
Definition
Water withdrawal is a measure of our 
operational resource efficiency.
We monitor total water used as a 
measure of our operational resource 
efficiency. Our operations have an 
ongoing responsibility to increase 
the use of processed and recycled 
wastewater in order to reduce our 
impact on local water supplies. 
Recycled water is predominantly 
used in place of fresh water for 
processes such as dust suppression.
2014 performance
In 2014, we used 958 million m
3
 of 
water, a small increase on 2013, due 
to the larger scale of the Group’s 
operations. We have redefined our 
reporting indicators to ensure an 
improved and more consistent 
approach to reporting. This gave rise 
to a restatement of 2013 numbers.
Definition
Community investments are our 
contributions to, and financial support 
of, the broader communities in the 
regions where we operate.
At least 1% of annual Group profit is 
set aside to fund initiatives that benefit 
communities and local sustainable 
development. We also make in-kind 
contributions, such as equipment and 
management. We support programmes 
for community development, 
enterprise and job creation, health, 
education and the environment. 
2014 performance
In 2014, the funds we made available 
for community investments were 
$114 million, a decrease on the 
amount invested in 2013, reflecting the 
challenging operating environment  
for most of our commodities.
Community investment by region
%
Africa
Asia
Australia
Europe
N. America
S. America
Capacity 
building
Environment
Health
Identified 
local or 
regional need
Community investment by spend
%
Water withdrawn
Million m
3
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
2013 2014 2013 2014
Community investment spend
US$ million
200
150
100
50
0 26 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk Management is one of the key responsibilities of 
the Board and the Audit Committee. Our risks and 
uncertainties – whether under our control or not – are 
highly dynamic and our assessment and our responses to 
them are critical to our future business and prospects. 
Our risk management framework identifies and 
manages risk in a way that is supportive of our 
strategic objectives of opportunistically deploying 
capital, while protecting our future financial 
security and flexibility. Our approach towards 
risk management is framed by the ongoing 
challenge of our understanding of the risks that 
we are exposed to, our risk appetite and how 
these risks change over time. 
The Board assesses and approves our overall risk 
appetite, monitors our risk exposure and sets the 
Group-wide limits, which are annually reviewed. 
This process is supported by the Audit and HSEC 
committees whose roles include evaluating and 
monitoring the risks inherent in their respective 
areas as described on pages 94–96 and page 98.
Our current assessment of our risks, according 
to materiality, is detailed on the following 
pages. In compiling this assessment we have, 
in comparison with last year’s analysis:
• simplified or shortened our explanations;
• combined risks where they are 
conceptually similar;
• removed as separate categories the risks 
relating to hedging, non-controlling stakes, 
resources and reserves, arbitrage opportunities, 
supply of commodities from third parties and 
risk management policies and procedures. 
These all remain risks to which we are 
exposed but we no longer consider them to be 
standalone principal risks and uncertainties; 
and
• indicated changes in our assessment of the 
impact of these risks in comparison with a year 
ago in the table below.
The commentary on the risks below should be 
read in conjunction with the description of our 
methodologies in the compilation of this risk 
information which is set out on the next page.
To the extent that any of these risks are realised, 
they may affect, among other matters: our current 
and future business and prospects, financial 
position, liquidity, asset values, growth potential, 
sustainable development (whether as to adverse 
health, safety, environmental, community effects 
or otherwise) and reputation.
Overview of principal risks and uncertainties
External/sustainable development
Pages 28, 29, 32 and 33
Business activities
Pages 30–31
Increased risk
• Fluctuations in supply of or demand 
for commodities
• Reductions of commodity prices
• Laws, enforcement
• Emissions and climate change
• Counterparty credit and performance
No change in risk
• Fluctuations in currency exchange rates
• Geopolitical risk
• Liquidity risk
• Community relations
• Employees
• Health, Safety, Environment, including 
potential catastrophes
• Sourcing, freight, storage infrastructure 
and logistics
• Development and operating risks and hazards
Decreased risk
• Cost control Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
27
Understanding the information on risks
There are many risks and uncertainties which 
have the potential to significantly impact our 
business including competitive, economic, 
political, legal, regulatory, social, business and 
financial. The order in which these risks and 
uncertainties appear does not necessarily reflect 
the likelihood of their occurrence or the relative 
magnitude of their potential material adverse 
effect on our business.
We have sought to provide examples of particular 
risks. However, in every case these do not attempt 
to be an exhaustive list. These principal risks and 
uncertainties should be considered in connection 
with any forward looking statements in this 
document as explained on page 205.
Identifying, quantifying and managing risk 
is complex and challenging. Although it is 
our policy and practice to identify and, where 
appropriate and practical, actively manage such 
risks to support objectives in managing capital 
and future financial security and flexibility, our 
policies and procedures may not adequately 
identify, monitor and quantify all risks.
The comments below describe our attempts 
to manage, balance or offset risk. Inevitably, 
however, risk by its very nature is uncertain and 
events may lead to our policies and procedures 
not having a material mitigating effect on the 
negative impacts of the occurrence of a particular 
event. Since many risks are connected, our 
analysis should be read against all risks to which 
it may be relevant. 
In this section, we have sought to update our 
explanations, reflecting our current outlook. 
Mostly this entails emphasising certain risks 
more strongly than other risks rather than the 
elimination of, or creation of, risks. We have also 
sought to provide a more concise explanation 
of our risks. In order to provide both historic 
and updated information on our risks, there is 
available on our website at www.glencore.com/
who-we-are/corporate-governance/governance-
downloads the text of this section from last year’s 
annual report which we may supplement from 
time to time. 
To provide for concise text:
• where we hold minority interests in certain 
businesses, although these entities are not 
generally subsidiaries, the interests are mostly 
taken as being referred to in analysing these 
risks, and ‘business’ refers to these and any 
business of the Group;
• where we refer to natural hazards, events of 
nature or similar phraseology we are referring 
to matters such as earthquake, flood, severe 
weather and other natural phenomena;
• in each case our mitigation of risks will 
include the taking out of insurance where 
it is customary and economic to do so;
• ‘risks’ include uncertainties;
• ‘laws’ include regulations of any type;
• a reference to a note is a note to the 2014 
financial statements; and
• we have referred to our 2014 Sustainability 
Report which will be published in April 2015.
The natural diversification of our portfolio of 
commodities, geographies, currencies, assets and 
liabilities is a key source of mitigation for many 
of the risks we face. In addition, through our 
governance processes as noted previously and 
our proactive management approach we seek to 
mitigate, where possible, the impacts of certain 
risks should they materialise. In particular:
• our liquidity risk management policy requires 
us to maintain (via a minimum prescribed 
level) sufficient cash and cash equivalents 
and other sources of committed funding 
available to meet anticipated and unanticipated 
funding needs;
• making use of credit enhancement products, 
such as letters of credit, insurance policies and 
bank guarantees and imposing limits on open 
accounts extended;
• our management of marketing risk, including 
daily analysis of Group value at risk (VaR); and
• adhering to the principles encapsulated in the 
Glencore Corporate Practice (GCP) programme. 28 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk Comments
External
Fluctuations in the supply of, or demand for, 
the commodities in which we operate
We are dependent on the expected volumes of supply or demand 
for commodities in which we are active, which can vary for 
many reasons, such as competitor supply policies, changes in 
resource availability, government policies and regulation, costs 
of production, global and regional economic conditions and events 
of nature.
This risk is currently prevalent in our industry where 
demand growth uncertainty exists in various commodities 
we produce and market, notably within some copper, coal 
and oil markets, while supply seeks to balance such demand. 
See the Chief Executive’s review on page 6.
Reductions of commodity prices
The revenue and earnings of substantial parts of our industrial 
asset activities and, to a lesser extent, our marketing activities, are 
dependent upon prevailing commodity prices. Commodity prices 
are influenced by a number of external factors, including the 
supply of and demand for commodities, speculative activities 
by market participants, global political and economic conditions 
and related industry cycles and production costs in major 
producing countries. 
A significant downturn in the price of commodities generally 
results in a decline in our profitability and could potentially 
result in impairments. It is especially harmful to profitability in 
the industrial activities which are more directly exposed to price 
risk due to the higher level of fixed costs, while our marketing 
activities are ordinarily substantially hedged in respect of price 
risk and principally operate a service-like margin-based model.
The price declines over 2014 in some of our commodities 
especially copper, coal, oil, precious metals and iron ore, 
have been a drag on the 2014 return on capital measure. 
Against the backdrop of these fluctuations, as we would 
expect, there were no breaches during 2014 of our 
$100 million Group VaR limit pertaining to our marketing 
activities – see page 92.
See the Chief Executive’s review on page 6.
Details of impairments recorded during the year are 
contained in note 5.
Fluctuation in currency exchange rates
The vast majority of our transactions are denominated in US 
dollars, while operating costs are spread across many different 
countries, the currencies of which fluctuate against the US dollar. 
A depreciation in the value of the US dollar against one or more 
of these currencies will result in an increase in the cost base of the 
relevant operations in US dollar terms. 
The main currency exchange rate exposure is through our 
industrial assets, as a large proportion of the costs incurred by 
these operations is denominated in the currency of the country 
in which each asset is located. The largest of these exposures is 
to the currencies listed on page 44. 
This risk is currently prevalent in our industry. However, 
these fluctuations tend to move in symmetry with those in 
commodity prices and supply and demand fundamentals 
as noted above, such that decreases in commodity prices are 
generally associated with increases in the US dollar relative 
to local currencies and vice versa. Consequently, the current 
relative strength of the US dollar has been beneficial to us 
through lower equivalent US dollar operating costs at many 
of our operations. This positive, however, has been more 
than offset by the substantial falls in commodity prices 
described above.
Geopolitical risk
We operate and own assets in a large number of geographic 
regions and countries, some of which are categorised as 
developing, complex or having unstable political or social 
climates. As a result, we are exposed to a wide range of political, 
economic, regulatory and tax environments. Policies or laws in 
these countries may change in a manner that may be adverse for 
us. Also, some countries with more stable political environments 
may nevertheless change policies and laws in a manner adverse 
to us. We have no control over changes to policies, laws and taxes.
The geopolitical risks associated with operating in a large number 
of regions and countries, if realised, could affect our ability to 
manage or retain interests in our industrial activities.
During 2014, we were subject to significant changes in fiscal 
policy from countries in South America, Africa and Asia 
Pacific and we expect this trend to continue in 2015 as the 
global geopolitical climate continues to evolve. 
See map on page 6 that sets out our global 
operational footprint. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
29
Risk Comments
Laws, enforcement, permits and licences to operate
We are exposed to and subject to extensive laws including those 
relating to bribery and corruption, taxation, anti-trust, financial 
markets regulation, management of natural resources, licences 
over resources owned by various governments, exploration, 
production and post-closure reclamation, the employment of 
expatriates and cultural preservation. The terms attaching to any 
permit or licence to operate may also be onerous. Furthermore, in 
certain countries title to land and rights and permits in respect of 
resources (including indigenous title) is not always clear. Title to 
our rights may be challenged and insurance may not be available. 
The legal system and dispute resolution mechanisms in some 
countries may be uncertain or underfunded so that we may 
be unable to enforce our understanding of our title, permits or 
other rights. Laws may allow lawsuits to be brought, based upon 
damage resulting from past and current operations, and could 
lead to the imposition of substantial sanctions, the cessation of 
operations, compensation and remedial and/or preventative 
orders. Moreover, the costs associated with legal compliance 
including regulatory permits are substantial. Any changes to 
these laws or their more stringent enforcement or restrictive 
interpretation could cause additional material expenditure to 
be incurred (including in our marketing business) or impose 
suspensions of operations and delays in the development of 
industrial assets. Failure to obtain or renew a necessary permit 
could mean that we would be unable to proceed with the 
development or continued operation of an asset.
A dispute relating to an industrial asset could disrupt or delay 
relevant extraction, processing or other projects and/or impede 
our ability to develop new industrial properties. 
We are committed to complying with or exceeding the laws 
and external requirements applicable to our operations 
and products. Through this and monitoring of legislative 
requirements, engagement with government and regulators, 
and compliance with applicable permits and licences, we 
strive to ensure full compliance. We also seek to manage 
these risks through the Glencore Corporate Practice (GCP) 
programme. Its practical application across our business is 
detailed in our code of conduct (www.glencore.com/who-
we-are/corporate-governance/policies/code-of-conduct/) 
and this framework is reflected in our Sustainability Reports. 
The Group’s anti-corruption policy may also be found at: 
www.glencore.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance/
policies/global-anti-corruption-policy/ . 
Liquidity risk
Our failure to access funds (liquidity) would severely limit our 
ability to engage in desired activities and grow our business. 
Liquidity risk is the risk that we are unable to meet our payment 
obligations when due, or are unable, on an ongoing basis, to 
borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis 
at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments. 
While we adjust our minimum internal liquidity threshold 
from time to time in response to changes in market conditions, 
this minimum internal liquidity target may be breached due to 
circumstances we are unable to control, such as general market 
disruptions, sharp movements in the prices of commodities or 
an operational problem that affects our suppliers or customers 
or ourselves.
A lack of liquidity may mean that we will not have funds available 
to maintain or increase marketing and industrial activities, both 
of which employ substantial amounts of capital. If we do not have 
funds available to sustain or develop our marketing and industrial 
activities then these activities will decrease. 
As at 31 December 2014, the Group had available undrawn 
committed credit facilities and cash amounting to 
$9.4 billion, comfortably ahead of our $3 billion minimum 
prescribed level. In addition, note 26 details our financial 
and capital risk management approach. 30 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk Comments
Business activities
Counterparty credit and performance risk
Financial assets consisting principally of marketable securities, 
receivables and advances, derivative instruments and long-term 
advances and loans can expose us to concentrations of credit risk.
Furthermore, we are subject to non-performance risk by our 
suppliers, customers and hedging counterparties, in particular via 
our marketing activities. 
Non-performance by suppliers, customers and hedging 
counterparties may occur and cause losses in a range of situations, 
such as:
• a significant increase in commodity prices resulting in 
suppliers being unwilling to honour their contractual 
commitments to sell commodities at pre-agreed prices;
• a significant reduction in commodity prices resulting in 
customers being unwilling or unable to honour their contractual 
commitments to purchase commodities at pre-agreed prices; 
and
• customers taking delivery of commodities or hedging 
counterparties may find themselves unable to honour 
their contractual obligations due to financial distress or 
other reasons.
We monitor the credit quality of our counterparties and seek 
to reduce the risk of customer non-performance by requiring 
credit support from creditworthy financial institutions 
including making extensive use of credit enhancement 
products, such as letters of credit, insurance policies and 
bank guarantees, where appropriate, and by imposing limits 
on open accounts extended. 
In addition, note 26 details our financial and capital risk 
management approach.
Sourcing, freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics
Our marketing activities require access to significant amounts 
of third party supplies of commodities, freight, storage, 
infrastructure and logistics support and we are exposed to 
reduced accessibility and/or increased pressure in the costs 
of these. In addition, we often compete with other producers, 
purchasers or marketers of commodities or other products 
for limited storage and berthing facilities at ports and freight 
terminals, which can result in delays in loading or unloading 
products and expose us to significant delivery interruptions. 
Increases in the costs of freight, storage, infrastructure and 
logistics support or limitations or interruptions in the supply 
chain (including any disruptions, refusals or inabilities to supply) 
could adversely affect our business. 
Our global network of infrastructure and logistics operations 
such as vessels, oil terminals and tank farms, metals and 
other warehouses and grain silos assists in mitigating risks 
related to disruptions to or limitations of sourcing, freight, 
storage, infrastructure and logistics.
See map on page 6 that sets out our global 
operational footprint.
Development and operating risks and hazards
Our industrial activities are subject to numerous risks and 
hazards normally associated with the initiation, development, 
operation and/or expansion of natural resource projects, many 
of which are beyond our control. These include unanticipated 
variations in grade and other geological problems (so that 
anticipated or stated reserves, resources or mineralised potential 
may not conform to expectations and in particular may not 
reflect the reserves and resources which the Group reports 
and as a result the anticipated volumes or grades may not be 
achieved). Other examples include seismic activity, natural 
hazards, processing problems, technical and IT malfunctions, 
unavailability of materials and equipment, reliability and/or 
constraints of infrastructure, industrial accidents, labour force 
insufficiencies, disruptions and disputes, disasters, protests, 
force majeure factors, cost overruns, delays in permitting or 
other regulatory matters, vandalism and crime. 
Development and operating risks and hazards are managed 
through our continuous development status evaluation and 
reporting processes and ongoing assessment, reporting 
and communication of the risks that affect our operations 
through the annual risk review processes and updates to the 
risk register. 
We publish quarterly our production results and annually 
our assessment of reserves and resources based on available 
drilling and other data sources. 
During 2014, continued power shortages and reliability at 
our copper operations in the Democratic Republic of Congo 
affected production. In response, we continued to invest in 
long-term power solutions via the Inga dam refurbishment 
together with short-term solutions through the installations 
of mobile generating capacity. 
Production at Koniambo (nickel) was partially suspended 
in December 2014 following detection of a metal leak at the 
metallurgical plant.  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
31
Risk Comments
Development and operating risks and hazards 
(continued)
The development and operating of assets may lead to future 
upward revisions in estimated costs, completion delays, cost 
overruns, suspension of current projects or other operational 
difficulties. Risks and hazards could result in damage to, or 
destruction of, properties or production facilities, may cause 
production to be reduced or to cease at those properties or 
production facilities, may result in a decrease in the quality of the 
products, personal injury or death, third party damage or loss, 
and may result in actual production differing from estimates 
of production. 
Natural hazards, sabotage or other interference in operations, 
could increase costs or delay supplies. In some locations poor 
quality infrastructure is endemic. The realisation of these 
development and operating risks and hazards could require 
significant and additional capital and operating expenditures 
to fund abatement, restoration or compensation to third parties 
for any loss and/or payment of fines or damages.
Cost control
As commodity prices are outside of our control, the 
competitiveness and sustainable long-term profitability of our 
industrial asset portfolio depends significantly on our ability to 
closely manage costs and maintain a broad spectrum of low-cost, 
efficient operations. Costs associated with the operation of our 
industrial assets can be broadly categorised into labour costs and 
other operating and infrastructure costs. Overall production and 
operating costs are heavily influenced by the extent of ongoing 
development required, ore grades, mine planning, processing 
technology, logistics, energy and supply costs and the impact 
of exchange rate fluctuations. All of our industrial assets are, to 
varying degrees, affected by changes in costs for labour and fuel. 
Unit production costs are also significantly affected by production 
volumes and therefore production levels are frequently a key 
factor in determining the overall cost competitiveness of an 
industrial asset. 
Maintaining costs and, where possible, lowering them is 
supported by our reporting on these measures, coupled with 
the inclusion of certain cost control evaluation measures in 
assessing management performance.  32 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk Comments
Sustainable development
Emissions and climate change
Our global presence exposes us to a number of jurisdictions in 
which regulations or laws have been or are being considered to 
limit or reduce emissions. The likely effect of these changes will 
be to increase the cost for fossil fuels, impose levies for emissions 
in excess of certain permitted levels and increase administrative 
costs for monitoring and reporting. Third parties including 
potential or actual investors may also introduce policies adverse 
to a company which has significant activities in or concerning 
fossil fuels (a fossil fuel company). 
Increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including 
the progressive introduction of carbon emissions trading 
mechanisms and tighter emission reduction targets is likely to 
raise costs. In addition, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions 
could increase costs and reduce demand. Furthermore, the desire 
or ability to invest in us by some investors may potentially be 
reduced or eliminated due to changes in investment policies 
concerning fossil fuels companies. 
Through our sustainability programme (operated under our 
GCP framework), we strive to ensure emissions and climate 
change issues are identified, understood and effectively 
managed and monitored in order to meet international 
best practice standards and ensure regulatory compliance. 
We seek to ensure that there is a balanced debate with regard 
to the ongoing use of fossil fuels.
Our 2014 Sustainability Report will provide further details 
of the operation of our community engagement programme, 
including the international standards to which we 
voluntarily submit.
In recent months, there have been announcements by 
some investment groups regarding the introduction of, 
or tightening of policies, concerning reduced investment 
in fossil fuel companies. 
Community relations
The continued success of our existing operations and our future 
projects are in part dependent upon broad support and a healthy 
relationship with the respective local communities. A perception 
that we are not respecting or advancing the interests of the 
communities in which we operate, could have a negative impact 
on our ‘‘social licence to operate’’ , our ability to secure access to 
new resources and our financial performance. The consequences 
of negative community reaction could also have a material 
adverse impact on the cost, profitability, ability to finance or even 
the viability of an operation and the safety and security of our 
workforce and assets. Such events could lead to disputes with 
governments or with local communities or any other stakeholders 
and give rise to reputational damage. Even in cases where no 
adverse action is actually taken, the uncertainty associated with 
such instability could negatively impact the perceived value of 
our assets. 
We believe that the best way to manage these vital 
relationships is to adhere to the principles of open dialogue 
and cooperation. In doing so, we engage with local 
communities to demonstrate our operations’ contribution 
to socio-economic development and seek to ensure that 
appropriate measures are taken to prevent or mitigate 
possible adverse impacts on the community, along with 
the regular reporting as outlined on our website at: 
www.glencore.com/sustainability/our-approach-to-
sustainability/communities/engagement/
Employees
The maintenance of positive employee and union relations and 
the ability to attract and retain skilled workers, including senior 
management are key to our success. This can be challenging, 
especially in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, or 
in which they may be exposed to other hazardous conditions. 
Many employees are represented by labour unions under various 
collective labour agreements. Their employing company may not 
be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its collective labour agreements 
when they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher 
wage demands than would be the case for non-unionised labour. 
In addition, existing labour agreements may not prevent a strike 
or work stoppage. 
We understand that one of the key factors in our 
success is a good and trustworthy relationship with our 
people. This priority is reflected in the principles of our 
sustainability programme and related guidance, which 
require regular, open, fair and respectful communication, 
zero tolerance for human rights violations, fair remuneration 
and, above all, a safe working environment, as outlined on 
our website at: www.glencore.com/careers/our-people/ Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
33
Risk Comments
Health, safety, environment,  
including potential catastrophes
Our operations are subject to health, safety and environmental 
laws along with compliance with our corporate sustainability 
framework. The processes and chemicals used in extraction and 
production methods, as well as transport and storage, may impose 
environmental hazards. A serious failure in these areas could lead 
to an emergency or catastrophe at a site. Environmental hazards 
may affect not only our properties but also third parties. 
The storage of tailings at our industrial assets and the storage and 
transport of oil are material examples of these risks. 
Environmental (including those associated with particular 
environmental hazards) and health and safety laws may result 
in increased costs or, in the event of non-compliance or incidents 
causing injury or death or other damage at or to our facilities 
or surrounding areas may result in significant losses, including 
arising from (1) interruptions in production, litigation and 
imposition of penalties and sanctions and (2) having licences and 
permits withdrawn or suspended or being forced to undertake 
extensive remedial clean-up action or to pay for government-
ordered remedial clean-up actions. In each case liability may 
arise where the hazards have been caused by any previous or 
subsequent owners or operators of the property, by any past or 
present owners of adjacent properties, or by third parties. 
Our approach to sustainability and our expectations of our 
employees, our contractors and our business partners are 
outlined in our sustainability programme. This underpins 
our approach towards social, environmental, safety 
and compliance indicators, providing clear guidance on 
the standards we expect all our operations to achieve. 
Through the reporting function within the programme, our 
Board and senior management receive regular updates and 
have a detailed oversight on how our business is performing 
across all of the sustainability indicators. We monitor 
catastrophic risks, in particular across our portfolio, and 
operate emergency response programmes.
Compliance with international and local regulations and 
standards are our top priorities. Our operating procedures 
and those of our partners in relation to owned tankers 
conform to industry best practice working under the 
guidelines of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), 
relevant Flag States and top tier classification societies.
See also pages 14 to 18.  34 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Financial review
Highlights
US$ million
2014 
Reported
2013 
Pro forma
2
Change %
2013 
Reported
2
Key statement of income and cash flows highlights
1
:
Adjusted EBITDA
3
12,764 13,071 (2) 10,466
Adjusted EBIT
3
6,706 7,434 (10) 5,970
Net income attributable to equity holders pre-significant items
4
4,285 4,583 (7) 3,666
Earnings per share (pre-significant items) (Basic) (US$) 0.33 0.35 (6) 0.33
Net income/(loss) attributable to equity holders
5
2,308 2,473 (7) (8,046)
Funds from operations (FFO)
6
10,169 10,375 (2) 8,030
Capital expenditure (excluding Las Bambas of $961 million and $1,734 million in 2014 
and pro forma 2013 respectively) 8,566 11,316 (24) 8,680
US$ million
31.12.2014
Reported
31.12.2013
Pro forma
2
Change %
31.12.2013
Reported
2
Key financial position highlights:
Total assets 152,205 154,862 (2) 154,862
Current capital employed (CCE)
7
 21,277 24,292 (12) 24,292
Net debt
6
30,532 35,798 (15) 35,798 
Ratios: 
FFO to Net debt
6
33.3% 29.0% 15 22.4%
Net debt to Adjusted EBITDA 2.39x 2.74x (13) 3.42x
Adjusted EBITDA to net interest 8.68x 9.12x (5) 7 .54x
Adjusted current ratio
7
 1.23x 1.18x 4 1.18x
1 Refer to basis of preparation on page 35.
2  2013 has been adjusted to reflect the updated fair value acquisition accounting for the acquisitions of Xstrata (see note 25).
3 Refer to note 2 of the financial statements for definition and reconciliation of Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA. 
4  Refer to significant items table on page 36.
5 2013 reported, adjusted by $(466) million as a result of the finalisation of the fair value adjustments relating to the acquisition of Xstrata and the resulting increase to the associated 
impairment (does not impact EBIT and EBITDA), see note 4 of the financial statements. Refer to page 196 for pro forma results and page 36 for reported results.
6 Refer to page 38.
7 Refer to glossary for definition.
  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
35
Pro forma financial results
Basis of presentation 
The reported financial information has been prepared on the basis as outlined in note 1 of the financial statements with the 
exception of the accounting treatment applied to certain associates and joint ventures for which Glencore’s attributable share 
of revenues and expenses are presented (see note 2). 
The unaudited and unreviewed pro forma financial information for 2013 has been prepared in a manner consistent with 
the accounting policies applicable for periods ending on or after 1 January 2013 as outlined in note 1 of the financial 
statements with the exception of the accounting treatment applied to certain associates and joint ventures for which 
Glencore’s attributable share of revenues and expenses are presented (see note 2) and reflects the final fair value adjustments 
arising from the acquisition of Xstrata on 2 May 2013 as if the acquisition and full consolidation of such had taken place 
as of 1 January 2013. These adjustments primarily relate to depreciation, amortisation and the release of onerous and 
unfavourable contract provisions. The pro forma financial information has been prepared for illustrative purposes only and, 
because of its nature, addresses a hypothetical situation and therefore does not reflect the Group’s actual financial position 
or results.
A reconciliation of the pro forma results to the reported results for the year ended 31 December 2013 is included in 
the glossary.
The reported and pro forma financial information is presented in the Financial review section before significant items 
unless otherwise stated to provide an enhanced understanding and comparative basis of the underlying financial 
performance. Significant items (refer to page 36) are items of income and expense which, due to their financial impact 
and nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are separated for internal reporting and analysis 
of Glencore’s results.
Financial results
Compared to the 2013 pro forma results, 2014 Adjusted EBITDA decreased by 2% to $12,764 million and Adjusted EBIT was 
down 10% to $6,706 million, as the impact of generally lower commodity prices on our industrial assets, offset the benefits of 
a net production increase, currency related cost benefits and an 18% increase in marketing Adjusted EBIT to $2,790 million. 
These results continue to reinforce the strength and resilience of Glencore’s business model and the diversification benefits 
associated with combining and integrating, across a broad spectrum of commodities, a portfolio of industrial assets with large 
scale physical sourcing, marketing and logistics capabilities.
Adjusted EBITDA/EBIT
Adjusted EBITDA by business segment is as follows:
US$ million
Marketing
activities
Reported
Industrial
activities
Reported
2014 
Adjusted 
EBITDA
Reported
Marketing 
activities
Pro forma 
Industrial 
activities
Pro forma
2013 
Adjusted 
EBITDA
Pro forma %
2013 
Adjusted 
EBITDA
Reported
Metals and minerals 1,545 7,077 8,622 1,643 7 ,203 8,846 (3) 6,939
Energy products 565 2,841 3,406 666 3,378 4,044 (16) 3,196
Agricultural products 996 213 1,209 383 61 444 172 444
Corporate and other (105) (368) (473) (93) (170) (263) n.m. (113)
Total 3,001 9,763 12,764 2,599 10,472 13,071 (2) 10,466
Adjusted EBIT by business segment is as follows:
US$ million
Marketing
activities
Reported
Industrial
activities
Reported
2014 
Adjusted 
EBIT
Reported
Marketing 
activities
Pro forma 
Industrial 
activities
Pro forma
2013 
Adjusted 
EBIT
Pro forma %
2013 
Adjusted 
EBIT
Reported
Metals and minerals 1,515 3,674 5,189 1,622 4,036 5,658 (8) 4,364
Energy products 524 486 1,010 629 1,244 1,873 (46) 1,536
Agricultural products 856 136 992 198 (6) 192 417 192
Corporate and other (105) (380) (485) (93) (196) (289) n.m. (122)
Total 2,790 3,916 6,706 2,356 5,078 7,434 (10) 5,970 36 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Financial review
Marketing Adjusted EBITDA in 2014 increased by 15% to $3,001 million, while Marketing Adjusted EBIT was up 18% 
to $2,790 million, representing 42% of total Adjusted EBIT, up from 32% in the comparable period. Metals and minerals 
Adjusted marketing EBIT, while still delivering a solid overall contribution, was down 7% over 2013, with iron ore having 
faced particularly challenging marketing conditions during the year. Energy products Adjusted marketing EBIT was down 
17% compared to 2013, reflecting the oversupplied coal and “flat” oil markets that prevailed during the first half of 2014, 
however market conditions, notably in oil, were more supportive towards the end of the year, on account of increased 
volatility and curve structure. The Agricultural products Adjusted marketing EBIT was up $658 million compared to 2013, 
on the back of strong results from Viterra and also improved results from the traditional marketing business and industrial 
activities, albeit from a low 2013 base. 
Industrial Adjusted EBITDA decreased by 7% to $9,763 million, owing to weaker average year over year commodity prices 
including coal, gold, silver, oil and copper down 8-20%, 10%, 21%, 9% and 6% respectively. Average nickel and zinc prices 
were the main exceptions, increasing by 13% each during the year. The net lower prices were partially mitigated by weaker 
producer currencies (notably the Tenge, Rand, and Canadian and Australian dollars, down relative to the US dollar, by 18%, 
12%, 7% and 7% respectively), increased production, notably Mutanda, as it delivered on its 200,000 tonnes per annum target 
and a stronger Agricultural industrial performance. 
Earnings 
A summary of the differences between reported Adjusted EBIT and income attributable to equity holders, including 
significant items, is set out in the following table:
US$ million
2014
Reported
2013
Pro forma
2013
Reported
Adjusted EBIT
1
6,706 7,434 5,970
Net finance and income tax expense in certain associates and joint ventures
1
(329) (436) (335)
Net finance costs (1,439) (1,434) (1,365)
Income tax expense (499) (712) (426)
Non-controlling interests (154) (269) (178)
Income attributable to equity holders pre-significant items 4,285 4,583 3,666
Earnings per share (Basic) pre-significant items (US$) 0.33 0.35 0.33
Significant items impacting Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBIT
Share of Associates’ exceptional items
2
(74) –(51)
Mark-to-market loss on certain aluminium positions
3
– (95) (95)
Unrealised intergroup profit elimination and other
3
(221) (261) (261)
(295) (356) (407)
Other expense – net
4
(1,073) (1,988) (11,488)
5
Write off of capitalised borrowing costs
6
(32) (23) (23)
Gain/(Loss) on disposal of investments 715 –(40)
Income tax (expense)/credit
7
(1,310) 183 172
Non-controlling interests share of other income
8
18 74 74
Total significant items (1,977) (2,110) (11,712)
5
Income/(Loss) attributable to equity holders 2,308 2,473 (8,046)
5
Earnings per share (Basic) (US$) 0.18 0.19 (0.73)
5
1 Refer to note 2 of the financial statements.
2 Recognised within share of income from associates and joint ventures, see note 2 of the financial statements. 
3 Recognised within cost of goods sold, see note 2 of the financial statements. 
4 Recognised within other expense – net, see notes 2 and 4 of the financial statements.
5 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata, see note 25 of the financial statements.
6 Recognised within interest expense.
7 Recognised within income tax expense.
8 Recognised within non-controlling interests. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
37
Significant items
Significant items are items of income and expense which, 
due to their financial impact and nature or the expected 
infrequency of the events giving rise to them, are separated 
for internal reporting and analysis of Glencore’s results 
to provide a better understanding and comparative basis 
of the underlying financial performance. 
In 2014, Glencore recognised $1,977 million of net other 
significant expenses, including $1,310 million of income tax 
expense. Due to the challenging platinum market conditions 
and following the decisions to slow down development 
at our Mauritanian and Congo iron ore projects and 
limit further oil exploration activities at the Matanda oil 
block in Cameroon, impairment charges of $146 million, 
$489 million and $212 million were recognised respectively. 
In addition, $95 million of ‘premium’ cost was recognised 
on the repurchase of bonds, offset by a gain of $715 million 
(before related tax charges of $531 million) on the disposal 
of Las Bambas. Apart from the Las Bambas tax on disposal, 
a net $779 million of significant tax expense has been 
recorded, primarily due to the currency translation effect 
of deferred tax balances, owing to the stronger US dollar, 
particularly against the Australian dollar. Furthermore, a 
positive UC Rusal mark-to-market movement of $501 million 
has been recognised directly in other comprehensive 
income, whereas the prior year negative movement was 
required to be recognised as an impairment through the 
statement of income as noted below. 
In 2013, Glencore recognised $11,712 million of net other 
significant expenses, mainly comprising a $1,160 million 
accounting loss related to the revaluation of Glencore’s 
34% interest in Xstrata immediately prior to acquisition, 
a $8,124 million goodwill impairment recognised upon 
acquisition of Xstrata and directly attributable transaction 
costs of $294 million. On acquisition, the underlying 
assets and liabilities acquired were fair valued, with an 
amount of resulting goodwill allocated to the business. 
The residual goodwill amount of $8,124 million relating 
to the mining business could not be supported and was 
impaired as explained in note 5. The size of the impairment 
was influenced by the deemed acquisition consideration, 
calculated by reference to Glencore’s share price on the 
date of acquisition. Furthermore, due to the persistent 
challenging nickel and aluminium market environments 
and revisions to some mine plans, impairment charges 
were recognised at Murrin Murrin ($454 million), 
Cobar ($137 million) and UC Rusal ($446 million). 
Additional significant items include $300 million of 
valuation adjustments made to various long-term loans 
and advances, $308 million of mark-to-market adjustments 
on other investments classified as held for trading and 
$261 million of unrealised profit eliminations. 
See notes 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements 
for further explanations.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs were $1,471 million in 2014 ($1,439 million 
on a pre-exceptional basis, excluding capitalised borrowing 
costs written off upon refinance of the revolving credit 
facilities), compared to $1,388 million ($1,365 million on 
a pre-exceptional basis) incurred during the comparable 
reporting period. Interest income in 2014 was $253 million, 
a 36% reduction compared to 2013, following the repayment 
in December 2013 of a substantial portion of certain loans 
extended to the Russneft Group. On a pre-exceptional basis, 
interest expense in 2014 was $1,692 million, a 4% reduction 
from $1,758 million in 2013, reflecting the ongoing lowering 
of borrowing costs (low base rates and spread), 
notwithstanding the Xstrata acquisition closing only in 
May 2013. Compared to pro forma interest of $1,871 million, 
the reduction is even more pronounced at 10%.
Income taxes
An income tax expense of $1,809 million was recognised 
during the year ended 2014 compared to an income tax 
expense of $254 million in 2013. Based on our capital and 
business structure, income tax expense, pre-significant 
items should approximate Adjusted EBIT for marketing and 
industrial assets less an allocated interest expense multiplied 
by an estimated tax rate of 10% and 25% respectively. 
This has been reflected in the table above. Refer to the 
glossary for a reconciliation of this calculation. The 2014 
statutory expense includes $531 million of taxes in respect 
of the sale of Las Bambas and a net additional $779 million 
of income tax expense, primarily due to the currency 
translation effect on deferred tax balances, owing to the 
stronger US dollar, particularly against the Australian dollar 
as noted above.
Assets, leverage and working capital 
Total assets were $152,205 million as at 31 December 
2014 compared to $154,862 million as at 31 December 
2013, a period over which, current assets decreased from 
$59,292 million to $53,219 million. The adjusted current ratio 
at 31 December 2014 was 1.23, a 4% improvement compared 
with 31 December 2013. Non-current assets increased from 
$95,570 million to $98,986 million, primarily due to the 
various ongoing capital development programmes at African 
copper and Koniambo and the acquisition of Caracal. 
Consistent with 31 December 2013, 99% ($19,226 million) 
of total marketing inventories were contractually sold or 
hedged (readily marketable inventories) as at 31 December 
2014. These inventories are considered to be readily 
convertible into cash due to their liquid nature, widely 
available markets, and the fact that the associated price 
risk is covered either by a physical sale transaction or a 
hedge transaction. Given the highly liquid nature of these 
inventories, which represent a significant share of current 
assets, the Group believes it is appropriate to consider 
them together with cash equivalents in analysing Group 
net debt levels and computing certain debt coverage ratios 
and credit trends. 38 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Financial review
Cash flow and net debt
Net debt
US$ million 31.12.2014
31.12.2013
Restated
1
Gross debt 52,693 55,173
Associates and joint ventures net funding
2
(80) (72)
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (2,855) (2,885)
Net funding 49,758 52,216
Readily marketable inventories (19,226) (16,418)
Net debt 30,532 35,798
Cash and non-cash movements in net debt
US$ million
31.12.2014
Reported
31.12.2013
Pro forma
31.12.2013
Reported
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 10,978 11,058 8,676
Associates and joint ventures Adjusted EBITDA
3
1,552 1,923 1,487
Net interest paid
2
(1,211) (1,646) (1,488)
Tax paid
2
(1,257) (994) (679)
Dividends received from associates
2
107 34 34
Funds from operations 10,169 10,375 8,030
Working capital changes, excluding readily marketable inventory movements and other
2
2,268 (1,807) (761)
Payments of non-current advances and loans
2
(518) 285 285
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries 4,690 479 2,125
Purchase and sale of investments (310) (144) (144)
Purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment (excl. Las Bambas)
2
(8,360) (11,131) (8,680)
Purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment – Las Bambas (961) (1,734) (1,169)
Margin payments in respect of financing related hedging activities 10 167 167
Acquisition and disposal of additional interests in subsidiaries (101) (489) (489)
Dividends paid and purchase of own shares (3,256) (2,236) (2,236)
Cash movement in net debt 3,631 (6,235) (2,872)
Net debt assumed in business combination – –(17,395)
1
Foreign currency revaluation of borrowings and other non-cash items 1,635 (115) (115)
Non-cash movement in net debt 1,635 (115) (17 ,510)
Total movement in net debt 5,266 (6,350) (20,382)
1
Net debt, beginning of period (35,798) (29,448) (15,416)
Net debt, end of period (30,532) (35,798) (35,798)
1
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata, see note 25 of the financial statements.
2 Adjusted to include the impacts of proportionate consolidation of certain associates and joint ventures as outlined in the glossary.
3 See note 2 of the financial statements.
The reconciliation in the table above is the method by which management reviews movements in net debt and comprises 
key movements in cash and any significant non-cash movements on net debt items.  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
39
Net debt
Net debt as at 31 December 2014 decreased to $30,532 million 
from $35,798 million as at 31 December 2013 aided by 
the receipt of the sales proceeds from the disposal of 
Las Bambas in July 2014, a 25% reduction in net capital 
expenditure (excluding Las Bambas) and a $2,268 million 
release of working capital, excluding readily marketable 
inventories. Readily marketable inventories increased 
by $2,808 million to $19,226 million at 31 December 2014. 
The substantial majority of this increase ($2.4 billion) 
occurred over the second half of 2014 as we were able 
to seize attractive marketing opportunities, the benefits 
of which are generally expected to materialise in 2015 
and when we also then expect the majority of this 
temporary working capital investment to reverse.
Capital expenditure
Net capital expenditure, excluding Las Bambas, decreased 
from $8,680 million in 2013 to $8,360 million in 2014, due 
primarily to some of our key expansion projects being 
commissioned during 2014, notably certain projects at 
Australian thermal coal, Australian zinc and African 
copper. Compared to 2013 pro forma net capital expenditure 
of $11,131 million (excluding Las Bambas), 2014 was 25% or 
$2,771 million lower.
Subsidiary acquisitions and disposals
Net inflow on acquisitions / disposals was $4,690 million 
due primarily to the sale of Las Bambas ($6.5 billion, net 
of tax), offset by the purchase of Caracal ($1.5 billion) 
and Zhairem ($291 million) compared to $2,125 million 
(or $544 million, excluding cash acquired in the Xstrata 
transaction of $1,581 million) in 2013. 
Liquidity and funding activities
In 2014, the following significant financing activities 
took place:
• In April, issued in two tranches EUR 1.1 billion of interest 
bearing notes as follows:
 – 7 year EUR 600 million, 2.750% fixed coupon bonds; and 
 – 12 year EUR 500 million, 3.750% fixed coupon bonds.
• In April, issued in two tranches $2 billion of interest 
bearing notes as follows:
 – 5 year $1,000 million, 3.125% fixed coupon bonds; and
 – 10 year $1,000 million, 4.625% fixed coupon bonds.
• In May, issued 4 year $200 million, Libor plus 1.20% 
coupon notes.
• In September, issued 5 year AUD 500 million, 
4.50% fixed coupon bonds and 8 year EUR 700 million, 
1.625% fixed coupon bonds.
• In December, issued 6 year CHF 500 million, 
1.25% fixed coupon bonds.
As at 31 December 2014, Glencore had available committed 
undrawn credit facilities and cash amounting to $9.4 billion. 
As an internal financial policy, Glencore has a $3 billion 
minimum threshold requirement.
Credit ratings
In light of the Group’s extensive funding activities, 
maintaining strong BBB/Baa investment grade ratings is a 
financial priority/target. The Group’s credit ratings are Baa2 
(stable) from Moody’s and BBB (stable) from S&P . 
Value at risk
One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its 
primary market risk exposure, namely commodity price risk 
related to its physical marketing activities, is the use of a 
value at risk (VaR) computation. VaR is a risk measurement 
technique which estimates the potential loss that could 
occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk 
factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific level of 
confidence. The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, 
probability based approach that takes into account market 
volatilities, as well as risk diversification by recognising 
offsetting positions and correlations between commodities 
and markets. In this way, risks can be measured consistently 
across all markets and commodities and risk measures can 
be aggregated to derive a single risk value. Glencore has 
set a consolidated VaR limit (1 day 95%) of $100 million 
representing some 0.2% of equity, which was not exceeded 
during the year.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo 
simulations and is either a one day or one week time 
horizon computed at a 95% confidence level with a weighted 
data history.
Average market risk VaR (1 day 95%) during 2014 was 
$36 million, representing less than 0.1% of equity. 
Average equivalent VaR during 2013 was $32 million. 40 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Financial review
Distributions
The directors have recommended a 2014 financial year final cash distribution of $12 cents per share amounting to 
$1,558 million excluding any distribution on own shares. This distribution excludes the proposed distribution in specie of 
the Group’s 23.9% stake in Lonmin, which is also subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Final distribution 2015
Applicable exchange rate reference date (Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE)) 9 April
Last time to trade on JSE to be recorded in register for distribution 17 April
Last day to effect removal of shares cum dividend between Jersey and JSE registers 17 April
Ex-dividend date (JSE) 20 April
Ex-dividend date (Hong Kong) 22 April
Ex-dividend date (Jersey) 23 April
Last time for lodging transfers in Hong Kong 23 April
Record date for JSE Close of business (SA) 24 April
Record date in Hong Kong Opening of business (HK) 24 April
Record date in Jersey Close of business (UK) 24 April
Deadline for return of currency election form (Jersey shareholders) 27 April
Removal of shares between the Jersey and JSE registers permissible from 28 April
Applicable exchange rate date (Jersey and Hong Kong) 30 April
Annual General Meeting (shareholder vote to approve final distribution) 7 May
Payment date 21 May
The Directors have proposed that this final distribution be paid out of capital contribution reserves. As such, this 
distribution would be exempt from Swiss withholding tax. As at 31 December 2014, Glencore plc had CHF 38 billion of such 
capital contribution reserves in its statutory accounts.
The final distribution is declared and ordinarily paid in US dollars. Shareholders on the Jersey register may elect to receive 
the distribution in sterling, euros or Swiss francs, the exchange rates of which will be determined by reference to the rates 
applicable to the US dollar as stated above. Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register will receive their distribution in 
Hong Kong dollars, while shareholders on the Johannesburg register will receive their distribution in South African rand. 
Further details on distribution payments, together with currency election and distribution mandate forms, are available 
from the Group’s website (www.glencore.com) or from the Company’s Registrars. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
41
Notional allocation of debt and interest expense
Glencore’s debt funding is primarily arranged centrally, 
with the proceeds then applied to marketing and industrial 
activities as required. Glencore does not allocate borrowings 
or interest to its three operating segments. However, to 
assist investors in the assessment of overall performance 
and underlying value contributors of its integrated business 
model, Glencore notionally allocates its borrowings and 
interest expense between its marketing and industrial 
activities as follows (also see the glossary):
• At a particular point in time, Glencore estimates the 
borrowings attributable to funding key working 
capital items within the marketing activities, including 
inventories, net cash margining and other accounts 
receivable / payable, through the application of an 
appropriate loan to value ratio for each item. The balance 
of Group borrowings is allocated to industrial activities. 
• Once the average amount of borrowings notionally 
allocated to marketing activities for the relevant period 
has been estimated, the corresponding interest expense 
on those borrowings is estimated by applying the Group’s 
average variable rate cost of funds during the relevant 
period to the average borrowing amount. The balance 
of Group interest expense and all interest income is 
allocated to industrial activities. The allocation is a 
company estimate only and is unaudited. The table below 
summarises the notional allocation of borrowings and 
interest and corresponding implied earnings before tax of 
the marketing and industrial activities for the year ended 
31 December 2014.
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities Total
Adjusted EBIT, pre-significant items 2,790 3,916 6,706
Interest expense allocation (227) (1,465) (1,692)
Interest income allocation –253 253
Allocated profit before tax 2,563 2,704 5,267
Allocated net funding – 31 December 2014 14,265 35,493 49,758
Allocated net funding – quarterly average 14,624 36,705 51,329
Based on the implied equity funding for the marketing activities’ working capital requirements, as well as the relatively 
modest level of non-current assets employed in the marketing activities (assumed to be heavily equity funded), the return 
on notional equity for the marketing activities continued to be very healthy in 2014. The industrial activities’ return on 
notional equity is being held back by many advanced stage copper, nickel and zinc development/expansion projects, where 
significant investments have been made to date. These projects did not contribute to earnings in the year at anywhere near 
their full production potential, and as a result, the full effect of the earnings is yet to be reflected in allocated profits.  42 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Metals and minerals
The 2013 information in this section has been presented 
on the pro forma basis described in the Financial 
review section.
Metals and minerals total Adjusted EBITDA was 
$8,622 million, down 3% from $8,846 million in 2013. 
The modest reduction reflects somewhat more challenging 
marketing conditions, particularly in iron ore, and the 
impact of lower copper and precious metal prices on 
the industrial activities. These factors were mitigated by 
higher copper production volumes and currency related 
costs benefits as the US dollar strengthened against 
our key producer country currencies. Adjusted EBIT 
was $5,189 million, 8% lower than 2013 due to higher 
depreciation, reflective of higher production.
Further production growth is expected from key advanced 
stage and recently commissioned projects, mainly in copper, 
zinc and nickel. The business is strongly positioned within 
its operating markets, with the asset and marketing base 
fully primed to take advantage of growth in both emerging 
markets and the developed world.
8,622
Adjusted EBITDA
US$ million
5,189
Adjusted EBIT
US$ million
1,545 2014
1,515 2014
Marketing activities
7,077 2014 Industrial activities
Marketing activities
1,643 2013
1,622 2013
7,203 2013
4,036 2013 3,674 2014 Industrial activities
Highlights
2014 2013
2014 2013
US$ million
Marketing
activities
Industrial
activities 2014
Marketing 
activities 
Industrial 
activities 2013
Revenue 35,025 31,025 66,050 35,986 31,195 67 ,181
Adjusted EBITDA 1,545 7,077 8,622 1,643 7 ,203 8,846
Adjusted EBIT 1,515 3,674 5,189 1,622 4,036 5,658
Allocated average CE
1,2
11,885 57,698 69,583 9,097 58,589 67 ,686
Adjusted EBIT return on average CE 13% 6% 7% 18% 7% 8%
1 The simple average of segment current and non-current capital employed (see note 2 of the financial statements), adjusted for production related inventories, is applied as a proxy for 
marketing and industrial activities respectively.
2 Capital employed has been adjusted to move logistics and storage related property, plant and equipment from industrial activities into marketing activities.
Market conditions
Selected average commodity prices
2014 2013 Change %
S&P GSCI Industrial Metals Index 349 354 (1)
LME (cash) copper price ($/t) 6,866 7,328 (6)
LME (cash) zinc price ($/t) 2,164 1,909 13
LME (cash) lead price ($/t) 2,096 2,139 (2)
LME (cash) nickel price ($/t) 16,892 15,012 13
Gold price ($/oz) 1,266 1,411 (10)
Silver price ($/oz) 19 24 (21)
Metal Bulletin cobalt price 99.3% ($/lb) 14 13 8
LME (cash) aluminium price ($/t) 1,869 1,846 1
Metal Bulletin alumina price ($/t) 331 327 1
Metal Bulletin ferrochrome 6-8% C basis 60% Cr, max 1.5% Si (¢/lb) 105 99 6
Platinum price ($/oz) 1,385 1,486 (7)
Iron ore (Platts 62% CFR North China) price ($/DMT) 97 135 (28) 43
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
1.5m
TONNES ANNUAL COPPER PRODUCTION
17%
INCREASE IN COPPER PRODUCTION  
BY OUR AFRICAN COPPER ASSETS
Mopani,  
Zambia 44 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Marketing
Highlights
Adjusted EBIT was $1,515 million, down 7% from $1,622 million. Notwithstanding the generally weaker industrial metals’ 
sentiment and backdrop, overall marketing performance was relatively consistent year on year, with iron ore, however 
having faced particularly challenging marketing conditions.
Financial information
US$ million 2014 2013 Change %
Revenue 35,025 35,986 (3)
Adjusted EBITDA 1,545 1,643 (6)
Adjusted EBIT 1,515 1,622 (7)
Selected marketing volumes sold
Units 2014 2013 Change %
Copper metal and concentrates
1
mt 2.8 2.8 –
Zinc metal and concentrates
1
mt 3.4 3.2 6 
Lead metal and concentrates
1
mt 0.8 0.7 14 
Gold koz 1,468 1,326 11 
Silver moz 66.2 52.8 25 
Nickel kt 203 226 (10)
Ferroalloys (incl. agency) mt 4.2 3.8 11 
Alumina/aluminium mt 11.7 11.7 –
Iron ore mt 66.0 33.2 99 
1 Estimated metal unit contained.
Currency table
Average
2014 
Spot
31 Dec 2014
Average
2013
Spot
31 Dec 2013
Change in
average %
AUD : USD 0.90 0.82 0.97 0.89 (7)
USD : CAD 1.10 1.16 1.03 1.06 7
USD : COP 2,002 2,377 1,869 1,930 7
EUR : USD 1.33 1.21 1.33 1.37 –
GBP : USD 1.65 1.56 1.56 1.66 6
USD : CHF 0.92 0.99 0.93 0.89 (1)
USD : KZT 179 182 152 154 18
USD : ZAR 10.85 11.57 9.65 10.49 12
Metals and minerals Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
45
Copper
Despite another year of copper mine underperformance 
and the strongest global demand growth since 2010, 
average copper prices fell 6% in 2014. Demand growth 
was evident in all key consuming regions and China 
again accounted for the majority of global growth. As in 
2013, cathode demand benefited from tight scrap supply. 
Reflecting these drivers, exchange inventories declined 
steadily throughout the year to reach 313,000 tonnes by 
year-end, down almost 195,000 tonnes during the year. 
On the supply side, mined copper growth slowed 
significantly from the near double digit pace recorded in 
2013. A range of technical, regulatory and weather related 
issues saw mine supply underperform initial estimates by 
more than 1.2 million tonnes. 
With current prices now trading within the cost curve, mine 
closures have already been announced and reduced capital 
spending will start to impact future supply growth.
Zinc/Lead
The zinc metal market was in deficit in 2014, driven by 
improving demand, including continuing inflows of 
material into China. LME/SHFE inventories dropped by 
approximately 400,000 tonnes (or 33%) during the year 
and physical premia in Asia and Europe were significantly 
higher than 2013. Fundamentals were particularly strong 
in the first 6 months of the year, however more material 
became available in H2 2014, in part due to liquidity 
concerns in China. 
The lead metal market was in balance in 2014, with limited 
warehouse movements and marginal changes in premia. 
The zinc concentrates TC benchmark for 2014 was up by 
$29 per dmt compared to the 2013 benchmark. The average 
spot market TC went up by a similar amount, although 
Chinese zinc concentrates imports increased by 10.2%. 
We expect the pressures which led to the supply deficit 
to intensify over the coming months. No significant new 
sources of production are scheduled to come on line in the 
immediate future and a number of production closures, 
already signalled to the market, will crystallise in 2015. 46 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Nickel
2014 was an eventful year for nickel. It commenced with 
the introduction of a ban on unprocessed ore exports from 
Indonesia, effectively removing >20% of global mined 
supply from the market. In anticipation of significantly 
reduced finished nickel output, coupled with strong 
demand growth, particularly in China and North America, 
the nickel LME cash settlement price rallied to $21,200 per 
tonne in May, up 52% from the start of the year. This positive 
sentiment, however, was impacted by persistent and 
material unit deliveries into LME warehouses, combined 
with weakening macroeconomic data for Europe and China.
While global nickel demand improved in 2014, increased 
ore exports from the Philippines, blended with stockpiled 
Indonesian ore, kept Chinese nickel pig iron production at 
elevated levels, maintaining an oversupply of nickel in the 
global market. LME inventory increased from 261,000 tonnes 
at the start of the year to a record high of 415,000 tonnes at 
year-end, with the cash settlement price averaging $16,892 
per tonne, 13% higher than 2013.
While nickel is not immune to the weakness currently seen 
across the commodity spectrum, market trends support a 
continued transition from structural oversupply to material 
deficits in the medium term. In particular, Philippine ore 
shipments are insufficient, in terms of quality and quantity, 
to offset the full impact of the Indonesian ban.
Ferroalloys
Global ferrochrome prices were relatively flat over 2014. 
The slight increase in global consumption of ferrochrome 
was more than offset by surplus production, particularly 
from China, Kazakhstan and South Africa. The regional 
pricing gap that developed in H1 2014 narrowed towards 
the end of the year as European consumers sought parity 
with lower Chinese prices. 
Vanadium prices were firm in H1 2014 as new production 
expected out of Australia and Brazil did not materialise. 
This was met in H2 2014 with increased Chinese exports 
pressurising prices later in the year.
Metals and minerals Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
47
Iron Ore
The iron ore market went into oversupply during the year, 
driven by a combination of supply increases from large 
miners and a somewhat lower than expected Chinese 
steel demand growth. The price reduction intensified 
as the year progressed to finish the year around $70 per 
tonne. Premiums also contracted as the market moved into 
oversupply. While we expect demand growth to be steady 
in 2015, further increases in supply are expected to keep the 
market subdued in 2015.
Alumina/Aluminium
Average LME aluminium prices during 2014 were in line 
with 2013, although average premium levels increased 
significantly (from an average range of $195-$215 to 
$340-$365 per tonne). The increase to the net all-in price 
received by producers meant that a large portion of the 
market was now able to meet its cost of production in 2014. 
Indications for aluminium premiums for duty unpaid, 
in-warehouse material at the beginning of 2014, were 
within the $250-$275 per tonne range and the 2014 year-end 
level was around $400 to $430 per tonne. 
The FOB Australia alumina price opened 2014 at $335 per 
tonne and closed 2014 at $355, with a price range of $305 to 
$360 per tonne witnessed during the year. 48 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Metals and minerals
Industrial activities
Highlights
Total industrial Adjusted EBITDA and EBIT in 2014 were $7 ,077 million and $3,674 million, down 2% and 9% respectively 
over 2013 as a result of lower commodity prices, particularly copper and precious metals, partially offset by higher copper 
production (up 4%, mainly from African copper), higher zinc and nickel prices and the generally stronger US dollar. 
The price driven reduction in profitability resulted in a small decline in metal and mineral’s mining margin from 32% 
to 30%.
Financial information
US$ million 2014 2013 Change %
Revenue
Copper assets
African copper (Katanga, Mutanda, Mopani) 3,954 3,211 23
Collahuasi
1
1,311 1,314 –
Antamina
1
845 1,154 (27)
Other South America (Alumbrera, Lomas Bayas, Antapaccay, Punitaqui) 2,732 2,611 5
Australia (Mount Isa, Ernest Henry, Townsville, Cobar) 2,388 2,494 (4)
Custom metallurgical (Altonorte, Pasar, Horne, CCR) 6,756 8,445 (20)
Intergroup revenue elimination (220) (606) n.m.
Copper 17,766 18,623 (5)
Zinc assets
Kazzinc 2,517 2,587 (3)
Australia (Mount Isa, McArthur River) 1,293 1,070 21
European custom metallurgical (Portovesme, San Juan de Nieva, Nordenham, Northfleet) 2,201 2,428 (9)
North America (Matagami, Kidd, Brunswick, CEZ Refinery) 1,148 1,548 (26)
Other Zinc (AR Zinc, Los Quenuales, Sinchi Wayra, Rosh Pinah, Perkoa) 744 708 (5)
Intergroup revenue elimination (192) (674) n.m.
Zinc 7,711 7,667 1
Nickel assets
Integrated Nickel Operations (Sudbury, Raglan, Nikkelverk) 2,450 1,634 50
Australia (Murrin Murrin) 834 693 20
Falcondo – 150 (100)
Nickel 3,284 2,477 33
Ferroalloys 1,789 1,910 (6)
Aluminium/Alumina 475 518 (8)
Metals and minerals revenue – segmental measure 31,025 31,195 (1)
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (2,156) (2,468) n.m.
Metals and minerals revenue – reported measure 28,869 28,727 –
1 Represents the Group’s share of these JVs. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
49
Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBIT
US$ million 2014 2013 Change % 2014 2013 Change %
Copper assets
African copper 1,001 942 6 475 548 (13)
Collahuasi
1
692 756 (8) 452 544 (17)
Antamina
1
600 868 (31) 410 692 (41)
Other South America 1,222 1,220 – 821 819 –
Australia 563 700 (20) 294 430 (32)
Custom metallurgical 228 175 30 177 115 54
Copper 4,306 4,661 (8) 2,629 3,148 (16)
Adjusted EBITDA mining margin
2
36% 42%
Zinc assets
Kazzinc 591 703 (16) 241 286 (16)
Australia 305 341 (11) (7) 159 (104)
European custom metallurgical 179 159 13 89 81 10
North America 225 332 (32) 91 194 (53)
Other Zinc 97 38 155 (51) (119) n.m.
Zinc 1,397 1,573 (11) 363 601 (40)
Adjusted EBITDA mining margin
2
21% 24%
Nickel assets
Integrated Nickel Operations 908 667 36 424 213 99
Australia 130 (39) n.m. 83 (113) n.m.
Falcondo (7) (27) n.m. (7) (27) n.m.
Nickel 1,031 601 72 500 73 585
Adjusted EBITDA margin 31% 24%
Ferroalloys 307 346 (11) 162 207 (22)
Aluminium/Alumina 35 24 46 20 10 100
Iron ore 1 (2) n.m. – (3) n.m.
Metals and minerals  
Adjusted EBITDA/ EBIT – segmental measure 7,077 7,203 (2) 3,674 4,036 (9)
Adjusted EBITDA mining margin
2
30% 32%
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (678) (760) n.m. (248) (372) n.m.
Metals and minerals Adjusted EBITDA/EBIT – reported measure 6,399 6,443 (1) 3,426 3,664 (6)
1 Represents the Group’s share of these JVs.
2  Adjusted EBITDA mining margin is Adjusted EBITDA (excluding custom metallurgical assets) divided by Revenue (excluding custom metallurgical assets and intergroup revenue 
elimination) i.e. the weighted average EBITDA margin of the mining assets. Custom metallurgical assets include the Copper custom metallurgical assets and Zinc European custom 
metallurgical assets and the Aluminium/Alumina group, as noted in the table above. 50 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Metals and minerals
2014 2013
US$ million Sustaining Expansion Total Sustaining Expansion Total
Capex
Copper assets
African copper 602 788 1,390 522 1,103 1,625
Collahuasi
1
175 6 181 235 59 294
Antamina
1
169 18 187 241 47 288
Las Bambas –961 961 –1,734 1,734
Other South America 475 64 539 452 113 565
Australia 283 71 354 341 275 616
Custom metallurgical 144 166 310 131 65 196
Copper 1,848 2,074 3,922 1,922 3,396 5,318
Zinc assets
Kazzinc 195 57 252 173 75 248
Australia 455 199 654 546 637 1,183
European custom metallurgical 53 15 68 93 36 129
North America 76 19 95 61 118 179
Other Zinc 166 – 166 181 95 276
Zinc 945 290 1,235 1,054 961 2,015
Nickel assets
Integrated Nickel Operations 172 158 330 154 257 411
Australia 14 – 14 43 5 48
Falcondo –55 336
Koniambo –823 823 –1,033 1,033
Other nickel projects –55 –55
Nickel 186 991 1,177 200 1,303 1,503
Ferroalloys 144 95 239 112 209 321
Aluminium/Alumina 23 7 30 28 – 28
Iron ore –7272 –8989
Capex – segmental measure 3,146 3,529 6,675 3,316 5,958 9,274
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (344) (24) (368) (476) (106) (582)
Capex – reported measure 2,802 3,505 6,307 2,840 5,852 8,692
1 Represents the Group’s share of these JVs. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
51
Production data
Production from own sources – Total
1
2014 2013 Change %
Total Copper kt 1,546.0 1,492.8 4
Total Zinc kt 1,386.5 1,398.5 (1)
Total Lead kt 307.5 315.0 (2)
Total Nickel kt 100.9 98.4 3
Total Gold koz 955 1,017 (6)
Total Silver koz 34,908 39,041 (11)
Total Cobalt kt 20.7 19.4 7
Total Ferrochrome kt 1,295 1,238 5
Total Platinum
2
koz 91 90 1
Total Palladium
2
koz 50 50 –
Total Rhodium
2
koz 15 15 –
Total Vanadium Pentoxide mlb 20.8 21.6 (4)
1 Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis, except as stated.
2 Relating to the PGM business within Ferroalloys only. 52 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Metals and minerals
Production from own sources – Copper assets
1
2014 2013 Change %
African Copper (Katanga, Mutanda, Mopani)
Total Copper metal
2
kt 465.0 398.6 17
Total Cobalt
3
kt 17.2 16.0 8
Collahuasi
4
Copper metal kt 11.0 12.5 (12)
Copper in concentrates kt 196.0 183.1 7
Silver in concentrates koz 2,476 2,217 12
Antamina
5
Copper in concentrates kt 116.4 149.5 (22)
Zinc in concentrates kt 71.2 87.9 (19)
Silver in concentrates koz 4,049 5,216 (22)
Other South America  
(Alumbrera, Lomas Bayas, Antapaccay, Punitaqui)
Total Copper metal kt 66.6 86.4 (23)
Total Copper in concentrates kt 281.1 260.4 8
Total Gold in concentrates 
and in doré koz 386 392 (2)
Total Silver in concentrates 
and in doré koz 1,901 2,192 (13)
Australia (Mount Isa, Ernest Henry, Townsville, Cobar)
Total Copper metal kt 209.5 197 .3 6
Total Copper in concentrates kt 49.6 48.4 2
Total Gold koz 62 45 38
Total Silver koz 1,386 1,334 4
Total Copper department
Total Copper kt 1,395.2 1,336.2 4
Total Cobalt kt 17.2 16.0 8
Total Zinc kt 71.2 87.9 (19)
Total Gold koz 448 437 3
Total Silver koz 9,812 10,959 (10)
1 Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis, 
except as stated.
2 Copper metal includes copper contained in copper concentrates and blister.
3 Cobalt contained in concentrates and hydroxides.
4 The Group’s pro-rata share of Collahuasi production (44%).
5 The Group’s pro-rata share of Antamina production (33.75%).
 
Production from own sources – Zinc assets
1
2014 2013 Change %
Kazzinc
Zinc metal kt 199.3 216.2 (8)
Lead metal kt 25.7 29.8 (14)
Copper metal kt 46.8 50.9 (8)
Gold koz 506 579 (13)
Silver koz 4,273 5,251 (19)
Australia (Mount Isa, McArthur River)
Total Zinc in concentrates kt 661.6 608.4 9
Total Lead in concentrates kt 216.4 213.6 1
Total Silver in concentrates koz 8,319 8,450 (2)
North America (Matagami, Kidd, Brunswick)
Total Zinc in concentrates kt 135.8 194.3 (30)
Total Lead in concentrates kt – 13.5 (100)
Total Copper in concentrates kt 47.3 49.0 (3)
Total Silver in concentrates koz 2,066 4,549 (55)
Other Zinc  
(AR Zinc, Los Quenuales, Sinchi Wayra, Rosh Pinah, Perkoa)
Zinc metal kt 23.2 29.7 (22)
Zinc in concentrates kt 295.4 262.0 13
Lead metal kt 11.7 11.0 6
Lead in concentrates kt 53.7 47.1 14
Copper in concentrates kt 2.7 2.1 29
Silver metal koz 613 670 (9)
Silver in concentrates koz 9,825 9,162 7
Total Zinc department
Total Zinc kt 1,315.3 1,310.6 –
Total Lead kt 307.5 315.0 (2)
Total Copper kt 96.8 102.0 (5)
Total Gold koz 506 579 (13)
Total Silver koz 25,096 28,082 (11) Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
53
Production from own sources – Nickel assets
1
2014 2013 Change %
Integrated Nickel Operations (Sudbury, Raglan, Nikkelverk)
Total Nickel metal kt 51.3 47.1 9
Total Nickel in concentrates kt 0.6 0.5 20
Total Copper metal kt 15.7 16.7 (6)
Total Copper in concentrates kt 38.3 37.6 2
Total Cobalt metal kt 0.8 0.7 14
Australia (Murrin Murrin, XNA)
Total Nickel metal kt 36.4 35.9 1
Total Nickel in concentrates kt – 4.1 (100)
Total Copper in concentrates kt – 0.3 (100)
Total Cobalt metal kt 2.7 2.6 4
Total Cobalt in concentrates kt – 0.1 (100)
Falcondo
Nickel in ferronickel kt – 9.4 (100)
Koniambo
Nickel in ferronickel kt 12.6 1.4 800
Total Nickel department
Total Nickel kt 100.9 98.4 3
Total Copper kt 54.0 54.6 (1)
Total Cobalt kt 3.5 3.4 3
1 Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis, 
except as stated.
2 The Group’s attributable 79.5% share of the Glencore-Merafe Chrome Venture. 
3 Consolidated 100% of Eland and 50% of Mototolo.
Production from own sources – Ferroalloys assets
1
2014 2013 Change %
Ferrochrome
2
kt 1,295 1,238 5
PGM
3
Platinum koz 91 90 1
Palladium koz 50 50 –
Rhodium koz 15 15 –
Gold koz 1 1–
4E koz 157 156 1
Vanadium Pentoxide mlb 20.8 21.6 (4)
Total production – Custom metallurgical assets
1
2014 2013 Change %
Copper (Altonorte, Pasar, Horne, CCR)
Copper metal kt 433.8 468.3 (7)
Copper anode kt 493.7 514.5 (4)
Zinc (Portovesme, San Juan de Nieva, Nordenham, Northfleet)
Zinc metal kt 781.8 745.0 5 
Lead metal kt 177.4 174.1 2 
Silver koz 9,482 7,870 20 
Ferroalloys
Ferromanganese kt 116 99 17
Silicon Manganese kt 108 92 17
Aluminium (Sherwin Alumina)
Alumina kt 1,382 1,606 (14) 54 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Metals and minerals
Operating highlights
Copper assets
Total own sourced copper production was 1,546,000 tonnes, 
4% (53,200 tonnes) higher than 2013, mainly relating to the 
ramp-up within African copper. Collahuasi, Antapaccay and 
Australian Copper also increased production during the year, 
however this growth was offset by lower grades at Antamina 
and operational constraints at Alumbrera and Lomas Bayas.
African copper
Copper production from own sources was 465,000 tonnes, 
up 17% (66,400 tonnes) on 2013. The increase includes a 
46,500 tonnes (31%) increase at Mutanda to 197 ,100 tonnes 
with the operation running at near capacity throughout the 
year and a 16% increase (21,800 tonnes) at Katanga, reflecting 
the ongoing expansion programme. The ramp-up at Katanga 
is expected to continue as Phase V reaches completion. In 2014 
Katanga continued to be impacted by power availability /
reliability, which is now expected to improve through a 
number of initiatives, including additional back-up power 
generator capacity to cover the period for critical operational 
items until completion of the Inga dam project (first turbine 
expected in Q4 2015 and the second turbine in Q2 2017).
Cobalt production was 17 ,200 tonnes, 8% higher than 2013, 
mainly relating to the expansion at Mutanda. 
Collahuasi
The Group’s share of Collahuasi’s copper production was 
207 ,000 tonnes, up 6% (11,400 tonnes) on 2013, due to higher 
ore tonnes milled (SAG mill 3 repowered in mid-2013) and 
marginally higher grades.
Antamina
The Group’s share of Antamina’s copper production was 
116,400 tonnes, down 22% (33,100 tonnes) on 2013, as a result 
of planned lower grades and recoveries due to processing 
of long-term stock piles and transitional ore, in part 
offset by higher quantities of ore milled, due to improved 
plant availability.
Zinc production was 71,200 tonnes, down 19% (16,700 tonnes) 
over the comparable period, relating to the mining of lower 
grade zinc areas.
Other South America
Copper production from Other South America was 347 ,700 
tonnes, marginally higher than 2013. This comprises a 20% 
(28,100 tonnes) increase in copper in concentrate production 
at Antapaccay due to higher milling rates and improved 
recoveries, offset by Tintaya SX/EW cathode production 
which ceased in 2013 (12,200 tonnes), a 10% (7 ,600 tonnes) 
decrease in cathode production at Lomas Bayas due to 
processing constraints at the plant, and a 6% (7 ,000 tonnes) 
decrease in copper in concentrate production at Alumbrera, 
resulting from a geotechnical event that temporarily 
restricted pit access, during which time long-term stockpiles 
with lower grades were processed.
Gold production was 386,000 oz, down 2% on 2013, primarily 
resulting from expected lower head grades at Antapaccay.
Australia
Australian copper production was 259,100 tonnes, 5% (13,400 
tonnes) higher than 2013. The increase reflects higher own 
sourced cathode output from the Townsville refinery due 
to increased production of own sourced concentrates, 
primarily from the Ernest Henry mine.
Gold production was 62,000 oz, 38% (17 ,000 oz) higher than 
2013, relating to higher grades, including the treatment 
of more Ernest Henry material (higher gold content) than 
in 2013.
Custom metallurgical assets 
Custom copper cathode production was 433,800 tonnes, 
7% lower than 2013. The reduction mainly relates to lower 
production at Pasar (Philippines) due to the damage caused 
by typhoon Haiyan, which resulted in the plant being closed 
for most of Q1 2014.
Custom copper anode production was 493,700 tonnes, 
4% lower than 2013. The reduction relates to a scheduled 
maintenance shutdown at Altonorte brought forward 
from 2015.
Zinc assets 
Total own sourced zinc production was 1,386,500 tonnes, 
broadly in-line with 2013. This reflects higher production from 
Mount Isa, McArthur River and Perkoa as their respective 
expansion projects ramp-up, offset by lost production from the 
closures of Perseverance and Brunswick in June 2013 (partly 
replaced by production from the smaller Bracemac-McLeod 
mine), lower head grades at Antamina and the prioritisation of 
third party material processing at Kazzinc.
Total own sourced lead production was 307 ,500 tonnes, 2% 
(7 ,500 tonnes) down on 2013. The reduction reflects closure of 
the Brunswick mine (13,500 tonnes), offset by higher production 
at AR Zinc due to higher milling capacity and grades. 
Kazzinc
Zinc production from own sources was 199,300 tonnes, 8% 
(16,900 tonnes) lower than 2013. The reduction relates to 
a decision to opportunistically process more third party 
sulphide material, in preference to own source oxide material. 
Total zinc production (including third party) was 304,500 
tonnes, 1% (4,100 tonnes) higher than 2013.
Gold production from own sources was 506,000 oz, 13% 
(73,000 oz) lower than 2013, primarily due to temporary lower 
recoveries at Vasilkovsky. Total gold production (including 
third party material) was 675,000 oz, 5% lower than 2013.
Lead production from own sources was 25,700 tonnes, 4,100 
tonnes lower than 2013, although total lead production was 
126,500 tonnes, 40% higher than 2013, reflecting the increased 
output of the new Isa lead smelter.
Copper production from own sources was 46,800 tonnes, 
8% (4,100 tonnes) lower than 2013, due to some maintenance 
downtime at the anode furnace. Total copper production was 
similarly impacted, down 4,200 tonnes at 58,200 tonnes.  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
55
Australia
Australia zinc production was 661,600 tonnes, 9% (53,200 
tonnes) higher than 2013. The growth reflects successful 
expansion of the Lady Loretta mine (Mount Isa) and 
commissioning of the Phase 3 expansion at McArthur River, 
which is expected to increase ore production to 5 million 
tonnes per annum (from 2.5 million tonnes).
Australia lead production was 216,400 tonnes, slightly (1%) 
higher than 2013 levels.
North America 
North America zinc production was 135,800 tonnes, 
down 30% (58,500 tonnes) compared to 2013. This reflects 
lost production from the closures (end of mine lives) of 
Perseverance and Brunswick in June 2013 (93,600 tonnes), 
offset by the ramp-up of the Bracemac-Mcleod mine, which 
produced 74,800 tonnes of zinc in 2014 (32,900 in 2013).
North America produced no lead in 2014 (2013 related fully 
to the closed Brunswick mine).
Other Zinc
The Other Zinc asset group produced 318,600 tonnes of 
own sourced zinc, a 9% (26,900 tonnes) increase over 2013, 
mainly due to the ramp-up of Perkoa (started in April 2013) 
to 65,000 tonnes of own sourced zinc, from 32,200 tonnes.
Own sourced lead production was 65,400 tonnes, a 13% 
(7 ,300 tonnes) increase over 2013, mainly relating to higher 
milling capacity and head grades at AR Zinc. 
European custom metallurgical assets 
Custom zinc production was 781,800 tonnes, up 5%. 
The increase mainly relates to Portovesme, which benefited 
from the commissioning of the SX plant during 2013.
Custom lead production was 177 ,400 tonnes, up 2%, relating 
to a full year contribution from Portovesme’s lead plant 
following the restart in 2013, offset by some lost production 
at Northfleet due to the Mount Isa lead smelter fire which 
temporarily reduced lead bullion shipments. 
Nickel assets 
Total own sourced production was 100,900 tonnes, 3% up on 
2013, comprising the ramp-up at Koniambo (12,600 tonnes) 
and strong production at INO (up 9%) due to higher grades 
at the Raglan mine, offset by the impact of the Falcondo, 
Cosmos and Sinclair mines placed into care and maintenance 
during 2013 (13,500 tonnes). 
Integrated Nickel Operations (“INO”)
INO own sourced nickel production was 51,900 tonnes, a 
9% increase on 2013. The increase mainly relates to higher 
production from the Raglan mine due to higher grades. 
Total nickel production, including third party material, was 
91,200 tonnes, in line with 2013, which reflects a consistent 
production performance at the Nikkelverk refinery.
Australia
Australia produced 36,400 tonnes of own sourced nickel, 
down 9% (3,600 tonnes), reflecting the lost production from 
the Cosmos and Sinclair mines put on care and maintenance 
in 2013 (the Sinclair mine has subsequently been sold). 
Total nickel production (including third party material) at 
Murrin Murrin was 44,100 tonnes, up 7% over 2013, reflecting 
consistent plant availability during the year.
Koniambo 
Koniambo produced 12,600 tonnes of nickel in ferronickel 
as its commissioning and ramp-up phase continues. 
Production was suspended at the end of December 2014 after 
detection of a metal leak in Line 1 of the metallurgical plant. 
Line 2 received regulatory approval to restart on 18 January 
2015 and investigation and repair work has commenced on 
Line 1.
Ferroalloys assets 
Ferrochrome
Attributable ferrochrome production was 1.3 million tonnes, 
a 5% increase over 2013, mainly reflecting the ramp-up of 
Lion phase 2.
The Lion phase 2 project is progressing to plan and is 
expected to reach full capacity by the middle of 2015. 
Platinum Group Metals
PGM production was 157 ,000 ounces, comparable with 2013. 
Vanadium
Vanadium pentoxide production was 20.8 million lbs, down 
4% on 2013. The decline relates to a planned longer annual 
maintenance shutdown (three weeks compared to the usual 
two weeks).
Manganese
Total manganese production (ferromanganese and 
silicon manganese) was 224,000 tonnes, 17% higher than 
2013. The higher production was driven by efficiency 
improvements in Norway (silicon manganese) and demand 
led production increases in France (ferromanganese).
Aluminium assets 
Sherwin Alumina
Sherwin produced 1.4 million tonnes of alumina, 14% down 
on 2013. The reduction was due to a conscious decision to 
temporarily curtail one of the five digestion units throughout 
H2 2014 reflective of weak market conditions for Atlantic 
alumina, coupled with various power supply issues during 
the year caused by outages at the third party energy supplier. 56 Glencore Annual Report 2014
3,406
Adjusted EBITDA
US$ million
1,010
Adjusted EBIT
US$ million
666 2013 565 2014
629 2013 524 2014
Marketing activities
3,378 2013 2,841 2014 Industrial activities
Marketing activities
1,244 2013 486 2014 Industrial activities
2014 2013
2014 2013
Highlights
Energy products
The 2013 information in this section has been presented 
on the pro forma basis described in the Financial 
review section.
Energy products total Adjusted EBITDA was $3,406 million, 
down 16% from $4,044 million in 2013. The reduction is 
mainly driven by the impact of the lower realised prices 
on coal’s industrial activities and the sharp decline in oil 
prices in Q4 2014, partially mitigated by higher production, 
real unit cost savings and currency related costs benefits 
as the US dollar strengthened against our key producer 
country currencies. Adjusted EBIT was $1,010 million, 
down 46% from 2013, the higher reduction, compared to 
EBITDA, reflecting the increase in the depreciation charge 
(non-cash) across both coal and oil industrial activities as 
production increased.
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities 2014
Marketing 
activities 
Industrial 
activities 2013
Revenue 120,863 11,117 131,980 129,979 12,269 142,248
Adjusted EBITDA 565 2,841 3,406 666 3,378 4,044
Adjusted EBIT 524 486 1,010 629 1,244 1,873
Allocated average CE
1,2
(533) 36,086 35,553 2,832 35,857 38,688
Adjusted EBIT return on average CE n.m. 1% 3% 22% 3% 5%
1 The simple average of segment current and non-current capital employed (see note 2 of the financial statements), adjusted for production related inventories, is applied as a proxy for 
marketing and industrial activities respectively.
2 For the purposes of this calculation, capital employed has been adjusted to exclude various long-term loans (primarily Russneft and Rosneft – see note 11 of the financial statements), 
which generate interest income and do not contribute to Adjusted EBIT. Capital employed has been adjusted to move logistics and storage related property, plant and equipment from 
industrial activities into marketing activities.
Market conditions
Selected average commodity prices
2014 2013 Change %
S&P GSCI Energy Index 311 332 (6)
Coal API4 ($/t) 72 81 (11)
Coal McCloskey Newcastle (6,000 kcal NAR) ($/t) 70 84 (17)
Australian coking coal average realised export price ($/t) 117 146 (20)
Australian semi-soft coal average realised export price ($/t) 93 111 (16)
Australian thermal coal average realised export price ($/t) 72 83 (13)
Australian thermal coal average realised domestic price ($/t) 32 40 (20)
South African thermal coal average realised export price ($/t) 68 76 (11)
South African thermal coal average realised domestic price ($/t) 23 26 (12)
Prodeco (Colombia) thermal coal average realised export price ($/t) 75 83 (10)
Cerrejón (Colombia) thermal coal average realised export price ($/t) 67 73 (8)
Oil price – Brent ($/bbl) 99 109 (9) Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
57
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
57
146m
TONNES OF COAL PRODUCED
7.4m
BARRELS OF GLENCORE ENTITLEMENT  
OIL PRODUCTION DURING 2014
Newlands CHPP ,  
Australia 58 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Energy products
Marketing
Highlights
Adjusted EBIT was $524 million, down 17% from $629 million in 2013. The reduction reflects the oversupplied coal and “flat” 
oil markets that prevailed during H1 2014, however market conditions, notably in oil, were more supportive towards the end 
of the year, on account of increased volatility and curve structure. 
Financial information
US$ million 2014 2013 Change
Revenue 120,863 129,979 (7)
Adjusted EBITDA 565 666 (15)
Adjusted EBIT 524 629 (17)
Selected marketing volumes sold
2014 2013 Change
Thermal coal
1
mt 95.9 84.4 14 
Metallurgical coal
1
mt 3.3 4.7 (30)
Coke
1
mt 0.7 0.6 17 
Crude oil mbbl 448 386 16 
Oil products mbbl 645 728 (11)
1 Includes agency volumes. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
59
Coal
Demand levels in 2014 remained strong in key importing 
countries, particularly Turkey, India and Korea, and 
we expect that to remain so during 2015 and beyond. 
The market continues to be highly segmented in terms 
of quality, with greater demand for bituminous over 
sub-bituminous coal. Given our supply base, we are well 
positioned to benefit from the resulting market arbitrages 
that will invariably occur. In case of seaborne fundamentals, 
demand for coal in Europe has been impacted by the 
low gas price which has resulted in more competition, 
partially offset by a significant reduction in US coal exports. 
China import demand has also contracted somewhat, 
which we believe results from a current preference for 
higher priced domestic coal, while some regulatory 
uncertainty persists. 
On the supply side, some increases from Indonesia (despite 
a significant proportion of this production currently being 
loss-making) and higher supply from Russia (greatly 
assisted by the weaker Rouble) have continued to put 
pressure on prices. Supply, however, from Colombia, South 
Africa and Australia remained relatively flat during 2014.
Oil
2014 was a tale of two halves, where in the first half oil was 
stuck in a narrow price band, rarely outside the $105–$110 
per barrel range for Brent, and as a result, the period 
continued to see historical lows in volatility, despite pockets 
of geo-political uncertainty. However, by mid-year, with 
production up from OPEC and non-OPEC sources and 
demand growth undershooting expectations, prices started 
to ease. The Brent benchmark reacted first via a weaker 
premium to WTI and a shift into contango structure earlier 
than its US equivalent. Refining margins remained decent in 
historical terms in the US, whilst the environment was more 
challenging in Europe.
OPEC’s decision not to cut production at its November 
meeting was transformative, with the impact to be felt by 
the market for some time. With non-OPEC production set 
to increase again in 2015 and expectations for demand 
growth moderated, prices fell sharply. The attempt to 
resolve a problem of structural oversupply by challenging 
long-term production economics through much lower flat 
price expectations, enhancing regional refining margins and 
by generating a significant build in crude oil storage and 
its associated deep contango, is in process. The fracturing 
of the previous price complacency also triggered a surge 
in volatility with near dated crude oil volatility spiking up 
over 40%. 
The ample supply of crude and products in the market was 
also supportive of wet freight with good demand for tanker 
vessels noted in most classes. 60 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Energy products
Industrial activities
Highlights
Total industrial Adjusted EBITDA was $2,841 million, down 16% from $3,378 million, while Adjusted EBIT was $486 million, 
down 61% from $1,244 million. The reduction in Adjusted EBITDA relates to lower prices impacting both the coal and oil 
results (average realised coal prices and Brent oil down 8–20% and 9% respectively), while the greater reduction in Adjusted 
EBIT reflects a higher depreciation charge, consistent with the higher production levels. The reductions were mitigated 
somewhat by the higher production, real unit cost savings and the stronger US dollar, whereby the Australian dollar and 
South African rand depreciated by 7% and 12% respectively during 2014. The price driven reduction in profitability resulted 
in a small decline in energy’s industrial EBITDA margin from 30% to 28%. 
Financial information
US$ million 2014 2013 Change %
Net revenue
Coal operating revenue
Coking Australia 749 1,087 (31)
Thermal Australia 4,408 4,773 (8)
Thermal South Africa 2,065 2,253 (8)
Prodeco 1,395 1,505 (7)
Cerrejón
1
754 816 (8)
Coal operating revenue 9,371 10,434 (10)
Coal other revenue
Coking Australia 369 439 (16)
Thermal Australia 674 623 8
Thermal South Africa 19 99 (81)
Prodeco 4 2100
Coal other revenue (buy-in coal) 1,066 1,163 (8)
Coal total revenue
Coking Australia 1,118 1,526 (27)
Thermal Australia 5,082 5,396 (6)
Thermal South Africa 2,084 2,352 (11)
Prodeco 1,399 1,507 (7)
Cerrejón
1
754 816 (8)
Coal total revenue 10,437 11,597 (10)
Oil 680 672 1
Energy products revenue – segmental measure 11,117 12,269 (9)
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (754) (816) n.m.
Energy products revenue – reported measure 10,363 11,453 (10)
1  Represents the Group’s share of this JV. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
61
Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBIT
US$ million 2014 2013 Change % 2014 2013 Change %
Coking Australia 171 336 (49) 38 181 (79)
Thermal Australia 1,224 1,268 (3) 88 229 (62)
Thermal South Africa 450 693 (35) 52 254 (80)
Prodeco 311 343 (9) 137 175 (22)
Cerrejón
1
260 299 (13) 80 109 (27)
Total coal 2,416 2,939 (18) 395 948 (58)
Adjusted EBITDA margin
2
26% 28%
Oil 425 439 (3) 91 296 (69)
Adjusted EBITDA margin 63% 65%
Energy products Adjusted EBITDA/ EBIT – segmental measure 2,841 3,378 (16) 486 1,244 (61)
Adjusted EBITDA margin
2
28% 30%
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (261) (253) n.m. (81) (64) n.m.
Energy products Adjusted EBITDA/ EBIT – reported measure 2,580 3,125 (17) 405 1,180 (66)
1 Represents the Group’s share of this JV.
2 Coal EBITDA margin is calculated on the basis of Coal operating revenue, as set out in the preceding table.
2014 2013
US$ million Sustaining Expansion Total Sustaining Expansion Total
Capex
Australia (thermal and coking) 432 368 800 355 1,013 1,368
Thermal South Africa 199 312 511 182 499 681
Prodeco 19 17 36 48 41 89
Cerrejón
1
35 64 99 109 106 215
Total coal 685 761 1,446 694 1,659 2,353
Oil –788 788 –1,045 1,045
Capex – segmental measure 685 1,549 2,234 694 2,704 3,398
Impact of presenting joint ventures on an equity accounting basis (35) (64) (99) (109) (106) (215)
Capex – reported measure 650 1,485 2,135 585 2,598 3,183
1 Represents the Group’s share of this JV. 62 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Energy products
Production data
Coal assets
1
2014 2013 Change %
Australian coking coal mt 6.0 7 .3 (18)
Australian semi-soft coal mt 3.5 4.5 (22)
Australian thermal coal (export) mt 54.6 48.1 14
Australian thermal coal (domestic) mt 5.4 5.1 6
South African thermal coal (export) mt 23.4 20.6 14
South African thermal coal (domestic) mt 22.7 22.9 (1)
Prodeco mt 19.5 18.6 5
Cerrejón
2
mt 11.2 11.0 2
Total Coal department mt 146.3 138.1 6
1  Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis except for joint ventures, where the Group’s attributable share of production is included.
2  The Group’s pro-rata share of Cerrejón production (33.3%).
Oil assets
2014 2013 Change %
Glencore entitlement interest basis
Equatorial Guinea kbbl 5,072 4,799 6
Chad kbbl 2,279 186 1,125
Total Oil department kbbl 7,351 4,985 47
Gross basis
Equatorial Guinea kbbl 24,232 21,917 11
Chad kbbl 4,284 619 592
Total Oil department kbbl 28,516 22,536 27 Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
63
Operating highlights
Coal
Total coal production was 146.3 million tonnes, 6% 
(8.2 million tonnes) higher than 2013. The increase mainly 
relates to productivity improvements and the delivery of 
various advanced stage Australian thermal coal projects.
A three week shutdown at the Australian coal operations 
was carried out over December 2014 and January 2015, 
in response to the current oversupply situation.
Australian coking
Australian coking coal production was 6.0 million tonnes, 
18% (1.3 million tonnes) lower than 2013, mainly relating to 
cost reduction initiatives that resulted in mine plan/roster 
changes at Newlands, Oaky Creek and Collinsville.
Australian thermal and semi-soft
Australian thermal and semi-soft production was 
63.5 million tonnes, 10% (5.8 million tonnes) higher than 
2013. The increase reflects productivity improvements, 
completion of the Ravensworth North and Rolleston 
projects and the commencement of longwall operations 
at Ulan West.
South African thermal
South African thermal coal production was 46.1 million 
tonnes, 6% (2.6 million tonnes) higher than 2013. 
The increase reflects inclusion of the Hlagisa open cut 
mine for a full year in 2014, the benefits of productivity 
improvements at the Tweefontein underground operations 
and the opening of the Wonderfontein open cut mine. 
These increases were tempered by the closure of certain 
higher cost mines.
Prodeco
Prodeco production was 19.5 million tonnes, 5% (0.9 million 
tonnes) higher than 2013, reflecting better equipment 
availability at Calenturitas and lower rainfall in 2014. 
Cerrejón
Cerrejón attributable production was 11.2 million tonnes, 
2% (0.2 million tonnes) higher than 2013. The increase 
mainly relates to the impact of the 32 day strike that 
occurred in Q1 2013, offset by some minor mining 
restrictions in 2014.
Oil 
Glencore’s share of oil production was 7.4 million barrels, 
47% higher than 2013. The increase relates to the first full 
year of production from Alen (Equatorial Guinea) and 
Badila (Chad), as well as the increased ownership of the 
Chad assets post completion of the Caracal acquisition in 
July 2014. The Mangara field (Chad) started production 
at the end of December 2014 and is expected to ramp-up 
during 2015. 64 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Agricultural products
Marketing activities
Marketing activities
1,209
Adjusted EBITDA
US$ million
992
Adjusted EBIT
US$ million
2013
2013
61 
2013
Industrial activities
(6) 
2013
Industrial activities
Highlights
383 
198 
2014
2014
213
2014
136
2014
996
856
2014 2013
2014 2013
Agricultural products total Adjusted EBITDA and EBIT in 
2014 were $1,209 million and $992 million, up $765 million 
and $800 million respectively over 2013. The increase 
reflects the continuation of the strong performance across 
both marketing and industrial activities seen at the half 
year. The earnings growth was assisted by strong results 
from Viterra, including the benefit of large crops in Canada 
and South Australia and a full year of post integration cost 
synergies, while the traditional marketing business and the 
industrial activities also delivered improved results. 
US$ million
Marketing
activities
Industrial
activities 2014
Marketing 
activities 
Industrial 
activities 2013
Revenue 22,523 3,298 25,821 26,854 3,185 30,039
Adjusted EBITDA 996 213 1,209 383 61 444
Adjusted EBIT 856 136 992 198 (6) 192
Allocated average CE
1,2
5,814 2,610 8,424 7,446 2,566 10,012
Adjusted EBIT return on average CE 15% 5% 12% 3% 0% 2%
1 The simple average of segment current and non-current capital employed (see note 2 of the financial statements), adjusted for production related inventories, is applied as a proxy for 
marketing and industrial activities respectively.
2 For the purposes of this calculation, capital employed has been adjusted to move logistics and storage related property, plant and equipment (including Viterra) from industrial 
activities into marketing activities.
Market conditions
Selected average commodity prices
2014 2013 Change %
S&P GSCI Agriculture Index 350 402 (13)
CBOT wheat price (US¢/bu) 588 684 (14)
CBOT corn no.2 price (US¢/bu) 415 578 (28)
CBOT soya beans (US¢/bu) 1,244 1,407 (12)
ICE cotton price (US¢/lb) 76 83 (8)
ICE sugar # 11 price (US¢/lb) 16 17 (6) Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
65
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
65
10.9m
TONNES OF AGRICULTURAL  
PRODUCTS PROCESSED
856m
MARKETING EBIT
Viterra Balgonie Regina,  
Canada 66 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Agricultural products
Marketing
Highlights
Record 2014 US corn, US bean and EU wheat production, better than average FSU crops and the good late year progress of 
the 2015 South American crops pressured prices throughout the year. 
Viterra, now fully integrated with significant cost savings achieved, performed well. The record Canadian 2013 crop, a better 
than average South Australian 2013 crop and a South Australian 2014 crop that, despite the dry weather, recovered strongly 
late on, were all beneficial. We were able to overcome the challenges provided by an early season shortage of railroad 
capacity in Canada, while port facilities in both Russia and Ukraine benefited from strong early crop year export volumes. 
Our global marketing network was able to enhance the performance of the handling business and global marketing itself 
produced satisfactory results. Oilseed marketing in particular, well integrated with our crushing assets in Europe and 
South America, contributed strongly. 
Barring significant crop issues, global markets are likely to remain relatively low priced and subdued. Crop progress to 
date, in both Brazil and Argentina is excellent and may be at record levels, which is potentially constructive for the oilseed 
crushing business. Conversely, weak diesel prices will adversely impact biodiesel margins.
Financial information
US$ million 2014 2013 Change %
Revenue 22,523 26,854 (16)
Adjusted EBITDA 996 383 160
Adjusted EBIT 856 198 332
Selected marketing volumes sold
Million tonnes 2014 2013 Change %
Grain 38.3 44.2 (13)
Oil/Oilseeds 22.0 23.5 (6)
Cotton 0.4 0.5 (20)
Sugar 0.9 0.5 80  Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
67
Operating highlights
Adjusted EBITDA was $213 million, a 249% increase on 2013, mainly due to the higher crush volumes at Timbues, Argentina, 
a plant that was fully operational for the whole year, combined with the impact of our increased ownership in this asset to 
50% from 33%. Timbues also drove the increase in processing volumes.
Financial information
US$ million 2014 2013 Change %
Revenue 3,298 3,185 4
Adjusted EBITDA 213 61 249
Adjusted EBIT 136 (6) n.m.
Adjusted EBITDA margin 6% 2%
Sustaining capex 29 49 (41)
Expansionary capex 58 97 (40)
Total capex 87 146 (40)
Processing/production data
2014 2013 Change %
Farming kt 762 883 (14)
Crushing kt 5,664 3,642 56
Long-term toll agreement kt 206 541 (62)
Biodiesel kt 757 624 21
Rice milling kt 230 273 (16)
Wheat milling kt 1,013 1,121 (10)
Sugarcane processing kt 2,231 2,251 (1)
Total agricultural products kt 10,863 9,335 16 68 Glencore Annual Report 2014
The resource and reserve data in the following tables comprise summary extracts of the Glencore Resources and Reserves 
report as at 31 December 2014, as published on the Glencore website on 11 February 2015. The Glencore Resources and 
Reserves report was publicly reported, as appropriate for individual components, in accordance with the 2012 edition of the 
Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (JORC Code), the 2007 edition 
(as amended July 2009) of the South African Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (SAMREC), the 
Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (CIM) Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves (2014 edition) 
and the Petroleum Resources Management System (PRMS) for reporting of oil and natural gas reserves and resources.
Data is reported as at 31 December 2014, unless otherwise noted. For comparison purposes, data for 2013 has been included. 
Metric units are used throughout and all data is presented on a 100% asset basis with the exception of Oil assets, which 
are shown on a working interest basis. All tonnage information has been rounded to reflect the relative uncertainty in the 
estimates; there may therefore be small differences in the totals. 
Copper mineral resources
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral 
Resources
Measured and  
Indicated Resources
Inferred 
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
African copper 
Katanga (Mt) 31 33 242 244 273 277 168 169
Copper (%) 4.23 4.18 3.94 3.98 3.98 4.00 2.4 2.4
Cobalt (%) 0.58 0.57 0.45 0.45 0.46 0.47 0.3 0.3
Mutanda (Mt) 226 189 151 172 377 361 209 235
Copper (%) 1.60 1.67 1.21 1.15 1.45 1.42 0.9 0.8
Cobalt (%) 0.56 0.47 0.49 0.41 0.53 0.43 0.3 0.2
Mopani (Mt) 184 183 65 64 249 246 86 84
Copper (%) 2.11 2.13 1.85 1.87 2.04 2.06 2.1 2.1
Cobalt (%) 0.09 0.08 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.1 0.1
Collahuasi (Mt) 712 671 4,183 4,129 4,896 4,800 5,060 4,970
Copper (%) 0.81 0.83 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.82 0.8 0.8
Molybdenum (%) 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Antamina (Mt) 274 256 862 835 1,136 1,091 1,280 1,030
Copper (%) 0.90 0.90 0.88 0.88 0.89 0.88 0.8 0.8
Zinc (%) 0.71 0.57 0.86 0.74 0.82 0.70 0.7 0.6
Silver (g/t) 10.4 9.9 10.7 10.4 10.6 10.2 11 10
Molybdenum (%) 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.01
Other South America (Mt) 631 512 2,022 1,863 2,653 2,375 859 1,116
Copper (%) 0.44 0.48 0.41 0.42 0.42 0.44 0.4 0.3
Gold (g/t) 0.05 0.06 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.1 0.1
Silver (g/t) 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.5
Australia (Mt) 131 131 169 182 301 313 161 161
Copper (%) 1.94 2.00 1.39 1.39 1.63 1.64 1.1 1.1
Gold (g/t) 0.10 0.06 0.24 0.27 0.18 0.18 0.03 0.03
Silver (g/t) 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.9 0.7
Resources and reserves Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
69
Copper ore reserves
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
African copper 
Katanga (Mt) 18 12 70 83 88 95
Copper (%) 3.51 3.40 4.14 4.05 4.01 3.97
Cobalt (%) 0.56 0.72 0.47 0.45 0.49 0.48
Mutanda (Mt) 138 64 63 6 201 71
Copper (%) 1.96 2.95 1.53 2.20 1.82 2.89
Cobalt (%) 0.73 0.83 0.67 0.70 0.71 0.82
Mopani (Mt) 120 116 32 30 152 146
Copper (%) 1.95 1.96 1.68 1.70 1.89 1.91
Cobalt (%) 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.09
Collahuasi (Mt) 482 451 2,773 2,828 3,255 3,279
Copper (%) 0.96 1.00 0.78 0.80 0.80 0.83
Molybdenum (%) 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Antamina (Mt) 210 201 437 492 647 693
Copper (%) 1.02 1.02 0.90 0.94 0.94 0.97
Zinc (%) 0.80 0.63 1.07 0.89 0.98 0.81
Silver (g/t) 11.2 10.9 10.4 10.9 10.7 10.9
Molybdenum (%) 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02
Other South America (Mt) 665 611 725 786 1,390 1,397
Copper (%) 0.42 0.45 0.36 0.38 0.38 0.41
Gold (g/t) 0.12 0.15 0.05 0.05 0.09 0.10
Silver (g/t) 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7
Australia (Mt) 35 37 69 85 104 121
Copper (%) 2.29 2.52 1.26 1.28 1.61 1.66
Gold (g/t) 0.19 0.16 0.40 0.40 0.33 0.33
Silver (g/t) 1.5 1.4 0.5 0.6 0.9 0.8
Copper mineral resources (continued)
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral 
Resources
Measured and  
Indicated Resources
Inferred 
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Other projects (Mt) 1,510 1,510 2,835 2,835 4,345 4,345 3,340 3,340
 (El Pachon, Tampakan, Copper (%) 0.68 0.68 0.48 0.48 0.55 0.55 0.4 0.4
 West Wall) Gold (g/t) 0.18 0.18 0.08 0.08 0.12 0.12 0.03 0.03
Silver (g/t) 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.8 1.0 1.0
Molybdenum (%) 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 70 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Zinc mineral resources
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral 
Resources
Measured and  
Indicated Resources
Inferred 
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Kazzinc
Gold Kazzinc (Mt) 85.6 176 48 112 133 288 15 41
Gold (g/t) 1.9 1.8 1.9 1.5 1.9 1.6 1.7 1.2
Polymetallic Kazzinc (Mt) 36.8 46.4 89 93 126 139 160 90
Zinc (%) 4.5 4.2 1.5 1.5 2.4 2.4 3 3
Lead (%) 1.3 1.1 0.3 0.2 0.5 0.5 0.8 0.7
Copper (%) 1.2 1.1 0.3 0.3 0.6 0.6 0.2 0.3
Silver (g/t) 41.4 38.4 15 15 23 23 14 25
Gold (g/t) 1.6 1.4 0.9 0.9 1.1 1.1 1 1
Australia
Mount Isa (Mt) 133 131 330 300 460 430 250 250
Zinc (%) 6.87 6.88 5.1 4.9 5.6 5.5 5 5
Lead (%) 4.18 4.37 2.9 2.9 3.3 3.4 3 3
Silver (g/t) 78.1 83.2 56 58 62 66 50 50
McArthur River (Mt) 126 131 61 71 190 200 – –
Zinc (%) 10.0 10.7 9.3 7.0 9.8 9.4 – –
Lead (%) 4.45 4.41 4.0 3.6 4.3 4.1 – –
Silver (g/t) 44.6 44.8 42 36 44 42 – –
North America
Zinc North America (Mt) 27.5 29.5 36 33 63 62 60 70
Zinc (%) 4.51 4.66 4.9 4.7 4.7 4.7 4 4
Lead (%) 0.39 0.36 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
Copper (%) 1.68 1.73 0.7 0.6 1.1 1.1 0.5 0.5
Silver (g/t) 49.5 50.1 107 115 82 84 140 140
Gold (g/t) 0.33 0.31 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.2
Copper North America (Mt) 75.0 75.0 255 255 330 330 120 120
Copper (%) 0.39 0.39 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4
Gold (g/t) 0.16 0.16 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1
Other Zinc (Mt) 10.6 11.0 29 32 40 43 80 90
Zinc (%) 9.36 8.27 6.9 6.3 7.5 6.8 6 6
Lead (%) 2.11 2.35 1.7 1.5 1.8 1.7 1 1
Copper (%) 0.08 0.09 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Silver (g/t) 111 111 99 97 102 101 55 53
Resources and reserves Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
71
Zinc ore reserves
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Kazzinc
Gold Kazzinc (Mt) 70.7 116 23 4.6 94 120
Gold (g/t) 2.20 1.90 2.2 1.4 2.2 1.9
Polymetallic Kazzinc (Mt) 18.1 25.1 17 19 36 44
Zinc (%) 3.4 3.6 5.4 4.7 4.4 4.1
Lead (%) 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.7
Copper (%) 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.9
Silver (g/t) 34.1 33.3 26 24 30 29
Gold (g/t) 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.0 1.0
Australia
Mount Isa (Mt) 40.8 52.6 45 62 86 115
Zinc (%) 7.55 7.56 7.2 7.0 7.4 7.2
Lead (%) 3.96 4.02 3.4 3.6 3.6 3.8
Silver (g/t) 67.5 74.2 58 62 63 68
McArthur River (Mt) 54.6 77.6 49 31 103 109
Zinc (%) 11.8 11.1 8.4 7.5 10 10
Lead (%) 5.39 4.72 3.9 4.3 4.7 4.6
Silver (g/t) 54.1 47.8 38 43 47 46
North America (Mt) 8.59 12.0 5.5 5.0 14 17
Zinc (%) 4.49 4.63 4.9 5.5 4.6 4.9
Copper (%) 1.95 1.82 1.6 1.6 1.8 1.7
Silver (g/t) 49.3 46.1 39 45 45 46
Gold (g/t) 0.04 0.07 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Other Zinc (Mt) 5.05 5.63 19 22 24 27
Zinc (%) 8.74 6.93 7.1 6.8 7.5 6.8
Lead (%) 2.54 2.90 1.5 1.3 1.7 1.6
Copper (%) 0.07 0.09 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1
Silver (g/t) 86.1 88.7 62 56 67 62 72 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Nickel mineral resources
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral 
Resources
Measured and  
Indicated Resources
Inferred 
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
INO (Mt) 16 16 28 29 44 45 39 38
Nickel (%) 2.35 2.12 2.69 2.79 2.56 2.55 2.6 2.5
Copper (%) 1.70 1.89 1.14 1.11 1.34 1.39 1.6 1.3
Cobalt (%) 0.05 0.05 0.07 0.07 0.06 0.06 0.1 0.1
Platinum (g/t) 0.98 1.04 0.66 0.67 0.78 0.81 1.0 0.9
Palladium (g/t) 1.48 1.49 1.15 1.17 1.28 1.29 1.7 1.6
Falcondo (Mt) 40.5 40.4 31.1 31.1 71.6 71.5 4.9 4.9
Nickel (%) 1.42 1.42 1.53 1.53 1.47 1.47 1.4 1.4
Australia (Mt) 198 202 107 112 305 314 26 26
Nickel (%) 1.01 0.99 0.99 0.99 1.01 0.98 0.9 0.9
Cobalt (%) 0.07 0.07 0.05 0.05 0.06 0.06 0.03 0.03
Koniambo (Mt) 20.0 22.6 46.0 47.4 66.0 70.0 84 83
Nickel (%) 2.55 2.54 2.44 2.44 2.48 2.47 2.5 2.5
Other Nickel (Mt) 30 30 112 112 142 142 39 39
 (Kabanga, Araguaia) Nickel (%) 1.92 1.92 1.60 1.60 1.67 1.67 2.0 2.0
Copper (%) 0.16 0.16 0.07 0.07 0.09 0.09 0.2 0.2
Cobalt (%) 0.10 0.10 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.05 0.1 0.1
Platinum (g/t) 0.07 0.07 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.2 0.2
Palladium (g/t) 0.09 0.09 0.06 0.06 0.07 0.07 0.2 0.2
Resources and reserves Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
73
Nickel ore reserves
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
INO (Mt) 13 13 7 9 20 21
Nickel (%) 1.94 1.76 2.25 2.35 2.05 2.00
Copper (%) 1.66 1.98 0.80 0.80 1.36 1.50
Cobalt (%) 0.04 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.04 0.04
Platinum (g/t) 1.01 1.14 0.66 0.65 0.88 0.94
Palladium (g/t) 1.45 1.57 1.06 1.08 1.31 1.37
Falcondo (Mt) 44.9 44.5 26.3 26.3 71.2 70.8
Nickel (%) 1.28 1.28 1.36 1.36 1.31 1.31
Australia (Mt) 160.4 161.3 40.0 39.4 200.4 200.8
Nickel (%) 0.97 0.95 0.96 0.95 0.97 0.95
Cobalt (%) 0.069 0.067 0.067 0.066 0.069 0.067
Koniambo (Mt) 16.2 17 .5 42.5 44.0 58.7 61.5
Nickel (%) 2.50 2.50 2.30 2.31 2.35 2.36 74 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Ferroalloys mineral resources
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral 
Resources
Measured and  
Indicated Resources
Inferred 
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Chrome (Mt) 126 127 90 90 215 217 238 240
Cr2O3 (%) 41.3 41.3 41.2 41.3 41.2 41.3 41 41
Vanadium (Mt) 24.89 33.90 20.2 22.9 45.1 56.8 84 79
V 2O5 (%) 0.52 0.54 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
PGM (Mt) 89 87 26 31 115 118 83 86
3PGE + Gold (g/t) 4.36 4.41 3.1 3.3 4.1 4.1 4.3 4.3
Silica (Mt) – – 24.34 24.70 24.34 24.70 – –
 (Rietvly) SiO2 (%) – – 91 91 91 91 – –
Ferroalloys ore reserves
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Chrome (Mt) 52 56 14 14 66 71
Cr2O3 (%) 33.8 33.4 31.0 32.1 33.2 33.1
Vanadium (Mt) 6.88 21.56 13.4 10.5 20.3 32.1
V 2O5 (%) 0.52 0.53 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
PGM (Mt) 26 24 0.1 1 26 24
3PGE + Gold (g/t) 3.33 3.48 3.1 3.5 3.3 3.4
Silica (Mt) – – 2.38 0.09 2.38 0.09
 (Rietvly) SiO2 (%) – – 91 91 91 91
Resources and reserves Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
75
Iron Ore mineral resources
Measured Mineral 
Resources
Indicated Mineral 
Resources
Measured and  
Indicated Resources
Inferred 
Mineral Resources 
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
El Aouj Mining Company (Mt) 470 470 1,435 1,250 1,905 1,720 2,520 2,085
 Iron (%) 36 36 36 36 36 36 35 36
Sphere Mauritania S.A. (Mt) 215 215 190 190 405 405 251 60
 (Askaf) Iron (%) 36 36 35 35 36 36 35 36
Sphere Lebtheinia S.A. (Mt) – – 2,180 2,180 2,180 2,180 560 560
 Iron (%) – – 32 32 32 32 32 32
Jumelles Limited (Mt) 2,300 2,300 2,500 2,500 4,800 4,800 2,100 2,100
 (Zanaga) Iron (%) 34 34 30 30 32 32 31 31
Iron Ore reserves
Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
El Aouj Mining Company S.A. (Mt) 370 150 385 280 755 430
Iron (%) 35 36 35 37 35 36
Sphere Mauritania S.A. (Mt) 140 150 92 100 232 250
 (Askaf) Iron (%) 36 36 34 34 35 35
Jumelles Limited (Mt) 770 – 1,290 2,500 2,070 2,500
 (Zanaga) Iron (%) 37 – 32 34 34 34 76 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Coal resources
Measured 
Coal Resources
Indicated 
Coal Resources
Inferred 
Coal Resources
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Australia
New South Wales Coking/Thermal Coal (Mt) 3,242 3,221 2,678 2,763 5,121 5,091
Queensland Coking/Thermal Coal (Mt) 3,008 3,169 3,234 2,796 8,190 8,300
South Africa Thermal Coal (Mt) 3,456 3,532 1,617 1,538 447 466
Prodeco Thermal Coal (Mt) 200 260 240 220 70 70
Cerrejón Thermal Coal (Mt) 3,300 3,000 1,100 1,100 700 700
Canada projects Coking/Thermal Coal (Mt) 45 40 113 343 130 380
(Donkin
1
, Suska, Sukunka)
Coal reserves
Coal Reserves
Marketable 
Coal Reserves
Total marketable 
Coal Reserves Proved Probable Proved Probable
Name of operation Commodity 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2013
Australia
New South Wales Thermal Coal (Mt) 1,049 174 750 118 871 905
Coking Coal (Mt) 25 38 17 25 42 50
Queensland Thermal Coal (Mt) 1,315 381 1,071 295 1,376 1,251
Coking Coal (Mt) 116 118 80 84 164 172
South Africa Thermal Coal (Mt) 1,005 482 622 280 901 976
Prodeco Thermal Coal (Mt) 140 130 140 130 270 290
Cerrejón Thermal Coal (Mt) 570 90 560 90 650 720
Canada projects Coking/Thermal Coal (Mt) ––––– 47
 (Donkin
1,
 Suska, Sukunka)
1 The Donkin Project was sold to the Cline Group in December 2014.
Resources and reserves Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
77
Oil net reserves (Proven and Probable)
1
Working Interest Basis
Equatorial Guinea Chad Cameroon Total
Name of operation Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf
Combined 
mmboe
31 December 2013 32 – 55 – – –87 – 87
Revisions (1) – 5 – – –3 – 3
Acquisitions/Divestments – – 94 – – –94 – 94
Discoveries – – – – – –– – –
Production (6) – (4) – – –(9) – (9)
31 December 2014 25 – 150 – – –175 – 175
Oil net contingent resources (2C)
1
Working Interest Basis
Equatorial Guinea Chad Cameroon Total
Name of operation Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf Oil mmbbl Gas bcf
Combined 
mmboe
31 December 2013 28 609 9 – 70 1,010 107 1,619 387
Revisions (5) (47) (5) – (17) (296) (27) (343) (87)
Acquisitions/Divestments –– 5– –– 5–5
Discoveries – –– –– – –––
31 December 2014 23 562 9 – 53 714 85 1,276 305
1 “Net” reserves or resources are equivalent to Glencore’s working interest in the asset/property.
Approval – Strategic report
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
John Burton 
Company Secretary  
17 March 2015 78 Glencore Annual Report 2014
PAGE 80–109
GOVERNANCE
Tintaya copper,  
Peru Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
79
80 Chairman’s introduction & Board of Directors
84 Corporate governance report
99 Directors’ remuneration report
105 Directors’ report
In this section 80 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s introduction  
& Board of Directors 
Dear Shareholders,
2014 was another eventful year for Glencore against a 
backdrop of a challenging business environment. It was also 
a year of consolidation and progress in our governance and 
sustainability agenda. 
Board activities
In May 2014, I was delighted to have been appointed by the 
Board as its ongoing Chairman. Following this decision, 
Peter Grauer was appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director. A month later Patrice Merrin was 
appointed as the eighth member of our Board, contributing 
additional valuable mining and climate change knowledge. 
These changes completed the restructuring of our Board 
which had begun a year earlier. As a result we now have 
an appropriately sized Board whose members have 
wide-ranging backgrounds. The strong track records 
and experience of all the Non-Executive Directors allow 
challenge and informed support to be provided to executive 
management in running a diverse and complex business. 
The Board continues to keep abreast of changes to corporate 
governance reporting requirements. As regulation continues 
its steady forward march, so we remain keen to keep our 
reporting as clear and concise as possible. In particular, 
following last year’s extensive remuneration report, we have 
taken the opportunity this year to remove any elements 
which would merely be repetitive of last year’s text. 
Safety
Safety remains our top priority. It saddens me to report 
that 16 people lost their lives working at our operations 
during 2014. In 2013, we launched our SafeWork initiative, 
which identifies and targets the most common fatal hazards 
within our Group operations. The SafeWork initiative has 
continued gaining ground throughout 2014. During the 
year we also held our first fatality prevention summit 
which brought together senior management and safety 
professionals to identify and commit to safety performance 
improvements. Compared to previous years the reduced 
number of fatalities, whilst unacceptable, demonstrates our 
safety leadership, safety culture and risk-based mitigation 
methods are starting to produce appreciable results. 
Sustainable Development
The unique position of our Company in the resources sector 
and the strength of our management team provide me with 
great confidence that Glencore is well placed to meet the 
ongoing challenge of sustainably producing and supplying 
commodities that are needed to meet the world’s growing 
demands. Our efforts in sustainability in 2014 resulted in 
our admission to the International Council of Mining and 
Metals (ICMM). This is the industry trade body dedicated to 
establishing and promoting leading sustainability practices. 
Another important milestone in 2014 was the completion of 
the $500 million upgrade to the Mopani smelter in Zambia 
which now currently captures 95% of its sulphur dioxide 
emissions. I am confident that our Company will continue 
to strive to not only meet but exceed the expectations placed 
on us by our stakeholders.
Stakeholder engagement 
Stakeholder engagement is a fundamental part of our 
governance and decision making process. The Board and 
Glencore’s senior management team are firmly committed 
to establishing a dialogue with all stakeholders of our 
business. This engagement includes with our critics, 
particularly certain NGOs. We have sought to engage 
constructively and our responses to material allegations 
are posted on the Public Positions section of our website. 
Creating value for society
Our operations make a significant contribution to their 
host countries through taxes and royalties, employment, 
sourcing products and services, and investment in local 
communities. 2014 saw our Group continue to strengthen 
partnerships with organisations dedicated to tackling 
social problems in the areas we operate. During the year 
we initiated a partnership with CARE International, 
a global NGO dedicated to fighting poverty, and we 
look forward to working together to strengthen our 
community programmes.
I look forward to reporting on the further progress 
of our Company in a year’s time. 
 Tony Hayward
 Chairman 1 2 34 567 8
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
81
1. Peter Coates
2. Peter Grauer
3. John Mack
4. Anthony Hayward
5. William Macaulay
6. Patrice Merrin
7. Leonhard Fischer
8. Ivan Glasenberg 82 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s introduction & Board of Directors 
1.
Peter Coates AO
Non-Executive Director 
(age 69)
Appointed: Peter Coates has been a Non-Executive 
Director since January 2014. Prior to this he served 
as an Executive Director from June to December 2013 
and a Non-Executive Director from April 2011 to 
May 2013. 
Committees: Chairman of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee.
Experience: Prior to joining Glencore in 1994 as a 
senior executive in the coal department, Mr Coates 
had occupied many senior positions in a diverse 
range of resource companies, including those 
mining silver, lead, nickel, iron ore, bauxite and coal. 
When Glencore sold its Australian and South African 
coal assets to Xstrata in 2002, he joined Xstrata as 
chief executive of its coal business, stepping down 
in December 2007.
He was non-executive chairman of Xstrata Australia 
from January 2008 until August 2009. From April 
2008 until April 2011, he was non-executive 
chairman of Minara Resources Ltd. Mr Coates 
is non-executive chairman of Sphere Minerals 
Limited (ASX:SPH), and from 30 April 2015, Santos 
Limited (ASX:STO), and a non-executive director of 
Amalgamated Holdings Limited (ASX:AHD), and a 
past chairman of the Minerals Council of Australia, 
the NSW Minerals Council and the Australian 
Coal Association.
Mr Coates holds a Bachelor of Science degree in 
Mining Engineering from the University of New 
South Wales. He was appointed to the Office of the 
Order of Australia in June 2009 and awarded the 
Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy 
Medal for 2010.
2.
Peter Grauer
Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director  
(aged 69)
Appointed: Peter Grauer was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013 
and became the Senior Independent Non-Executive 
Director in May 2014.
Committees: Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee; member of the Audit Committee. 
Experience: Mr Grauer is chairman of Bloomberg 
Inc., the global financial media company that was 
founded in 1981. Mr Grauer was chairman and chief 
executive officer from 2002 to 2011 and has been a 
member of Bloomberg’s board of directors since 1996. 
Prior to this, Mr Grauer was managing director of 
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from 1992 to 2000 
when DLJ was acquired by Credit Suisse First Boston 
and founder of DLJ Merchant Banking. He served 
as managing director and senior partner of CSFB 
Private Equity until 2002.
Mr Grauer is a director of Davita Healthcare Partners 
(NYSE:DVA), a healthcare services company. 
Mr Grauer is also a member of the International 
Business Council of the World Economic Forum, the 
UNC Chapel Hill board of trustees and a trustee of 
Rockefeller University.
Mr Grauer graduated from the University of North 
Carolina and the Harvard University Graduate 
School of Business Program for Management 
Development in 1975.
3.
John Mack
Independent 
Non-Executive Director  
(aged 70)
Appointed: John Mack was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013.
Committees: Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and member of the 
Nomination Committee. 
Experience: Mr Mack previously served as chief 
executive officer of Morgan Stanley from June 2005 
until December 2009. He retired as chairman in 2011. 
Mr Mack first joined Morgan Stanley in May 1972, 
becoming a board director in 1987 and was named 
President in 1993. 
Before rejoining Morgan Stanley as chairman 
and chief executive officer in June 2005, Mr Mack 
served as co-chief executive officer of Credit Suisse 
Group and chief executive officer of Credit Suisse 
First Boston.
Mr Mack is a non-executive director of Enduring 
Hydro and Corinthian Ophthalmic. He is also 
non-executive chairman of Tri-Alpha Energy Inc. 
Mr Mack also serves on the Advisory Board of 
China Investment Corporation, is a member of 
the International Business Council of the World 
Economic Forum, the NYC Financial Services 
Advisory Committee and the Shanghai International 
Financial Advisory Council. 
Mr Mack is a graduate of Duke University.
4.
Anthony Hayward
Chairman  
(age 57)
Appointed: Anthony Hayward was appointed 
Independent Non-Executive Chairman in May 2013 
(initially on an interim basis from May 2013 to May 
2014). Prior to being appointed Chairman he was 
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director. 
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Dr Hayward is chief executive officer 
of Genel Energy plc (LON:GENL), a partner and 
member of the European advisory Board of AEA 
Capital and chairman of Compact GTL Limited.
Dr Hayward was group chief executive of BP plc 
from 2007 to 2010, having joined BP in 1982 as a rig 
geologist in the North Sea.
Following a series of technical and commercial roles 
in Europe, Asia and South America, he returned 
to London in 1997 as a member of the upstream 
executive committee. He became group treasurer 
in 2000, chief executive for BP upstream activities 
and member of the main Board of BP in 2003.
Dr Hayward studied geology at Aston University in 
Birmingham and completed a Ph.D. at Edinburgh 
University. He is also a fellow of the Royal Society 
of Edinburgh and holds honorary doctorates from 
the University of Edinburgh, Aston University 
and the University of Birmingham. 83
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
5.
William Macaulay
Independent 
Non-Executive Director  
(age 69)
Appointed: William Macaulay was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Committees: Member of the Audit and 
Remuneration Committees. 
Experience: Mr Macaulay is the chairman and chief 
executive officer of First Reserve Corporation, a 
private equity investment firm focused on the energy 
industry, and has been with the company since its 
founding in 1983.
Prior to joining First Reserve, Mr Macaulay was a 
co-founder of Meridien Capital Company, a private 
equity buyout firm. From 1972 to 1982, he served 
as director of corporate finance at Oppenheimer 
& Co. with direct responsibility for the firm’s 
buyout business. He also served as president of 
Oppenheimer Energy Corporation.
Mr Macaulay is chairman of the board of Dresser-
Rand (NYSE:DRC), chairman of the board of 
CHC Group Ltd (NYSE:HELI), and a director of 
Weatherford International (NYSE:WFT). He also 
serves on numerous private energy company boards. 
In addition, he is chairman of the advisory board of 
the City University of New York.
Mr Macaulay holds a B.B.A. degree (with honours) 
in Economics from City College of New York, 
and an MBA from the Wharton School of the 
University of Pennsylvania. He has also received 
an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree 
from Baruch College.
6.
Patrice Merrin
Independent 
Non-Executive Director 
(age 66)
Appointed: Patrice Merrin was appointed as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2014. 
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Following initial roles with Molson and 
Canadian Pacific, Ms Merrin worked at Sherritt, the 
Canadian diversified miner, for 10 years until 2004, 
latterly as COO. She then became CEO of Luscar, 
Canada’s largest thermal coal producer. She is 
currently a non-executive director of Stillwater 
Mining (NYSE:SWC) and Novadaq Technologies 
Inc. (Nasdaq:NVDQ). She has been a director and 
then chairman of CML Healthcare (then TSX) from 
2008-2013, of Enssolutions, a mine tailing solutions 
company, and of NB Power. 
Ms Merrin was a director of the Alberta Climate 
Change and Emissions Management Corporation 
from 2009 to 2014. She was also a member of the 
Canadian Advisory Panel on Sustainable Energy 
Science and Technology from 2005 to 2006 and from 
2003 to 2006 was a member of Canada’s Round Table 
on the Environment and the Economy. 
Ms Merrin is a graduate of Queen’s University, 
Ontario and completed the Advanced Management 
Programme at INSEAD. 
7.
Leonhard Fischer
Independent 
Non-Executive Director  
(age 52)
Appointed: Leonhard Fischer was appointed an 
Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Committees: Chairman of the Audit 
Committee; member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees. 
Experience: Mr Fischer was appointed chief 
executive officer of RHJ International S.A. 
(EBR:RHJI) in January 2009, having been co-chief 
executive officer from May 2007. He is chief executive 
officer of Kleinwort Benson Group and chairman of 
the board of directors of Kleinwort Benson Bank Ltd 
and BHF-Bank AG. 
Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of Winterthur 
Group from 2003 to 2006 and a member of the 
executive board of Credit Suisse Group from 2003 
to March 2007. He joined Credit Suisse Group from 
Allianz AG, where he had been a member of the 
management board and head of the Corporates 
and Markets Division. Prior to this, he had been a 
member of the executive board of Dresdner Bank AG 
in Frankfurt.
Mr Fischer holds an M.A. in Finance from the 
University of Georgia.
8.
Ivan Glasenberg
Chief Executive Officer 
(age 58)
Appointed: Ivan Glasenberg joined Glencore in 
April 1984 and has been Chief Executive Officer 
since January 2002.
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, 
Environment and Communities Committee. 
Experience: Mr Glasenberg initially spent 
three years working in the coal commodity 
department in South Africa as a marketer, before 
spending two years in Australia as head of the 
Asian coal commodity division. Between 1988 
and 1989, he was based in Hong Kong as head 
of Glencore’s Hong Kong and Beijing offices, as 
well as head of coal marketing in Asia, where his 
responsibilities included overseeing the Asian coal 
marketing business of Glencore and managing 
the administrative functions of the Hong Kong 
and Beijing offices.
In January 1990, he was made responsible for the 
worldwide coal business of Glencore for both 
marketing and industrial assets, and remained in 
this role until he became Chief Executive Officer in 
January 2002.
Mr Glasenberg is a Chartered Accountant of South 
Africa and holds a Bachelor of Accountancy from 
the University of Witwatersrand. Mr Glasenberg 
also holds an MBA from the University of Southern 
California. He is currently a non-executive director 
of United Company Rusal plc (HKG:0486) and Pirelli 
& C. SpA (MI:PECI). Before joining Glencore, Mr 
Glasenberg worked for five years at Levitt Kirson 
Chartered Accountants in South Africa.
John Burton
Company Secretary 
(age 50)
Appointed: John Burton was appointed Company 
Secretary in September 2011.
Experience: He was formerly company secretary 
and general counsel of Informa plc and before that 
a partner at CMS Cameron McKenna in London 
specialising in corporate law. Mr Burton holds a B.A. 
degree in Law from Durham University. He was 
admitted as a Solicitor in England and Wales in 1990. 84 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Corporate governance report
This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors’ 
Report and the remainder of the Governance section.
2014 highlights:
• Appointment of Tony Hayward as permanent Chairman
• Appointment of Peter Grauer as Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director
• Appointment of Patrice Merrin as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director
• Continuing emphasis on sustainability issues
• No changes to modest executive remuneration policy 
• Publication of an abbreviated remuneration report
• Completion of analysis by the Audit Committee of the 
Xstrata acquisition
Board governance and structure
Overview
This governance report sets out how Glencore has applied 
the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(the “Code”) in a manner which enables shareholders to 
evaluate how these principles have been applied. 
From June 2014 Glencore’s Board has comprised seven 
Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) and 
one Executive Director. A list of the current Directors, 
with their brief biographical details and other significant 
commitments, is provided in the previous pages.
Division of responsibilities
As a Jersey incorporated company, Glencore has a unitary 
board, meaning all Directors share equal responsibility for 
decisions taken. Glencore has established a clear division 
between the respective responsibilities of the Non-Executive 
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which are 
set out in a schedule of responsibilities which has been 
approved by the Board. While the Non-Executive Chairman 
is responsible for leading the Board’s discussions and 
decision-making, the CEO is responsible for implementing 
and executing strategy and for leading Glencore’s operating 
performance and day-to-day management. The CEO and 
Chief Financial Officer have line of sight across the Group. 
The CEO is further supported by his senior management 
team principally comprising the heads of the businesses and 
the Head of Strategy. The Company Secretary is responsible 
for ensuring that there is clear and effective information 
flow to the Non-Executive Directors.
Further details of these responsibilities are set out opposite.
Peter Grauer was appointed as the Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director in May 2014 and is available to meet 
with shareholders and acts as an intermediary between the 
Chairman and other independent directors when required. 
This division of responsibilities, coupled with the schedule 
of reserved matters for the Board, ensures that no individual 
has unfettered powers of decision.
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
Chairman
• Leader of the Board
• Responsible for effective communication flow 
between Directors
• Facilitates effective contribution of all Directors
• Responsible for effective Board governance
• Ensures effective communication with shareholders
Chief Executive Officer
• Leads and motivates management team
• Implements strategy and objectives as directed by the Board
• Develops Group policies and proposals for approval by the 
Board and ensures effective implementation
Senior Independent Director
• Is a confidant of the Chairman and (when appropriate) also 
acts as an intermediary for other independent directors
• Will stand in for Chairman if he is unable to attend 
• Chairs the Nominations Committee
• Responsible for appraising the Chairman’s performance 
along with other independent directors
• Available to shareholders to answers questions. 
Other Non-Executive Directors
• Supply challenge and support to management
• Bring independent mind set and differing backgrounds 
and experience to Board debates
• Provide leadership and challenge as chair of, or a member of, 
the board committees which (except HSEC) comprise only 
Non-Executive Directors
• Scrutinise leadership of chairman
Company Secretary
• Secretary to Board Committees
• Informs the Board on all matters reserved to it and ensures 
papers are provided in sufficient detail and on time
• Available to Directors in respect of Board procedures 
and provides support and advice
• Ensures the Board is kept informed on governance matters
• Coordinates and assists with the Board evaluation process 
along with the Chairman.  85
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Non-Executive Directors
The Company’s Non-Executive Directors provide a broad 
range of skills and experience to the Board which assists in 
their roles in formulating the Company’s strategy and in 
providing constructive challenge to executive management. 
Glencore regularly assesses its Non-Executive Directors’ 
independence. Except for Peter Coates, due to his temporary 
executive responsibilities held in 2013, they all are regarded 
by the Company as Independent Non-Executive Directors 
within the meaning of ‘‘independent’’ as defined in the 
Code and free from any business or other relationship 
which could materially interfere with the exercise of their 
independent judgement. This view has been taken having 
regard to all facts including the following: 
• William Macaulay is Chairman and CEO of First Reserve 
Corporation (FR). At 31 December 2014 affiliates of 
FR held 123,802,799 shares (approximately 0.92% of 
the Company’s total voting rights) although as at the 
date of this document this holding is 70,046,228 shares 
(0.54%). Independence issues arise where a director has 
been appointed, directly or, indirectly, to represent a 
shareholder. As previously explained, Mr Macaulay has 
not been appointed to represent FR’s interest on the Board 
and has never sought to do so. 
• John Mack was until 2011 chairman of Morgan Stanley, 
which provides advisory and financial services to the 
Group. However, Mr Mack ceased to be CEO of Morgan 
Stanley in 2009, Morgan Stanley’s relationship with the 
Company is led from the UK office and Mr Mack was not 
involved in the delivery of these services. 
Accordingly, we believe that applying a common sense 
construction to the provisions of the Code, it is reasonable 
to conclude that each of Mr Macaulay and Mr Mack is 
independent in accordance with its terms. 
Management of conflicts of interest
All Directors endeavour to avoid any situation of conflict of 
interest with the Company. Potential conflicts can arise and 
therefore processes and procedures are in place requiring 
Directors to identify and declare any actual or potential 
conflict of interest. Any such notifications are required to be 
made by the Directors prior to, or at, a Board meeting and 
all Directors have a duty to update the whole Board of any 
changes in circumstances. Glencore’s Articles of Association 
and Jersey law allow for the Board to authorise potential 
conflicts and the potentially conflicted Director must abstain 
from any vote accordingly. During 2014, no abstention 
procedures for conflicts had to be activated.
Board composition in 2014
The changes to the composition of the Board in 2014 have 
been described above.
Further details on these changes are set out in the 
Nomination Committee Report below.
Board Committees 
The following four Committees are in place to assist the 
Board in exercising its functions: Audit, Nomination, 
Remuneration and Health, Safety, Environmental and 
Communities (HSEC), as set out in the diagram on the next 
page. Committee meetings are held prior to Board meetings 
and at each scheduled Board meeting the chairman of each 
Committee leads a discussion concerning the Committee’s 
activities since the previous Board meeting. 
The Committees carry out a considerable amount of work. 
In particular:
• the Audit Committee provides challenge and enquiry 
on the very significant areas of financial and accounting 
oversight and risk management; and
• the HSEC Committee, whose membership includes 
both Chairman and CEO, continues to have the heaviest 
workload of all the committees due to its strong leadership 
of sustainability issues and the range of matters which 
it considers. Its work on driving improvements in safety 
performance is a particular focus. 
A report for 2014 from each Committee chairman is set out 
later in this Corporate Governance Report. 86 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference 
approved by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee 
meetings are circulated to the Board. Each Committee 
reviewed its terms of reference during the year and as 
a result revisions were made to the HSEC Committee’s 
terms of reference to ensure they continue to conform to 
best practice. 
All Committees’ terms of reference are available at 
www.glencore.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance/
board-committees/ 
Board meetings 
The Board has approved a formal schedule which sets out 
those matters which are reserved for its decision-making 
alone such as strategy, the annual budget and material 
acquisitions and disposals.
The Board held five scheduled meetings in person 
during the year, all of which were held at the Company’s 
headquarters in Baar, Switzerland. In addition, the Board 
conducted two scheduled telephone meetings and further 
ad hoc telephone Board meetings to address important 
items of business which had arisen. 
The Board and its Committees have standing agenda 
items to cover their proposed business at their scheduled 
meetings. The Chairman seeks to ensure that the very 
significant work of the Committees feeds into, and 
benefits as to feedback from, the full Board. The Board 
and Committee meetings also benefit from presentations 
by senior executives and some technical and investor 
relations updates. Presentations from the business and 
senior management allow Directors to enhance their 
understanding of the business and the implementation of 
strategy, in turn contributing to a more effective Board. 
A summary of the Board’s main activities during 2014 is set 
out on the next page. 
The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive 
Directors without the Executive Director present, and at 
least once a year the Non-Executive Directors meet without 
the Chairman present.
SHAREHOLDERS
Remuneration  
Committee
Nominations 
Committee
CEO and 
CFO
Audit  
Committee
Health, Safety,  
Environment and  
Communities 
Committee
Board
Elect the 
directors
Ongoing  
engagement
Appoint the 
external auditors
Corporate governance report 87
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Work at Board Meetings
The main debates and actions carried out at the meetings of the Board during 2014 are summarised below.
At each main meeting the following standing matters are considered:
• Consideration of any new conflicts of interest;
• Review of minutes of previous meetings, including actions from previous meetings; and
• Reports/updates from the CEO, CFO, Head of Strategy and Investor Relations and Head of Communications. 
These reports include consideration of strategic matters including possible asset expansions, acquisitions, disposals, 
joint ventures and debt programmes. 
In addition, regular updates are provided by the Company Secretary on governance, Board processes and other company 
secretarial matters.
Board activities completed during 2014
First scheduled telephone meeting
• Review and approval of 2013 
Production Report
• Results/business update
First scheduled meeting
• Annual Results, including review and 
approval, where appropriate, of:
 – report from the Audit 
Committee Chairman
 – considered principal risks and 
mitigation to be disclosed
 – report on going concern
 – final distribution recommendation
 – full year results announcement for the 
year ended 31 December 2013
 – 2013 Annual Report draft
 – AGM resolutions
 – management representation letter
• Report from the Nomination Committee 
Chairman and discussion on selection 
processes for chairman and a new director
• Report from the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman
• Report from the HSEC Committee 
Chairman, in particular discussion on 
health and safety improvements
• Review of procedure for Board and 
committees evaluation
• review and agreement on outcomes of 
2013 Board evaluation
• Reviewed updated Board governance 
documents and key policies
First short notice meeting  
(held by conference call)
• Results/business update
• Approved the sale of Las Bambas 
(included briefing from the Head 
of Copper)
•  Approved the acquisition of Caracal 
(included briefing from the Head of Oil)
• Approved the final form of AGM Notice
Second short notice meeting  
(held by conference call)
• Approved the appointment of Dr Hayward 
as permanent Chairman
Second scheduled meeting
• Briefing on the business to be conducted 
at the AGM (and after, of the other 
issues raised)
• Considered and approved the Q1 
Interim Management Statement and 
Production Report 
• Strategic discussions regarding the 
Lonmin stake
• Indicative consideration of early stage 
strategic opportunity
• Engagement with NGOs
• Catastrophic event 
management preparedness 
• Appointment of Peter Grauer as Senior 
Independent Director
Third short notice meeting  
(held by conference call)
• Business update 
• Approved the appointment of 
Patrice Merrin as an independent 
Non-Executive Director
Second scheduled telephone meeting
• Results/business update
• Review and approval of H1 2014 
Production Report
Third scheduled meeting
• Half year results, including review and 
approval, where appropriate, of:
 – report from the Audit 
Committee Chairman
 – considered principal risks and 
mitigation to be disclosed
 – report on going concern
 – interim distribution
 – half year results announcement
 – management representation letter
• Considered and approved share 
buy-back programme
• Considered an update on 
Board composition
• Received a strategic review of the coal 
market from the Head of Coal
• Report from the HSEC 
Committee Chairman
• Considered outcomes from multiple 
shareholder meetings on governance 
and sustainability issues
Fourth short notice meeting  
(held by conference call)
• Business update
• Review of Board correspondence
Fourth scheduled meeting
• Considered and approved the Q3 
Interim Management Statement and 
Production Report 
• Report from the Audit 
Committee Chairman
• Report from the HSEC 
Committee Chairman
• Received a review of the compliance 
function from senior members of 
compliance team and external advisers
• Received a strategic review of the copper 
market from the Head of Copper
Fifth scheduled meeting
• Considered and approved the 2015 
budget including input from some 
commodity heads
• Report from the HSEC 
Committee Chairman
• Report from the Audit 
Committee Chairman
• Report from the Remuneration 
Committee Chairman 88 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Attendance during the year for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings is set out in the table below:
Board of 5 Audit of 4 Remuneration of 2 Nomination of 2 HSEC of 5
Ivan Glasenberg 5 5
Anthony Hayward
1
515
William Macaulay 5 4 2
Leonhard Fischer 5422
Peter Coates 5 5
John Mack 5 2 2
Peter Grauer 5 4 2
Patrice Merrin
2
33
1 Stepped down from Nomination Committee after 1st scheduled meeting.
2 Attended all meetings since appointment on 26 June 2014.
In addition, the Board held two scheduled and four 
unscheduled meetings by telephone as itemised in the 
Board activities table. All Directors attended the scheduled 
calls and attendance on the unscheduled calls (all of which 
were called on short notice) was almost complete.
Appointment and re-election of Directors
All Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at 
the 2015 AGM. 
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of 
appointment and the details of their terms are set out in 
the Directors’ Remuneration Report. No other contract 
with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking of the 
Company in which any Director was materially interested 
existed during or at the end of the financial year.
Information, management meetings, site visits and 
professional development 
It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive 
Directors (1) attain a good knowledge of the Company 
and its business and (2) allocate sufficient time to Glencore 
to discharge their responsibilities effectively. The Board 
calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed 
on a wide range of topics. Directors are also given the 
opportunity to visit Group operations and discuss aspects 
of the business with employees, and regularly meet the 
heads of the Group’s main departments and other senior 
executives. As well as internal briefings, Directors attend 
appropriate external seminars and briefings.
Normally meetings with heads of commodities and other 
senior Group functions take place alongside scheduled 
Board meetings. In addition, in order to better familiarise 
themselves with the industrial activities, regular site visits 
take place. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 
Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for 
ensuring the Board procedures are complied with, and 
have access to independent and professional advice at the 
Company’s expense, where they judge this to be necessary 
to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
Director induction process
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction 
on joining the Board, including meetings with senior 
management. The induction programme aims to build:
• an in-depth understanding of Glencore, its business and 
the markets in which it operates;
• a link with Glencore employees, particularly the senior 
management; and
• a clear appreciation of the Company’s risks.
Corporate governance report 89
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
The induction process for Patrice Merrin in 2014 involved:
• prior circulation of key corporate documents including 
latest copies of financial information, Articles of 
Association, prospectuses and recent Board materials;
• a presentation of the role and responsibilities of a UK 
listed company director including the responsibilities 
arising from Glencore’s secondary listings. 
Information regarding the Company’s Code of Conduct 
and Share Dealing Code was also presented;
• presentations from business heads introducing their 
commodities, detailing financials, the markets in which 
they operate in and the risks present;
• presentations from material corporate functions including 
compliance, sustainability, finance, internal audit and 
discussion on current business planning and strategy led 
by the CEO;
• an introduction to the HSEC Committee including 
being provided with terms of reference, information on 
composition and minutes and other related papers from 
recent meetings; and
• site and office visits. 
Board performance evaluation 
We have reviewed the interests declared by the Directors 
which could conflict with those of the Company and we 
are satisfied that the Board’s powers to authorise potential 
conflicts is operating effectively.
Since the composition of the Board has changed significantly 
since the Company’s IPO in May 2011, an external evaluation 
within the Code’s three year timeframe was considered to be 
premature. An external evaluation will however, be carried 
out in 2015.
Additionally an internal evaluation was carried out 
during 2014, the results of which raised no material issues. 
This has been augmented by regular discussions which 
take place as to the efficiency and effectiveness of the Board. 
Issues which have been considered and acted upon include: 
frequency and content of business presentations (they 
now take place at most Board meetings); visits to assets by 
Non-Executive Directors (more are now taking place); size 
of the Board (current size and composition is considered to 
work effectively); attendance at committees of non-member 
directors (this is now occurring more regularly); and more 
discussion of very early stage potential opportunities (this is 
now occurring). 
Remuneration
Remuneration is covered in the Directors’ Remuneration 
report which follows this section. It includes a description of 
the work of the Remuneration Committee.
Accountability and audit
Financial reporting
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review 
cycle, which includes a detailed annual planning/budgeting 
process where business units prepare budgets for overall 
consolidation and approval by the Board. The Group uses 
a large number of performance indicators to measure 
both operational and financial activity in the business. 
Depending on the measure, these are reported and reviewed 
on a daily, weekly or monthly basis. In addition, management 
in the business receive weekly and monthly reports of 
indicators which are the basis of regular operational 
meetings, where corrective action is taken if necessary. 
At a Group level, a well-developed management accounts 
pack, including income statement, balance sheet, cash flow 
statement as well as key ratios is prepared and reviewed 
monthly by management. As part of the monthly reporting 
process, a reforecast of the current year projections is 
performed. To ensure consistency of reporting, the Group has 
a global consolidation system as well as a common accounting 
policies and procedures manual. Management monitors the 
publication of new reporting standards and work closely with 
our external auditors in evaluating their impact, if any.
Risk Management and Internal Control 
The Board has applied Principle C.2 of the Code by 
establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating 
and managing the risks that are considered significant 
by the Group in accordance with the revised Turnbull 
Guidance on Internal Control published by the Financial 
Reporting Council. This process has been in place for the 
period under review and up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report and financial statements. The process is 
designed to manage and mitigate rather than eliminate risk, 
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance 
against material misstatement or loss. The Directors 
confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the 
risk management and internal control systems. This review 
excludes associates of the Group as Glencore does not have 
the ability to dictate or modify the internal controls of these 
entities. This report describes how the effectiveness of the 
Group’s structure of internal controls including financial, 
operational and compliance controls and risk management 
systems is reviewed. 90 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Approach to risk management
Effective risk management is crucial in helping the Group 
achieve its objectives of preserving its overall financial 
strength for the benefit of all shareholders and other 
stakeholders and safeguarding its ability to continue as 
a going concern while generating sustainable long-term 
profitability. Spanning the organisational structure, 
Glencore’s disciplined approach to risk management 
and control originates with strategic responsibility in 
the hands of the Board, which also retains operational 
authority on matters exceeding agreed thresholds of 
materiality. The Board retains final authority for assessing 
and approving the Group’s overall risk appetite and 
sets overall limits which are subject to review annually. 
Through delegation to the Audit Committee for oversight 
and to senior management for day-to-day operational 
issues, an effective risk management governance apparatus 
has been established for the Group. The Board‘s risk 
management processes for 2015 have been amended to 
reflect the new provisions introduced by the revised Code 
which was published in October 2014.
The Audit Committee retains responsibility for reviewing 
the overall effectiveness of Glencore’s risk management 
approach and systems.
Industrial asset risk management 
Business risk owners
We believe that every employee should be accountable for 
the risks related to their role. As a result, we encourage our 
employees to escalate risks (not limited to hazards) to their 
immediate supervisors. This enables risks to be tackled and 
mitigated at an early stage by the team with the relevant 
level of expertise.
The management teams at each industrial operation are 
responsible for implementing a risk management process 
that identifies, assesses and manages risk.
The risks that may impact on business objectives and plans 
are maintained in a business risk register. They include 
strategic, compliance, operational and reporting risks.
Any significant risks are reported to Management and 
the Audit Committee. A Corporate Risk Management 
Framework is implemented on a Group-wide basis to ensure 
consistency in the assessment and reporting of risks.
Management engagement
The Company’s senior management reviews the major risks 
facing the Group and decides if the level of risk is acceptable 
or whether further steps need to be taken to mitigate 
these risks. Together, central and business management 
set the level of risk appetite by ensuring that there is an 
appropriate balance between the level of risk assumed and 
the expected return.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the risk 
management system and internal controls.
Mandated by the Board, the Audit Committee (or HSEC 
Committee in some instances) is responsible for ensuring 
that the significant risks identified are properly managed. 
Group functions
Group Functions (Risk Management, Compliance, Legal 
and Sustainable Development), through their respective 
expertise, support the Business Risk Owners and senior 
management in regard to mitigating risk across the Group.
Internal Audit
Internal Audit, as an independent assurance provider, 
reviews the risk management process and internal controls 
established by the management team. 
A risk-based audit approach is applied in order to focus 
on high risk areas during the audit process. It involves 
discussions with management on the risks identified in the 
business risk registers, emerging risks, operational changes, 
new investments and capital projects.
The key results from this process are reported to the 
Audit Committee for their review.
Corporate governance report
Risks
Management Engagement
Group Functions
Internal Audit
Audit Committee
Business Risk Owners
Support
Leadership
Control
Assurance
Oversight
Risk Management framework 91
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Marketing risk management 
Glencore’s marketing activities are exposed to commodity 
price, basis, volatility, foreign exchange, interest rate, 
credit and performance, liquidity and regulatory risks. 
Glencore devotes significant resources to developing and 
implementing policies and procedures to identify, monitor 
and manage these risks. 
Glencore has a disciplined and conservative approach to 
Marketing Risk (MR) management supported by its flat 
organisational structure. Glencore continues to adopt and 
implement policies which are intended to mitigate and 
manage commodity price, credit and other related risks. 
Glencore’s MR is managed at desk, business level and 
centrally. Initial responsibility for risk management 
is provided by the businesses in accordance with and 
complementing their commercial decision making. 
A support, challenge and verification role is provided by the 
central MR function headed by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO)
via its additional daily risk reporting and analysis which is 
split by market and credit risk.
The CEO, as the central figure of commercial leadership 
and control, drives functional risk management policy, 
supported by the CFO and CRO, with data and reporting 
from the central risk team and the other key functional 
units. In turn the CEO reports to, and seeks authority 
limits from the Board, with the main oversight role being 
performed by the Audit Committee which receives regular 
reports from the CRO at its meetings. It also approves 
(subject to Board confirmation) the Group-wide risk profile, 
and any exceptions to agreed positional thresholds.
At the heart of the risk management regime is the process 
of challenge that takes place between the CEO, the CRO and 
the business heads which sets risk appetite in accordance 
with Group requirements and market conditions for each 
commodity. The objective is to ensure that an appropriate 
balance is maintained between the levels of risk assumed 
and expected return, which relies on the commodity-
specific expert knowledge provided by business heads. 
This is then subject to challenge from the CEO based on his 
overall Group knowledge and experience. This process is 
designed to manage risk effectively while facilitating the 
fast, commercial decision making which is required in a 
dynamic commodity marketing company.
Historically, the pre-2011 IPO quasi-partnership structure 
provided a strong alignment of personal financial interest of 
key staff with the performance of the Group. Although these 
ownership interests are now diluted somewhat or, in the 
case of senior marketing figures who have been promoted 
since the IPO, far less applicable, there remains a strong 
culture and tradition of managerial/senior marketers 
and shareholder alignment. Maintaining these cultural 
benefits, and supplementing them with more prescriptive 
limits where necessary, remains a key aim going forward 
as over time senior employee shareholders leave or reduce 
their equity participation. 
Another important consideration of the MR team 
is the challenge of dealing with the impact of large 
transactional flows across many locations. The function 
seeks to ensure effective supervision by its timely and 
comprehensive transaction recording, ongoing monitoring 
of the transactions and resultant exposures, providing 
all-encompassing positional reporting, and continually 
assessing universal counterparty credit exposure. 
Key focus points
Market Risk limits and reporting
The MR team provides a wide array of daily/weekly 
reporting. A daily risk report showing Group Value at Risk 
(VaR) as shown on the next page and various other stress 
tests and analyses are distributed to the CEO, CFO and CRO. 
Business risk summaries showing positional exposure and 
other relevant metrics, together with potential margin call 
requirements, are also circulated daily. The MR function 
works to enhance its stress and scenario testing as well as 
enhancing measures to capture risk exposure within the 
specific areas of the business, e.g. within metals, concentrate 
treatment and refining charges are analysed.
A recent example of upgrading of reporting is the 
Agricultural business for which the MR team has 
considerably improved the granularity of reporting since 
the integration of Viterra, through the adoption of new 
systems solutions. The existing VaR sub-limits system has 
been extended to reflect the greater geographic spread of 
commercial responsibility within the organisation and now 
covers nine constituent units. 
Credit Risk Management 
The Group continues to make extensive use of credit 
enhancement tools, seeking letters of credit, insurance cover, 
discounting and other means of reducing credit risk from 
counterparts. In addition, mark-to-market exposures in 
relation to hedging contracts are regularly and substantially 
collateralised (primarily with cash) pursuant to margining 
agreements in place with such hedge counterparts. 
The Group-wide Credit Risk Policy governs higher levels 
of credit risk exposure, with an established threshold for 
referral of credit decisions by business heads to CFO/CEO 
(relating to unsecured amounts in excess of $75 million 
with BBB or lower rated counterparts). At lower levels of 
materiality, decisions may be taken by the business heads 
where key strategic transactions or established relationships 
suggest that an open account exposure may be warranted.  92 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Systems and reporting
Whilst no single trading system that the Group can identify 
appears able to manage the broad range of requirements 
that the different business profiles of the Group would 
place on it, interfacing with multiple source systems and 
transferring data from one to another create enhanced risk 
to data integrity, granularity, consistency and timeliness. 
Dealing with obligations arising from regulatory 
changes
In 2014 Glencore adapted, as applicable, to regulatory 
creep including the Dodd-Frank Act and European Market 
Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) such as Risk Mitigation 
(trade confirmation timeframes, portfolio reconciliation, 
portfolio compression and dispute resolution) and 
Trade Reporting. 
Value at Risk
The Group monitors its commodity price risk exposure 
by using a VaR computation assessing open commodity 
positions which are subject to price risks. VaR is one 
of the risk measurement techniques the Group uses to 
monitor and limit its primary market exposure related to 
its physical marketing exposures and related derivative 
positions. VaR estimates the potential loss in value of open 
positions that could occur as a result of adverse market 
movements over a defined time horizon, given a specific 
level of confidence. The methodology is a statistically 
defined, probability based approach that takes into account 
market volatilities, as well as risk diversification benefits 
by recognising offsetting positions and correlations 
between commodities and markets. In this way, risks can 
be compared across all markets and commodities and risk 
exposures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Last year, the Board approved the Audit Committee’s 
recommendation of a one day, 95% VaR limit of 
$100 million for 2014, consistent with the previous year. 
This limit is subject to review and approval on an annual 
basis. The purpose of this Group limit is to assist senior 
management in controlling the Group’s overall risk profile, 
within this tolerance threshold. During 2014 Glencore’s 
average daily VaR was approximately $36 million, with an 
observed high of $65 million and a low of $16 million.
As the below chart shows, in 2014 there were no breaches 
of the $100 million Group VaR limit:
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Metals & minerals Energy products Agriculture
Jan 2014 Nov 2014 Jul 2014 Sep 2014 Mar 2014 May 2014
VaR development ($m)
The Group remains aware of the extent of coverage of 
risk exposures and their limitations. In addition, VaR 
does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair 
value on earnings to be incurred by the Group, nor are 
these VaR results considered indicative of future market 
movements or representative of any actual impact on its 
future results. VaR remains viewed in the context of its 
limitations; notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for 
estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and risks 
associated with longer time horizons as well as tail risks. 
Recognising these limitations the Group complements 
and refines this risk analysis through the use of stress and 
scenario analysis. The Group regularly back-tests its VaR 
to establish adequacy of accuracy and to facilitate analysis 
of significant differences, if any.
The Board has again approved the Audit Committee’s 
recommendation of a one day, 95% VaR limit of 
$100 million for 2015. 
Upcoming new regulatory compliance proposals or 
obligations include:
• further obligations under EMIR stretching to 2018;
• a new Swiss regulatory framework for derivatives 
and MIFID II, the overarching European Derivatives 
Regulation complementing EMIR;
• the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR); and
• Regulation on Energy Market Integrity and Transparency 
(REMIT). 
The impacts of these and other new regulations to 
commodity market participants is potentially considerable. 
For Glencore, this is ostensibly by imposing an additional 
compliance burden with the associated costs, rather than an 
expectation of practical commercial hindrances. Glencore’s 
compliance, finance, IT and risk teams continue to work 
together in monitoring, and advising management on 
these developments.
Corporate governance report 93
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Sustainable development risk management 
These risk management processes are operated at asset 
level subject to co-ordination and guidance from the central 
sustainability team and subject to the leadership and 
oversight of the HSEC Committee.
A new assurance process for these risks has been introduced 
in 2014.
Further information is provided in the report from the 
HSEC Committee below and will be published in the 
Group’s Sustainability Report for 2014.
Internal Audit 
Glencore has a dedicated Internal Audit function reporting 
directly to the Audit Committee. The role of Internal 
Audit is to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk 
management, control, and business governance processes. 
Internal Audit reviews areas of potential risk within 
the business and suggests control solutions to mitigate 
exposures identified. The Audit Committee considers and 
approves the risk-based audit plan, areas of audit focus and 
resources and is regularly updated on audits performed and 
relevant findings, as well as the progress on implementing 
the actions arising. In particular, the Committee considered 
Internal Audit’s high priority issues (with a particular focus 
on procurement and systems), its KPIs and the effectiveness 
and timeliness of management’s responses to its findings.
The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of 
the Internal Audit function. As part of this work, it 
considered the function’s management framework and its 
improvement programme.
Relationships with shareholders
The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the 
Group in communications with shareholders and believes 
that being transparent in describing how we see the market 
and the prospects for the business as extremely important. 
We communicate with shareholders in a number of different 
ways. The formal reporting of our full and half year results 
and interim management statements is achieved through a 
combination of releases, presentations, group calls and one 
to one meetings. The full and half year reporting is followed 
by investor meetings in a variety of locations where we 
have institutional shareholders. We also regularly meet 
with existing and prospective shareholders to update or to 
introduce them to the Company and periodically arrange 
visits to parts of the business to give analysts and major 
shareholders a better understanding of how we manage 
our operations. These visits and meetings are principally 
undertaken by the CEO, CFO and Head of Investor Relations 
and increasingly, an array of business heads. In addition, 
many major shareholders have meetings with the Chairman 
and appropriate senior personnel of the Group including 
other Non-Executive Directors, the Company Secretary 
and Head of Sustainability. In addition, Peter Grauer, 
the Senior Independent Director, is available to meet 
shareholders if they wish to raise issues separately from 
these arrangements.
In particular in 2014 the following were undertaken: 
1.  the Senior Independent Director met with a number of 
institutional shareholders, principally concerning the 
process of the appointment of the Chairman;
2.  a presentation and investor road show was held in 
June to provide a detailed account of the Company’s 
sustainability policies and plans. Led by the chairman of 
the HSEC committee, presentations were also given by 
the Chairman and the CEO;
3.  the Chairman and Company Secretary met with a large 
number of institutional shareholders in July, following 
Dr Hayward’s appointment as permanent Chairman; 
and
4.  an investor day, via a live webcast, was held in December 
to provide a briefing on the Company’s strategy. 
The Board receives regular updates from the Company’s 
Head of Investor Relations on the views of shareholders 
through a briefing, which is a standing agenda item for 
all Board meetings, which is supplemented by input from 
the Chairman, CEO, CFO and, if applicable, the Senior 
Independent Director. 
Compliance with the Code
As a London premium listed entity we seek to ensure 
full compliance with the Code. The Board believes that 
the Company has, throughout the year, complied with 
all relevant provisions contained in the Code except with 
regard to the following:
1.  the Company has not implemented an external board 
evaluation, but as previously explained, this will take 
place during 2015; and
2.  the Company did not have a Senior Independent 
Director from 1 January 2014 until 20 May 2014 when 
Peter Grauer was appointed. The appointment was not 
made earlier since it was not considered appropriate 
to replace Dr Hayward in this position until the 
appointment of the Chairman was completed.
AGM
The Company’s next AGM is due to be held in Zug on 7 May 
2015. Full details of the meeting will be set out in the Notice 
of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders in April. 
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote by 
proxy as detailed in the Notice of Meeting. All documents 
relating to the AGM will be available on the Company’s 
website at: www.glencore.com. 94 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Audit Committee report
Chairman
Leonhard Fischer 
Other members
Peter Grauer  
William Macaulay
Mr Fischer, Mr Macaulay and Mr Grauer served throughout 
the year. All are considered to be Independent Non-
Executive Directors and deemed to be financially literate 
by virtue of their business experience. Additionally all 
Committee members are considered by the Board to 
have recent and relevant financial experience and have 
competence in accounting. The Committee held four 
scheduled meetings during the year which all the 
Committee members attended. John Burton is Secretary 
to the Committee. 
Role and responsibilities
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist 
the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard 
to financial reporting, external and internal audit, risk 
management and controls. This includes:
• monitoring and reviewing the Group’s financial and 
accounting policies and practices;
• monitoring the integrity of the annual and half yearly 
financial statements and any formal announcements 
relating to the Group’s financial performance and 
reviewing significant financial reporting judgements 
relating to them; 
• monitoring matters that influence or could distort the 
presentation of accounts and key figures;
• overseeing the Group’s procedures for ensuring that the 
Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, 
are fair, balanced and understandable;
• considering the scope of the annual external audit 
and the work undertaken by external auditors; 
• considering the reappointment of the external auditors;
• making recommendations to the Board for a resolution 
to be put to the shareholders for their approval on the 
appointment of the external auditors and to authorise 
the Board to fix the remuneration and terms of 
engagement of the external auditors;
• reviewing and monitoring the independence of the 
external auditor and the provision of additional services 
by it;
• reviewing Glencore’s internal financial, operational 
and compliance controls and internal controls and 
risk management systems;
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencore’s 
internal audit function; and
• overseeing the Group’s procedures for detecting fraud 
and handling allegations from whistleblowers. 
Governance processes
The Audit Committee usually invites the CEO, CFO, Group 
Financial Controller, CRO and Head of Internal Audit and 
the lead partner from the external auditors to attend each 
meeting. Other members of management may attend as 
and when required. The Committee also holds private 
sessions with the external auditors and the Head of Internal 
Audit without members of management being present. 
The Committee has adopted guidelines allowing non-audit 
services to be contracted with the external auditors on the 
basis as set out below.
Main activities
During the year, the Committee’s principal work included 
the following:
• reviewing and agreeing the preparation and scope of the 
year-end reporting process;
• reviewing and agreeing the global audit plan, scope 
and fees of the audit work to be undertaken by the 
external auditors;
• reviewing and evaluating the Group’s procedures for 
ensuring that the Annual Report and accounts, taken as 
a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable;
• reviewing and discussing the full year (audited), 
and half-year (unaudited), financial statements with 
management and the external auditors;
• discussing various material accounting issues with 
management and the external auditors, particularly 
those involving key judgements and estimates primarily 
as outlined in further detail below; 
• considering applicable regulatory changes to 
reporting obligations;
• evaluating the effectiveness of the external auditors; 
• reviewing the operation of the Company’s policy for the 
provision of non-audit services by the external auditors;
• considering and approving two significant assignments 
with the external auditors in respect of non-audit services;
• considering the output from the Group-wide processes 
used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, including 
credit and performance risks across the industrial and 
marketing activities;
• reviewing the Internal Audit Department’s annual audit 
plan and reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal 
Audit function;
Corporate governance report 95
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
• monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencore’s 
internal controls; and
• reviewing the Group’s legal compliance programme, 
including material notifications under the Group’s Raising 
Concerns whistleblowing programme.
Risk analysis
The Committee receives reports and presentations at 
its meetings on our management of marketing and 
industrial risks.
Significant issues related to the financial statements
The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting 
policies have been adopted and whether management have 
made appropriate estimates and judgements. They also 
review external auditors’ reports outlining audit work 
performed and conclusions reached in respect of key 
judgements, as well as identifying any issues in respect 
of these. 
During the year, the Committee has placed considerable 
focus on these key matters:
1 Acquisitions and disposals
Accounting for acquisitions involves significant 
management judgements and estimates. The acquisition 
of Xstrata on 2 May 2013 was a large scale and complex 
transaction, materially impacting the financial statements. 
Management had a period of 12 months from the completion 
of the acquisition to finalise the fair value allocation of the 
acquired assets and liabilities to reflect new information 
obtained about the facts and circumstances that existed 
at the acquisition date. Therefore in 2014 the Committee 
completed its review and analysis of the process 
undertaken by management to determine these finalised 
fair values, with particular attention being focused on the 
valuation of Xstrata’s material development projects and 
operating assets. 
The accounting treatment of the Las Bambas disposal 
and Caracal Energy and Clermont acquisitions were 
also analysed. 
2 Impairment
The Committee considered whether the carrying value 
of goodwill, industrial assets, physical trade positions 
and material loans and advances may be impaired as a 
result of the volatile market environment. We reviewed 
management’s report outlining the basis for the key 
assumptions used in calculating the recoverable value for 
the Group’s assets. Future performance assumptions used 
are derived from the Board approved business plan. As part 
of the process for approval of this plan, the Committee 
considered the feasibility of strategic plans underpinning 
future performance expectations, and whether they are 
achievable. The Committee discussed with the external 
auditors their work in respect of impairment review, which 
was a key area of audit focus for them particularly given 
decreases in certain commodity prices. 
3 Marketing exposures
The Committee monitors the risk management policies 
and processes in place in respect of the Group’s marketing 
operations, as explained in more detail under Risk 
management and internal control above. As part of this 
assessment, we reviewed management’s VaR reports and 
held regular discussions with the CRO to understand 
the nature of open positions, with a focus on those that 
are deemed to be higher risk. Our external auditors 
have reported to us on the work they have performed in 
respect of accounting for financial instruments, marketing 
inventories and the associated complexities, including 
determination of fair value measurements and classification 
of contracts relating to marketing activities. 
4 Comprehensive review of financial reporting disclosures
A considerable review of the disclosures to the financial 
statements took place. No material new accounting or 
reporting issues arose from this process. 
5 Credit and performance risk
The Group’s global operations expose it to credit and 
performance risk, which result in the requirement to make 
judgements around recoverability of receivables, loans, 
trade advances and contractual non-performance. As part 
of an ongoing review, the Committee has satisfied itself that 
for material continuing exposures, processes followed to 
evaluate recoverability of such exposures are sufficiently 
robust and that amounts recorded in the financial 
statements are reasonable.
6 Taxation
Due to its global reach, including operating in higher 
risk, less developed jurisdictions, the Group is subject to 
enhanced complexity and uncertainty in accounting for 
income taxes, particularly the evaluation of tax exposures 
and recoverability of deferred tax. Assets and exposures 
arising from acquisitions have been a particular area 
of focus, especially those relating to the acquisition of 
Xstrata. The Committee has had regular discussions with 
management to understand the potential tax exposures 
globally and the key judgements taken in determining the 
positions recorded, including status of communications with 
local tax authorities. Considerable progress has been made 
in reducing the number of major outstanding issues. 
The Committee is satisfied that the judgments made by 
management are reasonable and that financial statement 
disclosures included in the accounts are appropriate. 96 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Internal Audit
The Committee monitored the internal audit function 
as described under Internal Audit on page 93. 
External audit
The Committee has evaluated the effectiveness of 
the external auditor and as part of this assessment, 
has considered:
• the steps taken by the auditors to ensure their objectivity 
and independence;
• the deep knowledge of the Company which enhances 
Deloitte’s ability to perform as external auditor;
• competence when handling key accounting and audit 
judgements and ability to communicate these to the 
Committee and management;
• the extent of the auditor’s resources and technical 
capability to deliver a robust and timely audit including 
consideration of the qualifications and expertise of 
the team; 
• auditor’s performance and progress against the agreed 
audit plan, including communication of changes to the 
plan and identified risks; and
• the proven stability that is gained from the continued 
engagement of Deloitte as external auditor.
The Committee assesses the quality and effectiveness of 
the external audit process on an annual basis in conjunction 
with the senior management team. Key areas of focus 
include consideration of the quality and robustness of 
the audit, identification of and response to areas of risk 
and the experience and expertise of the audit team, 
including the lead audit partner. 
Provision of non-audit services by the external auditor
The Group’s policy on non-audit services provided by the 
external auditor is designed to ensure the external auditor 
independence and objectivity is safeguarded. A specified 
wide range of services may not be provided as they have 
the potential to impair the external auditor’s independence 
(Excluded Services). The Audit Committee’s approval 
is required for (1) any Excluded Service (2) any other 
engagement where either (i) the fee is contingent, (ii) the fee 
may exceed $500,000, or (iii) where the fees for all non-audit 
work may exceed $15 million. Subject to these restrictions 
and other safeguards in the policy, the external auditors 
may be permitted to provide certain non-audit services 
when it is concluded that they are the most appropriate 
supplier due to efficiency and status as a leading firm for 
those specific services. For 2014, fees paid to the external 
auditors were $37 million, the total non-audit fees of which 
were $8 million; further details are contained in note 29 to 
the financial statements.
Reappointment of the external auditor
Deloitte has been the auditor of the listed entity since 
its incorporation and IPO in 2011. The most recent lead 
audit engagement partner rotation occurred prior to the 
financial year ended 31 December 2013 when Mr Matthew 
Sheerin replaced Mr David Quinlin as the lead audit 
engagement partner. 
The Board and the Audit Committee acknowledge the 
importance of, and greater investor scrutiny in respect of, 
a tendering policy for the appointment of external auditors. 
The Board and the Audit Committee, in particular, also 
note the current requirements of the Code, the recently 
issued final Order on mandatory audit tendering from the 
UK’s Competition and Markets Authority, the European 
Union regulations regarding reform of the audit market 
and the requirement for mandatory audit rotation 
and the transitional arrangements provided by these 
legislative changes.
Taking into account the recent major changes to the Group 
since its IPO and acquisition of Xstrata, the recent partner 
rotation and the transitional arrangements, the Audit 
Committee concluded that it was appropriate not to tender 
at the current time.
The Committee has determined that it is satisfied that the 
work of Deloitte LLP is effective, the scope is appropriate 
and significant judgements have been challenged robustly 
by the lead partner and team. Additionally there are no 
contractual restrictions on the Company’s choice of external 
auditor. The Committee has therefore recommended 
to the Board that a proposal be put to shareholders at 
the 2015 AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as 
external auditor. 
Leonhard Fischer
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
17 March 2015
Corporate governance report 97
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Nomination Committee
Chairman
Peter Grauer 
Other members
John Mack  
Leonhard Fischer
On 13 February 2014 Anthony Hayward resigned from the 
Nomination Committee and Peter Grauer was appointed 
as Chairman of the Committee and Leonhard Fischer 
was appointed to the Committee. John Mack served on 
the Committee throughout the year. The Committee is 
fully comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors. 
The Committee met four times during the year and its 
members on the relevant date attended all of the meetings.
Roles and responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee 
are to assist the Board with succession planning and with 
the selection process for the appointment of new Directors, 
both Executive and Non-Executive, including the Chairman. 
This involves:
• evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and 
experience of the Board and identifying the capabilities 
required for a particular appointment;
• overseeing the search process; and
• evaluating the need for Board refreshment and 
succession planning generally.
Main activities
The Committee focused on four main tasks during this year. 
The first was the search for a Non-Executive Chairman. 
Following an extensive search process, on 8 May 2014 
Dr Hayward was appointed as permanent Chairman. 
Dr Hayward was initially appointed to the Board in April 
2011. He served as Senior Independent Director until 
May 2013 when he was appointed interim Chairman. 
In recommending his appointment to the Board, on an 
ongoing basis, the Committee considered the comparative 
qualities of other strong potential candidates. In finally 
recommending Dr Hayward, the Committee had regard 
to his effective leadership of the Board whilst acting as 
interim Chairman, his deep knowledge of the resources 
industry, and experience of the UK corporate governance 
requirements of a UK listed group. 
Secondly, a search process for an additional Non-Executive 
Director was conducted and Patrice Merrin was appointed 
on 26 June 2014. In recommending her appointment to 
the Board, Ms Merrin’s in-depth experience of operating 
across the resources sector and her strong record of 
Non-Executive Director appointments, including activist 
investor involvement and industry advisory board service, 
were considered. 
Thirdly, prior to the notice of 2014 AGM being compiled, 
the Committee considered the performance of each Director. 
It concluded that each Director is effective in their role 
and continues to demonstrate the commitment required to 
remain on the Board. Accordingly, it recommended to the 
Board that re-election resolutions be put for each director 
at the 2014 AGM. 
Fourthly, the Committee considered the composition of the 
Board following the above appointments. It was agreed that 
the Board benefited from the above two appointments and 
that the resulting Board of eight was currently satisfactory, 
subject to ongoing review.
It is part of the Committee’s policy when making new Board 
appointments to consider the importance of diversity on the 
Board, including gender. This is considered in conjunction 
with experience specific to the business of the Company, 
the necessary qualifications required, whilst ensuring no 
disqualifying conflict of interest is present. 
The decision to appoint Peter Grauer as Senior Independent 
Director was taken by the Board as a whole. 
External consultancy Egon Zehnder was retained for both 
of the above search mandates.
Peter Grauer
Chairman of the Nomination Committee 
17 March 2015 98 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Health, Safety, Environment & Communities 
(HSEC) Committee 
Chairman
Peter Coates
Other members
Ivan Glasenberg  
Anthony Hayward  
Patrice Merrin
Mr Coates, Dr Hayward and Mr Glasenberg served 
throughout the year. Ms Merrin joined the Committee at its 
third meeting of the year in August. The Committee met 
five times during the year and each Committee member 
attended all of the meetings which were held while being a 
member. Every meeting had a substantial agenda, reflecting 
the Committee’s objective of providing leadership for the 
Group in seeking to achieve improved HSEC performance. 
Role and responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the Committee are to:
• evaluate the effectiveness of policies and systems for 
identifying and managing environmental, health, safety 
and community risks;
• assess the policies and systems for ensuring 
compliance with environmental, health and safety 
regulatory requirements;
• assess performance with regard to the impact of 
HSEC related decisions and actions upon employees, 
communities and other third parties;
• receive reports concerning all fatalities and serious 
accidents and actions taken as a result of such incidents;
• evaluate and oversee the quality and integrity of any 
reporting to external stakeholders concerning HSEC 
matters; and
• review the results of any independent reviews of 
performance in regard to HSEC matters and strategies 
and action plans developed by management in response 
to issues raised.
Main activities
During the year, the Committee:
• oversaw a wholesale revamping of the Group’s internal 
assurance programme for sustainability matters;
• reviewed the current corporate practice framework for 
the Group, approved ongoing changes and reviewed their 
implementation and practice;
• reviewed and oversaw the Group’s Sustainability Report 
for 2013;
• undertook site visits;
• continued its most important objective of reducing 
fatalities. For this purpose it received a report on, 
reviewed and made recommendations in respect of, 
each fatality;
• continued the implementation of the SafeWork 
programme focussing on identification of fatal hazards 
and an appropriate safety culture. Employees at the 
Company’s assets must understand the Glencore fatal 
hazard protocols and identify the fatal hazards from 
which they are most at risk;
• developed a new Crisis and Emergency Management 
Policy which includes the Company’s new Crisis 
Management Plan;
• oversaw the introduction of new corporate HSEC policies;
• oversaw a project on catastrophic hazards;
• finalised the membership application process so the 
Company could become a member of the International 
Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and received 
a presentation from the ICMM on the benefits 
of membership;
• commissioned and considered a survey of safety and 
effectiveness of tailings dams across the Group;
• considered how the Group might engage more positively 
with NGOs on sustainability matters;
• invited and led an investor roadshow to inform 
and receive feedback on the Company’s sustainable 
development strategy and approach to HSEC 
management; and
• considered a variety of other material HSEC issues such 
as resettlement programmes, incident reporting and 
emergency response preparedness.
Peter Coates
Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment & 
Communities Committee 
17 March 2015
Corporate governance report 99
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Directors’ remuneration report
For the year ended 31 December 2014
Statement by the Remuneration Committee 
Chairman 
I am pleased to present a short report reflecting the Group’s 
straightforward compensation arrangements for the year 
ended 31 December 2014. 
Changes to the composition of the Board during 2014 are 
set out at the beginning of the first page of the Corporate 
governance report. 
Ivan Glasenberg remains the Group CEO and the only 
Executive Director. His remuneration is unchanged with no 
increase in any element of remuneration. Although eligible 
to participate in an annual bonus plan and to receive 
long-term incentive (LTI) awards, he has again waived any 
entitlement to both for 2014 and 2015. As reported last year, 
from 1 January 2014, since the Company reports in US$, his 
pay (along with the remuneration of all the other Directors) 
was re-denominated in US$, with the 2013 pounds sterling 
amount converted at 1.56, being the average exchange rate 
for the preceding financial year. 
Although, as a Jersey registered company headquartered 
in Switzerland, Glencore is not subject to the UK’s 
remuneration reporting regime, we consider it to be broadly 
reflective of good practice and have prepared this report in 
compliance with it, where feasible to do so. 
Over the following pages we have set out details of the 
implementation of our reward policy in 2014 including:
• the governance surrounding pay decisions, members of 
the Committee and advisers to the Committee in 2014; and
• details of what was paid to the Executive Director during 
the financial year ended 31 December 2014.
The Group’s forward-looking Directors’ Remuneration 
(DR) Policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 
2014 AGM has not changed. The Committee has noted 
that guidance from regulatory and advisory bodies has 
differed as to whether the DR Policy should be repeated in 
an Annual Report where it is unchanged from the Policy 
previously published. The Committee has concluded that, as 
no changes are proposed, it received significant shareholder 
support and the overall report is more readable without the 
repetition, it has not been reproduced in this DR Report. 
However, a summary of the key points has been prepared 
and the full DR Policy is available both in last year’s report 
and on our website at: www.glencore.com/who-we-are/
corporate-governance/governance-downloads.
Since (1) there has been no change to the DR Policy or 
practice and (2) the DR Report and the DR Policy were both 
approved at the 2014 AGM with a average votes in excess of 
98%, no resolution will be put to shareholders by the Board 
on the DR Policy at the 2015 AGM. A resolution will be 
proposed to approve this DR Report. 
We have again presented this Remuneration Report to reflect 
the 2013 changes in reporting requirements on remuneration 
matters for companies with a UK governance profile. 
The report also describes how the Board has complied 
with the provisions set out in the revised UK Corporate 
Governance Code relating to remuneration matters.
Our external auditors have reported on certain parts of the 
DR Report and confirmed that, in their opinion, those parts 
of the report have been properly prepared. Those sections 
of the report which have been subject to audit are 
clearly indicated.
We have sought to ensure that our DR Policy and 
its implementation are attractive to shareholders in 
reflecting good governance, complete simplicity and 
welcome restraint. 
John Mack
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
17 March 2015 100 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Part A – Directors’ Remuneration Policy
The DR Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and the Company continues its obligation to only make 
payments within the limits it allows. The Policy will be put to a shareholder vote the earlier of once every three years or 
when an amendment to the Policy is proposed. As the Policy is not being put forward for shareholder approval at the 2015 
AGM, it has been omitted from the 2014 Annual Report however a summary is set out below and it is reproduced in full on 
our website at: www.glencore.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance/governance-downloads.
Summary of Directors’ Remuneration Policy
General Policy for Executive Directors
• To facilitate the attraction, retention and motivation 
of Executive Directors and other senior executives of 
appropriately high calibre to implement the Group’s 
strategy in alignment with the interests of shareholders
• One exceptional aspect of our CEO’s remuneration is 
that, at his instigation and reflecting his status as a major 
shareholder, he waives participation in bonus or LTI 
arrangements, a policy which has continued into 2015 
Long-Term Incentives
• Glencore Performance Share Plan incentivises the creation 
of shareholder value over the longer-term 
• No Executive Director has, to date, participated, 
although this will be kept under review to ensure it 
remains appropriate
Base salary
• Provides market competitive fixed remuneration 
• The Committee has not increased the salary level for any 
Executive Director since the Company’s IPO in May 2011
Significant Personal Shareholdings
• Aligns the interests of executives and shareholders
• The Committee has set a formal shareholding requirement 
for Executive Directors of 300% of salary
• The CEO has a beneficial ownership of over 8% of the 
Company’s issued share capital
Benefits
• To provide appropriate supporting non-monetary benefits
• Benefits received by Mr Glasenberg comprise salary 
loss (long-term sickness) and accident insurance/travel 
insurance with a limit of US$20,000 p.a
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees
• Reflects time commitment, experience, global nature and 
size of the Company
• Non-Executive Directors and the Senior Independent 
Director receive a base fee.
• Additional fees are paid for chairing or membership of a 
Board committee
• Chairman receives a single inclusive fee 
• Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for any other 
remuneration or benefits of any nature
• No fees have been increased since the Company’s IPO in 
May 2011 although all fees were converted from sterling 
into US dollar amounts for 2014 onwards using the 
average exchange rate for 2013.
Pension
• Provides basic retirement benefits which reflects local 
market practice
• Mr Glasenberg participates in the standard pension 
scheme for all Baar (Switzerland) -based employees with 
an annual cap on the cost of provision of retirement 
benefits of US$150,000 p.a.
Annual Bonus Plan
• Supports delivery of short-term operational, financial 
and strategic goals
• The Committee has set a maximum annual bonus level 
of 200% of base salary p.a.
• The CEO has not participated in the Annual Bonus Plan 
since IPO. 
Directors’ remuneration report
For the year ended 31 December 2014 101
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Directors’ contractual terms 
All Directors’ contracts and letters of appointment will be 
available for inspection on the terms to be specified in the 
Notice of 2015 AGM.
Executive Director’s contract
The table below summarises the key features of the service 
contract for Mr Glasenberg who served as an Executive 
Director throughout 2014.
Provision Service contract terms
Notice period Twelve months’ notice by 
either party
Contract date 28 April 2011 (as amended on 
30 October 2013)
Expiry date Rolling service contract
Termination payment No special arrangements or 
entitlements on termination. 
Mr Glasenberg’s contract was 
amended on 30 October 2013 to 
clarify that any compensation 
would be limited to base salary 
only for any unexpired notice 
period (plus any accrued leave)
Change in control On a change of control of the 
Company, no provision for any 
enhanced payments, nor for any 
liquidated damages
External appointments
Mr Glasenberg held external appointments (being a 
directorship of a non-subsidiary company) during 2014. 
These are referred to at the end of his biographical summary 
on page 83. He assigns to the Group any compensation 
which he receives from any external board directorships. 
The appropriateness of these appointments is considered 
as part of the annual review of Directors’ interests/
potential conflicts.
Non-Executive Directors’ Letters of appointment 
and re-election
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment 
with the Company for an initial period of three years from 
their date of appointment, subject to reappointment at each 
AGM. The Company may terminate each appointment by 
immediate notice and there are no special arrangements 
or entitlements on termination except that the Chairman 
is entitled to three months’ notice. 
Annual fees for 2014 were paid in accordance with a Non-
Executive Director’s role and responsibilities as follows. 
These fees remain unchanged from the previous year:
2014
2014 fee in  
US$ ‘000
Directors
Chairman 1,056
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 170
Non-Executive Director 124
Remuneration Committee
Chairman 44
Member 23
Audit Committee
Chairman 55
Member 31
Nomination Committee
Chairman 36
Member 19
HSEC Committee
Chairman 125
Member 19 102 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Part B – Implementation Report
Implementation Report – Unaudited 
Information
Remuneration Committee
Membership and experience of the Remuneration Committee 
We believe that the members of the Committee provide a 
useful balance of abilities, experience and perspectives to 
provide the critical analysis required in carrying out the 
Committee’s function. In particular:
• John Mack, the Chairman of the Committee has had a 
long career in investment bank management and therefore 
provides considerable experience of remuneration analysis 
and implementation;
• William Macaulay has had a long tenure in private equity 
which has involved exposure to remuneration issues 
many times and in a variety of situations; and
• Leonhard Fischer is a career banker who similarly has 
had considerable exposure to issues of pay and incentives.
All members of the Remuneration Committee are 
considered to be independent. Further details concerning 
independence of the Non-Executive Directors are contained 
on page 85 of the Annual Report.
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The terms of reference of the Committee set out its 
role. They are available on the Company’s website at: 
www.glencore.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance/
board-committees.
Its principal responsibilities are, on behalf of the Board, to:
• Set the Company’s executive remuneration policy (and 
review its ongoing relevance and appropriateness);
• Establish the remuneration packages for the Executive 
Director including the scope of pension benefits;
• Determine the remuneration package for the Chairman, 
in consultation with the Chief Executive;
• Have responsibility for overseeing schemes of 
performance related remuneration (including share 
incentive plans) for, and determine awards for, the 
Executive Director (as appropriate);
• Ensure that the contractual terms on termination for 
the Executive Director are fair and not excessive; and
• Monitor senior management remuneration.
The Committee considers corporate performance on HSEC 
and governance issues when setting remuneration for the 
Executive Director. The Committee seeks to ensure that 
the incentive structure for the Group’s senior management 
does not raise HSEC or governance risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Remuneration Committee activities in 2014
The Committee met three times and considered, amongst 
other matters, the following:
• The remuneration policy applicable to the 
Executive Director; 
• Senior management remuneration policy, including its 
level and structure;
• The form and structure of grants to employees under the 
Company’s Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share 
Plan; and
• Considered and approved the DR Report.
Attendance at Remuneration Committee Meetings
The Chairman and CEO are usually invited to attend some 
or all of the proceedings of Remuneration Committee 
meetings. They do not participate in any decisions 
concerning their own remuneration. 
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee
The Committee appointed and received independent 
remuneration advice during the year from its external adviser, 
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP (FIT). FIT is a member of 
the Remuneration Consultants Group (the UK professional 
body for these consultants) and adheres to its code of conduct. 
FIT provided no other services to the Group and, accordingly, 
the Committee were satisfied that the advice provided by 
FIT was objective and independent. FIT’s fees in respect of 
2014 were £21,883 ($36,052) (2013: £31,572 (US$49,400)). FIT’s 
fees were charged on the basis of the firm’s standard terms 
of business for advice provided. In addition, the Committee 
receives advice from John Burton, the Company Secretary.
Relative importance of remuneration spend 
The table below illustrates the change in total remuneration, 
dividends paid and net profit from 2013 to 2014.
2014
US$m
2013
US$m
Dividends and buybacks 3,039 2,075
Net profit/(loss) 2,444 (7 ,942)
Total remuneration 6,011 5,012
The figures presented have been calculated on the 
following bases:
• Dividends and buybacks – dividends paid during the 
financial year plus the cost of shares bought back during 
the year.
• Net profit – our reported net profit in respect of the 
financial year. The Committee believes it is the most direct 
reflection of our financial performance.
• Total remuneration – represents total personnel costs as 
disclosed in note 23 to the Annual Report which includes 
salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and 
share based payments.
Directors’ remuneration report
For the year ended 31 December 2014 103
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Performance graph and table
The graph below shows the value to 31 December 2014, on 
a total shareholder return (TSR) basis, of £100 invested in 
Glencore plc on 24 May 2011 (IPO date) compared with the 
value of £100 invested in the FTSE 350 Mining Index.
The FTSE 350 Mining Index is considered to be an 
appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is an equity 
index consisting of companies listed in London in the same 
sector as Glencore.
FTSE 350 Mining Index
Glencore
100
80
60
May 2011 Dec 2014 Dec 2013 Dec 2011 Dec 2012
Performance
The UK reporting regulations also require that a TSR performance graph is supported by a table summarising aspects of 
CEO remuneration, as shown below for the same period as the TSR performance graph:
 
Single figure of 
total remuneration
1
(US$’000)
Annual variable element  
award rates against 
maximum opportunity
2
Long-term incentive  
vesting rates against 
maximum opportunity
2
2014 Ivan Glasenberg 1,513 – –
2013 Ivan Glasenberg 1,509 – –
2012 Ivan Glasenberg 1,533 – –
2011 Ivan Glasenberg 1,483 – –
1 The value of benefits and pension provision in the single figure vary as a result of the application of exchange rates although in the relevant local currency Mr Glasenberg’s package 
has not altered since the Company’s IPO in May 2011. In this table the figures are reported in USD, the currency in which Mr Glasenberg received his salary in 2014. The salary was 
payable in pounds sterling in the prior years such that those figures have been translated into USD at the exchange rates used for the preparation of the financial statements in those 
years. Mr Glasenberg’s pension and other benefits are provided to him in Swiss Francs and these amounts are also translated into USD on the same basis. 
2 The CEO has elected not to participate in these awards.
Percentage change in pay of Chief Executive Officer 2013 to 2014
The UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013, provide 
for disclosure of percentage changes of the CEO’s remuneration against the average percentage change for employees 
generally or an appropriate group of employees. Given that the CEO has, since the Company’s IPO in May 2011, waived any 
entitlement to any increase in salary (and given that his only other unwaived benefits are those provided to all employees 
at the Company’s head office in Baar) no such comparison has been made. In the event the Executive Director received an 
increase in salary in future then a suitable disclosure in respect of these regulations will be considered. 
Voting Outcomes from AGM 2014
The votes cast to approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Directors’ Remuneration Report, for the year ended 
31 December 2013, at the 2014 AGM held on 20 May 2014 were:
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
Votes “For” Votes “Against” Votes “Abstentions” (as a total of votes cast)
97.93% 2.07% 2.60%
(8,539,263,284) (180,199,515) (226,561,025)
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Votes “For” Votes “Against” Votes “Abstentions” (as a total of votes cast)
99.11% 0.89 0.24%
(8,845,293,976) (79,396,016) (21,333,332)
The Committee seeks to have a productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of 
corporate governance generally and any changes to the Company’s executive pay arrangements.
Implementation of policy in 2015
No change to any aspect of Directors’ remuneration is envisaged for 2015. 104 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Implementation Report – Audited Information
Single Figure Table
Salary Benefits
Annual 
Bonus
Long-term 
incentives Pension Total
US$’000 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Ivan Glasenberg 1,447 1,447 2 3 – – – – 64 59 1,513 1,509
The notes to the performance table above also apply in relation to the compilation of this table. As no bonuses or long-term 
incentives have ever been granted to Mr Glasenberg, there are no relevant performance measures to be disclosed.
Non-Executive Fees
The emoluments of the Non-Executive Directors for 2014 were as follows:
Name
Total 2014  
US$’000
Total 2013  
US$’000
Non-Executive Chairman
Anthony Hayward
1
1,056 742
Non-Executive Directors
Leonhard Fischer
2
219 202
William Macaulay 178 191
Peter Coates
3
249 93
Peter Grauer
4, 5
218 89
John Mack
5
187 93
Patrice Merrin
6
72 –
1 Mr Hayward was appointed Interim Chairman on 20 May 2013. This appointment was made on an ongoing basis on 8 May 2014. He received fees as Chairman from the earlier date.
2 Mr Fischer was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 13 February 2014. 
3 2013 fees are for Mr Coates’ tenure as a Non-Executive Director from 1 January to 2 May 2013. 
4 Mr Grauer was appointed as the Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 13 February 2014 and the Senior Independent Director on 20 May 2014.
5 Messrs Grauer and Mack were appointed as Directors on 12 June 2013. 
6 Ms Merrin was appointed a Director on 26 June 2014; on 14 August 2014 she was appointed to the HSEC Committee. 
The aggregate emoluments of all Directors for 2014 (excluding pension contributions) were US$3,628,000 (2013: 
US$4,873,440). The only Director participant in a pension plan was Mr Glasenberg.
Directors’ interests
The Directors’ interests in shares are set out in the Directors’ report on page 106. Mr Glasenberg’s holding is considerably 
in excess of the formal share ownership guideline of 300% of salary.
Approval
This report in its entirety has been approved by the Committee and the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
John Mack
Remuneration Committee Chairman 
17 March 2015
Directors’ remuneration report
For the year ended 31 December 2014 105
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Directors’ report
Introduction
This Annual Report is presented by the Directors 
on the affairs of Glencore plc (the Company) and its 
subsidiaries (the Group or Glencore), together with the 
financial statements and auditor’s report, for the year 
ended 31 December 2014. The Directors’ report, including 
details of the business, the development of the Group 
and likely future developments as set out in the Strategic 
Report, which together forms the management report for 
the purposes of the UK Financial Services Authority’s 
Disclosure and Transparency Rule (DTR) 4.1.8R. The notice 
concerning forward looking statements is set out at the end 
of the Annual Report. References to the Company may also 
include references to the Group or part of the Group.
Corporate structure
Glencore plc is a public company limited by shares, 
incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Switzerland. 
Its shares are listed on the London, Johannesburg and Hong 
Kong Stock Exchanges.
Financial results and distributions
The Group’s financial results are set out in the financial 
statements section of this Annual Report.
The Board recommends a final distribution of US$0.12 per 
share. Together with the interim distribution of US$0.06 per 
share which has already been paid, this provides for a total 
distribution for the 2014 financial year of US$0.18 per share. 
Shareholders will be asked to approve the final distribution 
at the Annual General Meeting due to be held on 7 May 
2015, for payment on 21 May 2015 to ordinary shareholders 
whose names are on the register on 24 April 2015.
Review of business, future developments and post 
balance sheet events
A review of the business and the future developments of the 
Group is presented in the Strategic Report.
A description of acquisitions, disposals, and material 
changes to Group companies undertaken during the year, 
including post balance sheet events, is included in the 
Financial review and in note 25 to the financial statements.
Financial instruments
Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and 
financial risk management objectives and policies, including 
hedging activities and exposure to price risk, credit risk, 
liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included in notes 26 
and 27 to the financial statements.
Corporate governance
A report on corporate governance and compliance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out in the 
Corporate governance report and forms part of this report 
by reference.
Health, safety, environment & communities (HSEC)
An overview of health, safety and environmental 
performance and community participation is provided in 
the Sustainable Development section of the Strategic report.
Exploration and research and development
The Group business units carry out exploration and research 
and development activities that are necessary to support 
and expand their operations.
Employee policies and involvement
Glencore operates an equal opportunities policy that aims 
to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the 
basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other 
basis. Applications for employment and promotion are 
fully considered on their merits, and employees are given 
appropriate training and equal opportunities for career 
development and promotion.
Where disability occurs during employment, the Group 
seeks to accommodate that disability where reasonably 
possible, including with appropriate training. 
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of 
its employees which is reflected in the principles of its Code 
of Conduct and its related guidance, which requires regular, 
open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for 
human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, 
a safe working environment. 
Employee communication is mainly provided by the Group’s 
intranet and corporate website. A range of information 
is made available to employees including all policies 
applicable to them as well as information on the Group’s 
financial performance and the main drivers of its business. 
Employee consultation depends upon the type and location 
of operation or office. 
Directors’ conflicts of interest
Under Jersey law and the Company’s Articles of Association 
(which mirror section 175 of the UK Companies Act 2006), 
a Director must avoid a situation in which the Director has, 
or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or 
possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company. 
The duty is not infringed if the matter has been authorised 
by the Directors. Under the Articles, the Board has the 
power to authorise potential or actual conflict situations. 
The Board maintains effective procedures to enable the 
Directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential 
conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed 
and, if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board. Directors’ 
conflict situations are reviewed annually. A register of 
authorisations is maintained. 106 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Directors’ liabilities and indemnities
The Company has granted third party indemnities to each 
of its Directors against any liability that attaches to them 
in defending proceedings brought against them, to the 
extent permitted by Jersey Law. In addition, Directors and 
Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered 
by Directors & Officers liability insurance.
Directors
The names of the Company’s Directors who were in office 
at the end of 2014, together with their biographical details 
and other information, are shown on pages 82 and 83.
Directors’ interests
Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of 
those Directors who held office during 2014 are given below:
Name 
Number of 
Glencore Shares
Percentage of 
Total Voting 
Rights
Executive Directors
Ivan Glasenberg 1,101,848,752 8.43
1
Non-Executive Directors
Peter Coates 1,441,136
2
0.01
Anthony Hayward 131,742 0.00
Leonhard Fischer ––
William Macaulay 70,046,228
3
0.54
Peter Grauer ––
John Mack 150,000 0.00
Patrice Merrin 40,000 0.00
Notes:
1 Ivan Glasenberg’s shareholding has not changed however due to the Company’s 
buyback programme detailed in note 16 to the Financial Statements, the total number 
of voting rights has decreased, therefore slightly increasing his percentage share of total 
voting rights.
2 Peter Coates also has 484,156 options over shares arising from his prior employment 
with Xstrata which are not included in the above table. 
3 As at 31 December 2014 123,802,799 shares were held by FR Galaxy Holdings 
S.a.r.l. (FR). The Company has been notified that FR is a connected person of 
William Macaulay. FR has granted security over these shares in favour of a bank. 
 On 6 March 2015, it was announced that FR had sold 53,756,571 of these shares 
leaving it with a remaining holding of 70,046,228 shares. 
No Director has any other interest in the share capital of the 
Company whether pursuant to any share plan or otherwise.
Except as noted above, no changes in Directors’ interests 
of those in office at the date of this report have occurred 
between 31 December 2014 and 17 March 2015.
Mr Glasenberg has executed a Lock-Up Deed, pursuant to 
which he agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, 
that during the period from 24 May 2011 to 24 May 2016 
he will not dispose of a certain percentage of the ordinary 
shares held by him at 24 May 2011. The percentage of 
his ordinary shares held at 24 May 2011 that is subject to 
restrictions on disposal decreases on each anniversary date 
by 20 per cent of the original holding.
Share capital and shareholder rights
As at 16 March 2015, the ordinary share capital of the 
Company was US$132,784,054 represented by 13,278,405,466 
ordinary shares of US$0.01 each, of which 200,459,158 shares 
are held in treasury. 
Major interests in shares
As at the date of this report Glencore had been notified 
of the following interests representing 3% or more of the 
issued ordinary share capital of the Company:
Name of holder Number of shares
Percentage  
of Total Voting 
Rights
Qatar Holding, L.L.C. 1,176,196,974 8.99%
Ivan Glasenberg 1,101,848,752 8.43%
BlackRock Inc 657 ,753,254 5.03%
Daniel Francisco Maté Badenes 417 ,468,330 3.19%
Aristotelis Mistakidis 414,730,597 3.17%
Share capital
The rights attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares, 
being the only share class of the Company, are set out in the 
Company’s Articles of Association (the “ Articles”), which 
can be found at www.glencore.com. Subject to Jersey law, 
any share may be issued with or have attached to it such 
preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions as 
the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such 
resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not 
make specific provision, as the Board may decide. 
Directors’ report 107
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
No such resolution is currently in effect. Subject to the 
recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares 
may receive a dividend. On liquidation, holders of ordinary 
shares may share in the assets of the Company. Holders of 
ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Company’s 
Annual Report and Accounts (or a summarised version) 
and, subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition 
the Board to convene a general meeting (“GM”) or the 
proposal of resolutions at AGMs. None of the ordinary 
shares carry any special rights with regard to control of 
the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak 
at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies 
or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate 
representative. On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary 
shares who (being an individual) is present in person 
or (being a corporation) is present by a duly appointed 
corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall 
have one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares 
present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 
share of which he is the holder. Electronic and paper proxy 
appointments and voting instructions must be received 
not later than 48 hours before a GM. A holder of ordinary 
shares can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that 
holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has 
failed to provide the Company with information concerning 
interests held in those shares. Except as (1) set out above 
and (2) permitted under applicable statutes, there are no 
limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, 
number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a 
certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that 
the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the 
Company from taking place on an open and proper basis or 
where the Company has a lien over that share. The Directors 
may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share 
unless the instrument of transfer is: (i) lodged, duly stamped 
(if necessary), at the registered office of the Company or 
any other place as the Board may decide accompanied by 
the certificate for the share(s) to be transferred and/or such 
other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require as 
proof of title; or (ii) in respect of only one class of shares.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using 
CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of 
an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations 
governing the operation of CREST.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of 
transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of 
shareholders. The Directors cannot suspend the registration 
of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining 
consent from CREST.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary 
shares in the Company except: (1) certain restrictions may 
from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations 
(for example insider trading laws); (2) pursuant to the 
Company’s share dealing code whereby the Directors and 
certain employees of the Company require approval to deal 
in the Company’s shares; and (3) where a shareholder with at 
least a 0.25% interest in the Company’s issued share capital 
has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to 
provide the Company with information concerning interests 
in those shares. There are no agreements between holders 
of ordinary shares that are known to the Company which 
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on 
voting rights.
The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors 
are set out in the Articles. Directors can be appointed by the 
Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board 
upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee. 
The Company can remove a Director from office, including 
by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given 
by all the other Directors. 
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and 
provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the 
Company including to borrow money. The Company may 
by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, 
and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in 
accordance with its Articles and Jersey law. 
The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution 
approved at a GM.
Purchase of own shares 
During 2014 the Company started buying back shares as 
part of a $1 billion share repurchase programme announced 
to the market on 20 August 2014. As at 31 December 2014, 
the total number of ordinary shares repurchased under 
this programme was 143,278,000 at a cost of $758 million 
including transaction costs. Further details are set out in 
note 16 to the financial statements. 
This programme has been implemented in accordance with 
the UK Listing Rules and the Directors’ authority under a 
shareholders’ resolution passed on 20 May 2014 to purchase 
in the market up to 10% of the Company’s issued ordinary 
shares. The Directors will seek to renew this authority at the 
Company’s AGM to be held on 7 May 2015.  108 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Going concern
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity 
position and borrowing facilities are set out in the Strategic 
Report. Furthermore, notes 26 and 27 to the financial 
statements includes the Group’s objectives and policies 
for managing its capital, its financial risk management 
objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging 
activities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk. 
Significant financing activities that took place during the 
year are detailed in the Financial review section. As a 
consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well 
placed to manage its business despite the current uncertain 
economic environment.
The Directors believe, having made appropriate enquiries 
that the Group has adequate resources to continue its 
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this 
reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements. The Directors have made 
this assessment after consideration of the Group’s budgeted 
cash flows and related assumptions including appropriate 
stress testing thereof, key risks and uncertainties, undrawn 
debt facilities, debt maturity review, and in accordance with 
the Going Concern and Liquidity Guidance for Directors 
of UK Companies 2009 published by the UK Financial 
Reporting Council. 
Auditors
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval 
of this Annual Report confirms that:
(a)  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are 
unaware; and
(b)  the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue 
in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will 
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 
Report and financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements 
in accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board and International Financial Reporting 
Standards as adopted for use in the European Union 
(together ”IFRS“). The financial statements are required 
by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. International Accounting 
Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly 
for each financial year the Company’s financial position, 
financial performance and cash flows. This requires the 
faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other 
events and conditions in accordance with the definitions 
and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and 
expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards 
Board’s “Framework for the preparation and presentation of 
financial statements”. 
Information required by Listing Rule LR 9.8.4C
In compliance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.4C the Company discloses the following information:
Listing Rule Information required Relevant disclosure
9.8.4(1) Interest capitalised by the Group See note 7 to the financial statements 
9.8.4(2) Unaudited financial information as required (LR 9.2.18) Not applicable
9.8.4(4) Long-term incentive plans involving a sole director (LR 9.4.3) Not applicable
9.8.4(5) Director’ waivers of emoluments See Directors’ Remuneration Report 
9.8.4(6) Director’ waivers of future emoluments See Directors’ Remuneration Report 
9.8.4(7) Non pro-rate allotments of equity for cash (The Company) Own shares have been issued during the year 
as granted share options have been exercised, 
see note 19 to the financial statements 
9.8.4(8) Non pro-rata allotments of equity for cash (major subsidiaries) Not applicable
9.8.4(9) Listed company is a subsidiary of another company Not applicable
9.8.4(10) Contracts of significance involving a director None
9.8.4(11) Contracts of significance involving a controlling shareholder Not applicable
9.8.4(12) Waivers of dividends See note 16 to the financial statements 
9.8.4(13) Waivers of future dividends See note 16 to the financial statements 
9.8.4(14) Agreement with a controlling shareholder (LR 92.2. AR(2)(a)) Not applicable
Directors’ report 109
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Confirmation of Directors’ responsibilities
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
• the consolidated financial statements, prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting 
Standards and interpretations as adopted by the European 
Union, International Financial Reporting Standards and 
interpretations as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board and the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the Group and the undertakings 
included in the consolidation taken as a whole;
• the management report, which is incorporated in the 
Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development 
and performance of the business and the position of the 
Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description of the 
principal risks and uncertainties they face; and
• the Annual Report and consolidated financial 
statements, taken as a whole, are fair and balanced and 
understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy 
and business model of the Company.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for 
the year ended 31 December 2014 were approved on 
17 March 2015 by the Board of Directors. 
Signed on behalf of the Board:
Anthony Hayward Ivan Glasenberg
Chairman  Chief Executive Officer 
17 March 2015
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be 
achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs. However, 
the Directors are also required to:
• properly select and apply accounting policies; 
• present information, including accounting policies, in a 
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 
understandable information; 
• provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable 
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, 
other events and conditions on the entity’s financial 
position and financial performance; and
• make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the Company and enable them 
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991. They are also responsible 
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for 
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities. The Directors are responsible 
for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and 
financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from 
legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the Board:
John Burton
Company Secretary 
17 March 2015 110 Glencore Annual Report 2014
PAGE 112–189
FINANCIAL 
STATEMENTS
Collinsville,  
Australia 111
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
112 Independent Auditor’s Report
118 Consolidated statement of income/(loss)
119  Consolidated statement of comprehensive  
income/(loss)
120 Consolidated statement of financial position
121 Consolidated statement of cash flows
123 Consolidated statement of changes of equity
124 Notes to the financial statements
In this section 112 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Independent Auditor’s Report to 
the members of Glencore plc
Opinion on financial statements of Glencore plc
In our opinion the financial statements: 
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs 
as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the 
year then ended;
• have been properly prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union; and
• have been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies (Jersey) Law 1991.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated 
Statement of Income/(Loss), the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income/(Loss), the Consolidated Statement 
of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and 
the related notes 1 to 35. The financial reporting framework 
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law 
and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued 
by the IASB
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group 
in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
In our opinion the financial statements comply with IFRSs 
as issued by the IASB.
Going concern
We have reviewed the Directors’ statement contained on 
page 108 that the Group is a going concern. 
We confirm that:
• we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going 
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
financial statements is appropriate; and
• we have not identified material uncertainties that may cast 
significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material 
misstatement
Our risk assessment process continues throughout the 
audit and as a result we have tailored our assessment of the 
risk associated with the prior year acquisition of Xstrata 
plc to reflect the current year risk, being the finalisation 
of the associated purchase price allocation. There were no 
significant changes from prior year in respect of the other 
identified risks.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below 
are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, 
the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the 
efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Acquisition accounting
Finalisation of acquisition accounting for Xstrata plc
Accounting for the acquisition of Xstrata plc is a complex 
and judgemental exercise, requiring determination 
of the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, and 
the allocation of the acquisition date goodwill to cash-
generating units.
The standard allows the fair value of assets acquired to 
be continually refined for a window of a year after the 
acquisition date where judgement is required to ensure the 
adjustments made reflect new information obtained about 
facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition 
date. 
In total, adjustments recognised within the one year 
window amounted to a net reduction of $644 million in the 
fair value of the net assets acquired and a corresponding 
increase in the “day 1” impairment charge on goodwill to 
$8,124 million.
These adjustments are retrospective in nature and have 
directly impacted the amount of goodwill recognised on 
acquisition and the “day 1” impairment charge on goodwill. 
We challenged the Group’s determination of the final fair 
value adjustments to the provisionally reported values of the 
acquired assets and liabilities of Xstrata plc. 
We performed audit procedures on these fair value 
adjustments to confirm that they related to new information 
obtained about facts and circumstances that existed on 
acquisition date.
Where adjustments were made, we used Deloitte mining 
valuation specialists to assist in our challenge of these 
adjustments.
Our challenge related to the underlying macro-economic 
assumptions used within the detailed models which 
supported the final valuation adjustments. This included the 
appropriateness of discount rates, commodity prices, foreign 
exchange and cross-checking valuation calculations against 
comparable companies and associated multiples, whilst 
considering the risk of management bias. 113
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Acquisition accounting (continued)
Post-acquisition, these adjustments also impact the 
amounts recognised in the statement of income, including 
depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, 
which are dependent on the initial fair values.
Refer to “Key judgements” within note 1 and additionally 
notes 5 and 25.
With regards to the sale of Las Bambas subsequent to the 
Xstrata acquisition, which was classified as an asset held 
for sale on acquisition, we considered the executed sales 
agreement as evidence to support the fair value.
Impairments
The carrying value of the Group’s non-current assets, which 
includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, 
investments in associates and joint ventures, amounted to 
$98,986 million at 31 December 2014.
Recoverability of these non-current assets is dependent 
on macro-economic assumptions about future commodity 
prices, discount and exchange rates as well as internal 
assumptions related to future production levels and 
operating costs.
These estimates are particularly significant due to 
commodity price volatility (e.g. iron ore, coal and oil), 
assumed future production and uncertain economic 
outlook. The outcome of impairment assessments could 
vary significantly were different assumptions applied. 
In total impairments amounting to $1,101 million were 
recognised in the year ended 31 December 2014.
Refer to “Key estimates and assumptions” within note 1 
and additionally note 5.
We reviewed management’s assessment of the indicators 
of impairment and challenged the significant assumptions 
used in this initial review. Where significant indicators of 
impairment were identified, we utilised Deloitte mining 
valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of 
management’s recoverable value models.
We challenged the significant assumptions used in 
impairment testing for intangible assets, property, plant 
and equipment, associates and joint ventures, specifically 
the commodity price, foreign exchange, assumed 
production levels and discount rate assumptions, including 
consideration of the risk of management bias.
Our challenge included comparing input assumptions to 
third party forecasts and production to life of mine plans 
and reserves and resources estimates and confirming the 
adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements.
Revenue recognition
Revenue recognition has been identified as a risk, 
particularly in respect of the completeness and accuracy of 
capture of trades within the trade book and the timing of 
revenue recognition for commodity sales with deliveries 
occurring on or around year-end. Due to the significant 
volume of transactions and the complexity of the supporting 
IT systems, minor errors could, in aggregate, have a material 
impact on the financial statements.
Refer to note 1.
We carried out testing relating to internal controls, including 
IT general controls surrounding major IT applications 
and critical interfaces over revenue recognition and 
completeness and accuracy of trade capture. On a sample 
basis, we agreed deliveries occurring near 31 December 
2014 to supporting documentation to assess that the IFRS 
revenue recognition criteria were met for recognised sales 
and obtained third party confirmations where relevant 
to check completeness and accuracy of trade books. We 
also performed testing on journal entries using computer 
assisted profiling techniques to test for any management 
override of internal controls related to revenue recognition.
Fair value measurements within the marketing operations
Determination of fair values of marketing inventories, 
financial assets and liabilities is a complex and subjective 
area often requiring significant estimates, particularly 
where valuations utilise unobservable inputs. As the 
Group’s marketing inventories and other financial assets 
and liabilities are measured at fair value at each reporting 
date, these fair value measurements significantly impact 
the Group’s results.
Refer to “Key estimates and assumptions” within note 1 
and additionally notes 27 and 28.
We carried out internal control testing and performed 
detailed substantive testing on a sample basis the related 
fair value measurements specifically testing the evidence 
supporting unobservable inputs utilised in Level 2 and 3 
measurements in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in note 
28 to the financial statements. 114 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Glencore plc
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Classification of financial instruments
Further to the above, classification of contracts relating to 
the Group’s marketing operations is a judgemental area, 
particularly sales contracts where the Group physically 
delivers its own production to a third party (“own use”), 
rather than those which form part of the Group’s marketing 
operations. Differences in classification affect recognition 
of associated gains and losses as contracts which are 
“own use” are exempt from mark-to-market accounting.
Refer to notes 27 and 28.
We obtained an understanding of the trading strategies 
and associated product flows within the Group’s marketing 
departments. We analysed the trade books to identify 
incidents where contracts were not physically delivered 
(“net settled”), which may indicate tainting of the “own use” 
criteria. Where a contract had been net settled, we checked 
that the contract was appropriately ring-fenced from the 
“own use” trade book and marked to market reflecting the 
underlying facts and circumstances.
Credit and performance risk
The Group is exposed to credit and performance risk arising 
from the Group’s global marketing operations and trade 
advances, particularly in markets demonstrating significant 
price volatility with limited liquidity and terminal markets. 
This risk is heightened in times of increased price volatility, 
where suppliers may be incentivised to default on delivery 
and customers are unable to make payments.
Refer to note 26.
We undertook internal control testing of the Group’s 
centralised and local credit and performance risk 
monitoring procedures. We challenged management’s 
assessment of the recoverability of aged and overdue 
receivables, loans and advance payments with delayed or 
overdue deliveries, considering historical patterns of trading 
and settlement as well as recent communications with the 
counterparties. 
In addition, we made specific inquiries to understand 
positions in commodities with high price volatility during 
the year, particularly with respect to oil, coal, nickel, 
iron ore and certain agricultural products, as there were 
periods of significant price volatility with respect to these 
commodities.
Taxation
There is significant judgement around accounting for 
income taxes particularly in light of the number of 
jurisdictions in which the Group operates, which give 
rise to complexity and uncertainty in the calculation of 
income taxes and deferred tax assets and consideration of 
contingent liabilities associated with tax years open to audit.
Refer to “Key judgements” within note 1 and additionally 
note 6.
We considered the appropriateness of management’s 
assumptions and estimates in relation to the likelihood of 
generating future taxable profits to support the recognition 
of deferred tax assets with reference to forecast taxable 
profits and consistency of these forecasts with the Group’s 
budgets.
We reviewed and challenged management’s assessment of 
uncertain tax positions through discussions with the Group 
taxation department, reviewing correspondence with local 
tax authorities and utilising Deloitte tax specialists, where 
appropriate, to assess the adequacy of associated provisions 
and disclosures.
The risks described above should be read in conjunction 
with the significant issues considered by the Audit 
Committee discussed on page 95.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were 
designed in the context of our audit of the financial 
statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on 
individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the 
financial statements is not modified with respect to any of 
the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion 
on these individual matters. 115
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement 
in the financial statements that makes it probable that the 
economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person 
would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in 
planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the 
results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $300 million 
(2013: $250 million), which, as in 2013, is approximately 
6.4% of normalised pre-tax profit, and below 1% of equity. 
Pre-tax profit has been normalised in determining 
materiality to exclude items which, due to their nature 
and/or expected infrequency of the underlying events, are 
not considered indicative of continuing operations of the 
Group and so do not form part of the Group’s internally or 
externally monitored primary KPIs, and which if included, 
would distort the materiality calculation year on year. 
These normalising items are outlined in notes 3 and 4 to the 
financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would 
report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 
$10 million (2013: $10 million), as well as differences below 
that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on 
qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee 
on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the 
overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit
In assessing our Group audit scope we continued to build 
upon our understanding of the Group and its environment, 
including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks 
of material misstatement at the Group level. Based on 
our continuing assessment, we focused our Group audit 
scope primarily on the audit work at 51 Group components 
(2013: 69 Group components) utilising 20 component audit 
teams (2013: 29 component audit teams) in 18 countries 
(2013: 22 countries):
• 36 of these components were subject to a full audit 
(2013: 54 components); and
• 15 were subject to audit procedures on specified account 
balances where the extent of our testing was based on our 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of 
the materiality of the Group’s business operations at those 
locations (2013: 15 components).
These 51 components account for 95% of the Group’s net 
assets (2013: 84%), 89% of the Group’s revenue (2013: 93%) 
and 93% of the Group’s adjusted EBITDA (2013: 85%). 
During the year a number of Group components were 
aggregated for reporting purposes in line with the Group’s 
strategy to streamline its global reporting structure. 
This has resulted in the number of Group components 
scoped into our audit reducing; this aggregation has not 
impacted our overall audit coverage. 
Our audit work at these 51 Group components was 
performed to materiality levels set by, or agreed with, 
the Group audit team and which were applicable to each 
individual entity. These materiality levels were lower 
than Group materiality and ranged from $2 million to 
$100 million (2013: $3 million to $100 million). 
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation 
process and carried out analytical procedures and other 
procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no 
significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated 
financial information of the remaining components not 
subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group audit team follows a programme of regular 
physical meetings with components that has been designed 
so that the Group Audit Partner or another senior member of 
the Group audit team meet with local management and the 
component audit team of the most significant components 
(being those components we consider to be the most 
complex, with the highest risk of material misstatement), at 
least once every two years, with the remaining components 
subject to full scope audits being conducted at least once 
every three years. 
For all components, whether physical meetings with the 
component audit team take place during the year or not, we 
include the component audit team in our team briefings and 
communications, discuss and direct their risk assessment, 
review and challenge the findings from their work including 
the audit procedures to respond to significant risks and 
hold meetings throughout the audit to discuss significant 
matters arising. 116 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Glencore plc
Matters on which we are required to report 
by exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991 we are required to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
• we have not received all the information and explanations 
we require for our audit; or
• proper accounting records have not been kept by the 
parent company, or proper returns adequate for our audit 
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
• the financial statements are not in agreement with the 
accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Corporate Governance Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the 
part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to 
the Company’s compliance with ten provisions of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report 
arising from our review.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and 
Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the Annual Report is:
• materially inconsistent with the information in the 
audited financial statements; or
• apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially 
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
• otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have 
identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the Directors’ statement 
that they consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced 
and understandable and whether the Annual Report 
appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated 
to the Audit Committee which we consider should have 
been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any 
such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Other matters
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report to be audited has been properly prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 
2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company.
Respective responsibilities of Directors 
and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities 
Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they 
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit 
and express an opinion on the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical 
Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International 
Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). Our audit 
methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality 
control procedures are effective, understood and applied. 
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated 
professional standards review team and independent 
partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as 
a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies 
(Jersey) Law 1991. Our audit work has been undertaken 
so that we might state to the Company’s members those 
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s 
report and/or those further matters we have expressly 
agreed to report to them on in our engagement letter and 
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, 
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other 
than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, 
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we 
have formed. 117
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
circumstances and have been consistently applied and 
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant 
accounting estimates made by the Directors; and the overall 
presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial 
information in the Annual Report to identify material 
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and 
to identify any information that is apparently materially 
incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the 
knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing 
the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material 
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 
implications for our report.
Matthew Sheerin, ACA CA (AUS)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP  
Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor  
London, UK
17 March 2015 118 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Consolidated statement of income/ (loss)
For the year ended 31 December 2014
US$m Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Revenue 221,073 232,694
Cost of goods sold (214,344) (227 ,145)
Selling and administrative expenses (1,304) (1,206)
Share of income from associates and joint ventures 10 638 846
Gain/(loss) on sale of investments 3 715 (40)
Other expense – net 4 (1,073) (11,488)
Dividend income 19 39
Interest income 253 393
Interest expense (1,724) (1,781)
Income/(loss) before income taxes 4,253 (7,688)
Income tax expense 6 (1,809) (254)
Income/(loss) for the year 2,444 (7,942)
Attributable to: 
Non-controlling interests 136 104
Equity holders 2,308 (8,046)
Earnings/(loss) per share:
Basic (US$) 17 0.18 (0.73)
Diluted (US$) 17 0.18 (0.73)
1  Certain amounts shown here reflect the revised previously reported fair values associated with the Xstrata acquisition made in 2013 (see note 25), and therefore do not correspond to the 
consolidated statement of income/(loss) for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 119
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income/ (loss) 
For the year ended 31 December 2014
US$m Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Income/(loss) for the year 2,444 (7 ,942)
 
Other comprehensive income/(loss)  
Items not to be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: 
Defined benefit plan actuarial (losses)/gains, net of tax of $58 million (2013: $137 million) 23 (196) 326
Net items not to be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: (196) 326
Items that are or may be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods:
Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations (852) (1,168)
Gains/(losses) on cash flow hedges, net of tax of $3 million (2013: $48 million) 415 (287)
Share of comprehensive (loss)/income from associates and joint ventures 10 (23) 26
Gain on available for sale financial instruments 501 –
Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax of $nil (2013: $nil) (1) 1
Net items that are or may be reclassified to the statement of income in subsequent periods: 40 (1,428)
Other comprehensive loss (156) (1,102)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) 2,288 (9,044)
Attributable to:
Non-controlling interests 130 62
Equity holders 2,158 (9,106)
1  Certain amounts shown here reflect the revised previously reported fair values associated with the Xstrata acquisition made in 2013 (see note 25), and therefore do not correspond to the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income/(loss) for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 120 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Consolidated statement of financial position
As at 31 December 2014
US$m Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Assets   
Non-current assets   
Property, plant and equipment 7 70,110 67 ,233
Intangible assets 8 8,866 9,158
Investments in associates and joint ventures 10 12,274 12,156
Other investments 10 1,472 923
Advances and loans 11 4,597 3,995
Deferred tax assets 6 1,667 2,105
  98,986 95,570
Current assets
Inventories 12 24,436 22,753
Accounts receivable 13 21,456 24,536
Other financial assets 28 4,036 2,904
Prepaid expenses and other assets 436 578
Marketable securities 31 36
Cash and cash equivalents 14 2,824 2,849
  53,219 53,656
Asset held for sale 15 – 5,636
  53,219 59,292
Total assets 152,205 154,862
Equity and liabilities
Capital and reserves – attributable to equity holders
Share capital 16 133 133
Reserves and retained earnings 48,409 49,180
  48,542 49,313
Non-controlling interests 33 2,938 3,368
Total equity 51,480 52,681
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 20 40,688 38,712
Deferred income 21 1,120 1,337
Deferred tax liabilities 6 6,435 6,698
Other financial liabilities 28 980 1,044
Provisions 22 7 ,555 8,064
  56,778 55,855
Current liabilities
Borrowings 20 12,005 16,461
Accounts payable 24 26,881 26,041
Deferred income 21 153 145
Provisions 22 576 323
Other financial liabilities 28 3,956 2,366
Income tax payable 376 489
  43,947 45,825
Liabilities held for sale 15 – 501
  43,947 46,326
Total equity and liabilities 152,205 154,862
1  Certain amounts shown here reflect the revised previously reported fair values associated with the Xstrata acquisition made in 2013 (see note 25), and therefore do not correspond to the 
consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the condensed consolidated financial statements. 121
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014
US$m Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Operating activities   
Income/(loss) before income taxes  4,253 (7 ,688)
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation 5,448 4,049
Share of income from associates and joint ventures (638) (846)
Decrease in other long-term liabilities (173) (72)
(Gain)/loss on sale of investments 3 (715) 40
Impairments 5 1,101 9,730
Other non-cash items – net
2
  231 2,075
Interest expense – net 1,471 1,388
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 10,978 8,676
Working capital changes
Decrease in accounts receivable
3
  1,727 4,188
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (1,978) 3,972
Decrease in accounts payable
4
 (452) (5,561)
Total working capital changes (703) 2,599
Income taxes paid (928) (593)
Interest received 49 91
Interest paid (1,260) (1,589)
Net cash generated by operating activities 8,136 9,184
Investing activities
(Increase)/decrease in long-term advances and loans (686) 274
Net cash (used in)/received from acquisition of subsidiaries 25 (1,792) 1,209
Net cash received from disposal of subsidiaries 25 6,482 744
Purchase of investments 10 (374) (198)
Proceeds from sale of investments 64 54
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (7 ,854) (8,390)
Capital expenditures related to assets held for sale (961) (1,169)
Payments for exploration and evaluation 7 (245) (28)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 206 258
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 10 1,129 551
Net cash used by investing activities (4,031) (6,695)
1  Certain amounts shown here reflect the revised previously reported fair values associated with the Xstrata acquisition made in 2013 (see note 25), and therefore do not correspond to the 
consolidated statement of cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2013.
2 Includes certain non-cash items as disclosed in note 4.
3 Includes movements in other financial assets, prepaid expenses and other assets.
4 Includes movements in other financial liabilities, provisions and deferred income.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 122 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2014
US$m Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Financing activities
2
Proceeds from issuance of capital market notes 20 5,535 5,722
Repayment of capital market notes (1,751) –
Repayment of convertible bonds 20 (2,365) –
Proceeds from/(repayment of) other non-current borrowings 1,804 (4,225)
Margin receipts in respect of financing related hedging activities 10 167
Repayment of current borrowings (3,782) (939)
Acquisition of additional interest in subsidiaries (101) (489)
Return of capital/distributions to non-controlling interests (245) (184)
Repurchase of own shares (786) –
Proceeds from own shares 19 10
Payment of profit participation certificates (224) (422)
Distributions paid to equity holders of the parent 18 (2,244) (2,062)
Net cash used by financing activities (4,130) (2,422)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (25) 67
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 2,849 2,782
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year 2,824 2,849
1  Certain amounts shown here reflect the revised previously reported fair values associated with the Xstrata acquisition made in 2013 (see note 25), and therefore do not correspond to the 
consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2013.
2 Presented net of directly attributable issuance costs where applicable.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 123
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Consolidated statement of  
changes of equity
For the year ended 31 December 2014
US$m
(Deficit)/ 
retained 
earnings
Share 
 premium
Other 
reserves 
(note 16)
Own 
shares
Total 
reserves and 
(deficit)/ 
retained 
earnings
Share 
capital
Total equity 
attributable 
to equity 
holders
Non- 
controlling 
interests 
(note 33)
Total 
equity
1 January 2013 5,248 26,688 (868) – 31,068 71 31,139 3,034 34,173
Loss for the year – restated
1
(8,046) – – – (8,046) – (8,046) 104 (7 ,942)
Other comprehensive 
income/(loss) 352 – (1,412) –(1,060) –(1,060) (42) (1,102)
Total comprehensive
(loss)/income (7,694) – (1,412) – (9,106) – (9,106) 62 (9,044)
Issue of share capital 383 30,073 – (1,041) 29,415 62 29,477 – 29,477
Issue of share capital related to 
employee incentive programmes (78) 78 –––––––
Own share purchases – – – (13) (13) – (13) – (13)
Own share disposal (284) –– 2873–3–3
Equity settled share-based 
payments
2
 13–––13–13–13
Change in ownership 
interest in subsidiaries – – (138) – (138) – (138) (653) (791)
Acquisition of subsidiaries
3
––––––– 1,109 1,109
Distributions paid (note 18) – (2,062) – – (2,062) – (2,062) (184) (2,246)
31 December 2013 (Restated
1
) (2,412) 54,777 (2,418) (767) 49,180 133 49,313 3,368 52,681
1 January 2014 (2,412) 54,777 (2,418) (767) 49,180 133 49,313 3,368 52,681
Income for the year 2,308 – – – 2,308 – 2,308 136 2,444
Other comprehensive 
(loss)/income (219) – 69 – (150) – (150) (6) (156)
Total comprehensive income 2,089 – 69 – 2,158 – 2,158 130 2,288
Own share purchases – – – (795) (795) – (795) – (795)
Own share disposal (38) – – 69 31 – 31 – 31
Equity-settled share-based 
expenses
2
50 – – – 50 – 50 – 50
Equity portion of  
convertible bonds 89 – (89)––––––
Change in ownership interest  
in subsidiaries –– 29 – 29– 29 (300) (271)
Disposal of business ––––––– (15) (15)
Distributions paid (note 18) – (2,244) – – (2,244) – (2,244) (245) (2,489)
31 December 2014 (222) 52,533 (2,409) (1,493) 48,409 133 48,542 2,938 51,480
1 Certain amounts shown here reflect the revised previously reported fair values associated with the Xstrata acquisition made in 2013 (see note 25), and therefore do not correspond to the 
consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2013.
2 See note 19.
3 See note 25.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 124 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Corporate information
Glencore plc (formerly Glencore Xstrata plc), (the “Company” , 
“Parent” , the “Group” or “Glencore”), is a leading integrated 
producer and marketer of natural resources, with worldwide 
activities in the production, refinement, processing, storage, 
transport and marketing of metals and minerals, energy products 
and agricultural products. Glencore operates on a global scale, 
marketing and distributing physical commodities sourced from 
third party producers and own production to industrial consumers, 
such as those in the automotive, steel, power generation, oil and 
food processing industries. Glencore also provides financing, 
logistics and other services to producers and consumers of 
commodities. In this regard, Glencore seeks to capture value 
throughout the commodity supply chain. Glencore’s long 
experience as a commodity producer and merchant has allowed it 
to develop and build upon its expertise in the commodities which it 
markets and cultivate long-term relationships with a broad supplier 
and customer base across diverse industries and in multiple 
geographic regions. 
Glencore plc is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in 
Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland. Its ordinary shares are traded 
on the London, Hong Kong and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue 
in accordance with a Directors’ resolution on 17 March 2015.
Statement of compliance
The accounting policies adopted are prepared in accordance with:
• International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and 
interpretations as adopted by the European Union (“EU”) 
effective as of 31 December 2014; and
• IFRS and interpretations as issued by the International 
Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) effective as of 
31 December 2014.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires 
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as 
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the 
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and 
expenses during the reporting period. Estimates and assumptions 
are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience 
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are 
believed to be reasonable and relevant under the circumstances, 
independent estimates, quoted market prices and common, 
industry standard modelling techniques. Actual outcomes could 
result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets 
or liabilities affected in future periods.
Glencore has identified the following areas as being critical 
to understanding Glencore’s financial position as they 
require management to make complex and/or subjective 
judgements, estimates and assumptions about matters that 
are inherently uncertain:
Key judgements
In the process of applying Glencore’s accounting policies, 
management has made the following judgements based on the 
relevant facts and circumstances including macro-economic 
circumstances and, where applicable, interpretation of underlying 
agreements, which have the most significant effect on the amounts 
recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
Allocation of acquisition goodwill to cash generating units (“CGUs”) 
(notes 8, 9 and 25)
The allocation of goodwill created as a result of a business 
combination is a significant judgement which is, in part, impacted 
by the identification of synergies expected to be realised as a 
result of a business combination and allocating those synergies 
to the CGUs which are expected to benefit from the synergies. 
The allocation of goodwill impacts the carrying value of CGUs 
and the associated assessment of impairment in connection with 
those CGUs. The most significant judgements in respect of goodwill 
allocation relate to the acquisition of Xstrata, which was completed 
in 2013. No goodwill was recognised in conjunction with any of the 
business combinations occurring in 2014. 
Determination of control of subsidiaries and joint arrangements (note 35)
Judgement is required to determine when Glencore has control of 
subsidiaries or joint control of joint arrangements. This requires an 
assessment of the relevant activities (those relating to the operating 
and capital decisions of the arrangement, such as: the approval of 
the capital expenditure programme for each year, and appointing, 
remunerating and terminating the key management personnel 
or service providers of the operations) and when the decisions 
in relation to those activities are under the control of Glencore or 
require unanimous consent. 
Judgement is also required in determining the classification of 
a joint arrangement between a joint venture or a joint operation 
through an evaluation of the rights and obligations arising from 
the arrangement.
Differing conclusions around these judgements, may materially 
impact how these businesses are presented in the consolidated 
financial statements – under the full consolidation method, equity 
method or proportionate consolidation method.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure (notes 7 and 30)
The application of Glencore’s accounting policy for exploration and 
evaluation expenditure requires judgement to determine whether 
future economic benefits are likely, from either future exploitation 
or sale, or whether activities have not reached a stage that permits 
a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves/resource. 125
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Credit and performance risk (note 26)
The Group’s global marketing operations expose it to credit 
and performance (the risk that counterparties fail to sell or 
purchase physical commodities on agreed terms) risks; these arise 
particularly in markets demonstrating significant price volatility 
with limited liquidity and terminal markets and when global and/
or regional macroeconomic conditions are weak.
Continuously, but particularly during such times, judgement is 
required to determine whether receivables, loans and advances are 
recoverable and if contracted product deliveries will be received. 
Judgements about recoverability and contractual performance 
may materially impact both non-current and current assets as 
recognised in the statement of financial position.
Recognition of deferred tax assets (note 6)
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered 
probable that those assets will be recoverable. This involves an 
assessment of when those deferred tax assets are likely to reverse, 
and a judgement as to whether there will be sufficient taxable 
income available to offset the tax assets when they do reverse. 
These judgements are subject to risk and uncertainty and therefore, 
to the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, 
there can be a material increase or decrease in the amounts 
recognised in the consolidated statement of income in the period 
in which the change occurs. The recoverability of deferred tax 
assets including the estimates and assumptions contained therein 
are reviewed regularly by management.
Key estimates and assumptions
In the process of applying Glencore’s accounting policies, 
management has made key estimates and assumptions concerning 
the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty. 
The key assumptions and estimates at the reporting date that have 
a significant impact on the financial position and the results of 
operations, are described below. Actual results may differ from 
these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and 
may materially affect financial results or the financial position 
reported in future periods. 
Valuation of derivative instruments (note 28)
Derivative instruments are carried at fair value and Glencore 
evaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data 
used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level 1, 2 
and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. Fair values 
are determined in the following ways: externally verified via 
comparison to quoted market prices in active markets (Level 1); 
by using models with externally verifiable inputs (Level 2); or by 
using alternative procedures such as comparison to comparable 
instruments and/or using models with unobservable market 
inputs requiring Glencore to make market based assumptions 
(Level 3). Level 3 inputs therefore include the highest level of 
estimation uncertainty.
Depreciation and amortisation of mineral and petroleum rights, deferred 
mining costs and plant and equipment (note 7)
Mineral and petroleum rights, deferred mining costs and certain 
plant and equipment are depreciated/amortised using the Units 
of Production basis (“UOP”). The calculation of the UOP rate of 
depreciation/amortisation, and therefore the annual charge 
to operations, can fluctuate from initial estimates. This could 
generally result when there are significant changes in any of the 
factors or assumptions used in estimating mineral or petroleum 
reserves and resources, notably changes in the geology of the 
reserves and resources and assumptions used in determining 
the economic feasibility of the reserves. Such changes in reserves 
and resources could similarly impact the useful lives of assets 
depreciated on a straight-line basis, where those lives are limited 
to the life of the project, which in turn is limited to the life of 
the underlying reserves and resources. Estimates of proven 
and probable reserves and resources are prepared by experts in 
extraction, geology and reserve determination. Assessments of 
UOP rates against the estimated reserve and resource base and 
the operating and development plan are performed regularly.
Impairments (notes 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10)
Investments in associates and joint ventures, other investments, 
advances and loans, property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes 
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully 
recoverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefinite 
life intangible assets. If an asset’s recoverable amount is less than 
the asset’s carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in 
the consolidated statement of income. Future cash flow estimates 
which are used to calculate the asset’s fair value are discounted 
using asset specific discount rates and are based on expectations 
about future operations, primarily comprising estimates about 
production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves and 
resources, operating, rehabilitation and restoration costs and 
capital expenditures. Changes in such estimates could impact 
recoverable values of these assets. Estimates are reviewed regularly 
by management.
Provisions (note 22)
The amount recognised as a provision, including tax, legal, 
contractual and other exposures or obligations, is the best estimate 
of the consideration required to settle the related liability, including 
any related interest charges, taking into account the risks and 
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. The Group assesses 
its liabilities and contingencies based upon the best information 
available, relevant tax laws and other appropriate requirements. 
These provisions may require settlement in future periods and 
as such may be materially impacted by the time value of money. 
The determination of the appropriate risk adjusted discount rate 
to reflect time value of money is a source of estimation uncertainty 
which could impact the carrying value of these provisions at the 
balance sheet date.
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs (note 22)
A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and 
decommissioning costs requires estimates and assumptions to be 
made around the relevant regulatory framework, the magnitude 
of the possible disturbance, the timing, extent and costs of the 
required closure and rehabilitation activities and of the risk 
adjusted discount rates used to determine the present value of 
the future cash outflows. To the extent that the actual future 
costs differ from these estimates, adjustments will be recorded 
and the consolidated statement of income could be impacted. 
The provisions including the estimates and assumptions contained 
therein are reviewed regularly by management. 126 Glencore Annual Report 2014
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Fair value measurements (notes 9, 12, 25, 26, 27 and 28)
In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, 
as discussed above, an assessment of the fair value of assets and 
liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, most 
notably, business combinations and marketing inventories and 
disclosures related to fair values of financial assets and liabilities. 
In such instances, fair value measurements are estimated based on 
the amounts for which the assets and liabilities could be exchanged 
at the relevant transaction date or reporting period end, and are 
therefore not necessarily reflective of the likely cash flow upon 
actual settlements. Where fair value measurements cannot be 
derived from publicly available information, they are estimated 
using models and other valuation methods. To the extent possible, 
the assumptions and inputs used take into account externally 
verifiable inputs. However, such information is by nature subject 
to uncertainty, particularly where comparable market-based 
transactions rarely exist.
Adoption of new and revised Standards
In the current year, Glencore has applied a number of new and 
revised IFRS standards and interpretations which were adopted as 
of 1 January 2014:
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 – Investment Entities
These amendments provide an exception to the consolidation 
requirement for entities that meet the definition of an investment 
entity under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The exception to consolidation requires investment entities to 
account for subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss. 
Amendments to IFRS 11 – Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 
The amendments, effective for year-ends beginning on or after 
1 January 2016, but with early adoption permitted, were early 
adopted in conjunction with the acquisition of Caracal Energy Inc. 
These amendments address how a joint operator should account 
for the acquisition of an additional interest in a joint operation in 
which the activity of the joint operation constitutes a business. 
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, as amended now requires that such 
transactions shall be accounted for using the principles related to 
business combinations according to IFRS 3 Business Combinations 
and other standards and that any previously held interests in the 
existing joint operation is not to be remeasured to fair value.
Amendments to IAS 32 – Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial 
Liabilities 
The amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 
clarify the requirements relating to the offset of financial assets 
and liabilities. Specifically, the amendments clarify the meaning 
of “currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off” and 
“simultaneous realisation and settlement”. 
Amendments to IAS 36 – Recoverable Amount Disclosure for Non-
Financial Assets
The amendments to IAS 36 Impairments of Assets: Presentation 
clarify the disclosure required in relation to the recoverable amount 
of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less costs 
of disposal.
Amendments to IAS 39 – Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of 
Hedge Accounting
The amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement clarify the criteria required to be met such that there 
would be no need to discontinue hedge accounting if a hedging 
derivative was novated.
IFRIC 21 – Levies
The interpretation clarifies that an entity recognises a liability 
for a levy no earlier than when the activity that triggers payment, 
as identified by the relevant legislation, occurs. It also clarifies 
that a levy liability is accrued progressively only if the activity 
that triggers payment occurs over a period of time, in accordance 
with the relevant legislation. For a levy that is triggered upon 
reaching a minimum threshold, no liability is recognised before 
the specified minimum threshold is reached. The interpretation 
requires these same principles to be applied in interim financial 
statements. IFRIC 21 is effective for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2014 and is applied retrospectively. It is 
applicable to all levies imposed by governments under legislation, 
other than outflows that are within the scope of other standards 
(e.g. IAS 12 Income Taxes) and fines or other penalties for breaches 
of legislation. 
The adoption of these new amendments and interpretations 
has had no material impact on the Group.
New and revised Standards not yet effective
At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial 
statements, the following new and revised IFRS standards, which 
are applicable to Glencore, were issued but are not yet effective:
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 – Clarification of Acceptable Methods 
of Depreciation and Amortisation – effective for year-ends beginning on 
or after 1 January 2016
The amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment 
prohibits entities from using a revenue-based depreciation method 
for items of property, plant and equipment and the amendments 
to IAS 38 Intangible Assets introduce a rebuttable presumption 
that revenue is not an appropriate basis for amortisation of 
intangible assets.
IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers – effective for 
year-ends beginning on or after 1 January 2017
IFRS 15 applies to revenue from contracts with customers and 
replaces all of the revenue standards and interpretations in IFRS. 
The standard outlines the principles an entity must apply to 
measure and recognise revenue and the related cash flows.
IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments – effective for year-ends beginning 
on or after 1 January 2018
IFRS 9 modifies the classification and measurement of certain 
classes of financial assets and liabilities. The most significant 
change is to rationalise from 4 to 2 primary categories of 
financial assets.
The Directors are currently evaluating the impact these new and 
revised standards may have on the financial statements of Glencore.
Notes to the financial statements 127
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Basis of preparation
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost 
convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets, 
liabilities and marketing inventories that are measured at revalued 
amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period as 
explained in the accounting policies below. Historical cost is 
generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in 
exchange for goods and services. The principal accounting policies 
adopted are set out below.
The Directors have assessed that the financial statements be 
prepared on a going concern basis after their consideration of the 
Group’s budgeted cash flows and related assumptions, including 
appropriate stress testing thereof, key risks and uncertainties, 
undrawn debt facilities, debt maturity review and in accordance 
with the Going Concern and Liquidity Guidance for Directors of 
UK Companies 2009 published by the Financial Reporting Council. 
Further information on Glencore’s objectives, policies and processes 
for managing its capital and financial risks are detailed in note 26.
All amounts are expressed in millions of United States Dollars, 
unless otherwise stated, consistent with the predominant 
functional currency of Glencore’s operations.
Principles of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial 
statements of the Company and entities (including structured 
entities) controlled by the Company and its subsidiaries. 
Control is achieved when Glencore is exposed, or has rights, to 
variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the 
ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. 
Specifically, Glencore controls an investee if, and only if, Glencore 
has all of the following:
• power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current 
ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee);
• exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement 
with the investee; and
• the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns.
When Glencore has less than a majority of the voting rights of an 
investee or similar rights of an investee, it considers all relevant 
facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over 
the investee including:
• the size of Glencore’s holding of voting rights relative to the 
size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders;
• potential voting rights held by Glencore, other vote holders 
or other parties;
• rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
• any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that 
Glencore has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the 
relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, 
including voting patterns at previous shareholders’ meetings.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee 
if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes 
to one or more of the three elements of control listed above. 
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when Glencore obtains control 
over the subsidiary and ceases when Glencore loses control of 
the subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary 
acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the 
consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income 
from the date Glencore gains control until the date when Glencore 
ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income 
are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-
controlling interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is 
attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling 
interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having 
a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements 
of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with 
the Group’s accounting policies. All intragroup assets and 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to 
transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full 
on consolidation.
Changes in Glencore’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result 
in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions with 
any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling 
interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid 
or received being recognised directly in equity and attributed to 
equity holders of Glencore.
When Glencore loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss 
is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is 
calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair 
value of the consideration received and the fair value of any 
retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the 
assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and 
any non-controlling interests. All amounts previously recognised 
in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are 
accounted for as if Glencore had directly disposed of the related 
assets or liabilities of the subsidiary (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss 
or transferred to another category of equity as specified/permitted 
by applicable IFRSs). The fair value of any investment retained in 
the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded 
as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting 
under IAS 39, when applicable, or the cost on initial recognition 
of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.
Investments in associates and joint ventures 
Associates and joint ventures (together Associates) in which 
Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control are 
accounted for using the equity method. Significant influence is the 
power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions 
of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. 
Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds between 20% 
and 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to the contrary. 
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have 
joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the 
joint arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing 
of control over an arrangement, which exists only when decisions 
about relevant strategic and/or key operating decisions require 
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. 128 Glencore Annual Report 2014
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the 
Associate’s net income and equity. Glencore’s interest in an 
Associate is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently adjusted 
for Glencore’s share of changes in net assets of the Associate, 
less any impairment in the value of individual investments. 
Where Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised profits 
and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencore’s interest in 
that Associate.
Changes in Glencore’s interests in Associates are accounted for as a 
gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the amount by 
which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted and the fair 
value of the consideration received being recognised directly in the 
consolidated statement of income.
Joint operations
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that 
have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and 
obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. 
When Glencore undertakes its activities under joint operations, 
Glencore applies the proportionate consolidation method 
and recognises: 
• its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly; 
• its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly; 
• its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from 
the joint operation; 
• its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint 
operation; and 
• its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly. 
The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and 
expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance 
with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, 
revenues and expenses.
Where Glencore transacts with a joint operation, unrealised profits 
and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencore’s interest in that 
joint operation. 
Business combinations and goodwill
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for 
using the acquisition method of accounting. The cost of the 
acquisition is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the 
sum of the acquisition date fair values of the assets transferred, 
liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the 
equity interests issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. 
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 
(“identifiable net assets”) are recognised at their fair value at 
the date of acquisition. Acquisition related costs are recognised 
in the consolidated statement of income as incurred.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencore’s 
previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured 
to fair value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date Glencore attains 
control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in 
the consolidated statement of income.
Where the fair value of consideration transferred for a business 
combination exceeds the fair values attributable to Glencore’s 
share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated as 
purchased goodwill.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any 
accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment 
testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from 
the acquisition date, allocated to the CGUs that are expected to 
benefit from the synergies of the combination. CGUs to which 
goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, 
or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may 
be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its 
carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the 
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to 
the other assets of the unit pro rata based on the carrying amount 
of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is 
recognised directly in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognised 
for goodwill is not able to be reversed in subsequent periods. 
On disposal of the relevant CGU, the attributable amount of 
goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss 
on disposal.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by 
the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, 
Glencore reports provisional amounts for the items for which the 
accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted 
for additional information obtained during the “measurement 
period” (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) 
about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date 
that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at 
that date.
Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests 
and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s 
net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured 
either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate 
share of the recognised amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net 
assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-
by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are 
measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified 
in another IFRS.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of 
interests in Associates and joint operations. Any goodwill arising 
from such purchases is included within the carrying amount of the 
investment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter. Any excess 
of Glencore’s share of the net fair value of the Associate’s 
identifiable net assets over the cost of the investment is included in 
the consolidated statement of income in the period of the purchase.
Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups
Non-current assets and assets and liabilities included in disposal 
groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will 
be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than 
through continuing use, they are available for immediate disposal 
and the sale is highly probable. Non-current assets held for sale are 
measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less 
costs of disposal.
Notes to the financial statements 129
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognised when Glencore has transferred to the buyer 
all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the assets sold. 
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes and is recognised 
at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable to 
the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to 
Glencore and the revenues and costs can be reliably measured. 
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product 
is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is 
typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the destination port or 
the customer’s premises.
For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a 
provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price 
is subject to movements in market prices up to the date of 
final pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial 
booking. Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised 
based on the estimated fair value of the total consideration 
receivable. The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within 
provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a 
commodity derivative. Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales 
price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair 
value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue. In all cases, fair 
value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
Royalty, interest and dividend income is recognised when the 
right to receive payment has been established, it is probable that 
the economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of 
income can be measured reliably. Royalty revenue is recognised on 
an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant 
agreement. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference 
to the principal outstanding and the applicable effective 
interest rate.
Foreign currency translation
Glencore’s reporting currency and the functional currency of 
the majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is assessed 
to be the principal currency of the economic environment in 
which it operates.
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional 
currency of each entity using the exchange rate prevailing at the 
transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities outstanding at 
year-end are converted at year-end rates. The resulting exchange 
differences are recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
Translation of financial statements
For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group 
companies whose functional currency is in a currency other 
than the US dollar are translated into US dollars using year-end 
exchange rates, while their statements of income are translated 
using average rates of exchange for the year.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition 
of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of 
the foreign operation and are translated at the closing rate. 
Translation adjustments are included as a separate component of 
shareholders’ equity and have no consolidated statement of income 
impact to the extent that no disposal of the foreign operation 
has occurred.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they relate 
to the financing of construction or development of qualifying 
assets in which case they are capitalised up to the date when the 
qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
Retirement benefits
Glencore operates various pension schemes in accordance with 
local requirements and practices of the respective countries. 
The annual costs for defined contribution plans that are funded 
by payments to separate trustee administered funds or insurance 
companies equal the contributions that are required under the 
plans and accounted for as an expense. 
Glencore uses the Projected Unit Credit Actuarial method to 
determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations and 
the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service 
cost. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the 
beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The cost of providing pensions is charged to the consolidated 
statement of income so as to recognise current and past service 
costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect 
of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on 
plan assets. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly 
in other comprehensive income and will not be reclassified to 
the consolidated statement of income. The retirement benefit 
obligation/asset recognised in the consolidated statement of 
financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in 
Glencore’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this 
calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits 
available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in 
future contributions to the plans.
Glencore also provides post retirement healthcare benefits to 
certain employees in Canada, South Africa and the United States. 
These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit 
pension plans, however are unfunded.
Share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value 
of the awards based on the market value of the shares at the grant 
date. Fair value excludes the effect of non-market based vesting 
conditions. The fair value is charged to the consolidated statement 
of income and credited to retained earnings on a straight-line basis 
over the period the estimated awards are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of 
the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result 
of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions. The impact 
of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the 
consolidated statement of income such that the cumulative expense 
reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to 
retained earnings. 130 Glencore Annual Report 2014
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Cash-settled share-based payments
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is initially 
recognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards 
that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non-market 
based performance conditions. Subsequently, at each reporting 
period until the liability is settled, it is remeasured to fair value 
with any changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated 
statement of income.
Income taxes
Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes. 
Current taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable based 
on enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the period end 
on expected current taxable income, and any adjustment to tax 
payable in respect of previous years. Deferred taxes are recognised 
for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets 
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding 
tax bases used in the computation of taxable income, using enacted 
or substantively enacted income tax rates which are expected to 
be effective at the time of reversal of the underlying temporary 
difference. Deferred tax assets and unused tax losses are only 
recognised to the extent that their recoverability is probable. 
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at reporting period end and 
amended to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related 
benefit will be realised. To the extent that a deferred tax asset not 
previously recognised but which subsequently fulfils the criteria 
for recognition, an asset is then recognised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate 
to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has 
both the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets 
and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis. The tax effect of 
certain temporary differences is not recognised principally with 
respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability (other 
than those arising in a business combination or in a manner that 
initially impacted accounting or taxable profit) and temporary 
differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and Associates 
to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of the reversal 
of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary 
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax 
is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions. 
These adjustments may relate to assets such as extraction rights 
that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income 
in the consolidated statement of income, except when they relate 
to items that are recognised outside the consolidated statement 
of income (whether in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity) or where they arise from the initial accounting for a 
business combination.
Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies/taxes are treated 
as taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics 
of an income tax including being imposed and determined 
in accordance with regulations established by the respective 
government’s taxation authority and the amount payable is based 
on taxable income – rather than physical quantities produced 
or as a percentage of revenues – after adjustment for temporary 
differences. For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is 
provided on the same basis as described above for other forms 
of taxation. Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that 
do not satisfy these criteria are recognised as current provisions 
and included in cost of goods sold.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, being the fair 
value of the consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, 
including directly attributable costs required to bring the asset 
to the location or to a condition necessary for operation and the 
direct cost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated 
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. 
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimated 
residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific asset 
concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associated mine 
(“LOM”), field or lease. 
Depreciation commences when the asset is available for use. 
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are 
depreciated/amortised on a UOP and/or straight-line basis 
as follows:
Buildings 10 – 45 years
Freehold land not depreciated
Plant and equipment 3 – 30 years/UOP
Mineral and petroleum rights UOP
Deferred mining costs UOP
Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks 
and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are 
capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on 
the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the 
relevant lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases, 
the expenditures for which are charged against income over 
the accounting periods covered by the lease term.
Mineral and petroleum rights
Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights (together 
Mineral and petroleum rights) which can be reasonably valued, 
are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition. 
Mineral and petroleum rights for which values cannot be 
reasonably determined are not recognised. Exploitable Mineral 
and petroleum rights are amortised using the UOP basis over the 
commercially recoverable reserves and, in certain circumstances, 
other mineral resources. Mineral resources are included in 
amortisation calculations where there is a high degree of 
confidence that they will be extracted in an economic manner.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred in 
the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral and petroleum 
resources and includes costs such as exploration and production 
licenses, researching and analysing historical exploration data, 
exploratory drilling, trenching, sampling and the costs of pre-
feasibility studies. Exploration and evaluation expenditure for 
each area of interest, other than that acquired from another entity, 
is charged to the consolidated statement of income as incurred 
except when the expenditure is expected to be recouped from 
future exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned 
to continue with active and significant operations in relation to the 
area, or at the reporting period end, the activity has not reached 
a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of 
commercially recoverable reserves, in which case the expenditure 
is capitalised. Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are 
Notes to the financial statements 131
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
recognised at their fair value at acquisition. As the intangible 
component (i.e. licenses) represents an insignificant and 
indistinguishable portion of the overall expected tangible amount 
to be incurred and recouped from future exploitation, these 
costs along with other capitalised exploration and evaluation 
expenditure is recorded as a component of property, plant 
and equipment.
As the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure asset 
is not available for use, it is not depreciated. All capitalised 
exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for indications 
of impairment. Where a potential impairment is indicated, an 
assessment is performed for each area of interest or at the CGU 
level. To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to 
be recovered it is charged to the consolidated statement of income.
Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific 
exploration area are charged to the consolidated income statement. 
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in an 
existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the 
term of the permit.
Development expenditure
When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and 
such proposed development receives the appropriate approvals, 
capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred 
to construction in progress, a component within the plant and 
equipment asset sub-category. All subsequent development 
expenditure is similarly capitalised, provided commercial viability 
conditions continue to be satisfied. Proceeds from the sale of 
product extracted during the development phase are netted against 
development expenditure. Upon completion of development and 
commencement of production, capitalised development costs 
are further transferred, as required, to the appropriate plant 
and equipment asset category and depreciated using the unit of 
production method (UOP) or straight-line basis.
Deferred mining costs
Mainly comprises of certain capitalised costs related to 
underground mining as well as pre-production and in-production 
stripping activities as outlined below. Deferred mining costs are 
amortised using the UOP basis over the life of the ore body to 
which those costs relate. 
Deferred stripping costs
Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine (or pit) 
before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost 
of constructing the mine (or pit) and subsequently amortised over 
the life of the mine (or pit) on a UOP basis. 
In-production stripping costs related to accessing an identifiable 
component of the ore body to realise benefits in the form of 
improved access to ore to be mined in the future (stripping activity 
asset), are capitalised within deferred mining costs provided all the 
following conditions are met: 
(a)  it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with 
the stripping activity will be realised;
(b)  the component of the ore body for which access has been 
improved can be identified; and
(c)  the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with the 
improved access can be reliably measured. 
If all of the criteria are not met, the production stripping costs 
are charged to the consolidated statement of income as they 
are incurred.
The stripping activity asset is subsequently depreciated on a UOP 
basis over the life of the identified component of the ore body 
that became more accessible as a result of the stripping activity 
and is then stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any 
accumulated impairment losses. 
Biological assets
Biological assets are carried at their fair value less estimated selling 
costs. Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are 
included in the consolidated statement of income in the period in 
which they arise.
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arising from 
the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted 
using a risk adjusted discount rate to their net present value, are 
provided for and capitalised at the time such an obligation arises. 
The costs are charged to the consolidated statement of income over 
the life of the operation through depreciation of the asset and the 
unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is 
created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided for at 
their net present values and charged to the consolidated statement 
of income as extraction progresses.
Changes in the estimated timing of the rehabilitation or changes 
to the estimated future costs are accounted for prospectively by 
recognising an adjustment to the rehabilitation liability and a 
corresponding adjustment to the asset to which it relates, provided 
the reduction in the provision is not greater than the depreciated 
capitalised cost of the related asset, in which case the capitalised 
cost is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment recognised in 
the consolidated statement of income. In the case of closed sites, 
changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the 
consolidated statement of income. 
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial 
recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a 
business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. 
Following initial recognition intangible assets are carried at cost 
less any accumulated amortisation (calculated on a straight-line 
basis over their useful lives) and accumulated impairment losses, 
if any.
Internally generated intangibles are not capitalised. Instead, the 
related expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement 
of income and other comprehensive income in the period in which 
the expenditure is incurred. 132 Glencore Annual Report 2014
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)
Identifiable intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a 
straight-line basis over their expected useful life. The amortisation 
method and period are reviewed annually and impairment 
testing is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying 
amount may not be recoverable. Other than goodwill which is not 
depreciated, Glencore has no identifiable intangible assets with an 
indefinite life.
The major categories of intangibles are amortised on a straight-line 
basis as follows:
Port allocation rights 30 - 40 years
Licences, trademarks and software 3 - 20 years
Royalty arrangements 30 - 40 years
Acquired offtake arrangements 5 - 10 years
Other investments
Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, 
are recorded at fair value unless such fair value is not reliably 
determinable in which case they are carried at cost. Changes in fair 
value are recorded in the consolidated statement of income unless 
they are classified as available for sale, in which case fair value 
movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and are 
subsequently recognised in the consolidated statement of income 
when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair 
value is judged to be a significant or prolonged decline.
Impairment
Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of asset 
values which is used as a source of information to assess for any 
indications of impairment. Formal impairment tests are carried out, 
at least annually, for cash-generating units containing goodwill 
and for all other non-current assets when events or changes in 
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
A formal impairment test involves determining whether the 
carrying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its 
fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Such reviews 
are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do 
not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case 
the review is undertaken at the CGU level.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, 
an impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated statement of 
income to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
An impairment loss is reversed in the consolidated statement of 
income if there is a change in the estimates used to determine 
the recoverable amount since the prior impairment loss was 
recognised. The carrying amount is increased to the recoverable 
amount but not beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation 
or amortisation which would have arisen if the prior impairment 
loss had not been recognised. Goodwill impairments and 
impairments of available for sale equity investments cannot be 
subsequently reversed.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive), as a result of past events, and it is probable 
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that can 
be reliably estimated will be required to settle the liability.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of 
the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the 
balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties 
surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using 
the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying 
amount is the present value of those cash flows (when the effect of 
the time value of money is material).
Onerous contracts
An onerous contract is considered to exist where Glencore has 
a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the 
obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits 
expected to be received from the contract. Present obligations 
arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured 
as provisions.
Unfavourable contracts
An unfavourable contract is considered to exist when Glencore, 
in a business combination, acquires a contract under which the 
terms of the contract require Glencore to sell products or purchase 
services on terms which are economically unfavourable compared 
to current market terms at the time of the business combination. 
Unfavourable contracts are recognised at the present value of 
the economic loss and amortised into income over the term 
of the contract.
Inventories
The vast majority of marketing inventories are valued at fair value 
less costs of disposal with the remainder valued at the lower of cost 
or net realisable value. Unrealised gains and losses from changes in 
fair value are reported in cost of goods sold.
Production inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net 
realisable value. Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out 
(“FIFO”) or the weighted average method and comprises material 
costs, labour costs and allocated production related overhead costs. 
Financing and storage costs related to inventory are expensed 
as incurred.
Notes to the financial statements 133
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash in 
hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of 
3 months or less. The carrying amount of these assets approximates 
their fair value.
Financial instruments
Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity 
investments or available for sale financial assets depending 
upon the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. 
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value on the trade 
date, including, in the case of instruments not recorded at fair 
value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction 
costs. Subsequently, financial assets are carried at fair value (other 
investments, derivatives and marketable securities) or amortised 
cost less impairment (accounts receivable and advances and loans). 
Financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially recognised 
at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as 
appropriate and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
Convertible bonds
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is 
determined by discounting the contractual future cash flows using 
a market rate for a similar non-convertible instrument. The liability 
component is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis 
using the effective interest method. The equity component is 
recognised as the difference between the fair value of the proceeds 
as a whole and the fair value of the liability component and it 
is not subsequently remeasured. On conversion, the liability 
is reclassified to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in 
the consolidated statement of income and upon expiry of the 
conversion rights, any remaining equity portion will be transferred 
to retained earnings.
Own shares
The cost of purchases of own shares are deducted from equity. 
Where they are purchased, issued to employees or sold, no 
gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of 
income. Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity. 
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfers to 
employees are recognised in equity. 
Derivatives and hedging activities
Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell or 
purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exemption, are 
initially recognised at fair value when Glencore becomes a party to 
the contractual provisions of the instrument and are subsequently 
remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period. 
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices, dealer price 
quotations or using models and other valuation techniques, the key 
inputs for which include current market and contractual prices for 
the underlying instrument, time to expiry, yield curves, volatility of 
the underlying instrument and counterparty risk.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge 
accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment 
mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are 
recognised in cost of goods sold.
Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are either 
(i) a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a recognised 
asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, or (ii) a 
Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cash flows to be received 
or paid relating to a recognised asset or liability or a highly 
probable transaction.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair Value 
Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair value of the 
hedged item in the consolidated statement of income.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash 
Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge-reserve 
in shareholders’ equity. The deferred amount is then released to 
the consolidated statement of income in the same periods during 
which the hedged transaction affects the consolidated statement 
of income. Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the consolidated 
statement of income when it occurs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge 
no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative 
gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in shareholders’ 
equity and is recognised in the consolidated statement of 
income when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately 
recognised in the consolidated statement of income. However, 
if a forecast or committed transaction is no longer expected to 
occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is 
immediately transferred to the consolidated statement of income.
A derivative may be embedded in a “host contract”. 
Such combinations are known as hybrid instruments and 
at the date of issuance, the embedded derivative is separated 
from the host contract and accounted for as a standalone 
derivative if the criteria for separation are met. The host contract 
is accounted for in accordance with its relevant accounting policy.  134 Glencore Annual Report 2014
2. SEGMENT INFORMATION
Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in 3 core 
business segments – metals and minerals, energy products and 
agricultural products, with each business segment responsible 
for the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial 
investment activities of their respective products and reflecting 
the structure used by Glencore’s management to assess the 
performance of Glencore.
The business segments’ contributions to the Group are 
primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from 
physical marketing activities (net sale and purchase of physical 
commodities), provision of marketing and related value-add 
services and the margin earned from industrial asset activities 
(net resulting from the sale of physical commodities over the cost 
of production and/or cost of sales) and comprise the following 
underlying key commodities:
• Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, 
ferroalloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, 
refining, mining, processing and storage related operations of the 
relevant commodities;
• Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and 
metallurgical coal, including investments in coal mining and oil 
production operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities; and
• Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, canola, barley, rice, oil 
seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported 
by investments in farming, storage, handling, processing and 
port facilities.
Corporate and other: consolidated statement of income amounts 
represent Glencore’s share of income related to Xstrata (prior 
to the date of acquisition in May 2013) and other unallocated 
Group related expenses (including variable pool bonus charges). 
Statement of financial position amounts represent Group 
related balances.
The financial performance of the segments is principally 
evaluated with reference to Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA which is 
the net result of revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and 
administrative expenses plus share of income from other associates 
and joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share 
of underlying Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA of certain associates and 
joint ventures which are accounted for internally by means of 
proportionate consolidation.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as 
those described in note 1 with the exception of certain associates 
and joint ventures. Under IFRS 11, Glencore’s investments in the 
Antamina copper/zinc mine (34% owned) and the Cerrejón coal 
mine (33% owned) are considered to be associates as they are 
not subject to joint control and the Collahuasi copper mine (44% 
owned) is considered to be a joint venture. Associates and joint 
ventures are required to be accounted for in Glencore’s financial 
statements under the equity method. For internal reporting and 
analysis, Glencore evaluates the performance of these investments 
under the proportionate consolidation method reflecting Glencore’s 
proportionate share of the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities 
of the investments. The balances as presented for internal reporting 
purposes are reconciled to Glencore’s statutory disclosures as 
outlined in the following tables.
Notes to the financial statements 135
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Glencore accounts for intra-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i.e. at arm’s 
length commercial terms.
2014 
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy  
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate 
and other Total
Revenue 66,050 131,980 25,821 132 223,983
Marketing activities
Adjusted EBIT 1,515 524 856 (105) 2,790
Depreciation and amortisation 30 41 140 – 211
Adjusted EBITDA 1,545 565 996 (105) 3,001
Industrial activities
Adjusted EBIT 3,674 486 136 (380) 3,916
Depreciation and amortisation
1
3,403 2,355 77 12 5,847
Adjusted EBITDA 7,077 2,841 213 (368) 9,763
Total adjusted EBITDA 8,622 3,406 1,209 (473) 12,764
Depreciation and amortisation (3,433) (2,396) (217) (12) (6,058)
Total adjusted EBIT 5,189 1,010 992 (485) 6,706
Significant items
2
Other expense – net
3
(1,073)
Share of associates’ exceptional items
4
(74)
Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments and other
5
(221)
Interest expense – net
6
(1,457)
Gain on sale of investments
7
715
Income tax expense
8
(2,152)
Income for the year 2,444
1 Includes an adjustment of $610 million (2013: $447 million) to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate 
consolidation basis. Metals and minerals segment: $430 million (2013: $271 million) and Energy products segment $180 million (2013: $176 million), see table below, page 138.
2 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal 
reporting and analysis of Glencore’s results.
3 See note 4.
4 Share of associates’ exceptional items comprise Glencore’s share of exceptional charges booked directly by various associates, predominantly Lonmin, relating mainly to various costs 
incurred in connection with the prolonged platinum strikes in South Africa.
5 Comprises the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions of $187 million (2013: $261 million). For Glencore, such adjustments 
arise on the sale of product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial operations to its Marketing arm and management assesses segment performance prior to any 
such adjustments, as if the sales were to third parties. The balance comprises an adjustment of $34 million (2013: $nil) arising from losses incurred as a result of typhoon Haiyan in 
the Philippines.
6 Includes an adjustment of $14 million (2013: $6 million) to interest income related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. Metals and 
minerals segment: interest income of $18 million and Energy products segment interest expense of $4 million, see table below, page 138.
7 See note 3.
8 Includes an adjustment of $343 million (2013: $329 million) to income tax expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. 
Metals and minerals segment: $266 million and Energy products segment $77 million, see table below, page 138. 136 Glencore Annual Report 2014
2. SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued)
2013 
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy  
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate 
and other
Total
Restated
1
Revenue 65,321 139,768 30,039 138 235,266
Marketing activities
Adjusted EBIT 1,622 629 198 (93) 2,356
Depreciation and amortisation 21 37 185 – 243
Adjusted EBITDA 1,643 666 383 (93) 2,599
Industrial activities
Adjusted EBIT 2,742 907 (6) (29) 3,614
Depreciation and amortisation
2
2,554 1,623 67 9 4,253
Adjusted EBITDA 5,296 2,530 61 (20) 7,867
Total adjusted EBITDA 6,939 3,196 444 (113) 10,466
Depreciation and amortisation (2,575) (1,660) (252) (9) (4,496)
Total adjusted EBIT 4,364 1,536 192 (122) 5,970
Significant items
3
Other expense – net
4
(11,488)
Share of associates’ exceptional items
5
(51)
Mark-to-market loss on certain natural gas contracts
6
(95)
Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments
7
(261)
Interest expense – net
8
(1,394) 
Loss on sale of investments
9
(40)
Income tax expense
10
(583)
Loss for the year (7,942)
1 Other expense – net adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 4 and 25).
2 Includes an adjustment of $447 million to depreciation and amortisation expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. 
Metals and minerals segment: $271 million and Energy products segment $176 million, see table below, page 138.
3 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal 
reporting and analysis of Glencore’s results.
4 See note 4.
5 Share of associates’ exceptional items comprise Glencore’s share of exceptional charges booked directly by Xstrata relating mainly to various costs incurred by Xstrata in connection 
with its acquisition by Glencore.
6 Represents an accounting measurement mismatch between spot and forward prices in respect of certain aluminium commercial hedging activities where such amounts will reverse in 
future periods. Due to the hedging being done on a portfolio basis, hedge treatment for IFRS accounting purposes (where such amounts would not impact the consolidated statement of 
income) is not achievable.
7 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions. For Glencore, such adjustments arise on the sale of product, in the 
ordinary course of business, from its Industrial operations to its Marketing arm and management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the sales were to 
third parties.
8 Includes an adjustment of $6 million to interest expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. Metals and minerals 
segment: interest income of $1 million and Energy products segment interest expense of $7 million, see table below, page 138.
9 See note 3.
10 Includes an adjustment of $329 million to income tax expenses related to presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis. Metals and minerals 
segment: $299 million and Energy products segment $30 million, see table below, page 138.
Notes to the financial statements 137
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
2014 
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy  
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate 
and other Total
Current assets 29,620 14,433 6,758 (447) 50,364
Current liabilities (11,334) (17 ,264) (2,870) (474) (31,942)
Allocatable current capital employed 18,286 (2,831) 3,888 (921) 18,422
Property, plant and equipment 38,663 28,039 2,899 509 70,110
Intangible assets 3,728 4,097 902 139 8,866
Investments in associates and other investments 9,660 3,561 525 – 13,746
Non-current advances and loans 1,834 2,518 138 107 4,597
Allocatable non-current capital employed 53,885 38,215 4,464 755 97,319
Other assets
1
4,522 4,522
Other liabilities
2
(68,783) (68,783)
Total net assets 72,171 35,384 8,352 (64,427) 51,480
Capital expenditure 6,982 2,294 249 2 9,527
1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions and non-current financial liabilities.
2013 
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy  
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate 
and other
Total
Restated
1
Current assets 26,737 17 ,164 6,554 316 50,771
Current liabilities (10,456) (15,671) (2,708) (529) (29,364)
Allocatable current capital employed 16,281 1,493 3,846 (213) 21,407
Property, plant and equipment 36,533 27 ,173 3,195 332 67,233
Intangible assets 3,755 4,374 883 146 9,158
Investments in associates and other investments 9,439 3,191 430 19 13,079
Non-current advances and loans 987 2,461 141 406 3,995
Allocatable non-current capital employed 50,714 37,199 4,649 903 93,465
Other assets
2
10,626 10,626
Other liabilities
3
(72,817) (72,817)
Total net assets 66,995 38,692 8,495 (61,501) 52,681
Capital expenditure 7,114 2,696 293 4 10,107
1 Adjusted for final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents and assets held for sale.
3 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions, non-current financial liabilities and liabilities held for sale. 138 Glencore Annual Report 2014
2. SEGMENT INFORMATION (continued)
The reconciliation of certain associates’ and joint venture’s Adjusted EBIT to ‘Share of net income from associates and joint ventures’ for 
the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013 is as follows:
2014  
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy  
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate 
and other Total
Revenue
Revenue 66,050 131,980 25,821 132 223,983
Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a 
proportionate consolidation basis (2,156) (754) – – (2,910)
Revenue – reported measure 63,894 131,226 25,821 132 221,073
Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures
Associates’ and joint ventures’ Adjusted EBITDA 1,292 260 – – 1,552
Depreciation and amortisation (430) (180) – – (610)
Associates’ and joint ventures’ Adjusted EBIT 862 80 – – 942
Net finance costs 18 (4) – – 14
Income tax expense (266) (77) – – (343)
Net finance costs and income tax expense (248) (81) – – (329)
Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures 614 (1) – – 613
Share of income from other associates (36) 3 58 – 25
Share of income from associates and joint ventures 578 2 58 – 638
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure 6,982 2,294 249 2 9,527
Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a 
proportionate consolidation basis (368) (99) – – (467)
Capital expenditure – reported measure 6,614 2,195 249 2 9,060
2013  
US$ million
Metals and 
minerals
Energy  
products
Agricultural 
products
Corporate 
and other Total
Revenue
Revenue 65,321 139,768 30,039 138 235,266
Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a 
proportionate consolidation basis (1,973) (599) – – (2,572)
Revenue – reported measure 63,348 139,169 30,039 138 232,694
Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures
Associates’ and joint ventures’ Adjusted EBITDA 1,249 238 – – 1,487
Depreciation and amortisation (271) (176) – – (447)
Associates’ and joint ventures’ Adjusted EBIT 978 62 – – 1,040
Net finance costs 1 (7) – – (6)
Income tax expense (299) (30) – – (329)
Net finance costs and income tax expense (298) (37) – – (335)
Share of income from certain associates and joint ventures 680 25 – – 705
Share of income from other associates (37) 45 7 126 141
Share of income from associates and joint ventures 643 70 7 126 846
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure 7 ,114 2,696 293 4 10,107
Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a 
proportionate consolidation basis (376) (144) – – (520)
Capital expenditure – reported measure 6,738 2,552 293 4 9,587
Notes to the financial statements 139
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Adjusted EBIT is revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of income from associates and 
joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share of underlying Adjusted EBIT of certain associates and joint ventures. 
Adjusted EBITDA consists of Adjusted EBIT plus depreciation and amortisation. The reconciliation of Adjusted EBIT/EBITDA to the 
reported measures is as follows:
US$ million 2014 2013
Reported measures
Revenue 221,073 232,694
Cost of goods sold (214,344) (227 ,145)
Selling and administrative expenses (1,304) (1,206)
Share of associates and joint ventures 638 846
Dividend income 19 39
6,082 5,228
Adjustments to reported measures
Share of associates exceptional items 74 51
Mark-to-market valuation on certain contracts – 95
Unrealised intergroup profit elimination 221 261
295 407
Net finance and income tax expense impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures
on a proportionate consolidation basis 329 335
Adjusted EBIT 6,706 5,970
Depreciation and amortisation 5,448 4,049
Depreciation impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate consolidation basis 610 447
Adjusted EBITDA 12,764 10,466
Geographical information
US$ million 2014
2013
Restated
1
Revenue from third parties
2
The Americas 47 ,274 54,675
Europe 70,595 78,782
Asia 86,619 84,835
Africa 8,206 8,688
Oceania 8,379 5,714
221,073 232,694
Non-current assets
3
The Americas 23,471 23,817
Europe 9,316 9,331
Asia 5,922 5,692
Africa 23,642 21,524
Oceania 28,899 28,183
91,250 88,547
1 Adjusted for final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2  Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty however this may not necessarily be the country of the counterpart’s ultimate 
parent and/or final destination of product.
3 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, advances and loans and deferred tax assets. 140 Glencore Annual Report 2014
3. GAIN/(LOSS) ON SALE OF INVESTMENTS 
US$ million 2014 2013
Gain on sale of Las Bambas 715 –
Loss on sale in investment in associates – (40)
Total 715 (40)
On 31 July 2014, the Las Bambas sale transaction was completed, resulting in a gain of $715 million. Tax of $531 million was paid upon 
completion, resulting in a net gain of $184 million (see note 15).
The net loss on sale of investments in associates in 2013 comprised primarily an accounting dilution loss following an Xstrata share 
issuance in April 2013, which saw Glencore’s ownership reduce.
4. OTHER EXPENSE – NET
US$ million Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Impairments 5 (1,101) (9,730)
Changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading – net 134 (308)
Foreign exchange loss (76) (126)
Acquisition related expenses (10) (330)
Premium on bond buybacks (95) –
Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses – net – (1,160)
Changes in mark-to-market valuation of certain coal forward contracts
2
– 87
Other expense – net
3
75 79
Total (1,073) (11,488)
1 Adjusted for final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2 This item, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold. All other amounts in Other expense – net are classified by function.
3 ‘Other expense – net’ for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprises a $75 million gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment. ‘Other expense – net’ for the year ended 
31 December 2013 includes a $15 million gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and $37 million of income relating to the Agrium and Richardson assets which were 
acquired and subsequently sold as part of the Viterra acquisition.
Together with foreign exchange movements and mark-to-market movements on investments held for trading, other expenses – net 
includes other significant items of income and expense which due to their non-operational nature or expected infrequency of the 
events giving rise to them are reported separately from operating segment results. Other expenses – net includes, but is not limited to, 
impairment charges, revaluation of previously held interests in business combinations and acquisitions, restructuring and closure costs.
Changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading – net
Primarily relates to movements on interests in investments classified as held for trading and carried at fair value, with Glencore’s interest 
in Volcan Compania Minera S.A.A. and Century Aluminum Company cash settled swaps accounting for the majority of the movement 
(see note 10).
Acquisition related expenses
2014 acquisition related expenses were incurred in connection with current year acquisitions (see note 25).
2013 acquisition related expenses occurred in connection with the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25) and comprise $59 million of costs 
incurred with the required cancellation of the Nyrstar offtake agreement, $98 million of professional/advisers’ fees related to the 
acquisition and $137 million of stamp duty and restructuring costs. In addition, there was $36 million of Viterra acquisition related 
expenses in 2013.
Premium on bond buybacks 
In June, Glencore tendered for and cancelled 25% of its outstanding convertible bonds and Canadian dollar bonds originally issued by the 
Viterra Group (acquired by Glencore in 2012), booking the ‘premium’ over book carrying value as an expense of $70 million (see note 20) 
and $25 million respectively. 
Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses – net
In May 2013, Glencore completed the acquisition of the additional 66% interest in Xstrata it did not previously own (see note 25). At the 
date of acquisition, the previously owned interest was revalued to its fair value based on the share price at 2 May 2013 (the “ Acquisition 
Date”) as prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and as a result, a $1,160 million loss was recognised.
Notes to the financial statements 141
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Changes in mark-to-market valuation of certain coal forward contracts
This previously represented movements in the fair value of certain fixed price forward coal sales contracts relating to Prodeco’s future 
production, into which it planned to physically deliver. Following the legal re-acquisition of Prodeco in March 2010, from an accounting 
perspective, these forward sales contracts could not technically be classified as “own use” or as cash flow hedges, which would have 
deferred the income statement effect until performance of the underlying future sale transactions. As at year-end 2013, all tonnes of 
such coal had been physically delivered.
5. IMPAIRMENTS
US$ million Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Xstrata acquisition goodwill impairment – (8,124)
Available for sale instruments 10 – (446)
Non-current advances and loans 11 – (300)
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 7 /8 (886) (779)
Investments 10 (135) –
Non-current inventory and other
2
(80) (81)
Total impairments
3
(1,101) (9,730)
1 The Xstrata acquisition goodwill impairment has been adjusted by $(466) million as a result of the finalisation of the fair value adjustments relating to the acquisition of Xstrata 
(see note 25).
2 These items, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
3 Impairments recognised during the year are allocated to Glencore’s operating segments as follows: Metals and minerals $791 million (2013: $8,933 million), Energy products 
$247 million (2013: $797 million) and Agricultural products $63 million (2013: $nil).
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
During the regular assessment of whether there is an indication of asset impairment or whether a previously recorded impairment may no 
longer be required (as part of our regular portfolio review), the following impairment charges resulted:
2014
• Following the steep decline in iron ore prices and the decision to slow down development at our Mauritanian and Congo iron ore 
operations (Metals and minerals segment) their carrying values were impaired by $431 million, to their estimated recoverable value of 
$50 million. 
• Upon further review and evaluation of our exploration activities at the Matanda Oil field in Cameroon (Energy product segment), it was 
determined that the technical risk of continuing to evaluate/develop the field was unacceptably high and as a result, the full carrying 
value of $212 million was impaired.
• The continued challenging platinum market conditions resulted in the carrying value of our South African platinum operations (Metals 
and minerals segment) being written down to their estimated recoverable value, resulting in an impairment charge of $146 million 
being recognised.
• The balance of the property, plant and equipment related impairment charges (none of which were individually material) arose due to 
changes in production and development plans and resulted in impairments of $53 million, $26 million and $18 million being recognised 
in our Agricultural products, Energy products and Metals and minerals segments respectively.
2013
• Following the continuing low nickel price forecasts, the carrying value of our Murrin Murrin operation (Metals and minerals segment) 
was impaired by $454 million, to it’s estimated recoverable amount of $434 million.
• Further to the decision to suspend the mine shaft expansion project, the carrying value of our Cobar copper operations (Metals and 
minerals segment) was impaired by $137 million, to it’s estimated recoverable value of $329 million. 
• Resulting primarily from an evaluation of below expectation exploration programmes (none of which were individually material), 
further impairment charges of $124 million and $64 million were recognised in our Metals and minerals and Energy product 
segments respectively.
The recoverable amounts of the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were measured based on fair value less costs of 
disposal (“FVLCD”), determined by discounted cash flow techniques based on the most recent approved financial budgets and 3 year 
business plans both of which are underpinned and supported by life of mine plans of the respective operations. The valuation models use 
the most recent reserve and resource estimates, relevant cost assumptions generally based on past experience and where possible, market 
forecasts of commodity price and foreign exchange rate assumptions discounted using operation specific discount rates ranging from 
5.5% – 13% (2013: 7.5% – 12%). The valuations remain sensitive to price and further deterioration/improvements in the pricing outlook may 
result in additional impairments/reversals. The determination of FVLCD uses Level 3 valuation techniques for both years. 142 Glencore Annual Report 2014
5. IMPAIRMENTS (continued)
Investments
As noted above, in relation to iron ore prices and the associated development activity, our investment in the El Aouj Joint Venture, 
Mauritania was impaired by $58 million. In addition, an impairment charge of $77 million was recognised related to a copper minority 
investment, Mineracao Caraiba S.A., in Brazil, due to operational challenges. Post these charges, the estimated recoverable values of these 
investments amounted to $51 million and $28 million respectively. The recoverable amounts of the investments were determined using 
similar valuation techniques and inputs as described above.
Xstrata acquisition goodwill impairment
In accordance with IFRS 3, following a comprehensive process to identify and determine the fair value of all acquired assets and liabilities 
in connection with the Xstrata acquisition (see note 25), Glencore recognised goodwill of $13.1 billion of which $5.0 billion was allocated to 
the metals and coal marketing cash-generating units (“CGUs”) (see notes 8 and 9) and $8,124 million was allocated to the Xstrata mining 
operations’ CGUs.
The goodwill allocated to the metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses was based on the value of expected margin synergies 
to be realised by the Group’s existing marketing operations as a result of increased product flows from Xstrata, while the residual balance 
of $8,124 million was allocated to the Xstrata mining operations.
IAS 36 Impairment of assets requires that CGUs containing goodwill be tested for impairment whenever there are indications that goodwill 
may be impaired. As at the Acquisition Date the assets and liabilities of the Xstrata mining operations were then recorded at fair value 
(including reserves and resources and expected operational synergies) following the finalisation of the extensive valuation process as at 
the Acquisition Date, there was an indicator that the goodwill allocated to these operations was impaired.
Accordingly, Glencore completed an impairment test of the Xstrata mining operations based on the results of the final purchase price 
allocation process (see note 25) and determined that the allocated goodwill was impaired and therefore recorded an impairment charge 
at acquisition of $8,124 million.
The key circumstances that led to the impairment were:
• The IFRS 3 requirement to measure the consideration paid by reference to Glencore’s share price at the Acquisition Date and the 
significant time lag between pricing the acquisition in September 2012 and the Acquisition Date; and
• The negative broader macro-economic environment facing the extractive industry, particularly around the actual and perceived 
heightened risks associated with greenfield and large scale expansion projects during the first half of 2013.
The recoverable amount of the Xstrata mining operations was measured based on fair value less cost of disposal determined in 
accordance with IFRS 13 and was primarily based on discounted cash flow techniques using, where possible, market based forecasts 
and assumptions and discounted using operation specific discount rates ranging from 8 – 13%. The determination of FVLCD uses Level 3 
valuation techniques.
Available for sale instruments
Glencore accounts for its interest in United Company Rusal plc (“UC Rusal”) as an available for sale investment at fair value with 
mark-to-market movements recognised in other comprehensive income (“OCI”). At 31 December 2013 it was determined that previously 
recognised negative fair value adjustments were of a prolonged nature and thus were reclassified from OCI to the consolidated statement 
of income as required under IAS 39 (see note 10). During the year ended 31 December 2014, there was a recovery in UC Rusal’s share price 
and as such a positive mark-to-market movement of $501 million was recognised in OCI.
Notes to the financial statements 143
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
6. INCOME TAXES
Income taxes consist of the following:
US$ million 2014 2013
Current income tax expense (1,447) (737)
Deferred income tax (expense)/credit (362) 483
Total tax expense (1,809) (254)
The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the following reasons:
US$ million 2014
2013
Restated
1
Income/(Loss) before income taxes and attribution 4,253 (7,688)
Less: Share of income from associates and joint ventures (638) (846)
Parent Company’s and subsidiaries’ income/(loss) before income tax and attribution 3,615 (8,534)
Income tax (expense)/credit calculated at the Swiss income tax rate (542) 1,280
Tax effects of:
Different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate (971) (605)
Non-deductible Xstrata related revaluation and goodwill impairment charges – (1,218)
Tax exempt income 150 192
Items not tax deductible (488) (19)
Foreign exchange fluctuations (851) 240
Changes in tax rates (20) –
Utilisation and changes in recognition of tax losses and temporary differences
2
915 (122)
Other (2) (2)
Income tax expense (1,809) (254)
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2 2014 includes $636 million of available capital deductions not previously recognised. 144 Glencore Annual Report 2014
6. INCOME TAXES (continued)
Deferred taxes as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 are attributable to the items detailed in the table below:
US$ million Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Deferred tax assets
2
Tax losses carried forward 1,417 1,861
Other 250 244
Total 1,667 2,105
Deferred tax liabilities
2
Depreciation and amortisation (5,894) (5,784)
Mark-to-market valuations (87) (11)
Other (454) (903)
Total (6,435) (6,698)
Total Deferred tax – net (4,768) (4,593)
Reconciliation of deferred tax – net
1 January (4,593) (1,395)
Recognised in income for the year (362) 483
Recognised in other comprehensive income 86 (89)
Disposal of business 25 – 40
Business combination 25 (52) (4,134)
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 156 310
Other (3) 192
31 December (4,768) (4,593)
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2  Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities 
arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable. 
As at 31 December 2014, $3,355 million (2013: $2,520 million) of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards that have been 
brought to account, of which $1,417 million (2013: $1,861 million) are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the remaining balance being 
offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same respective entity. $528 million (2013: $725 million) of net deferred tax assets arise 
in entities that have been loss making for tax purposes in either 2014 or 2013. In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will 
be earned in future accounting periods prior to any tax loss expiry as may be the case, all available evidence was considered, including 
approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, analysis of historical operating results. These forecasts are consistent 
with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes. Following this evaluation, it was 
determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets and that no reasonably 
possible change in any of the key assumptions would result in a material reduction in forecast headroom of tax profits so that the 
recognised deferred tax asset would not be realised. 
Notes to the financial statements 145
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in 
the consolidated financial statements are detailed below and will expire as follows:
US$ million 2014 2013
1 year 204 200
2 years 49 215
3 years 38 70
Thereafter 2,543 1,449
Unlimited 1,022 1,778
Total 3,856 3,712
As at 31 December 2014, unremitted earnings of $63,245 million (2013: $43,407 million) have been retained by subsidiaries and associates 
for reinvestment. No provision is made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings.
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
US$ million Notes
Freehold 
land and 
buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Mineral and 
petroleum rights
Exploration and 
evaluation
Deferred 
mining costs Total
Gross carrying amount:
1 January 2014 (Restated)
1
5,301 47 ,782 21,392 823 1,417 76,715
Business combination 25 37 302 1,634 204 – 2,177
Disposal of subsidiaries 25 (1) (28) – (74) – (103)
Additions 138 6,847 354 245 487 8,071
Disposals (28) (348) (14) (60) (3) (453)
Effect of foreign currency exchange 
movements (83) (611) (329) – – (1,023)
Other movements 204 (1,104) 379 147 429 55
31 December 2014 5,568 52,840 23,416 1,285 2,330 85,439
Accumulated depreciation 
and impairment:
1 January 2014 (Restated)
1
542 6,835 1,866 130 109 9,482
Disposal of subsidiaries 25 –(14) – – – (14)
Depreciation 245 3,699 1,144 – 224 5,312
Disposals (9) (231) – (58) (1) (299)
Impairments 5 20 257 39 555 – 871
Effect of foreign currency exchange 
movements (8) (83) (26) – – (117)
Other movements (15) (58) (136) 54 249 94
31 December 2014 775 10,405 2,887 681 581 15,329
Net book value 31 December 2014 4,793 42,435 20,529 604 1,749 70,110
1  Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25). 146 Glencore Annual Report 2014
7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
US$ million Notes
Freehold 
land and 
buildings
Plant and 
equipment
Mineral and 
petroleum 
rights
Exploration and 
evaluation
Deferred 
mining costs Total
Gross carrying amount:
1 January 2013 2,609 17 ,349 8,267 407 743 29,375
Business combination
1
25 1,585 25,012 13,279 559 866 41,301
Disposal of subsidiaries 25 (131) (555) ––– (686)
Additions 308 8,099 601 28 452 9,488
Disposals (49) (756) (65) – (3) (873)
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements (110) (1,267) (588) – – (1,965)
Other movements 1,089 (100) (102) (171) (641) 75
31 December 2013 (Restated) 5,301 47,782 21,392 823 1,417 76,715
Accumulated depreciation and impairment:
1 January 2013 397 4,030 1,047 130 148 5,752
Depreciation 200 2,698 863 – 165 3,926
Disposal of subsidiaries 25 (2) (9) ––– (11)
Disposals (25) (534) (21) – (26) (606)
Impairments 5563549–90 779
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements (33) 15 (72) – (268) (358)
31 December 2013 542 6,835 1,866 130 109 9,482
Net book value 31 December 2013 (Restated) 4,759 40,947 19,526 693 1,308 67,233
1  Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of $9,862 million (2013: $11,149 million) and a net book value of 
$536 million (2013: $412 million) of obligations recognised under finance lease agreements. Mineral and petroleum rights include biological 
assets of $98 million (2013: $94 million). Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are $5,287 million (2013: $3,905 million) and 
in selling and administrative expenses $25 million (2013: $21 million).
During 2014, $348 million (2013: $310 million) of interest was capitalised, $263 million (2013: $231 million) within property, plant and 
equipment and $85 million within assets held for sale (2013: $79 million). With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used 
to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 3.3% (2013: 3.5%).
Notes to the financial statements 147
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
8. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
US$ million Goodwill
Port  
allocation  
rights
Licences, 
trademarks 
 and software
Royalty and 
acquired offtake 
arrangements Total
Cost:
1 January 2014 (Restated)
1
14,122 2,604 326 438 17,490
Business combination
2
––1 12 13
Additions –– 17 11 28
Disposals –– (26) (2) (28)
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements – (235) (5) (3) (243)
Other movements –– 52 29 81
31 December 2014 14,122 2,369 365 485 17,341
Accumulated amortisation and impairment:
1 January 2014 (Restated)
1
8,124 57 69 82 8,332
Amortisation expense
3
–44 35 57 136
Impairment
4
–– 15 – 15
Disposals – – (21) (2) (23)
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements –(7) (1) – (8)
Other movements –– 14 9 23
31 December 2014 8,124 94 111 146 8,475
Net carrying amount 31 December 2014 5,998 2,275 254 339 8,866
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2 See note 25.
3 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
4 See note 5.
US$ million Goodwill
2
Port  
allocation
rights
2
Licences, 
trademarks 
 and software
Royalty and 
acquired offtake 
arrangements Total
Cost:
1 January 2013 962 1,101 151 32 2,246
Business combination
1
13,154 1,998 271 156 15,579
Disposal of subsidiaries
2
–– (43) – (43)
Additions – – 59 85 144
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 6 (473) (3) – (470)
Other movements – (22) (109) 165 34
31 December 2013 (Restated) 14,122 2,604 326 438 17,490
Accumulated amortisation and impairment:
1 January 2013 – 16 12 11 39
Amortisation expense
3
–25 44 54 123
Impairment
4
8,124 – – – 8,124
Effect of foreign currency exchange movements – 16 13 17 46
31 December 2013 (Restated) 8,124 57 69 82 8,332
Net carrying amount 31 December 2013 (Restated) 5,998 2,547 257 356 9,158
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2 See note 25.
3 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
4 See note 5. 148 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
8. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (continued)
Goodwill
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs), or groups of CGUs as follows:
US$ million 2014 2013
Grain marketing business 829 829
Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326
Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674
Metals warehousing business 169 169
Total 5,998 5,998
Grain marketing business
Goodwill of $829 million (2013: $829 million) was recognised as part of the acquisition of Viterra in 2012 attributable to synergies associated 
with the grain marketing division CGU.
Metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses
Goodwill of $13,154 million was recognised in connection with the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25) and allocated to the metals and 
minerals marketing CGU, the coal marketing CGU and the Xstrata mining operations’ CGUs on a basis consistent with the expected 
benefits arising from the business combination. The metals and minerals marketing and coal marketing synergies were fair valued at 
$5.0 billion based on the annual synergies expected to accrue to the respective marketing departments as a result of increased volumes, 
blending opportunities and freight and logistics arbitrage opportunities. The residual balance of the goodwill ($8.1 billion) was allocated 
to the acquired mining operations of Xstrata and subsequently impaired (see note 5).
Metals warehousing business
Goodwill of $169 million (2013: $169 million) relates to the Pacorini metals warehousing business CGU.
Port allocation rights
Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay Coal 
Terminal in South Africa recognised as part of previous business combinations. The rights are amortised on a straight line basis over the 
estimated economic life of the port of 40 years.
Licences, trademarks and software
Intangibles related to internally developed technology and patents were recognised in previous business combinations and are amortised 
over the estimated economic life of the technology which ranges between 10 – 15 years. 
Royalty and acquired offtake arrangements
The fair value of a royalty income stream related to output from the Antamina copper mine was recognised as part of a previous business 
combination. This amount is amortised on a unit of production basis through to 2027 , the expected mine life. 
Acquired offtake arrangements represent contractual entitlements acquired from third parties to provide marketing services and receive 
certain products produced from a mining or processing operation over a finite period of time. These rights are amortised on a straight line 
basis over the contractual term which currently ranges between 10 – 15 years. 149
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
9. GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from 
the synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management will monitor and manage the goodwill 
as follows: 
US$ million 2014 2013
Grain marketing business 829 829
Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326
Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674
Metals warehousing business 169 169
Total 5,998 5,998
In assessing whether an impairment is required, the carrying value of the CGU is compared with its recoverable amount. The recoverable 
amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal (“FVLCD”) and its value in use (“VIU”). If the recoverable amount of the CGU is 
less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to 
the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss 
for goodwill is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of income. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed 
in subsequent periods.
Given the nature of each CGU’s activities, information on its fair value is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential 
purchasers or similar transactions are taking place. Consequently,
• the recoverable amount for each of the marketing CGUs is determined by reference to the FVLCD (compared against a VIU cash flow 
projection) which utilises a price to earnings multiple approach based on the 2015 approved financial budget which includes factors 
such as marketing volumes handled and operating, interest and income tax charges, generally based on past experience. The price to 
earnings multiple of 11.5 times is derived from observable market data for broadly comparable businesses;
• the recoverable amount of the metals warehousing business is determined by reference to its VIU which utilises pre-tax cash flow 
projections based on the approved financial budgets for 3 years which includes key assumptions, such as inventory levels, volumes 
and operating costs (key assumptions are based on past experience and, where available, observable market data), discounted to present 
value at a rate of 10%. The cash flows beyond the 3 year period have been extrapolated using a growth rate of 2.5% per annum, which is 
the projected inflation rate; and 
• Glencore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall 
below the carrying value of the CGU. The determination of FVLCD for each of the marketing CGUs uses Level 3 valuation techniques 
in both years. 150 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
10. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS
Investments in associates and joint ventures
US$ million Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
1 January 12,156 18,764
Additions 372 76
Disposals (38) (40)
Share of income from associates and joint ventures 638 846
Share of other comprehensive income from associates and joint ventures (23) 26
Dividends received (1,129) (551)
Impairments of investments 5 (135) –
Reclassification 396 –
Loss on revaluation of previously held interest on acquisition 4 – (1,160)
Transfer of previous equity accounted investments to subsidiary – Xstrata 25 – (15,142)
Transfer of previous equity accounted investments to subsidiary – Other
2
– (212)
Assumed in business combination
3
25 – 9,689
Other movements 37 (140)
31 December 12,274 12,156
Of which:
Investments in associates 9,066 8,675
Investments in joint ventures 3,208 3,481
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2  In July 2013, Glencore completed the planned merger of Mutanda and Kansuki, previously an associate of the Group. The transaction did not meet the definition of a business 
combination under IFRS 3 and therefore has been accounted for as an acquisition of assets.
3 Comprises primarily investments in Cerrejón Coal mine, Antamina Copper/Zinc mine, Collahuasi Copper mine and Lonmin plc.
As at 31 December 2014, the fair value of listed associates and joint ventures, which have a carrying value of $1,487 million (2013: 
$1,487 million), using published price quotations (a Level 1 fair value measurement) was $1,394 million (2013: $1,212 million). In 2014 and 
2013, this predominantly comprises Century Aluminum (“Century”) and Lonmin plc (“Lonmin”). The 2014 carrying value of the Group’s 
investment in Century and Lonmin is $792 million (2013: $734 million) and $560 million ($604 million) respectively. 
In May 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of an effective 25.05% economic interest in the Clermont thermal coal mine in Australia 
for $250 million. The acquisition was affected through a jointly controlled entity owned 50:50 by Glencore and Sumitomo Corporation. 
Based on the contractual arrangement between Glencore and Sumitomo, the joint investment constitutes a joint arrangement subject to 
joint control by virtue of the shareholders’ agreement as defined under IFRS 11 as unanimous consent is required for all key decisions 
regarding the relevant activities of the joint investment. As the investment has been structured through a separate legal entity with both 
Glencore’s and Sumitomo’s risks equating to their net investment in the entity, the investment is deemed to be a joint venture and therefore 
accounted for using the equity method required by IFRS 11. 151
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Details of material associates and joint ventures
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencore’s associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associate’s and 
joint venture’s relevant figures, is set out below. 
US$ million Cerrejón Antamina
Total  
material  
associates Collahuasi
Total material 
joint ventures
Total material 
associates and 
joint ventures
Non-current assets 2,838 4,181 7,019 4,918 4,918 11,937
Current assets 771 952 1,723 1,073 1,073 2,796
Non-current liabilities (959) (634) (1,593) (1,006) (1,006) (2,599)
Current liabilities (217) (443) (660) (451) (451) (1,111)
The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following:
Cash and cash equivalents 238 228 466 124 124 590
Current financial liabilities
1
(9) (270) (279) (2) (2) (281)
Non-current financial liabilities
1
(9) – (9) (81) (81) (90)
Net assets 31 December 2014 2,433 4,056 6,489 4,534 4,534 11,023
Glencore’s ownership interest 33.33% 33.75% 44.0%
Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 1,494 2,121 3,615 1,213 1,213 4,828
Carrying value 2,305 3,490 5,795 3,208 3,208 9,003
1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencore’s associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associate’s and joint 
venture’s relevant figures for the year ended 31 December 2014, is set out below. 
US$ million Cerrejón Antamina
Total of  
material  
associates Collahuasi 
Total of material 
joint ventures
Total of material 
associates and 
joint ventures
2014
Revenue 2,263 2,504 4,767 2,980 2,980 7,747
(Loss)/income for the year (4) 1,319 1,315 385 385 1,700
Other comprehensive income –– – (8) (8) (8)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income (4) 1,319 1,315 377 377 1,692
Glencore’s shares of dividends paid 239 343 582 440 440 1,022
The above profit for the year includes the following:
Depreciation and amortisation (541) (565) (1,106) (543) (543) (1,649)
Interest income –1 1 1 12
Interest expense (17) (2) (19) (8) (8) (27)
Income tax (expense)/credit (232) 114 (118) (691) (691) (809) 152 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
10. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES, JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER INVESTMENTS (continued)
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencore’s associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associate’s and 
joint venture’s relevant figures, is set out below.
US$ million Cerrejón Antamina
Total  
material  
associates Collahuasi
Total material 
joint ventures
Total material 
associates and 
joint ventures
Non-current assets 2,787 3,902 6,689 4,929 4,929 11,618
Current assets 793 1,419 2,212 1,334 1,334 3,546
Non-current liabilities (1,489) (684) (2,173) (767) (767) (2,940)
Current liabilities (273) (565) (838) (640) (640) (1,478)
The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following:
Cash and cash equivalents 198 224 422 92 92 514
Current financial liabilities
1
–(196) (196) (4) (4) (200)
Non-current financial liabilities
1
–(100) (100) (19) (19) (119)
Net assets 31 December 2013 1,818 4,072 5,890 4,856 4,856 10,746
Glencore’s ownership interest 33.33% 33.75% 44.0%
Acquisition fair value and other adjustments
2
1,543 2,012 3,555 1,344 1,344 4,899
Carrying value
2
2,149 3,386 5,536 3,481 3,481 9,017
1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions. 
2 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencore’s associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associate’s and joint 
venture’s relevant figures for the period post the acquisition of Xstrata until 31 December 2013, is set out below. 
US$ million Cerrejón Antamina
Total of  
material  
associates Collahuasi 
Total of material 
joint ventures
Total of material 
associates and 
joint ventures
2013
Revenue 1,798 2,631 4,429 2,466 2,466 6,895
Income for the year 76 936 1,012 827 827 1,839
Other comprehensive income – – – – ––
Total comprehensive income 76 936 1,012 827 827 1,839
Glencore’s share of dividends paid 84 226 310 207 207 517
The above profit for the year includes the following:
Depreciation and amortisation 529 359 888 341 341 1,229
Interest income – 1 1 – –1
Interest expense (12) (7) (19) (6) (6) (25)
Income tax expense (90) (555) (645) (254) (254) (899) 153
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material:
US$ million 2014 2013
The Group’s share of income 26 141
The Group’s share of other comprehensive (loss)/income (23) 26
The Group’s share of total comprehensive income 3 167
Aggregate carrying value of the Group’s interests 3,271 3,139
Glencore’s share of total comprehensive income did not include joint ventures other than the material joint venture discussed above.
The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of joint ventures as at 31 December 2014 was $354 million (2013: $463 million). Glencore’s 
share of joint ventures’ capital commitments amounts to $310 million (2013: $648 million).
Other investments
US$ million 2014 2013
Available for sale
United Company Rusal plc 895 394
Fair value through profit and loss
Volcan Compania Minera S.A.A. 149 204
Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps 223 95
Jurong Aromatics Corporation Pte Ltd 55 55
Caracal Energy Inc. – 15
Other 150 160
577 529
Total 1,472 923
In July 2014, Glencore acquired the remaining issued and outstanding equity of Caracal Energy Inc. (see note 25). 154 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
11. ADVANCES AND LOANS
US$ million 2014
2013
Restated
1
Loans to associates
2
548 909
Rehabilitation trust fund 327 317
Other non-current receivables and loans
1
3,722 2,769
Total 4,597 3,995
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2 Loans to associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium. 
Other non-current receivables and loans comprise the following:
US$ million 2014
2013
Restated
1
 
Counterparty
Russneft loan 984 984
Rosneft trade advance 109 500
Secured marketing related financing arrangements
2
1,347 995
Société Nationale d’Électricité (SNEL) power advances 232 138
Chad State National Oil Company 426 –
Other 624 152
Total 3,722 2,769
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2  Various marketing related financing facilities, generally secured against certain assets and/or payable from the future sale of production of the counterparty. The weighted average 
interest rate of the advances and loans is 10% and on average are to be repaid over a three-year period. In December 2013, an impairment charge of $300 million was recognised 
following non-performance of contractual terms and rescheduling of the timing of product supply and a recoverable value provision was recorded in respect of other advances and 
loans (see note 5).
Russneft loans
In December 2013, OAO Russneft (“Russneft”) refinanced part of its debt and repaid Glencore $1.0 billion, which followed earlier 
repayments of $88 million and $135 million respectively, amounting to a total of $1,223 million received by Glencore in 2013. As part of 
the 2013 refinancing, Glencore and Russneft agreed to amend the terms of the outstanding loan balance, requiring Glencore to convert 
a minimum of $900 million of the outstanding debt into an equity stake in Russneft during 2014, subject to finalisation of due diligence 
and valuation. Until conversion, interest and repayment terms remain materially unchanged. During 2014, no agreement was reached 
on the debt to equity conversion and an extension to the existing conversion term was agreed, which did not result in a material change 
to the existing conversion terms. Negotiations regarding a potential conversion will continue through 2015. The outstanding loan balance 
and/or any equity resulting from the conversion to shares in Russneft has been pledged as a guarantee for a loan between Russneft and 
a third party bank.
Rosneft trade advance
In March 2013, Glencore signed a long-term crude and oil products supply contract with Russian oil producer OJSC Neftyanaya 
Companiya Rosneft (“Rosneft”) while simultaneously participating with $500 million in a large financing facility to Rosneft. In March 
2014, part of the prepayment was sold, at its carrying value, to a third party bank for $350 million. The remaining prepayment is to be 
repaid through future deliveries of oil over 3 years starting March 2015. Of the amount advanced, $109 million is receivable after 12 months 
and is presented within Other non-current receivables and loans and $41 million is due within 12 months and as such is included within 
Accounts receivable. 
SNEL power advances
In early 2012, a joint agreement with Société Nationale d’Électricité (“SNEL”), the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s (“DRC”) national 
electricity utility, was signed whereby Glencore’s operations will contribute $306 million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment 
programme, including transmission and distribution systems. This is expected to facilitate a progressive increase in power availability to 
450 megawatts by the end of 2017. Funding commenced in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until the end of 2017. The loans will 
be repaid via discounts on future electricity purchases by Katanga and Mutanda upon completion of the refurbishment programme.
Chad State National Oil Company
At 31 December 2014, Glencore had advanced a net $512 million to the Chad State National Oil Company (“SHT”) to be repaid through 
future oil deliveries over 4 years. The advance is net of $1,023 million provided by a syndicate of banks, the repayment terms of which are 
contingent upon and connected to the receipt of oil due from SHT under the prepayment. Of the net amount advanced, $426 million is 
receivable after 12 months and is presented within Other non-current receivables and loans and $86 million is due within 12 months and 
as such is included within Accounts receivable. 155
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
12. INVENTORIES
US$ million 2014 2013
Production inventories 4,938 6,108
Marketing inventories 19,498 16,645
Total 24,436 22,753
Production inventories consist of materials, spare parts and work in process. Marketing inventories are saleable commodities held 
primarily by the marketing entities as well as finished goods and certain other readily saleable materials held by the industrial assets. 
Marketing inventories of $16,297 million (2013: $12,997 million) are carried at fair value less costs of disposal. 
Fair value of inventories is a Level 2 fair value measurement (see note 28) using observable market prices obtained from exchanges, traded 
reference indices or market survey services adjusted for relevant location and quality differentials. There are no significant unobservable 
inputs in the fair value measurement of marketing inventories.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its marketing inventories. In each case, the inventory 
has not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership. The proceeds received are recognised as 
current borrowings (see note 20). As at 31 December 2014, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was $1,707 million 
(2013: $2,246 million). The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were $1,558 million (2013: $1,829 million).
13. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
US$ million 2014 2013
Trade receivables
1
14,466 18,029
Trade advances and deposits
1
4,596 3,516
Associated companies
1
359 452
Other receivables 2,035 2,539
Total 21,456 24,536
1 Collectively referred to as receivables presented net of allowance for doubtful debts.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 27 days (2013: 29 days).
As at 31 December 2014, 8% (2013: 8%) of receivables were between 1 to 60 days overdue, and 6% (2013: 5%) were greater than 60 days 
overdue. Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant 
change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into account customary 
payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances. 
The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed in the table below:
US$ million 2014 2013
1 January 252 212
Released during the year (62) (46)
Charged during the year 168 125
Utilised during the year (65) (39)
31 December 293 252
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables. In each case, the receivables have not 
been derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership. The proceeds received are recognised as current 
borrowings (see note 20). As at 31 December 2014, the total amount of trade receivables secured was $1,733 million (2013: $4,034 million) 
and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to $1,283 million (2013: $3,200 million). 156 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
14. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
US$ million 2014 2013
Bank and cash on hand 2,093 2,341
Deposits and treasury bills 731 508
Total 2,824 2,849
As at 31 December 2014, $17 million (2013: $18 million) was restricted.
15. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE
In accordance with the Merger Remedy Commitments made to the Ministry of Commerce of the Peoples’ Republic of China (“MOFCOM”) 
in respect of the Xstrata acquisition, Glencore commenced a process to sell its entire interest in the Las Bambas copper mine project 
in Peru. 
As a result, assets of $4,366 million (restated) and liabilities of $539 million (restated) acquired in the Xstrata acquisition (see note 25) were 
classified as held for sale within the metals and minerals segment. Subsequent to the acquisition date, further capital expenditure was 
incurred and liabilities settled as they fell due, such that the assets held for sale decreased to $5,636 million and liabilities held for sale 
increased to $501 million as at 31 December 2013 and were classified as non-recurring Level 2 fair value measurements in accordance with 
IFRS 13.
In April 2014, Glencore reached an agreement to sell its entire interest in Las Bambas for cash consideration of $5.85 billion, plus 
reimbursement for all capital expenditure and other costs incurred in developing the mine in the period from 1 January 2014 to completion 
of the sale. On 31 July 2014, the sale completed with Glencore receiving proceeds, net of tax, of approximately $6.5 billion, which resulted in 
a net gain of $184 million (see note 3).
16. SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Number of 
shares 
(thousand)
Share capital 
(US$ million)
Share premium 
(US$ million)
Authorised:
31 December 2014 and 2013 Ordinary shares with a par value of $0.01 each 50,000,000 –
Issued and fully paid up:
1 January 2013 – Ordinary shares 7,099 ,456 71 26,688
2 May 2013 – Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of Xstrata 6,163,949 62 30,073
27 December 2013 – Ordinary shares issued to satisfy employee share awards (see note 19) 15,000 – 78
Distributions paid (see note 18) –– (2,062)
31 December 2013 – Ordinary shares 13,278,405 133 54,777
1 January 2014 13,278,405 133 54,777
Distributions paid (see note 18) – – (2,244)
31 December 2014 – Ordinary shares 13,278,405 133 52,533
Ordinary shares issued on acquisition of Xstrata
On 2 May 2013, Glencore completed its acquisition of the remaining 66% of the issued and outstanding equity of Xstrata (see note 25) that 
the Group did not previously own, through the issuance of 6,163,949,435 new ordinary shares of the Company, of which 212,743,594 shares 
were issued to the Orbis Trust to satisfy the potential future settlement of certain stock and option awards held by Xstrata employees. 
Own shares
Own shares comprise shares acquired under the Company’s share buyback programme and shares of Glencore plc held by Orbis Trust (the 
Trust) to satisfy the potential future settlement of the Group’s employee stock plans, primarily assumed as part of the Xstrata acquisition 
(see note 19). 
The Trust also coordinates the funding and manages the delivery of ordinary shares and free share awards under certain of Glencore’s 
share plans. The shares are acquired by either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company. The Trustee is permitted to sell 
the shares and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time. The Trust has waived the right to receive 
distributions from the shares that it holds. Costs relating to the administration of the Trust are expensed in the period in which they 
are incurred.
As at 31 December 2014, 293,740,462 shares (2013: 156,789,593 shares), equivalent to 2.2% (2013: 1.2%) of the issued share capital were held 
at a cost of $1,493 million (2013: $767 million) and market value of $1,368 million (2013: $813 million). 157
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Treasury Shares Trust Shares Total
Number  
of shares 
(thousand)
Share  
premium  
(US$ million)
Number  
of shares 
(thousand)
Share 
 premium
(US$ million)
Number 
of shares
(thousand) 
Share  
premium  
(US$ million)
Own shares:
1 January 2013 – – – – – –
Own shares assumed on acquisition of Xstrata – – 212,744 (1,041) 212,744 (1,041)
Own shares purchased during the year – – 3,087 (13) 3,087 (13)
Own shares disposed during the year – – (59,041) 287 (59,041) 287
31 December 2013 – – 156,790 (767) 156,790 (767)
1 January 2014 –156,790 (767) 156,790 (767)
Own shares purchased during the year 143,278 (758) 7 ,000 (37) 150,278 (795)
Own shares disposed during the year –– (13,328) 69 (13,328) 69
31 December 2014 143,278 (758) 150,462 (735) 293,740 (1,493)
Other reserves
US$ million
Translation 
adjustment
Equity portion  
of Convertible 
bonds
Cash flow  
hedge reserve
Net unrealised 
gain/(loss)
Net ownership 
changes in 
subsidiaries Other reserves Total
1 January 2013 (191) 89 (70) – (706) 10 (868)
Exchange loss on translation 
of foreign operations (1,126) – – – – – (1,126)
Loss on cash flow hedges, 
net of tax – – (287) – – – (287)
Cash flow hedges transferred 
to the statement of income,  
net of tax – –1––– 1
Change in ownership  
interest in subsidiaries – – – – (138) – (138)
 31 December 2013 (1,317) 89 (356) – (844) 10 (2,418)
1 January 2014 (1,317) 89 (356) – (844) 10 (2,418)
Exchange loss on translation 
of foreign operations (846) – –––– (846)
Gain on cash flow hedges, net 
of tax –– 415––– 415
Cash flow hedges transferred 
to the statement of income, 
net of tax –– (1) – –– (1)
Gain on available for sale 
financial instruments ––– 501 –– 501
Equity portion of repaid 
convertible bond –(89) – – – – (89)
Change in ownership  
interest in subsidiaries –––– 29 – 29
31 December 2014 (2,163) – 58 501 (815) 10 (2,409) 158 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
17. EARNINGS PER SHARE
US$ million Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 2,308 (8,046)
Interest in respect of convertible bonds
2
– –
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders for diluted earnings per share 2,308 (8,046)
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share (thousand) 13,098,766 11,093,184
Effect of dilution:
Equity-settled share-based payments (thousand) 52,579 –
Convertible bonds
2
 (thousand) 20 – –
Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share (thousand) 13,151,345 11,093,184
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (US$) 0.18 (0.73)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (US$) 0.18 (0.73)
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2 In 2014, the convertible bonds were repaid upon maturity and/or repurchased. In 2013 the convertible bonds were anti-dilutive and therefore excluded from the diluted earnings per 
share calculation.
Headline earnings is a Johannesburg Stock Exchange (“JSE”) defined performance measure. The calculation of basic and diluted earnings 
per share, based on headline earnings as determined by the requirements of the Circular 2/2013 as issued by the South African Institute of 
Chartered Accountants (“SAICA”), is reconciled using the following data:
Headline earnings:
US$ million Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 2,308 (8,046)
Loss on acquisitions (no tax and non-controlling interest impact) 10 – 1,160
Net (gain)/loss on disposals (no non-controlling interest impact) (790) 25
Net loss/(gain) on disposals – tax 550 (6)
Impairments 5 1,101 9,730
Impairments – non-controlling interest (99) (17)
Impairments – tax (270) (245)
Headline earnings for the year 2,800 2,601
Headline earnings per share (US$) 0.21 0.23
Diluted headline earnings per share (US$) 0.21 0.23
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
18. DISTRIBUTIONS
US$ million 2014 2013
Paid during the year:
Final distribution for 2013 – $0.111 per ordinary share (2012: $0.1035 per ordinary share) 1,457 1,355
Interim distribution for 2014 – $0.06 per ordinary share (2013: $0.054 per ordinary share) 787 707
Total 2,244 2,062
The proposed final distribution of $12 cents per ordinary share amounting to $1,558 million, excluding any distribution on own shares, 
and the proposed distribution in specie of the Group’s 23.9% stake in Lonmin are subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual 
General Meeting and have not been included as a liability in these financial statements. Distributions declared in respect of the year ended 
31 December 2014 will be paid in May 2015. The 2014 interim distribution was paid on 19 September 2014. 159
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
19. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS
Number of 
awards granted 
(thousand)
Fair value at  
grant date 
(US$ million)
Number of 
awards 
outstanding 
 2014 
(thousand)
Number of 
awards 
outstanding 
 2013 
 (thousand)
Expense 
recognised 2014 
(US$ million)
Expense 
recognised 2013 
(US$ million)
Deferred Bonus Plan
2012 Series 3,442 20 – 1,680 – –
2013 Series 4,958 24 3,717 4,958 – 24
2014 Series 3,633 20 3,633 – 20 –
Performance Share Plan
2012 Series 3,375 18 1,049 2,235 4 10
2013 Series 11,065 60 7,472 5,295 36 3
2014 Series 15,611 86 15,611 – 10 –
Total 31,482 14,168 70 37
Deferred Bonus Plan
Under the Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan (“DBP”), the payment of a portion of a participant’s annual bonus is deferred for a period of 
1 to 2 years as an award of either ordinary shares (a ‘‘Bonus Share Award’’) or cash (a “Bonus Cash Award”). The awards are vested at 
grant date with no further service conditions however they are subject to forfeiture for malus events. The Bonus Share Awards may be 
satisfied, at Glencore’s option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the 
transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at settlement, including 
distributions paid between award and settling. Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares. The associated expense is 
recorded in the statement of income as part of the regular expense for performance bonuses.
Performance share plan
Under the Glencore Performance Share Plan (“PSP”), participants are awarded PSP awards which vest in annual tranches over a specified 
period, subject to continued employment and forfeiture for malus events. At grant date, each PSP award is equivalent to 1 ordinary share 
of Glencore. The awards vest in 3 or 5 equal tranches on 30 June or 31 December of the years following the year of grant. The fair value of 
the awards is determined by reference to the market price of Glencore’s ordinary shares at grant date. The PSP awards may be satisfied, at 
Glencore’s option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of 
ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including distributions 
paid between award and vesting. Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares.
Share-based awards assumed upon acquisition of Xstrata
Total options 
outstanding 
(thousands)
Weighted 
average exercise 
price (GBP)
1 January 2013 ––
Assumed in business combination 212,744 2.83
Forfeited (3,807) 3.76
Exercised
1
(53,776) 0.13
31 December 2013 155,161
1 January 2014 155,161 3.74
Forfeited ––
Lapsed (42) 4.93
Exercised¹ (6,557) 1.71
31 December 2014 148,562
1 The weighted average share price at date of exercise of the share-based awards was GBP3.42 (2013: GBP3.34).
The completion of the acquisition of Xstrata by Glencore triggered the change in control vesting criteria for all options and free shares of 
the former Xstrata award plans, comprising a total of 212,743,594 underlying shares, which, in accordance with the acquisition agreement, 
were replaced with equivalent Glencore instruments. These instruments had a fair value of $383 million and were included in the 
consideration paid for the acquisition (see note 25). 160 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
19. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS (continued)
The options were valued at a weighted average of $1.53 per option determined using a Black-Scholes option pricing model using the 
following assumptions on a weighted average basis: share price of $4.89, exercise price of $5.72, option life of 6.9 years, dividend yield of 
4%, risk free interest rate of 1.65% and an expected volatility of 32% based on the historical volatility of Glencore and Xstrata shares prior to 
the acquisition. Free share units were valued at $4.89 per unit based on Glencore’s share price at the date of acquisition.
As at December 31, 2014, a total of 148,561,546 options (2013: 155,161,370 options) were outstanding and exercisable, having a range of 
exercise prices from GBP1.098 to GBP6.880 (2013: GBPnil to GBP3.914) and a weighted average exercise price of GBP3.825 (2013: GBP3.741). 
These outstanding awards have expiry dates ranging from March 2015 to February 2022 (2013: March 2014 to March 2022) and a weighted 
average contractual life of 3.4 years (2013: 6.2 years). The awards may be satisfied at Glencore’s option, by the issue of new ordinary shares, 
by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market. Glencore currently 
intends to settle these awards by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury.
20. BORROWINGS
US$ million Notes 2014
2013
Restated
1
Non-current borrowings
Capital market notes 30,877 30,900
Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 7,933 5,702
Finance lease obligations 30 425 344
Other bank loans 1,453 1,766
Total non-current borrowings 40,688 38,712
Current borrowings
Committed secured inventory/receivables facilities 12/13 435 1,353
Uncommitted secured inventory/receivables facilities 12/13 2,406 3,676
Other committed and uncommitted secured facilities 890 590
Convertible bonds – 2,236
U.S. commercial paper 813 1,645
Capital market notes 3,504 1,750
Finance lease obligations 30 51 49
Other bank loans
2
3,906 5,162
Total current borrowings 12,005 16,461
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
Committed syndicated revolving credit facility
In June 2014, Glencore signed new revolving credit facilities for a total amount of $15.3 billion. These facilities refinanced earlier 
$12,990 million of one-year and three-year revolving credit facilities (with the three-year tranche repaid and cancelled) and amended/
extended the $4,350 million five-year revolving credit facility signed in June 2013. Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at 
US$ LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 50 to 90 basis points per annum.
The new and amended facilities comprise:
• an $8.7 billion 12 month revolving credit facility with a 12 month term-out option and 12-month extension option; and 
• a $6.6 billion 5 year revolving credit facility with two 12 month extension options.
Convertible bonds
In 2014, Glencore repaid and/or purchased and subsequently cancelled convertible bonds with a nominal value of $2,295 million for 
consideration of $2,365 million, resulting in a premium cost of $70 million, which is recognised within other expenses (see note 4).
U.S. commercial paper
Glencore has in place a standalone U.S. commercial paper programme for $4,000 million rated A2 and P2 respectively by S&P’s and 
Moody’s rating agencies. The notes issued under this programme carry interest at floating market rates and mature not more than 
397 days from the date of issue. Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at US$ LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 35 to 70 basis 
points per annum. 161
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Capital Market Notes
US$ million Maturity 2014 2013
AUD 500 million 4.500% coupon bonds Sep 2019 424 –
Euro 750 million 7.125% coupon bonds Apr 2015 – 1,029
Euro 600 million 6.250% coupon bonds May 2015 – 855
Euro 1,250 million 1.750% coupon bonds May 2016 1,512 1,708
Euro 1,250 million 5.250% coupon bonds Mar 2017 1,511 1,722
Euro 500 million 5.250%, coupon bonds Jun 2017 676 780
Euro 1,250 million 4.625% coupon bonds April 2018 1,511 1,713
Euro 1,000 million 2.625% coupon bonds Nov 2018 1,210 1,396
Euro 750 million 3.375% coupon bonds Sep 2020 901 1,026
Euro 600 million 2.750% coupon bonds Apr 2021 719 –
Euro 700 million 1.625% coupon bonds Jan 2022 837 –
Euro 400 million 3.700% coupon bonds Oct 2023 479 548
Euro 500 million 3.750% coupon bonds Apr 2026 599 –
Eurobonds 9,955 10,777
GBP 650 million 6.500% coupon bonds Feb 2019 1,003 1,067
GBP 500 million 7.375% coupon bonds May 2020 886 913
GBP 500 million 6.000% coupon bonds April 2022 792 842
Sterling bonds 2,681 2,822
CHF 825 million 3.625% coupon bonds April 2016 831 927
CHF 450 million 2.625% coupon bonds Dec 2018 453 505
CHF 175 million 2.125% coupon bonds Dec 2019 175 196
CHF 500 million 1.250% coupon bonds Dec 2020 502 –
Swiss Franc bonds 1,961 1,628
CAD 200 million 6.406% coupon bonds Feb 2021 – 188
US$ 250 million 5.375% coupon bonds Jun 2015 – 264
US$ 1,250 million 2.050% coupon bonds Oct 2015 – 1,261
US$ 341 million 6.000% coupon bonds Oct 2015 – 367
US$ 500 million LIBOR plus 1.16% coupon bonds May 2016 499 499
US$ 1,000 million 1.700% coupon bonds May 2016 999 998
US$ 1,000 million 5.800% coupon bonds Nov 2016 1,076 1,117
US$ 700 million 3.600% coupon bonds Jan 2017 724 735
US$ 250 million 5.500% coupon bonds Jun 2017 270 278
US$ 1,750 million 2.700% coupon bonds Oct 2017 1,771 1,778
US$ 200 million LIBOR plus 1.200% coupon bonds May 2018 200 –
US$ 500 million LIBOR plus 1.360% coupon bonds Jan 2019 499 498
US$ 1,500 million 2.500% coupon bonds Jan 2019 1,499 1,489
US$ 1,000 million 3.125% coupon bonds Apr 2019 1,001 –
US$ 400 million 5.950% coupon bonds Aug 2020 400 400
US$ 1,000 million 4.950% coupon bonds Nov 2021 1,076 1,085
US$ 1,000 million 4.250% coupon bonds Oct 2022 1,022 1,025
US$ 1,500 million 4.125% coupon bonds May 2023 1,537 1,446
US$ 1,000 million 4.625% coupon bonds Apr 2024 1,041 –
US$ 250 million 6.200% coupon bonds Jun 2035 275 275
US$ 500 million 6.900% coupon bonds Nov 2037 602 604
US$ 500 million 6.000% coupon bonds Nov 2041 542 546
US$ 500 million 5.550% coupon bonds Oct 2042 474 471
US$ 350 million 7.500% coupon bonds Perpetual 349 349
US$ bonds 15,856 15,485
Total non-current bonds 30,877 30,900
Euro 750 million 7.125% coupon bonds Apr 2015 907 –
Euro 600 million 6.250% coupon bonds May 2015 735 –
Eurobonds 1,642 –
US$ 950 million 6.000% coupon bonds Apr 2014 – 950
US$ 800 million 2.850% coupon bonds Nov 2014 – 800
US$ 250 million 5.375% coupon bonds Jun 2015 254 –
US$ 1,250 million 2.050% coupon bonds Oct 2015 1,255 –
US$ 341 million 6.000% coupon bonds Oct 2015 353 –
US$ bonds 1,862 1,750
Total current bonds 3,504 1,750 162 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
20. BORROWINGS (continued)
2014 Bond issuances
AUD bonds
• In September 2014, Glencore issued 5 year AUD 500 million, 4.50% fixed coupon bonds.
Euro bonds
• In April 2014, Glencore issued in two tranches EUR 1.1 billion of interest bearing notes as follows:
– 7 year EUR 600 million, 2.750% fixed coupon bonds; and 
– 12 year EUR 500 million, 3.750% fixed coupon bonds.
• In September 2014, Glencore issued EUR 700 million, 1.625% fixed coupon bonds due January 2022.
Swiss Franc bonds
• In December 2014, Glencore issued 6 year CHF 500 million, 1.25% fixed coupon bonds.
US$ bonds
• In April 2014, Glencore issued in 2 tranches $2 billion of interest bearing notes as follows:
– 5 year $1,000 million, 3.125% fixed coupon bonds; and
– 10 year $1,000 million, 4.625% fixed coupon bonds.
• In May 2014, Glencore issued 4 year $200 million, Libor plus 1.20% coupon notes. 
Committed secured facilities
US$ million Maturity Borrowing base Interest 2014 2013
Syndicated metals inventory/receivables facility Jan/Mar 2015 503
US$ LIBOR  
+ 120 bps 435 –
Oil receivables facility May/ Aug 2014 1,250
US$ LIBOR  
+ 120 bps – 1,250
Secured facilities on various equity stakes July 2015 750
US$ LIBOR  
+ 80 bps – 540
Equipment financing April 2016 150
US$ LIBOR 
+ 2.25% margin – 50
Metals receivables facilities Jan 2014 197
US$/JPY LIBOR 
+ 80/200 bps – 103
Total 435 1,943
21. DEFERRED INCOME
US$ million Notes
Unfavourable 
contracts Prepayment
Total
Restated
1
1 January 2013 554 163 717
Assumed in business combination
1
25 1,099 7 1,106
Utilised in the year (156) (8) (164)
Effect of foreign currency exchange difference (177) – (177)
31 December 2013 1,320 162 1,482
Current 121 24 145
Non-current 1,199 138 1,337
1 January 2014 1,320 162 1,482
Utilised in the year (122) (27) (149)
Effect of foreign currency exchange difference (60) – (60)
31 December 2014 1,138 135 1,273
Current 129 24 153
Non-current 1,009 111 1,120
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25). 163
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Unfavourable contracts
In previous business combinations, Glencore recognised liabilities related to various assumed contractual agreements to deliver tonnes 
of coal and zinc concentrates over periods ending between 2017 and 2045 at fixed prices lower than the prevailing market prices on the 
respective acquisition dates.
These amounts are released to revenue as the underlying commodities are delivered to the buyers over the life of the contracts at rates 
consistent with the implied forward price curves at the time of the acquisitions.
Prepayment
In 2006, Glencore entered into an agreement to deliver, dependant on mine production, up to 4.75 million ounces per year of silver, 
a by-product from its mining operations, for a period of 15 years at a fixed price for which Glencore received an upfront payment of 
$285 million. The outstanding balance represents the remaining portion of the upfront payment, which is released to revenue at a rate 
consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction and the actual quantities delivered. As at 31 December 2014, 
22.7 million ounces (2013: 19.3 million ounces) have been delivered.
22. PROVISIONS
US$ million Notes
Post 
 retirement
 benefits
(note 23)
Employee 
entitlements
Rehabilitation 
costs 
Onerous 
contracts Other
1
Total
1 January 2013 284 147 951 – 400 1,782
Provision utilised in the year (528) (108) (116) (94) (286) (1,132)
Accretion in the year – 2 37 14 – 53
Assumed in business combination
2
25 1,271 266 3,065 2,007 972 7,581
Additional provision in the year – 60 156 3 57 276
Effect of foreign currency exchange difference (47) (4) (130) – 8 (173)
31 December 2013 (Restated) 980 363 3,963 1,930 1,151 8,387
Current – – 25 105 193 323
Non-current 980 363 3,938 1,825 958 8,064
1 January 2014 980 363 3,963 1,930 1,151 8,387
Provision utilised in the year (285) (125) (369) (229) (243) (1,251)
Accretion in the year –– 1819– 190
Assumed in business combination 25 –– 10 4– 14
Additional provision in the year 455 72 102 36 283 948
Effect of foreign currency exchange difference (80) (2) (51) (20) (4) (157)
31 December 2014 1,070 308 3,836 1,730 1,187 8,131
Current –– 86 129 361 576
Non-current 1,070 308 3,750 1,601 826 7,555
1 Other comprises provisions for possible demurrage, mine concession, tax and construction related claims.
2 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
Employee entitlements
The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their termination of 
employment. The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlements.
Rehabilitation costs
Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of 
production activities. These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a project’s life, which ranges 
from 2 to in excess of 50 years with the majority of the costs expected to be incurred in the final years of the underlying operations.
Onerous contracts
Upon the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25), Glencore recognised a liability related to assumed contractual take or pay commitments for 
securing coal logistics capacity at fixed prices and quantities higher than the acquisition date forecasted usage and prevailing market price. 
The provision will be released to costs of goods sold as the underlying commitments are incurred. 164 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
23. PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Total personnel costs, which include salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments, incurred for the 
years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013, were $6,011 million and $5,012 million, respectively. Personnel costs related to consolidated 
industrial subsidiaries of $5,083 million (2013: $4,157 million) are included in cost of goods sold. Other personnel costs, including the 
deferred bonus and performance share plans, are included in selling and administrative expenses. 
The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices. Eligibility for 
participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date of hire. The plans 
provide for certain employee and employer contributions, ranging from 5% to 16% of annual salaries, depending on the employee’s years 
of service. Among these schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans
Glencore’s contributions under these plans amounted to $235 million in 2014 (2013: $145 million).
Defined benefit plans
The Company operates defined benefit plans in various countries, the main locations being Canada, Switzerland, UK and the US. 
Approximately 80% of the present value of obligations accrued to date relates to the defined benefit plans in Canada, which are pension 
plans that provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. Contributions to the Canadian plans 
are made to meet or exceed minimum funding requirements based on provincial statutory requirements and associated federal taxation 
rules. Glencore also operates post-employment medical benefit plans, principally in Canada, which provide coverage for prescription 
drugs, medical, dental, hospital and life insurance to eligible retirees.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee-administered funds; however, there are also a number of unfunded plans where 
Glencore meets the benefit payments as they fall due. Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practices in each 
country. Responsibility for governance of the plans – overseeing all aspects of the plans including investment decisions and contribution 
schedules – lies with Glencore. Glencore has set up committees to assist in the management of the plans and has also appointed 
experienced, independent professional experts such as investment managers, actuaries, custodians, and trustees.
The movement in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets of pension plans over the year is as follows:
US$ million
Present value of 
defined benefit 
obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
Post retirement 
benefits
1 January 2014 4,643 (3,663) 980
Current service cost 81 – 81
Past service cost – plan amendments (1) – (1)
Settlement (40) 26 (14)
Interest expense/(income) 200 (160) 40
Total expense/(income) recognised in consolidated statement of income 240 (134) 106
(Gain) on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense – net –(254) (254)
Loss from change in demographic assumptions 89 – 89
Loss from change in financial assumptions 448 – 448
Loss from actuarial experience 2–2
Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expenses (31) – (31)
Actuarial losses/(gains) recognised in consolidated statement  
of comprehensive income 508 (254) 254
Employer contributions –(190) (190)
Employee contributions 2(2) –
Benefits paid directly by the Company (39) 39 –
Benefits paid from plan assets (248) 248 –
Net cash (outflow)/inflow (285) 95 (190)
Exchange differences (382) 302 (80)
Other (382) 302 (80)
31 December 2014 4,724 (3,654) 1,070 165
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
US$ million Note
Present value of 
defined benefit 
obligation
Fair value of 
plan assets
Post retirement 
benefits
1 January 2013 631 (347) 284
Current service cost 75 – 75
Past service cost – plan amendments (1) – (1)
Past service cost – curtailment (4) – (4)
Interest expense/(income) 142 (101) 41
Total expense/(income) recognised in consolidated statement of income 212 (101) 111
(Gain) on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense – net – (100) (100)
Loss from change in demographic assumptions 20 – 20
(Gain) from change in financial assumptions (441) – (441)
Loss from actuarial experience 10 – 10
Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expenses 48 – 48
Actuarial (gains) recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income (363) (100) (463)
Employer contributions –(176) (176)
Employee contributions 2(2) –
Benefits paid directly by the Company (26) 26 –
Benefits paid from plan assets (176) 176 –
Net cash (outflow)/inflow (200) 24 (176)
Assumed in business combinations 22 4,562 (3,291) 1,271
Exchange differences (199) 152 (47)
Other 4,363 (3,139) 1,224
31 December 2013 4,643 (3,663) 980
The Group expects to make a contribution of $153 million to the defined benefit plans during the next financial year.
The present value of defined benefit obligations accrued to date in Canada represents the majority for the Company. The breakdown below 
provides details of the Canadian plans for both the balance sheet and the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 
31 December 2014 and 2013. The defined benefit obligation of any other of the Group’s defined benefit plans as at 31 December 2014 does not 
exceed $205 million (2013: $189 million).
2014
US$ million Canada Other Total
Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,739 985 4,724
of which: amounts owing to active members 889 494 1,383
of which: amounts owing to not active members 142 217 359
of which: amounts owing to pensioners 2,708 274 2,982
Fair value of plan assets (3,026) (628) (3,654)
Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2014 713 357 1,070
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation – years 12 17 13 166 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
23. PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (continued)
2013
US$ million Canada Other Total
Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,749 894 4,643
of which: amounts owing to active members 1,028 500 1,528
of which: amounts owing to not active members 100 186 286
of which: amounts owing to pensioners 2,621 208 2,829
Fair value of plan assets (3,034) (629) (3,663)
Net defined benefit liability at 31 December 2013 715 265 980
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation – years 12 18 13
The actual return on plan assets amounted to $112 million (2013: $50 million). 
The plan assets consist of the following:
US$ million 2014 2013
Securities quoted in an active market
Cash and short-term investments 80 91
Fixed income 2,056 1,900
Equities 1,379 1,496
Other¹ 139 176
Total 3,654 3,663
1 Includes securities in non-active markets in the amount of $60 million (2013: $50 million).
The fair value of plan assets includes negligible amounts of Glencore’s own financial instruments and no property occupied by or other 
assets used by Glencore. For many of the plans, representing a large portion of the global plan assets, asset-liability matching strategies 
are in place, where the fixed-income assets are invested broadly in alignment with the duration of the plan liabilities, and the proportion 
allocated to fixed-income assets is raised when the plan funding level increases.
Through its defined benefit plans, Glencore is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:
Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if plan assets 
underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The funded plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to 
outperform bonds in the long term while contributing volatility and risk in the short term. Glencore believes that due to the long-term 
nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of Glencore’s long-term strategy to manage 
the plans efficiently. 
Change in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an 
increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings.
Inflation risk: Some of the plans’ benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although, 
in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation. 
Life expectancy: The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy 
will result in an increase in the plan’s liability.
Salary increases: Some of the plans’ benefit obligations related to active members are linked to their salaries. Higher salary increases 
will therefore tend to lead to higher plan liabilities. 167
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
The principal weighted-average actuarial assumptions used were as follows:
2014 2013
Discount rate 3.8% 4.6%
Future salary increases 2.9% 3.1%
Future pension increases 0.4% 0.4%
Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned. As at 
31 December 2014, these tables imply expected future lifetimes, for employees aged 65, 16 to 24 years for males (2013: 16 to 24) and 20 to 
26 years for females (2013: 20 to 26). The assumptions for each country are reviewed each year and are adjusted where necessary to reflect 
changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in principal assumptions as at 31 December 2014 is set out below.
US$ million
Increase/(decrease) 
in pension obligation 
Canada
Increase/(decrease) 
in pension obligation 
Other
Increase/(decrease) 
in pension obligation 
Total
Discount rate
Increase by 100 basis points (399) (150) (549)
Decrease by 100 basis points 458 188 646
Rate of future salary increase
Increase by 100 basis points 16 31 47
Decrease by 100 basis points (17) (32) (49)
Rate of future pension benefit increase
Increase by 100 basis points 733 40
Decrease by 100 basis points (6) (32) (38)
Life expectancy
Increase in longevity by 1 year 82 18 100
24. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
US$ million 2014 2013
Trade payables 22,896 21,815
Trade advances from buyers 1,479 640
Associated companies 473 648
Other payables and accrued liabilities 2,033 2,938
Total 26,881 26,041 168 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
25. ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES
2014 Acquisitions
In 2014, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Caracal Energy Inc (“Caracal”), Zhairemsky GOK JSC (“Zhairemsky”) and other 
immaterial entities. The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the provisional fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed on the acquisition dates detailed below:
US$ million Caracal Zhairemsky Other Total
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 1,799 351 27 2,177
Intangible assets 1– 12 13
Advances and loans
1
––1 1
Deferred tax assets 1–– 1
1,801 351 40 2,192
Current assets
Inventories –98 17
Accounts receivable
1
 86 8 20 114
Cash and cash equivalents 31 17 – 48
117 34 28 179
Non-controlling interest
2
–– (8) (8)
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities –(52) – (52)
Other financial liabilities –(3) (5) (8)
Provisions (1) (13) – (14)
(1) (68) (5) (74)
Current liabilities
Borrowings (161) – – (161)
Accounts payable (149) (9) (53) (211)
(310) (9) (53) (372)
Total fair value of net assets acquired 1,607 308 2 1,917
Less: amounts previously recognised through investments and loans (77) – – (77)
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired (31) (17) – (48)
Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 1,499 291 2 1,792
1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
2 Non-controlling interest measured at its percentage of net assets acquired. 169
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Caracal
On 8 July 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of the remaining issued and outstanding equity of Caracal, an oil and gas exploration 
and development company with operations in the Republic of Chad, Africa, for a total consideration of $1,607 million. This increased 
Glencore’s ownership from 13.2% to 100% and provides Glencore the ability to exercise control over Caracal.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2014, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $56 million and 
additional attributable loss of $25 million. From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $101 million and $80 million of revenue 
and attributable loss, respectively.
The acquisition of Caracal adds further value and expertise to Glencore’s growing oil business in Africa, with the enlarged portfolio 
allowing Glencore to take further advantage of opportunities across the African oil sector, as they arise. 
Zhairemsky
On 11 December 2014, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 100% interest in Zhairemsky GOK JSC, located in Kazakhstan, for cash 
consideration of $308 million. The acquisition enhances and complements Glencore’s existing operations in Kazakhstan, including an 
expectation that the additional zinc/lead resources will significantly increase Kazzinc’s weighted average own-source life of mine.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2014, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $78 million 
and additional attributable loss of $2 million. From the date of acquisition the operation contributed $6 million and $1 million of revenue 
and attributable loss, respectively.
Other
Other comprises primarily the acquisition of an additional 16.99% interest in Energia Austral, increasing Glencore’s ultimate ownership 
to 65.99%. From the date of acquisition, 1 January 2014, the operations contributed $25 million and $15 million to Glencore’s revenue and 
attributable income, respectively.
2014 Disposals
In 2014, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in Las Bambas that was acquired as part of the Xstrata business combination in 
May 2013. Other consists primarily of the disposal of Frieda River, a copper project in Papua New Guinea. The carrying value of the assets 
and liabilities over which control was lost and net cash received from these disposals are detailed below:
US$ million Las Bambas Other Total
Property, plant and equipment –89 89
Accounts receivable –9 9
Assets held for sale 6,884 – 6,884
Accounts payable –(2) (2)
Liabilities held for sale (604) – (604)
Non-controlling interest –(16) (16)
Total carrying value of net assets disposed 6,280 80 6,360
Cash and cash equivalents received 6,449 33 6,482
Future consideration/receivable 15 34 49
Total consideration 6,464 67 6,531
Net gain/(loss) on disposal 184 (13) 171 170 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
25. ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES (continued)
2013 Acquisitions
In 2013, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Xstrata and other immaterial entities. The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries 
and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition are detailed below:
US$ million
Xstrata 
provisional  
fair values  
as reported at  
31 December 2013
Fair value 
adjustments to 
the provisional 
allocation
Total  
Xstrata  
fair values
Other 
 fair values
Total 
fair values
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 41,381 (274) 41,107 194 41,301
Intangible assets 2,314 105 2,419 6 2,425
Investments in associates and joint ventures 10,240 (551) 9,689 – 9,689
Advances and loans
1
1,163 (100) 1,063 – 1,063
Deferred tax asset 253 – 253 – 253
55,351 (820) 54,531 200 54,731
Current assets
Inventories 6,068 – 6,068 47 6,115
Accounts receivable
1
 3,693– 3,693 38 3,731
Other financial assets 518 – 518 – 518
Cash and cash equivalents 1,684 – 1,684 1 1,685
Assets held for sale 3,616 750 4,366 – 4,366
15,579 750 16,329 86 16,415
Non-controlling interest² (924) (176) (1,100) (9) (1,109)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings (17,587) 12 (17,575) (4) (17,579)
Deferred income (973) (60) (1,033) – (1,033)
Deferred tax liabilities (4,270) (85) (4,355) (32) (4,387)
Other financial liabilities (325) – (325) (9) (334)
Provisions (7,312) 19 (7,293) (14) (7,307)
(30,467) (114) (30,581) (59) (30,640)
Current liabilities
Borrowings (1,726) – (1,726) (17) (1,743)
Accounts payable (4,981) – (4,981) (30) (5,011)
Deferred income (73) – (73) – (73)
Provisions (215) (59) (274) – (274)
Other financial liabilities (91) – (91) – (91)
Liabilities held for sale (314) (225) (539) – (539)
(7 ,400) (284) (7,684) (47) (7,731)
Total fair value of net assets acquired 32,139 (644) 31,495 171 31,666
Goodwill arising on acquisition³ 12,480 644 13,124 30 13,154
Less: amounts previously recognised through investments and 
loans (15,142) – (15,142) – (15,142)
Less: Fair value of ordinary shares issued (29,094) – (29,094) – (29,094)
Less: Fair value of share-based awards (383) – (383) – (383)
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired (1,684) – (1,684) (1) (1,685)
Acquisition related costs 275 – 275 – 275
Net cash (received from)/used in acquisition of subsidiaries (1,409) – (1,409) 200 (1,209)
1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
2 Non-controlling interest measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
3 The goodwill arising on acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes. 171
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Xstrata
On 2 May 2013, Glencore completed its acquisition of the remaining 66% (which it did not previously own) of the issued and outstanding 
equity of Xstrata, a leading global diversified mining group, for consideration of $29.5 billion. The acquisition was completed through an 
all share exchange which gave Xstrata shareholders 3.05 Glencore shares for every Xstrata share, valuing Xstrata’s equity at approximately 
$44.6 billion. 
The acquisition accounting has now been finalised. The final fair value adjustments to the provisionally reported values primarily relate 
to adjustments to property, plant and equipment and investments in associates and joint ventures resulting from revisions to assumptions 
that existed at the acquisition date regarding mine plans, ramp-up schedules, expected processing capacity and classification of acquired 
joint arrangements. Additionally, the Las Bambas assets and liabilities held for sale were reassessed to reflect the fair value less cost of 
disposal, resulting from finalisation of the sales process.
The acquisition of Xstrata creates a unique global natural resources group, well positioned to seize opportunities in a world where trends 
continue to evolve towards a new global map, reflecting the degree to which changes are unfolding relating to where natural resources are 
consumed and supplied, especially as a result of demand from and emerging supply growth in developing economies. 
If the acquisition had been effective 1 January 2013, the operations would have contributed additional revenue of $9,443 million and an 
increase in attributable income of $259 million. From the date of acquisition, the operations contributed $16,769 million and $1,485 million 
of revenue and attributable income, respectively.
Other
Other acquisitions primarily consist of the acquisition of an 89.5% controlling interest in Orion Minerals LLC, an entity holding 2 
operations in northern Kazakhstan, for cash consideration of $175 million. If the other acquisitions had taken place effective 1 January 2013, 
the operations would have contributed additional revenue of $4 million and additional attributable income of $1 million. From the date of 
acquisition, the other acquisitions contributed $51 million and $7 million to Glencore’s revenue and attributable income, respectively.
2013 Disposals
In 2013, Glencore disposed of controlling interests in various businesses that were acquired as part of the Viterra business combination in 
December 2012. The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and net cash received from these disposals are 
detailed below:
US$ million
Dakota Growers
Pasta Company
Joe White 
Maltings Total
Property, plant and equipment 320 355 675
Intangible assets 42 1 43
Inventories 35 23 58
Accounts receivable 24 38 62
Cash and cash equivalents 3– 3
Deferred tax liabilities (40) – (40)
Accounts payable (21) (33) (54)
Financial liabilities –(3) (3)
Total carrying value of net assets disposed 363 381 744
Cash and cash equivalents received 366 381 747
Less: cash and cash equivalent disposed (3) – (3)
Total consideration received 363 381 744
Gain/(loss) on disposal –––
26. FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencore’s operations comprise market risk (including commodity price 
risk, interest rate risk and currency risk), credit risk (including performance risk) and liquidity risk. It is Glencore’s policy and practice 
to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks to support its objectives in managing its capital and future 
financial security and flexibility. Glencore’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets 
and seeks to protect its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible to substantially hedge 
these financial risks. Glencore’s finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity departments, monitor, 
manage and report regularly to senior management and the Board of Directors on the approach and effectiveness in managing financial 
risks along with the financial exposures facing the Group. 172 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
26. FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
Glencore’s objectives in managing its “capital attributable to equity holders” include preserving its overall financial health and strength 
for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility at an 
attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable long-term profitability. 
Paramount in meeting these objectives is maintaining an investment grade credit rating status. Glencore’s current credit ratings are Baa2 
(stable) from Moody’s and BBB (stable) from S&P.
Distribution policy and other capital management initiatives 
The Company intends to return excess capital to its shareholders by pursuing a progressive distribution policy with the intention of 
maintaining or increasing its total ordinary distribution each year, supplemented through other capital management initiatives, including 
share buy-backs, as and when appropriate. Distributions are expected to be declared by the Board semi-annually (with the half-year results 
and the preliminary full-year results). Interim distributions are expected to represent approximately one-third of the total distribution 
for any year. Distributions will be declared and paid in US dollars, although Shareholders will be able to elect to receive their distribution 
payments in Pounds Sterling, Euros or Swiss Francs based on the exchange rates in effect around the date of payment. Shareholders on 
the Hong Kong branch register will receive their distributions in Hong Kong dollars, while shareholders on the JSE will receive their 
distributions in South African Rand.
Commodity price risk
Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced forward 
contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts. Glencore manages a significant portion of this exposure through 
futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter (OTC) markets, to the extent available. 
Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencore’s physical commodity marketing activities and 
the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to derivative counterparties, 
including clearing brokers and exchanges. Whilst it is Glencore’s policy to substantially hedge its commodity price risks, there remains 
the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying price risk. The hedging 
instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in 
an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure. Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencore’s commodity 
department teams who actively engage in the management of such.
Value at risk
One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, principally commodity price risk related to its 
physical marketing activities, is the use of a value at risk (“VaR”) computation. VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates 
a threshold for potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, 
given a specific level of confidence and based on a specific price history. The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability based 
approach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations 
between commodities and markets. In this way, risks can be measured consistently across markets and commodities and risk measures 
can be aggregated to derive a single risk value. Glencore’s Board has set a consolidated VaR limit (one day 95% confidence level) of 
$100 million representing less than 0.5% of total equity, which the Board reviews annually. The consolidated VaR limit of $100 million 
was not exceeded during the year.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations computed at a 95% confidence level and utilising a weighted data history 
for a one day time horizon.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and daily Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups’ net 
marketing positions to determine potential losses. 
Market risk VaR (one day 95% confidence level) ranges and year-end positions were as follows:
US$ million 2014 2013
Year-end position 39 35
Average during the year 36 32
High during the year 65 63
Low during the year 16 20
VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that 
these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results. VaR should always 
be viewed in the context of its limitations; notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks 
and tail risks. Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR analysis by analysing forward 
looking stress scenarios, benchmarking against an alternative VaR computation based on historical simulations and back testing calculated 
VaR against the hypothetical portfolio returns arising in the next business day. 173
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Glencore’s VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals (including aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper, lead), coal, 
iron ore, oil-/natural gas and main risks in the agricultural products business segment (grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton) and assesses 
the open priced positions which are subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities. Due to the lack of a liquid terminal 
market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina, molybdenum, cobalt, freight and some risk associated 
with concentrates as it does not consider the nature of these markets to be suited to this type of analysis. Alternative measures are used 
to monitor exposures related to these products.
Net present value at risk
Glencore’s future cash flows related to its forecast energy, metals and minerals and agricultural production activities are also exposed to 
commodity price movements. Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional shorter-term 
hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting and quantification of the 
underlying operations’ estimated cash flows and valuations.
Interest rate risk
Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets 
and liabilities and cash flows. Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks; other 
methods include the use of interest rate swaps and similar derivative instruments. Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund 
fast turning working capital (interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital) is primarily based on US$ LIBOR plus 
an appropriate premium. Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 
50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables held constant, Glencore’s income and equity for the year ended 31 December 2014 
would decrease/increase by $95 million (2013: $105 million).
Currency risk
The US dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group. Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange rates 
related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the US dollar. Such transactions include operating expenditure, capital 
expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency. Purchases or sales of commodities 
concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial operations which act 
as a hedge against local operating costs, are ordinarily hedged through forward exchange contracts. Consequently, foreign exchange 
movements against the US dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial impact. Glencore enters into currency 
hedging transactions with leading financial institutions.
Glencore’s debt related payments (both principal and interest) are denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into US dollars. 
Glencore’s operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which the US Dollar, Swiss 
franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian peso and South African rand are the 
predominant currencies.
Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss franc, Sterling and Australian dollar denominated bonds (see note 20). Cross currency swaps were 
concluded to hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds. These contracts were designated as 
cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risks associated with the bonds. The fair value of these derivatives is as follows:
Notional amounts Recognised fair values
Average
maturity
1
US$ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities
Cross currency swap agreements – 2014 –15,289 15 1,727 2019
Cross currency swap agreements – 2013 – 16,658 167 – 2018
1 Refer to note 20 for details.
Credit risk
Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed payment 
terms. Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and 
advances, derivative instruments and non-current advances and loans. Glencore’s credit management process includes the assessment, 
monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis. Glencore’s cash and cash equivalents are placed overnight with a 
diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions. Credit risk with respect to receivables and advances is mitigated by the large 
number of customers comprising Glencore’s customer base, their diversity across various industries and geographical areas, as well as 
Glencore’s policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, netting, collateral and insurance arrangements where appropriate. 
Additionally, it is Glencore’s policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master 
netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting of balances due to/from a common counterparty in the event of default 
by the counterparty.  174 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
26. FINANCIAL AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
Glencore actively and continuously monitors the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a credit scoring process, 
which includes, where available, public credit ratings. Balances with counterparties not having a public investment grade or equivalent 
internal rating are typically enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of 
credit or insurance products. Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 2.5% (2013: 2.5%) of its trade 
receivables (on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements) or accounting for more than 3.5% of its revenues over the year ended 
31 December 2014 (2013: 3%).
The maximum exposure to credit risk (including performance risk – see below), without considering netting agreements or without taking 
account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencore’s financial assets (see note 27).
Performance risk
Performance risk (part of the broader credit risk subject matter, discussed above) is inherent in contracts, with agreements in the 
future, to physically purchase or sell commodities with fixed price attributes, and arises from the possibility that counterparties may 
not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to/from Glencore. Glencore undertakes the 
assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process. Glencore’s market breadth, 
diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the vast majority of Glencore’s commodity portfolio 
which does not fix prices beyond 3 months, with the main exceptions being coal, where longer-term fixed price contracts are common, 
ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated. The commodity industry has trended towards shorter-term fixed price contract 
periods, in part to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the development of more transparent and liquid spot 
markets, e.g. coal and iron ore and associated derivative products and indexes.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, 
to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments. 
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and availability of adequate committed 
funding facilities. Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, including via available committed 
undrawn credit facilities of $3 billion (2013: $3 billion). Glencore’s credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, 
ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements. As part of its liquidity management, Glencore 
closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure and proposed investments, as well as credit facility refinancing/extension 
requirements, well ahead of time.
As at 31 December 2014, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities, cash and marketable securities amounting to 
$9,409 million (2013: $12,878 million). The maturity profile of Glencore’s financial liabilities based on the contractual terms is as follows:
2014  
US$ million After 5 years Due 3 – 5 years Due 2 – 3 years Due 1 – 2 years Due 0 – 1 year Total
Borrowings 13,467 8,122 5,286 13,813 12,005 52,693
Expected future interest payments 4,363 1,686 906 992 1,068 9,015
Accounts payable –––– 26,881 26,881
Other financial liabilities 295 342 – 343 3,956 4,936
Total 18,125 10,150 6,192 15,148 43,910 93,525
Current assets 53,219 53,219
2013  
US$ million After 5 years Due 3 – 5 years Due 2 – 3 years Due 1 – 2 years Due 0 – 1 year Total
Borrowings 13,112 9,111 11,832 4,657 16,461 55,173
Expected future interest payments 7 ,907 1,557 1,175 1,326 1,722 13,687
Accounts payable – – – – 26,041 26,041
Other financial liabilities 359 342 343 – 2,366 3,410
Total 21,378 11,010 13,350 5,983 46,590 98,311
Current assets 59,292 59,292
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25). 175
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Fair value of financial instruments
The following tables present the carrying values and fair values of Glencore’s financial instruments. Fair value is the price that would 
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal (most advantageous) market at 
the measurement date under current market conditions. Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values. 
When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing market interest 
and exchange rates. The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, 
but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course of business.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate the 
fair values with the exception of $52,693 million (2013: $55,173 million) of borrowings, the fair value of which at 31 December 2014 was 
$53,285 million (31 December 2013: $56,723 million) based on observable market prices applied to the borrowing portfolio (a Level 2 fair 
value measurement).
2014 
US$ million
Carrying
value
1
Available  
for sale FVtPL
2
Total
Assets
Other investments
3
–895 577 1,472
Advances and loans 4,597 – – 4,597
Accounts receivable 21,456 – – 21,456
Other financial assets (see note 28) –– 4,036 4,036
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities
4
–– 2,855 2,855
Total financial assets 26,053 895 7,468 34,416
Liabilities
Borrowings 52,693 – – 52,693
Non-current other financial liabilities (see note 28) –– 980 980
Accounts payable 26,881 – – 26,881
Other financial liabilities (see note 28) –– 3,956 3,956
Total financial liabilities 79,574 – 4,936 84,510
1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL – Fair value through profit and loss – held for trading.
3  Other investments of $1,354 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $118 million being investments in private companies 
whose fair value cannot be reliably measured which are carried cost. 
4 Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and/or market prices. 176 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
2013 
US$ million
Carrying 
value
1
Available  
for sale FVtPL
2
Total
Restated
3
Assets
Other investments
4
–394 529 923
Advances and loans 3,995 – – 3,995
Accounts receivable 24,536 – – 24,536
Other financial assets (see note 28) – – 2,904 2,904
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities
5
–– 2,885 2,885
Total financial assets 28,531 394 6,318 35,243
Liabilities
Borrowings 55,173–– 55,173
Non-current other financial liabilities (see note 28) – – 1,044 1,044
Accounts payable 26,041 – – 26,041
Other financial liabilities (see note 28) – – 2,366 2,366
Total financial liabilities 81,214 – 3,410 84,624
1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL – Fair value through profit and loss – held for trading.
3 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
4  Other investments of $772 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $151 million being investments in private companies 
whose fair value cannot be reliably measured which are carried cost. 
5  Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and/or market prices.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
In accordance with IAS 32 the Group reports financial assets and liabilities on a net basis in the consolidated statement of financial position 
only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the 
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar 
agreements as at 31 December 2014 and 2013 were as follows:
2014  
US$ million
Amounts eligible for set off 
under netting agreements
Related amounts not set off 
under netting agreements
Amounts  
not subject 
 to netting 
agreements
Total as 
presented  
in the 
consolidated 
statement of 
financial 
position
Gross 
amount
Amounts 
offset
Net  
amount 
Financial 
instruments
Financial 
collateral
Net 
amount
Derivative assets¹ 19,282 (17 ,115) 2,167 (483) (497) 1,187 1,869 4,036
Derivative liabilities¹ (19,022) 17 ,115 (1,906) 483 924 (499) (2,050) (3,956)
1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
2013  
US$ million
Amounts eligible for set off 
under netting agreements
Related amounts not set off 
under netting agreements
Amounts  
not subject 
 to netting 
agreements
Total as 
presented  
in the 
consolidated 
statement of 
financial 
position
Gross 
amount
Amounts 
offset
Net  
amount 
Financial 
instruments
Financial 
collateral
Net 
amount
Derivative assets¹ 4,001 (2,905) 1,096 (237) (262) 597 1,808 2,904
Derivative liabilities¹ (3,624) 2,905 (719) 237 285 (197) (1,647) (2,366)
1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the 
Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis. 
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities may be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting 
or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. Per the terms 
of each agreement, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation 
required by the agreement (other than payment) if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure 
is given to the party or bankruptcy. 177
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
28. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Fair values are primarily determined using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where 
available and are presented to reflect the expected gross future cash in/outflows. Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial 
instruments into a three level hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive the fair 
value of the financial asset or liability as follows:
Level 1   Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that Glencore can assess at the 
measurement date; or
Level 2  Inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly; or
Level 3  Unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities, requiring Glencore to make market based assumptions.
Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than 1 year and options that are exchange traded, whereas Level 
2 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than 1 year, over the counter options, swaps and physical forward 
transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes. Level 3 classifications 
primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominately from models that use broker quotes and 
applicable market based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials and financial liabilities linked to the fair value 
of certain mining operations. In circumstances where Glencore cannot verify fair value with observable market inputs (Level 3 fair values), 
it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
It is Glencore’s policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements 
or long form confirmations to enable balances due to/from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default, insolvency or 
bankruptcy by the counterparty.
The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical forward 
purchase and sale commitments by type of contract and non-current other financial liabilities as at 31 December 2014 and 2013. 
Other assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis are marketing inventories, other investments, cash and 
cash equivalents and marketable securities. Refer to notes 12 and 27 for disclosures in connection with these fair value measurements. 
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements. 
Other financial assets
2014  
US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total
Commodity related contracts
Futures 1,008 183 – 1,191
Options 21 27 1 49
Swaps 133 771 – 904
Physical forwards 21 1,101 339 1,461
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps –158 – 158
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 2 271 – 273
Total 1,185 2,511 340 4,036
2013  
US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total
Commodity related contracts
Futures 444 261 – 705
Options 26 2 – 28
Swaps 65 94 – 159
Physical forwards –701 481 1,182
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps –519 – 519
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 41 270 – 311
Total 576 1,847 481 2,904 178 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
28. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (continued)
Other financial liabilities
2014  
US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total
Commodity related contracts
Futures 5808– 588
Options 199 12 40 251
Swaps 118 98 – 216
Physical forwards 4 893 264 1,161
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps –1,281 – 1,281
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts –459 – 459
Current other financial liabilities 901 2,751 304 3,956
Non-current other financial liabilities
Non-discretionary dividend obligation¹ –– 295 295
Put option over non-controlling interest² –– 685 685
Non-current other financial liabilities – – 980 980
Total 901 2,751 1,284 4,936
1  A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, one of the Group’s principal coal joint operations based in South Africa. The liability arises from ARM Coal’s rights as 
an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate. The derivative 
liability is settled over the life of those operations and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within 12 months.
2   A put option over the remaining 31% of Mutanda is exercisable in 2 equal tranches in July 2016 and July 2018. The exercise price of the put option is subject to the fair value of 
Mutanda at the date of exercise, see note 33.
2013  
US$ million Level 1Level 2Level 3 Total
Commodity related contracts
Futures 542 84 – 626
Options 15 4 31 50
Swaps 27 72 – 99
Physical forwards 9572 266 847
Financial contracts
Cross currency swaps –512 – 512
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 60 172 – 232
Current other financial liabilities 653 1,416 297 2,366
Non-current other financial liabilities
Non-discretionary dividend obligation¹ – – 359 359
Put option over non-controlling interest² – – 685 685
Non-current other financial liabilities –– 1,044 1,044
Total 653 1,416 1,341 3,410
1  A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, one of the Group’s principal coal joint operations based in South Africa. The liability arises from ARM Coal’s rights as 
an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate. The derivative 
liability is settled over the life of those operations and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within 12 months.
2   A put option over the remaining 31% of Mutanda is exercisable in 2 equal tranches in July 2016 and July 2018. The exercise price of the put option is subject to the fair value of 
Mutanda at the date of exercise, see note 33. 179
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities:
US$ million Notes
Physical  
forwards Options
Loans and 
other
Total  
Level 3
1 January 2013 96 (456) – (360)
Business combination 25 (13) – (359) (372)
Total gain/(loss) recognised in cost of goods sold 220 (30) – 190
Put option over non-controlling interest – (266) – (266)
Realised (88) 36 – (52)
31 December 2013 215 (716) (359) (860)
1 January 2014
Business combination 215 (716) (359) (860)
Total loss recognised in cost of goods sold (34) (39) – (73)
Put option over non-controlling interest –– 64 64
Realised (106) 31 – (75)
31 December 2014 75 (724) (295) (944)
During the year no amounts were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and no amounts were transferred 
into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for either other financial assets or other financial liabilities. 
Some of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period. The following 
table provides information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined, in particular, the 
valuation techniques and inputs used.
Fair value of financial assets/financial liabilities
US$ million 2014 2013
Futures – Level 1 Assets 1,008 444
Liabilities (580) (542)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Futures – Level 2 Assets 183 261
Liabilities (8) (84)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices 
in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which 
captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required. 
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Options – Level 1 Assets 21 26
Liabilities (199) (15)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Options – Level 2 Assets 27 2
Liabilities (12) (4)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices 
in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which 
captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required. 
Significant unobservable inputs: None 180 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
28. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (continued)
Fair value of financial assets/financial liabilities
US$ million 2014 2013
Options – Level 3 Assets 1 –
Liabilities (40) (31)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Standard option pricing model
Significant unobservable inputs: Prices are adjusted by differentials, as required, including:
• Volatility; and
• Credit risk.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% – 20% of the overall value of the 
instruments. These differentials move in symmetry with each other, e.g. a decrease in volatility 
leads to a decrease in credit risk, resulting in no material change in the underlying value.
Swaps – Level 1 Assets 133 65
Liabilities (118) (72)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Swaps – Level 2 Assets 771 94
Liabilities (98) (72)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices 
in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which 
captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Physical Forwards – Level 1 Assets 21 –
Liabilities (4) (9)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Physical Forwards – Level 2 Assets 1,101 701
 Liabilities (893) (572)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices 
in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which 
captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, such as history of non-
performance, collateral held and current market developments, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Physical Forwards – Level 3 Assets 339 481
Liabilities (264) (266)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model 
Significant unobservable inputs: Prices are adjusted by differentials, as required, including:
• Quality;
• Geographic location;
• Local supply and demand;
• Customer requirements; and
• Counterparty credit considerations.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2% – 50% of the overall value of the 
instruments. These differentials are generally symmetrical with an increase/decrease in one 
input resulting in an opposite movement in another input, resulting in no material change in the 
underlying value. 181
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Fair value of financial assets/financial liabilities
US$ million 2014 2013
Cross currency swaps – Level 2 Assets 158 519
Liabilities (1,281) (512)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices 
in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which 
captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required. 
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts – Level 1 Assets 2 297
Liabilities – (191)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Foreign currency and interest rate contracts – Level 2 Assets 271 14
Liabilities (459) (41)
Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model
Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices 
in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which 
captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None
Non-discretionary dividend obligation – Level 3 Assets – –
Liabilities (295) (359)
Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model
Significant observable inputs: • Forecast commodity prices; and
• Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology.
Significant unobservable inputs: • Production models;
• Operating costs; and
• Capital expenditures.
The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying 
mining operation. Increases/decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an  
increase/decrease to the value of the liability though this will be partially offset by 
associated increases/decreases in the assumed production levels, operating costs and capital 
expenditures which are inherently linked to forecast commodity prices. There are no reasonable 
changes in assumptions which would result in a material change to the fair value of the 
underlying liability.
Put option over non-controlling interest – Level 3 Assets – –
Liabilities (685) (685)
Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model
Significant observable inputs: • Forecast commodity prices; and
• Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology.
Significant unobservable inputs: • Production models;
• Operating costs; and
• Capital expenditures.
The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying 
mining operation. Increases/decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an  
increase/decrease to the value of the liability though this will be partially offset by 
associated increases/decreases in the assumed production levels, operating costs and capital 
expenditures which are inherently linked to forecast commodity prices. There are no reasonable 
changes in assumptions which would result in a material change to the fair value of the 
underlying liability. 182 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
29. AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
US$ million 2014 2013
Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencore’s consolidated financial statements 4 7
Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 20 24
Audit-related assurance services¹ 5 5
Total audit and related assurance fees 29 36
Corporate finance services 1 1
Taxation compliance services 2 2
Other taxation advisory services 2 6
Other assurance services 1 1
Other services 2 3
Total non-audit-fees 8 13
Total professional fees 37 49
1  Audit-related assurance services primarily related to interim reviews of the Group’s half year accounts and quarterly accounts of the Group’s publicly listed subsidiaries.
30. FUTURE COMMITMENTS
Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is generally funded through the cash flow generated by the 
respective industrial entities. As at 31 December 2014, $2,497 million (2013: $2,817 million), of which 80% (2013: 74%) relates to expenditure 
to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Certain of Glencore’s exploration tenements and licences require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development activities, 
a significant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations. As at 31 December 2014, $255 million 
(2013: $623 million) of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 23% (2013: 55%) are for commitments to be settled 
over the next year.
Glencore procures seagoing vessels/chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments. As at 31 December 
2014, Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations of $1,728 million 
(2013: $1,433 million), of which $540 million (2013: $578 million) are with associated companies. 37% (2013: 55%) of the total charters are for 
services to be received over the next 2 years.
As part of Glencore’s ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the selling 
party may request that a financial institution act as either a) the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying documents 
through the issuance of a letter of credit or b) the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility for Glencore’s 
contractual obligations. As at 31 December 2014, $16,307 million (2013: $13,886 million) of such commitments have been issued on behalf 
of Glencore, which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse/storage facilities. Rental expenses for these 
leases totalled respectively $279 million and $203 million for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013. Future net minimum lease 
payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
US$ million 2014 2013
Within 1 year 142 105
Between 2 and 5 years 275 216
After 5 years 255 114
Total 672 435 183
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery. Future net minimum 
lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows:
Undiscounted 
minimum lease payments
Present value of 
minimum lease payments
US$ million 2014 2013 2014 2013
Within 1 year 76 70 51 49
Between 1 and 5 years 236 276 173 188
After 5 years 280 201 252 156
Total minimum lease payments 592 547 476 393
Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 116 154 – –
Present value of minimum lease payments 476 393 476 393
Future development and related commitments
• On 12 December 2014, Glencore agreed to acquire Prokon Pflanzenöl GmbH, a German producer of biodiesel and rapeseed oil for a 
consideration of $134 million. The acquisition is subject to standard regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2015.
• On 19 December 2014, Glencore agreed to acquire a 50% stake in the Barcarena grain export terminal in northern Brazil for a 
consideration of $115 million. The acquisition is subject to standard regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2015.
31. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of third parties as at 31 December 2014 was $nil (2013: $nil). Also see note 10.
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business as detailed below. These contingent liabilities are 
reviewed on a regular basis and where practical an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group. As at 31 December 2014 
and 2013 it was not practical to make such an assessment.
Litigation
Certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore. Whilst Glencore cannot predict the results of 
any litigation, it believes that it has meritorious defences against those actions or claims. Glencore believes the likelihood of any material 
liability arising from these claims to be remote and that the liability, if any, therefore resulting from any litigation will not have a material 
adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
Environmental contingencies
Glencore’s operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. Glencore is in material compliance with those laws 
and regulations. Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable. 
Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change. Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from 
insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain. At this time, Glencore is unaware 
of any material environmental incidents at its locations.
Tax audits
Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available. For those 
matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related 
interest charges. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax 
laws. Whilst Glencore believes it has adequately provided for the outcome of these matters, future results may include favourable or 
unfavourable adjustments to these estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made, or resolved. The final outcome of tax 
examinations may result in a materially different outcome than assumed in the tax liabilities.
32. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arm’s length transactions with related parties (including Xstrata pre-
acquisition and Century), including fixed price commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, 
agency agreements and management service agreements. Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash 
(see notes 11, 13, and 24). There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses 
between its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. In 2014, sales and purchases with associates and joint ventures amounted to 
$1,200 million (2013: $1,924 million) and $3,178 million (2013: $5,008 million) respectively. Also see notes 13 and 24.  184 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
32. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (continued)
Remuneration of key management personnel
Glencore’s key management personnel are the members of the Board of Directors, CEO, CFO and the heads of the operating segments. 
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the consolidated statement of income 
including salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $8 million (2013: $7 million). There were no other long-term benefits 
or share-based payments provided to key management personnel (2013: $nil). Further details on remuneration of Directors are set out in 
the Director’s remuneration report on page 99. 
33. PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES WITH MATERIAL NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS
Non-controlling interest is comprised of the following: 
US$ million 2014
2013
Restated
1
Kazzinc 1,404 1,436
Optimum 271 326
Alumbrera 182 279
Mutanda 2 (105)
Other
2
1,079 1,432
Total 2,938 3,368
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2 Other comprises various subsidiaries in which no individual balance attributable to non-controlling interests is material.
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencore’s subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest, reflecting 100% of the 
underlying subsidiary’s relevant figures, is set out below.
US$ million Kazzinc Optimum Alumbrera Mutanda
31 December 2014
Non-current assets 5,085 1,755 458 4,747
Current assets 1,118 77 373 711
Total assets 6,203 1,832 831 5,458
Non-current liabilities 1,168 628 299 2,247
Current liabilities 402 346 167 322
Total liabilities 1,570 974 466 2,569
Net assets 4,633 858 365 2,889
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,229 587 183 2,887
Non-controlling interests 1,404 271 182 2
Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 32.4% 50.0% 31.0%
2014
Revenue 2,517 592 1,037 1,604
Expenses (2,552) (653) (943) (1,259)
Profit for the year (35) (61) 94 345
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (25) (41) 47 238
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (10) (20) 47 107
Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company ––––
Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests ––––
Total comprehensive income for the year (35) (61) 94 345
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (10) – (144) –
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 232 (47) 235 484
Net cash (outflow) from investing activities (714) (100) (59) (241)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 460 141 (166) (128)
Total net cash (outflow)/inflow (22) (6) 10 115 185
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
US$ million Kazzinc Optimum Alumbrera Mutanda
31 December 2013
Non-current assets 4,841 1,927 475 4,694
Current assets 1,106 87 641 586
Total assets 5,947 2,014 1,116 5,280
Non-current liabilities 814 827 295 3,790
Current liabilities 408 180 263 977
Total liabilities 1,222 1,007 558 4,767
Net assets 4,725 1,007 558 513
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,289 681 279 618
Non-controlling interests 1,436 326 279 (105)
Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 32.4% 50.0% 31.0%
2013
Revenue 2,587 751 718 1,204
Expenses (2,437) (706) (705) (1,011)
Profit for the year 150 45 13 193
Profit attributable to owners of the Company 103 30 7 142
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 47 15 6 51
Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company – – – –
Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests – – – –
Total comprehensive income for the year 150 45 13 193
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – (142) –
Net cash inflow from operating activities 451 74 93 68
Net cash (outflow) from investing activities (425) (122) (46) (185)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (43) 46 (441) 96
Total net cash (outflow) (17) (2) (394) (21)
Mutanda
In July 2013, Glencore completed the merger between Mutanda and Kansuki which was accounted for as an asset acquisition as the 
acquired assets and liabilities of Kansuki did not meet the definition of a business. In addition, Glencore concurrently entered into a 
put and call option arrangement, whereby Glencore has a right to acquire and the seller has the ability to force Glencore to acquire the 
remaining 31% interest in Mutanda at fair market value in two 15.5% tranches in July 2016 and July 2018. The present value of the put 
option, $685 million at acquisition date, has been accounted for within other financial liabilities (see note 28) with the corresponding 
amount recognised against non-controlling interest.
34. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
• Glencore agreed to acquire Prokon Pflanzenöl GmbH, a German producer of biodiesel and rapeseed oil and a 50% stake in the Barcarena 
grain export terminal in Brazil, see note 30.
• On 11 February 2015, Glencore announced its intention to divest its non-core 23.9% stake in Lonmin during the first half of 2015. 
The divestment is currently proposed to be actioned by way of a distribution in specie to Glencore shareholders, subject to shareholder 
approval at Glencore’s Annual General Meeting, see note 18. 
• In response to the challenging market environment, Glencore has decided to curtail coal production in South Africa and Australia over 
the course of 2015, by 5 million and 15 million tonnes of export coal respectively. The reduction is expected to be driven by production 
initiatives across a number of sites, the financial effect, positive or negative, is not determinable.
• On 17 March 2015, Glencore issued in 2 tranches EUR 2 billion of interest bearing notes as follows: 
 – 6 year EUR 1,250 million, 1.25% fixed coupon bonds; and
 – 10 year EUR 750 million, 1.75% fixed coupon bonds. 186 Glencore Annual Report 2014
35. PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS
Country  
of incorporation
% interest  
2014
% interest  
2013 Main activity
Principal subsidiaries
Metals and minerals
Allied Alumina Inc. (Sherwin) USA 100.0 100.0 Alumina production
Minera Alumbrera Limited
1
Antigua 50.0 50.0 Copper production
Cobar Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd. Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Minera Altos de Punitaqui Limitada Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Compania Minera Lomas Bayas Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Complejo Metalurgico Altonorte S.A. Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Compania Minera Antapaccay S.A. Peru 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Las Bambas Mining S.A. Peru 0.0 100.0 Copper production
Pasar Group Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production
Glencore Recycling Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Mopani Copper Mines plc Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production
Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production
Sagittarius Mines Inc
2
Philippines 62.5 62.5 Copper production
Katanga Mining Limited
3
Canada 75.3 75.2 Copper/Cobalt production
Mutanda Group DRC 69.0 69.0 Copper/Cobalt production
Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper/Zinc/Lead production
Kazzinc Ltd. Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper/Zinc/Lead production
Zhairemsky GOK JSC Kazakhstan 69.7 0.0 Copper/Zinc/Lead production
Vasilkovskoye Gold Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Gold production
Energia Austral Joint Venture Chile 66.6 49.0 Hydroelectric project
African Carbon Producers (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production
African Fine Carbon (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production
Char Technology (Pty) Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production
Sphere Minerals Limited Australia 88.2 88.2 Iron Ore
Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Lead production
Glencore Manganese Group France/Norway 100.0 100.0 Manganese furnace
Pacorini Group Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Metals warehousing
Murrin Murrin Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production
Falconbridge Dominican S.A. Dominican Rep. 85.3 85.3 Nickel production
Koniambo Nickel S.A.S.
4
New Caledonia 49.0 49.0 Nickel production
Glencore Nikkelverk AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Nickel production
Eland Platinum Mines (Pty) Limited South Africa 74.0 74.0 Platinum production
McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Zinc production
Perkoa Group Burkina Faso 90.0 62.7 Zinc production
Nordenhammer Zinkhütte GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Zinc production
Asturiana de Zinc S.A. Spain 100.0 100.0 Zinc production
1 This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to elect the chairman of the Board who has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the 4 board 
positions. Minera Alumbrera Limited’s principal place of business is Argentina.
2 Overall legal ownership is 26.959%; effective ownership is 62.5%.
3 Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.TO and principal place of business is DRC. Glencore owns 1,435,848,228 shares.
4 The Group has control of Koniambo Nickel SAS as a result of the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of 
the financing arrangements underlying the Koniambo project.
Notes to the financial statements 187
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Country  
of incorporation
% interest  
2014
% interest  
2013 Main activity
Metals and minerals (continued)
AR Zinc Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc/Lead production
Portovesme S.r.L. Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc/Lead production
Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation (Pty) Limited Namibia 80.1 80.1 Zinc/Lead production
Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S.A. Peru 97.6 97.6 Zinc/Lead production
Sinchi Wayra Group Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc/Tin production
Energy products
Cook Resources Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Cumnock No. 1 Colliery Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Enex Foydell Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Enex Liddell Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Enex Oakbridge Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Enex Togara Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Glencore Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Jonsha Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Mangoola Coal Operations Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Oceanic Coal Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Ravensworth Operations Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production
Ulan Power Company Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
United Collieries Pty Ltd Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production
Prodeco Group Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Optimum Coal Holdings Limited South Africa 67.6 67.6 Coal production
Shanduka Coal (Pty) Ltd
5
South Africa 49.9 49.9 Coal production
Umcebo Mining (Pty) Ltd
6
South Africa 48.7 43.7 Coal production
Tavistock Collieries (Pty) Limited South Africa 100.0 100.0 Coal production
Topley Corporation B.V.I. 100.0 100.0 Ship owner
Glencore Exploration (EG) Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production
Glencore E&P (Canada) Inc. (Caracal)
7
Canada 100.0 1.3 Oil exploration/production
Chemoil Energy Limited Hong Kong 100.0 89.2 Oil storage and bunkering
Agricultural products
Glencore Biofuels AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Biofuel production
Moreno Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production
Usti Oilseed Group Czech Republic 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production
Pannon Vegetable Oil Manufacturing LLC Hungary 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production
Zaklady Tluszozowe w Bodaczowie Sp.z.o.o. Poland 100.0 100.0 Edible oil production
Viterra Group Canada/ Australia 100.0 100.0 Grain handling
Glencane Bioenergia S.A. (formerly Rio Vermelho) Brazil 100.0 100.0 Sugar cane/ethanol production
Correcta Industria e Comercio Ltdo. Brazil 100.0 100.0 Wheat flour milling
5 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Shanduka through the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to 
appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the shareholders agreement.
6 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agreements which provide Glencore the ability to 
control the Board of Directors.
7 Prior to acquisition of the remaining issued shares of Caracal on 8 July 2014 (see note 25), the Group acquired shares on the open market resulting in an investment of 13.2% at 
acquisition date.
  188 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Notes to the financial statements
35. PRINCIPAL OPERATING, FINANCE AND INDUSTRIAL SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS (continued)
Country  
of incorporation
% interest  
2014
% interest  
2013 Main activity
Other operating and finance
Xstrata Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Holding
Glencore Australia Investment Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding
Glencore Queensland Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding
Glencore Investment Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding
Glencore Finance (Bermuda) Ltd Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Canada Financial Corp Canada 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Finance (Europe) S.A. Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Finance
Finges Investment B.V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore (Schweiz) AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Group Funding Limited UAE 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Funding LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Finance
Glencore Projects Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore Canada Corporation Canada 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore Grain B.V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating
ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore International AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore Commodities Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore Energy UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating
Glencore UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating
Principal joint ventures
8
Clermont Coal Mines Limited
9
Australia 25.1 0.0 Coal production
Compania Minera Dona Ines de Collahuasi Chile 44.0 44.0 Copper production
El Aouj Joint Venture Mauritania 44.0 44.0 Iron Ore
Principal joint operations
10
Bulga Joint Venture Australia 68.3 68.3 Coal production
Cumnock Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production
Foybrook Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production
Liddell Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production
Macquarie Coal Joint Venture Australia 80.0 80.0 Coal production
Newlands, Collinsville, Abbot Point Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production
Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production
Pentland Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production
Ravensworth Underground Mine Joint Venture Australia 70.0 70.0 Coal production
Redrock Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production
Rolleston Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production
Togara North Joint Venture Australia 70.0 70.0 Coal production
Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production
United Joint Venture Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production
Wandoan Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production
8 The principal joint ventures are accounted for as joint arrangements as the shareholder agreements do not provide the Group the ability to solely or jointly control the entities.
9 The Group’s effective 25.05% economic interest in Clermont Coal is held through GS Coal Pty Ltd, a 50:50 joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation.
10 Classified as joint operations under IFRS 11, as these joint arrangements are note structured through separate vehicles. 189
Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
Country  
of incorporation
% interest  
2014
% interest  
2013 Main activity
Principal joint operations (continued)
Donkin Joint Venture Canada 0.0 75.0 Coal production
ARM Coal (Pty) Ltd. South Africa 49.0 49.0 Coal production
Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Coal production
Merafe Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 79.5 79.5 Ferroalloys production
Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania 50.0 50.0 Nickel production
Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa 37.0 37.0 Platinum production
Rhovan Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Vanadium production
Principal associates
Renova S.A. Argentina 50.0 33.3 Biofuel production
Carbones del Cerrejon LLC Colombia 33.3 33.3 Coal production
Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia 33.4 33.4 Coal terminal
Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd Australia 37.0 37.0 Coal terminal
Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa 26.7 26.7 Coal terminal
Polymet Mining Corp. Canada 28.6 28.6 Copper production
Century Aluminum Company
11
USA 46.6 46.6 Diversified production
Russneft Group
12
Russia 40.0–49.040.0–49.0 Oil production
Lonmin plc
13
UK 24.5 24.5 Platinum production
Noranda Income Fund Canada 25.0 25.0 Zinc production
Compania Minera Antamina S.A. Peru 33.8 33.8 Zinc/Copper production
Recylex S.A. France 32.2 32.2 Zinc/Lead production
Other investments
United Company Rusal plc Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production
Volcan Compania Minera S.A.A. Peru 7.3 7.3 Zinc production
11 Represents the Group’s economic interest in Century, comprising 41.8% (2013: 41.8%) voting interest and 4.8% non-voting interest (2013: 4.8%). Century is publicly traded on 
NASDAQ under the symbol CENX.
12 Although the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights in various subsidiaries of the Russneft Group, it has limited management influence and therefore does not have 
significant influence.
13 Lonmin plc’s business year-end is 30 September and principal place of business is South Africa. Lonmin is publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol LMI.L. 190 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Additional information
191 Glossary
197 Production by quarter – Q4 2013 to Q4 2014
204 Shareholder information
IBC Forward looking statements
In this section Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
191
Glossary 
Available committed liquidity
US$ million 2014 2013
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,855 2,885
Headline committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 15,300 17 ,340
Amount drawn under syndicated revolving credit facilities (7 ,933) (5,702)
Amounts drawn under US commercial paper programme (813) (1,645)
Total 9,409 12,878
Adjusted current ratio
Current assets over current liabilities, both adjusted to exclude current other financial liabilities.
Current capital employed
Current capital employed is current assets less accounts payable, current deferred income, current provisions, current other 
financial liabilities and income tax payable.
Readily marketable inventories
Readily marketable inventories are readily convertible into cash due to their very liquid nature, widely available markets 
and the fact that the price is covered either by a physical sale transaction or hedge transaction. 192 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Reconciliation of selected reported financial information to those applying the proportionate consolidation 
method to certain associates and joint ventures
For internal reporting and analysis, management evaluates the performance of Antamina copper/zinc mine (34% owned), 
Cerrejon coal mine (33% owned) and the Collahuasi copper mine (44% owned) under the proportionate consolidation 
method reflecting Glencore’s proportionate share of the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities of these investments. 
Below are reconciliations of selected reported financial information to those of applying the proportionate consolidation 
method to these investments.
Cash flow related adjustments 2014
US$ million Reported measure
Adjustment for 
proportionate 
consolidation
Adjusted 
reported 
measure
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 10,978 – 10,978
Addback EBITDA of certain associates and joint ventures –1,552 1,552
Cash generated by operating activities before working capital changes 10,978 1,552 12,530
Income taxes paid (928) (329) (1,257)
Interest received 49 – 49
Interest paid (1,260) – (1,260)
Dividend received from associates and joint ventures 1,129 (1,022) 107
Funds from operations (“FFO”) 9,968 201 10,169
Working capital changes, excluding readily marketable inventory inflows 2,105 163 2,268
Receipts from/(payments of) non-current advances and loans (686) 168 (518)
Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries (1,792) – (1,792)
Net cash received from disposal of subsidiaries 6,482 – 6,482
Purchase of investments (374) – (374)
Proceeds from sale of investments 64 – 64
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (7 ,854) (467) (8,321)
Capital expenditures related to assets held for sale (961) – (961)
Payments for exploration and evaluation (245) – (245)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 206 – 206
Margin receipts in respect of financing related hedging activities 10 – 10
Acquisition of additional interests in subsidiaries (101) – (101)
Return of capital/dividends to non-controlling interests (245) – (245)
Repurchases of own shares (786) – (786)
Proceeds from own shares 19 – 19
Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent (2,244) – (2,244)
Cash movement in net debt 3,566 65 3,631
Glossary Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
193
Net debt at 31 December 2014
US$ million Reported measure
Adjustment for 
proportionate 
consolidation
Adjusted 
reported 
measure
Non-current borrowings 40,688 39 40,727
Current borrowings 12,005 92 12,097
Total borrowings 52,693 131 52,824
Less: cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (2,855) (211) (3,066)
Less: readily marketable inventories (19,226) – (19,226)
Net debt 30,612 (80) 30,532
Net debt at 31 December 2013
US$ million
Reported
measure
1
Adjustment for 
proportionate 
consolidation
Adjusted 
reported 
measure
Non-current borrowings 38,712 42 38,754
Current borrowings 16,461 68 16,529
Total borrowings 55,173 110 55,283
Less: cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (2,885) (182) (3,067)
Less: readily marketable inventories (16,418) – (16,418)
Net debt 35,870 (72) 35,798
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25). 194 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Reconciliation of selected reported financial information to those applying the proportionate consolidation 
method to certain associates and joint ventures (continued)
Reconciliation of tax charge 2014
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities Total
Adjusted EBIT, pre-significant items 2,790 3,916 6,706
Interest expense allocation (227) (1,465) (1,692)
Adjustments for:
Certain associates and joint ventures’ net finance costs –(14) (14)
Share of income in associates and dividend income (35) (83) (118)
Allocated profit before tax for the basis of tax calculation 2,528 2,354 4,882
Applicable tax rate 10.0% 25.0% 17.2%
Pre-significant tax charge 253 589 842
US$ million
Pre-significant  
tax charge
Las Bambas 
disposal
Other 
significant items
Total tax
charge
Tax charge on a proportionate consolidation basis 842 531 779 2,152
Adjustment in respect of certain associates and joint ventures tax (343) – – (343)
Tax charge on the basis of the income statement 499 531 779 1,809
Reconciliation of tax charge 2013 – pro forma basis
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities Total
Adjusted EBIT, pre-significant items 2,356 5,078 7,434
Interest expense allocation (283) (1,588) (1,871)
Adjustments for:
Interest income –253 253
Share of income in associates and dividend income (100) 13 (87)
Allocated profit before tax for the basis of tax calculation 1,973 3,756 5,729
Applicable tax rate 10.0% 25.0% 19.8%
Pre-significant tax charge 197 939 1,136
US$ million
Pre-significant  
tax charge
Other
significant items
Total tax
charge
Tax charge/(credit) on a proportionate consolidation basis 1,136 (183) 953
Adjustment in respect of certain associates and joint ventures tax (424) – (424)
Tax charge/(credit) on the basis of the income statement 712 (183) 529
Reconciliation of tax charge 2013
US$ million
Marketing 
activities
Industrial 
activities Total
Adjusted EBIT, pre-significant items 2,356 3,614 5,970
Interest expense allocation (283) (1,475) (1,758)
Adjustments for:
Interest income –221 221
Share of income in associates and dividend income (100) (130) (230)
Allocated profit before tax for the basis of tax calculation 1,973 2,230 4,203
Applicable tax rate 10.0% 25.0% 18.0%
Pre-significant tax charge 197 558 755
US$ million
Pre-significant  
tax charge
Other 
significant items
Total tax
charge
Tax charge/(credit) on a proportionate consolidation basis 755 (172) 583
Adjustment in respect of certain associates and joint ventures tax (329) – (329)
Tax charge/(credit) on the basis of the income statement 426 (172) 254
Glossary Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
195
Debt funding allocation between marketing and industrial activities
(Allocations between Marketing and Industrial are unaudited and unreviewed)
Group Allocated to Illustrative marketing
US$ million
As at  
31 December 
2014 Marketing Industrial 
Allocated to 
marketing
% debt 
funded Debt funded
Equity 
funded
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,855 X –
Production inventories 4,938 X –
Readily marketable inventories 19,226 X 19,226 85% 16,342 2,884
Other inventories 272 X 272 20% 54 218
Net receivable/(payables) excluding cash margining (5,913) X (5,913) 80% (4,730) (1,183)
Net brokers (cash margin only) 607 X 607 90% 546 61
Net fair value of trade related financial instruments 80 X 80 85% 68 12
Other net assets/(liabilities) (788) X X (145) 20% (29) (116)
Allocated current capital employed 21,277 14,127 12,251 1,876
Property, plant and equipment 70,110 X X 3,078 50% 1,539 1,539
Investments 13,746 X –
Long-term advances and loans 4,597 X X 2,374 20% 475 1,899
Total capital employed including cash – for debt 
allocation purposes 109,730 19,579 14,265 5,314
Intangible assets 8,866
Total allocated capital employed including cash 118,596
Not allocated
1
(14,423)
Total capital employed 104,173
Representing:
Gross debt 52,693
Equity 51,480
1 Not allocated represents deferred tax assets and liabilities, assets and liabilities held for sale, non-current deferred income, non-current provisions and non-current financial liabilities. 196 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Glossary
Reconciliation of selected pro forma financial information
(unaudited and unreviewed)
Year ended 31 December 2013
US$ million
Adjusted  
EBITDA
Adjusted  
EBIT
Net income 
before  
significant  
items
Net loss  
after  
significant
items
1
Reported – before adjustments for certain associates and joint ventures 9,684 5,635 3,666 (8,046)
Impact of presenting certain associates and joint ventures on a proportionate 
consolidation basis 782 335 – –
Reported in the financial review section 10,466 5,970 3,666 (8,046)
Less: Glencore’s pre-acquisition share of Xstrata’s earnings (176) (176) (176) (125)
Add: Xstrata’s pre-acquisition earnings on a consolidated basis 2,130 902 536 498
Add: effect of fair value adjustments
2
651 738 561 528
Less: deferred tax impact –– (4) –
Add back: Xstrata acquisition goodwill impairment
3
––– 8,124
Add back: revaluation of previously held interests in newly-acquired businesses 
and losses on sale of investment in associates
3
––– 1,200
Add back: transaction costs directly associated with the acquisition
3
––– 294
Reported pro forma financial information 13,071 7,434 4,583 2,473
1 Adjusted for the final fair value adjustments in relation to the acquisition of Xstrata (see note 25).
2 The fair value adjustments are determined in accordance with the basis of preparation on page 35. The fair value adjustments for the year ended 31 December 2013 include the pro 
forma impact for the 4 month period prior to acquisition. These incorporate adjustments for depreciation, amortisation and onerous contracts, although the major impact is the reversal 
of the non-cash inventory uplift adjustment of $445 million. Inventories held by Xstrata at the date of acquisition were required to be recognised at fair value under IFRS. This results 
in negligible margins upon the subsequent sale of these inventories. The income impact of fair value uplift on inventory has been excluded from the pro forma financial information 
to accurately present the underlying operating margins and provide more useful information about the performance of the Group. 
3 Considered for the purposes of the pro forma to have occurred immediately prior to the commencement of the accounting period. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
197
Production by quarter – Q4 2013 to Q4 2014
Following completion of the merger with Xstrata on 2 May 2013, production information  
for all periods covered in this report has been presented on a combined basis.
Metals and minerals
Production from own sources – Total
1
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014 2014 2013
Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
Total Copper kt 426.1 385.6 371.7 391.3 397.4 1,546.0 1,492.8 4 (7)
Total Zinc kt 336.8 306.4 344.0 347.3 388.8 1,386.5 1,398.5 (1) 15 
Total Lead kt 81.1 79.0 69.9 74.4 84.2 307.5 315.0 (2) 4 
Total Nickel kt 22.8 22.3 26.8 25.9 25.9 100.9 98.4 3 14 
Total Gold koz 267 237 221 230 267 955 1,017 (6) – 
Total Silver koz 9,837 8,791 7 ,915 8,761 9,441 34,908 39,041 (11) (4)
Total Cobalt kt 4.7 4.6 5.2 5.9 5.0 20.7 19.4 7 6 
Total Ferrochrome kt 345 335 317 287 356 1,295 1,238 5 3 
Total Platinum
2
koz 22 21 22 24 24 91 90 1 9 
Total Palladium
2
koz 12 12 12 13 13 50 50 – 8 
Total Rhodium
2
koz 3 4443 15 15 –– 
Total Vanadium Pentoxide mlb 5.7 5.5 4.2 5.5 5.6 20.8 21.6 (4) (2)
Production from own sources – Copper assets
1
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014 2014 2013
Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
African Copper (Katanga, Mutanda, Mopani, Sable)
Katanga Copper metal
3
kt 41.4 31.6 41.0 42.6 42.8 158.0 136.2 16 3
Cobalt kt 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.9 0.9 2.8 2.3 22 80
Mutanda Copper metal
3
kt 49.1 47 .1 51.5 52.0 46.5 197 .1 150.6 31 (5)
Cobalt
4
kt 3.5 3.3 3.8 4.1 3.2 14.4 13.7 5 (9)
Mopani Copper metal kt 31.4 27.7 13.4 37.4 31.4 109.9 111.8 (2) –
African Copper – total production including third party feed 
Mopani Copper metal kt 53.6 48.5 31.9 51.8 52.9 185.1 212.0 (13) (1)
Sable Copper metal kt 3.7 2.5 1.3 1.1 – 4.9 14.6 (66) (100)
 
Cobalt
4
kt 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.4 25 (50)
Total Copper metal
3
kt 121.9 106.4 105.9 132.0 120.7 465.0 398.6 17 (1)
Total Cobalt
4
kt 4.0 3.8 4.3 5.0 4.1 17.2 16.0 8 3
Collahuasi
5
Copper metal kt 2.4 2.3 2.0 2.7 4.0 11.0 12.5 (12) 67
Copper in concentrates kt 62.4 50.0 51.6 45.8 48.6 196.0 183.1 7 (22)
Silver in concentrates koz 807 675 680 530 591 2,476 2,217 12 (27)
Antamina
6
Copper in concentrates kt 43.9 34.2 27.2 26.7 28.3 116.4 149.5 (22) (36)
Zinc in concentrates kt 19.8 11.1 16.0 24.7 19.4 71.2 87.9 (19) (2)
Silver in concentrates koz 1,500 1,068 937 1,060 984 4,049 5,216 (22) (34)
Other South America (Alumbrera, Lomas Bayas, Antapaccay, Punitaqui)
Alumbrera Copper in concentrates kt 34.8 26.1 23.3 20.2 33.0 102.6 109.6 (6) (5)
Gold in concentrates  
and in doré koz 90 81 65 61 110 317 313 1 22
Silver in concentrates  
and in doré koz 177 180 179 156 251 766 1,145 (33) 42
Lomas Bayas Copper metal kt 18.2 18.0 17.3 15.4 15.9 66.6 74.2 (10) (13) 198 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Production from own sources – Copper assets
1
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014 2014 2013
Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
Antapaccay Copper metal kt 0.3 – – – – – 12.2 (100) (100)
Copper in concentrates kt 31.4 37.3 46.0 45.9 37.9 167.1 139.0 20 21
Gold in concentrates koz 11 12 18 24 15 69 79 (13) 36
Silver in concentrates koz 188 220 301 293 234 1,048 946 11 24
Punitaqui Copper in concentrates kt 3.2 3.3 2.6 2.7 2.8 11.4 11.8 (3) (13)
Silver in concentrates koz 25 21 18 20 28 87 101 (14) 12
Punitaqui – total production including third party feed
Copper in concentrates kt 3.3 3.3 2.6 2.8 2.9 11.6 12.0 (3) (12)
 Silver in concentrates koz 25 22 18 20 29 89 103 (14) 16
Total Copper metal kt 18.5 18.0 17.3 15.4 15.9 66.6 86.4 (23) (14)
Total Copper in 
concentrates kt 69.4 66.7 71.9 68.8 73.7 281.1 260.4 8 6
Total Gold in  
concentrates and in doré koz 101 93 83 85 125 386 392 (2) 24
Total Silver in 
concentrates and in doré koz 390 421 498 469 513 1,901 2,192 (13) 32
Australia (Mount Isa, Ernest Henry, Townsville, Cobar)
Mount Isa, Ernest Copper metal kt 57.5 58.3 50.5 44.8 55.9 209.5 197.3 6 (3)
Henry, Townsville Copper in concentrates kt – – – – – -– 2.8 (100) n.m.
Gold koz 18 18 17 11 16 62 44 41 (11)
Gold in concentrates koz – –––– –1 (100) n.m.
Silver koz 299 264 234 221 222 941 895 5 (26)
Silver in concentrates koz 11 – – – – – 11 (100) (100)
Mount Isa, Ernest Henry, Townsville – total production including third party feed
Copper metal kt 75.2 72.4 73.0 73.3 73.5 292.2 282.3 4 (2)
Copper in concentrates kt ––––– – 2.8 (100) n.m.
Gold koz 20 21 21 15 23 80 58 38 15
Gold in concentrates koz – –––– –1 (100) n.m.
Silver koz 618 657 609 998 480 2,744 3,141 (13) (22)
Silver in concentrates koz 11 – – – – – 11 (100) (100)
Cobar Copper in concentrates kt 11.5 12.6 10.9 11.7 14.4 49.6 45.6 9 25
Silver in concentrates koz 107 113 99 112 121 445 428 4 13
Total Copper kt 57.5 58.3 50.5 44.8 55.9 209.5 197.3 6 (3)
Total Copper  
in concentrates kt 11.5 12.6 10.9 11.7 14.4 49.6 48.4 2 25
Total Gold koz 18 18 17 11 16 62 45 38 (11)
Total Silver koz 417 377 333 333 343 1,386 1,334 4 (18)
Total Copper department
Total Copper kt 387.5 348.5 337.3 347.9 361.5 1,395.2 1,336.2 4 (7)
Total Cobalt kt 4.0 3.8 4.3 5.0 4.1 17.2 16.0 8 3
Total Zinc kt 19.8 11.1 16.0 24.7 19.4 71.2 87.9 (19) (2)
Total Gold koz 119 111 100 96 141 448 437 3 18
Total Silver koz 3,114 2,541 2,448 2,392 2,431 9,812 10,959 (10) (22)
Production by quarter – Q4 2013 to Q4 2014
Metals and minerals Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
199
Production from own sources – Zinc assets
1
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014 2014 2013
Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
Kazzinc
Zinc metal kt 55.9 49.2 50.0 47.8 52.3 199.3 216.2 (8) (6)
Lead metal kt 7.2 7.4 4.1 6.7 7.5 25.7 29.8 (14) 4
Copper metal kt 11.7 10.8 8.3 15.4 12.3 46.8 50.9 (8) 5
Gold koz 148 126 120 134 126 506 579 (13) (15)
Silver koz 1,257 1,132 757 1,206 1,178 4,273 5,251 (19) (6)
Kazzinc – total production including third party feed
Zinc metal kt 77.1 75.3 75.9 76.1 77.2 304.5 300.4 1 –
Lead metal kt 23.9 32.2 29.3 33.0 32.0 126.5 90.6 40 34
Copper metal kt 16.3 15.4 9.8 16.9 16.1 58.2 62.4 (7) (1)
Gold koz 190 161 159 169 186 675 708 (5) (2)
Silver koz 4,599 5,014 6,065 6,163 7,776 25,018 18,681 34 69
Australia (Mount Isa, McArthur River)
Mount Isa Zinc in concentrates kt 102.7 100.8 102.9 102.7 130.9  437.3  405.1  8  27 
Lead in concentrates kt 46.8 47.2 39.0 38.4 45.6  170.2  167.8  1  (3)
Silver in concentrates koz 1,927 2,054 1,461 1,466 1,877  6,858  6,870 –  (3)
McArthur River Zinc in concentrates kt 47.3 45.2 53.3 55.7 70.1  224.3  203.3  10  48 
Lead in concentrates kt 10.9 9.3 11.5 12.0 13.4  46.2  45.8  1  23 
Silver in concentrates koz 379 297 337 338 489  1,461  1,580  (8) 29 
Total Zinc in  
concentrates kt 150.0 146.0 156.2 158.4 201.0  661.6  608.4  9  34 
Total Lead in  
concentrates kt 57.7 56.5 50.5 50.4 59.0  216.4  213.6  1  2 
Total Silver in 
concentrates koz 2,306 2,351 1,798 1,804 2,366  8,319  8,450  (2) 3 
North America (Matagami, Kidd, Brunswick, CEZ Refinery)
Matagami Zinc in concentrates kt 20.0 17.9 19.0 19.0 18.9  74.8  74.5 –  (6)
Copper in concentrates kt 2.7 2.1 2.5 2.3 1.9  8.8  9.1  (3) (30)
Kidd Zinc in concentrates kt 14.0 10.1 22.0 13.3 15.6  61.0  67.8  (10) 11 
Copper in concentrates kt 9.3 10.3 8.1 10.9 9.2  38.5  36.9  4  (1)
Silver in concentrates koz 572 385 506 463 712  2,066  3,234  (36) 24 
Brunswick Mine Zinc in concentrates kt – – – – – –  52.0  (100) n.m.
Lead in concentrates kt – – – – – –  13.5  (100) n.m.
Copper in concentrates kt – – – – – –  3.0  (100) n.m.
Silver in concentrates koz – – – – – – 1,315  (100) n.m.
Total Zinc in  
concentrates kt 34.0 28.0 41.0 32.3 34.5  135.8  194.3  (30) 1 
Total Lead in  
concentrates kt – – – – –  –  13.5  (100) n.m.
Total Copper in 
concentrates kt 12.0 12.4 10.6 13.2 11.1  47.3  49.0  (3) (7)
Total Silver in 
concentrates koz 572 385 506 463 712  2,066  4,549  (55) 24  200 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Production from own sources – Zinc assets
1
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014 2014 2013
Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
North America – total production including third party feed
Brunswick Mine Zinc in concentrates kt – – – – – – 56.1  (100) n.m.
 Lead in concentrates kt – – – – – –  14.6  (100) n.m.
 Copper in concentrates kt – – – – – –  3.0  (100) n.m.
Silver in concentrates koz – – – – – –  1,402  (100) n.m.
Brunswick Smelter Lead metal kt 20.1 18.7 17.5 16.9 21.5  74.6  75.3  (1) 7 
Silver metal koz 4,555 3,120 2,852 3,727 6,125  15,824  16,146  (2) 34 
CEZ Refinery
7
Zinc metal kt 16.8 14.9 15.6 17.2 17.8  65.5  66.3  (1) 6 
Other Zinc (AR Zinc, Los Quenuales, Sinchi Wayra, Rosh Pinah, Perkoa)
Zinc metal kt 6.2 1.9 8.3 8.0 5.0 23.2 29.7 (22) (19)
Zinc in concentrates kt 70.9 70.2 72.5 76.1 76.6 295.4 262.0 13 8
Lead metal kt 3.0 2.4 3.0 3.1 3.2 11.7 11.0 6 7
Lead in concentrates kt 13.2 12.7 12.3 14.2 14.5 53.7 47.1 14 10
Copper in concentrates kt 0.6 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.4 2.7 2.1 29 (33)
Silver metal koz 185 133 159 148 173 613 670 (9) (6)
Silver in concentrates koz 2,403 2,249 2,247 2,748 2,581 9,825 9,162 7 7
Other Zinc – total production including third party feed
Zinc metal kt 9.5 2.4 9.3 9.6 7.8 29.1 37.9 (23) (18)
Zinc in concentrates kt 70.9 70.2 72.5 76.1 76.6 295.4 262.0 13 8
Lead metal kt 3.0 2.4 3.0 3.1 3.2 11.7 11.0 6 7
Lead in concentrates kt 13.2 12.7 12.3 14.2 14.5 53.7 47.1 14 10
Copper in concentrates kt 0.6 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.4 2.7 2.1 29 (33)
Silver metal koz 185 133 159 148 173 613 670 (9) (6)
Silver in concentrates koz 2,403 2,249 2,247 2,748 2,581 9,825 9,162 7 7
Total Zinc department
Total Zinc kt 317.0 295.3 328.0 322.6 369.4 1,315.3 1,310.6 – 17
Total Lead kt 81.1 79.0 69.9 74.4 84.2 307.5 315.0 (2) 4
Total Copper kt 24.3 24.0 19.7 29.3 23.8 96.8 102.0 (5) (2)
Total Gold koz 148 126 120 134 126 506 579 (13) (15)
Total Silver koz 6,723 6,250 5,467 6,369 7,010 25,096 28,082 (11) 4
Production by quarter – Q4 2013 to Q4 2014
Metals and minerals Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
201
Production from own sources – Nickel assets
1
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014 2014 2013
Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
Integrated Nickel Operations (Sudbury, Raglan, Nikkelverk)
Total Nickel metal kt 13.4 13.3 13.8 11.7 12.5 51.3 47.1 9 (7)
Total Nickel  
in concentrates kt 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.6 0.5 20 100
Total Copper metal kt 4.4 3.8 4.2 3.9 3.8 15.7 16.7 (6) (14)
Total Copper  
in concentrates kt 9.9 9.3 10.5 10.2 8.3 38.3 37.6 2 (16)
Total Cobalt metal kt 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.7 14 –
Integrated Nickel Operations – total production including third party feed 
Total Nickel metal kt 23.2 21.7 22.6 23.1 23.1 90.5 91.0 (1) –
Total Nickel in concentrates kt 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.7 0.7 – (50)
Total Copper metal kt 9.9 8.7 7.8 9.8 9.5 35.8 37.5 (5) (4)
Total Copper in concentrates kt 12.3 11.7 13.5 12.7 10.1 48.0 46.3 4 (18)
Total Cobalt metal kt 1.0 0.8 0.9 1.0 0.9 3.6 3.4 6 (10)
Australia (Murrin Murrin, XNA)
Total Nickel metal kt 7.5 7.8 9.8 9.6 9.2 36.4 35.9 1 23
Total Nickel  
in concentrates kt ––––– – 4.1 (100)n.m.
Total Copper  
in concentrates kt ––––– – 0.3 (100)n.m.
Total Cobalt metal kt 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.7 2.7 2.6 4 40
Total Cobalt  
in concentrates kt ––––– – 0.1 (100)n.m.
Australia – total production including third party feed 
Total Nickel metal kt 8.9 9.4 12.2 11.3 11.2 44.1 41.3 7 26
Total Nickel in concentrates kt – – – – – – 4.1 (100) n.m.
Total Copper in concentrates kt – – – – – – 0.3 (100) n.m.
Total Cobalt metal kt 0.5 0.6 0.8 0.8 0.7 2.9 2.7 7 40
Total Cobalt in concentrates kt – – – – – – 0.1 (100) n.m.
Falcondo Nickel in ferronickel kt 0.4 – – – – – 9.4 (100) (100)
Koniambo Nickel in ferronickel kt 1.4 1.0 3.1 4.5 4.0 12.6 1.4 800 186
Total Nickel department
Total Nickel kt 22.8 22.3 26.8 25.9 25.9 100.9 98.4 3 14
Total Copper kt 14.3 13.1 14.7 14.1 12.1 54.0 54.6 (1) (15)
Total Cobalt kt 0.7 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.9 3.5 3.4 3 29 202 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Production from own sources – Ferroalloys assets
1
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014
2014 2013 Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
Ferrochrome
8
kt 345 335 317 287 356 1,295 1,238 5 3
PGM
9
Platinum koz 22 21 22 24 24 91 90 1 9
Palladium koz 12 12 12 13 13 50 50 – 8
Rhodium koz 34443 15 15 – –
Gold koz – –1–– 11 – n.m.
 4E koz 37 37 39 41 40 157 156 1 8
Vanadium Pentoxide mlb 5.7 5.5 4.2 5.5 5.6 20.8 21.6 (4) (2)
Total production – Custom metallurgical assets
1
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014
2014 2013 Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
Copper (Altonorte, Pasar, Horne, CCR)
Copper metal kt 104.2 81.3 118.4 116.3 117.8 433.8 468.3 (7) 13
Copper anode kt 128.3 125.0 141.0 101.0 126.7 493.7 514.5 (4) (1)
Zinc (Portovesme, San Juan de Nieva, Nordenham, Northfleet)
Zinc metal kt 191.0 193.6 194.6 197.5 196.1 781.8 745.0 5 3
Lead metal kt 52.5 48.5 52.0 37.1 39.8 177.4 174.1 2 (24)
Silver koz 2,428 2,342 2,823 2,211 2,106 9,482 7,870 20 (13)
Ferroalloys
Ferromanganese kt 23 30 27 30 29 116 99 17 26
Silicon Manganese kt 26 26 26 28 28 108 92 17 8
Aluminium (Sherwin Alumina)
Alumina kt 419 385 391 315 291 1,382 1,606 (14) (31)
1 Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis, except as stated.
2 Relating to the PGM business within Ferroalloys only.
3 Copper metal includes copper contained in copper concentrates and blister.
4 Cobalt contained in concentrates and hydroxides.
5 The Group’s pro-rata share of Collahuasi production (44%).
6 The Group’s pro-rata share of Antamina production (33.75%).
7 The Group’s pro-rata share of CEZ production (25%).
8 The Group’s attributable 79.5% share of the Glencore-Merafe Chrome Venture. 
9 Consolidated 100% of Eland and 50% of Mototolo.
Metals and minerals
Production by quarter – Q4 2013 to Q4 2014 Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Additional information
203
Production from own sources – Coal assets
1
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014 2014 2013
Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
Australian coking coal mt 1.7 1.5 1.4 1.7 1.4 6.0 7.3 (18) (18)
Australian semi-soft coal mt 1.2 0.9 0.9 0.7 1.0 3.5 4.5 (22) (17)
Australian thermal coal (export) mt 11.1 11.8 14.2 16.4 12.2 54.6 48.1 14 10
Australian thermal coal (domestic) mt 1.2 1.4 1.3 1.5 1.2 5.4 5.1 6 –
South African thermal coal (export) mt 5.5 5.0 5.2 7.2 6.0 23.4 20.6 14 9
South African thermal coal (domestic) mt 5.1 5.4 6.1 5.5 5.7 22.7 22.9 (1) 12
Prodeco mt 4.4 5.2 5.0 4.9 4.4 19.5 18.6 5 –
Cerrejón
2
mt 3.3 2.9 3.0 2.3 3.0 11.2 11.0 2 (9)
Total Coal department mt 33.5 34.1 37.1 40.2 34.9 146.3 138.1 6 4
1 Controlled industrial assets and joint ventures only. Production is on a 100% basis except for joint ventures, where the Group’s attributable share of production is included.
2 The Group’s pro-rata share of Cerrejón production (33.3%).
Production from own sources – Oil assets
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014 2014 2013
Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
Glencore entitlement interest basis
Equatorial Guinea kbbl 1,394 1,368 1,194 1,243 1,267 5,072 4,799 6 (9)
Chad kbbl 186 321 276 714 968 2,279 186 1,125 420
Total Oil department kbbl 1,580  1,689 1,470 1,957 2,235 7,351 4,985 47 41
Gross basis
Equatorial Guinea kbbl 6,113 6,304 5,731 6,133 6,064 24,232 21,917 11 (1)
Chad kbbl 619 1,067 916 975 1,326 4,284 619 592 114
Total Oil department kbbl 6,732 7,371 6,647 7,108 7,390 28,516 22,536 27 10
Agricultural products
Processing/production data
Q4
2013
Q1
2014
Q2
2014
Q3
2014
Q4
2014 2014 2013
Change
2014 vs 
2013
%
Change
Q4 14 vs 
Q4 13 
%
Farming kt 236 232 34 306 190 762 883 (14) (19)
Crushing kt 966 1,062 1,616 1,515 1,471 5,664 3,642 56 52
Long-term toll agreement kt 101 49 157 – – 206 541 (62) (100)
Biodiesel kt 191 172 169 211 205 757 624 21 7
Rice milling kt 70 36 91 73 30 230 273 (16) (57)
Wheat milling kt 267 262 263 257 231 1,013 1,121 (10) (13)
Sugarcane processing kt 809 – 723 1,092 416 2,231 2,251 (1) (49)
Total Agricultural products kt 2,640 1,813 3,053 3,454 2,543 10,863 9,335 16 (4)
Energy products 204 Glencore Annual Report 2014
Glencore plc is registered in Jersey, with headquarters in Switzerland and operations around the world.
Headquarters Baarermattstrasse 3
P .O. Box 777 
CH-6341 Baar 
Switzerland
Registered Office Queensway House
Hilgrove Street 
St Helier 
Jersey 
JE1 1ES
The Company has a primary quote on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) and a secondary quote on both the 
Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange (HKEx).
Share registrar Computershare Investor Services (Jersey) Limited 
Queensway House 
Hilgrove Street 
St Helier, Jersey 
JE1 1ES 
Channel Islands 
Tel.: +44 (0) 870 707 4040
Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Ltd 
70 Marshall Street 
Johannesburg 
2001 South Africa 
Tel.: +27 (0) 11 370 5000
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited 
Hopewell Centre 46th Floor 
183 Queen’s Road East 
Wan Chai 
Hong Kong 
Tel.: +852 2862 8628
Enquiries Company Secretary 
John Burton 
john.burton@glencore.com
Glencore plc 
Baarermattstrasse 3 
CH-6340 Baar 
Switzerland 
Tel.: +41 41 709 2000 
Fax: +41 41 709 3000 
Email: info@glencore.com
 
 
Shareholder information Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.ry.com
This report is printed on Cocoon Offset paper, made from 100% genuine
de-inked post-consumer waste which is FSC
®
 Certified and manufactured 
at a mill that is certified to the ISO 14001 environmental standard.
Printed by Principal Colour
Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSC
®
 Chain 
of Custody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Forward looking statements
This document contains statements that are, or may be 
deemed to be, “forward looking statements” which are 
prospective in nature. These forward looking statements 
may be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, 
or the negative thereof such as “plans” , “expects” or “does 
not expect” , “is expected” , “continues” , “assumes” , “is subject 
to”, “budget” , “scheduled”, “estimates”, “aims” , “forecasts”, 
“risks” , “intends” , “positioned” , “predicts” , “anticipates” or 
“does not anticipate” , or “believes” , or variations of such 
words or comparable terminology and phrases or statements 
that certain actions, events or results “may” , “could” , 
“should” , “shall” , “would” , “might” or “will” be taken, 
occur or be achieved. Such statements are qualified in their 
entirety by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding 
future expectations. Forward-looking statements are not 
based on historical facts, but rather on current predictions, 
expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, objectives, goals, 
intentions and projections about future events, results of 
operations, prospects, financial condition and discussions 
of strategy. 
By their nature, forward looking statements involve known 
and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are 
beyond Glencore’s control. Forward looking statements are 
not guarantees of future performance and may and often do 
differ materially from actual results. Important factors that 
could cause these uncertainties include, but are not limited 
to, those discussed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
section on pages 26 to 33.
Neither Glencore nor any of its associates or directors, 
officers or advisers, provides any representation, assurance 
or guarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed 
or implied in any forward looking statements in this 
document will actually occur. You are cautioned not to place 
undue reliance on these forward looking statements which 
only speak as of the date of this document. Other than 
in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations 
(including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority 
and the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the 
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and the Listing 
Requirements of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Limited), 
Glencore is not under any obligation and Glencore and 
its affiliates expressly disclaim any intention, obligation 
or undertaking to update or revise any forward looking 
statements, whether as a result of new information, future 
events or otherwise. This document shall not, under any 
circumstances, create any implication that there has been no 
change in the business or affairs of Glencore since the date 
of this document or that the information contained herein 
is correct as at any time subsequent to its date.
No statement in this document is intended as a profit 
forecast or a profit estimate and no statement in this 
document should be interpreted to mean that earnings 
per Glencore share for the current or future financial years 
would necessarily match or exceed the historical published 
earnings per Glencore share. 
This document does not constitute or form part of any offer 
or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to 
purchase or subscribe for any securities. The making of this 
document does not constitute a recommendation regarding 
any securities. Glencore plc 
Baarermattstrasse 3 
CH-6340 Baar 
Switzerland 
Tel: +41 41 709 2000 
Fax: +41 41 709 3000 
E-mail: info@glencore.com
www.glencore.com
FRONT COVER IMAGE: 
Ernest Henry copper mine, Australia.
