 GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 We added the Governor’s House in Cheadle, Cheshire, to our estate with the acquisition of Hardys & Hansons.
In a relatively afﬂuent area, it has been redeveloped during the year to a Premium Local, with an extensive
food and drink offer. Although the pub is classed as one of our premium trading formats it still retains
the look and feel of a great local pub.
“Our fantastic new pub attracts a wide
range of customers from the local area
and further aﬁeld. Our new food offer
is perfect for any occasion and we
offer an extensive range of wines from
around the world, with our glass wine
wall being a great talking point!”
John Rennie
Joint manager at the Governor’s House Who are we?
1
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Overview
Greene King has been brewing beer and running
pubs for over 200 years. Combining a wide range
of pubs and restaurants with successful traditional
ale brands, we have grown steadily from our base
in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk to become one of the
country’s leading pub retailers and brewers.
We run, rent and lease pubs and restaurants, and
brew beer and sell drinks to the licensed trade.
Our customers range from pub-goers and hotel
guests to licensees, supermarkets and national pub
chains. It is through listening to those customers and providing them with best
service and value for money that we have built our trade. We are proud to serve
communities throughout the country, but our reputation among shareholders is
focused on our ability to deliver solid results in challenging conditions.
Greene King has four trading divisions, each with a distinctive function but
each beneﬁting from, and contributing to, the success of the overall group.
The following sections outline their areas of operation.
Overview
1 Who are we?
2 What we do
4 Chairman’s statement
5 Highlights
Business review
6 Chief executive’s review
18 Financial review
20 Risks and uncertainties
21 Corporate social responsibility report
24 Board of directors
Financial statements and notes
26 Group ﬁnancial record
27 Group income statement
28 Group balance sheet
29 Group cash ﬂow statement
Group statement of recognised income and expense
30 Notes to the accounts
60 Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Greene King plc (group)
61 Company balance sheet
62 Notes to the company accounts
67 Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Greene King plc (company)
Management and governance
68 Directors’ report
71 Directors’ remuneration report
78 Corporate governance
82 Directors’ statements
Other information
83 Notice of meeting
88 Shareholder information
Contents 2
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
What we do
Overview
Greene King’s main businesses are managed pubs and restaurants; tenanted and leased pubs;
and brewing and distribution. Our Scottish business, Belhaven, operates the same three proﬁt
streams separately from the rest of the UK operations. In total we operate 2,587 pubs and
restaurants, two breweries (Bury St Edmunds and Dunbar) and a number of regional depots.
Our head ofﬁce is in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk.
Retail (Destination Pubs, Local Pubs and Loch Fyne Restaurants)
Pub Partners (tenanted and leased pubs)
This business includes our managed pubs and restaurants within England and
Wales. In total, there were 792 outlets trading at the year end. The main brands/
formats include Hungry Horse, Hardy’s House, Old English Inns and Loch Fyne
Restaurants. There are 492 pubs in our Local Pubs division, catering for their
local communities across the country.
Pub Partners operates all of our tenanted and leased partnerships within England and
Wales. At the year-end there were 1474 outlets within Pub Partners, split 21% leased
and 79% tenancy. Pub Partners’ business model is based upon ensuring optimum
proﬁt achievement for both licensee and Greene King. Maintaining licensee viability
is our main aim and we run industry-leading support and training programmes.
Brewing Company (industry-leading brands)
No.1
cask ale in UK
1
Brewing Company is responsible for the brewing, distribution, marketing and
selling of our leading portfolio of ale brands, including Greene King IPA, Old
Speckled Hen and Abbot Ale. Brewing Company operates one brewery, in Bury
St. Edmunds, serving the whole of England and Wales, ensuring optimum efﬁciency
of our brewing operation. As well as to our own pubs, we also sell our brands
and third-party products to other pub-owning companies, supermarkets and to
customers in the free trade.
Belhaven (Scotland)
Leading
ale in Scottish
on-trade
Belhaven, our Scottish division, mirrors the Greene King model with managed
and tenanted pubs operating alongside a brewing division. Belhaven was acquired
by Greene King in 2005 and continues to be operated separately. At the year end,
Belhaven operated 321 pubs, 95 of which were managed.
Number of pubs
96
Tenancy
79%
Leased
21 %
Number of pubs
31 3
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Number of
inns/hotels
66
Hungry Horse Every Hungry Horse pub is a friendly
local that goes out to impress everyone with its quality
family food offer, sense of fun, and affordable prices.
We pride ourselves on being central to our local
community and providing great value.
Hardy’s House A Hardy’s House is the best choice
for quality pub food, friendly atmosphere and the
personal touch in its locality. We offer our customers
“remarkable hospitality” and want to ensure we
cater for families, women and our “golden years”
customers equally.
Old English Inns A wonderful selection of character
inns and hotels set in some of the most beautiful parts
of the country. We offer historic buildings, real log ﬁres
and beams, great cask ale and quality food for business
trips, breaks and getting away from it all.
Loch Fyne Restaurants The home of superb seafood
and shellﬁsh, we acquired Loch Fyne Restaurants in
August 2007. At that time there were 36 restaurants
across the UK and by the year-end, this had risen to 39.
Each is very different, but with the same warm and
friendly ambience. The team works hard to provide
great service via approachable and knowledgeable staff
who serve our fresh and fabulous food with a smile.
Tenancies Our tenanted model is based on a more
hands-on approach to working with our licensees.
Agreements are generally for ﬁve years, with the repair
liability shared between the tenant and ourselves.
These agreements are an excellent ﬁt for ﬁrst-time
licensees and those that don’t wish to take on the
extra responsibility of a lease.
Leases Our leased model offers longer, assignable
agreements with fully repairing and insuring liability
sitting with the lessee. Agreements are generally
for 15 years and assignable after four years. These
agreements tend to attract more entrepreneurial
licensees who require more freedom to run the
business as they would like.
Greene King IPA A multi medal winner including gold
in the Champion Beer of Britain Awards and the best
selling cask beer in the UK. As well as being the ofﬁcial
beer of England Rugby and Harlequins, it ﬂies the ﬂag
for quality real ale. The Export version has just been
named ‘Best Export Strong Pale Ale in the World’*.
Old Speckled Hen The leading premium ale brand in
supermarkets and last year voted a Superbrand ‘One to
Watch’. The brand has doubled in size in the last seven
years and is widening the appeal of ale among a younger,
style conscious crowd. It is our leading export brand.
Abbot Ale The no. 1 selling premium ale in London
and the no.2 premium cask beer in the UK. Another
of Greene King’s award-winning traditional ale brands,
Abbot Ale is brewed longer for a stronger taste and
is a favourite with the nation’s discerning beer drinkers.
No.1
premium ale
in supermarkets
2
No.2
premium cask ale
in UK
1
Number of pubs
321
Managed pubs At the year end, Belhaven operated
95 managed pubs, none of them overtly branded.
Food has become an increasingly important part
of the operation, with sales growing by almost
50% since acquisition.
Tenanted pubs At the year end, Belhaven
operated 226 tenanted pubs, across most of Scotland.
The geographical reach extends every year through
single-site acquisitions and the team prides itself on
being the “most considerate landlord” in Scotland.
Number of
restaurants
39
Number of outlets
1,474
Brewing Belhaven Best is Scotland’s leading ale.
It has an ABV of 3.2% on draught and is the ofﬁcial
beer of Scotland Rugby and the Scottish Golf Union.
Other brands include 80/-, Twisted Thistle and
St. Andrew’s Ale.
1 AC Nielsen On Trade Survey MAT to March 2008
2 AC Nielsen Scantrack data MAT to 17/05/08
* Beers of the World June 2008 4
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Chairman’s statement
Overview
Results
I am delighted that we have managed to
extend an unbroken run in earnings growth
that stretches back over 40 years. A strong
increase in operating proﬁt, up by 8% over
2006/07 to £236.2m, combined with effective
balance sheet management, has driven our
proﬁt before tax and exceptional items up
by 2% to £142.0m and our earnings per share
up by 14% to 74.0p.
Dividend
The results have led the board to recommend
a ﬁnal dividend payment of 18.7p which will
produce a total dividend of 26.0p for the year,
an increase of 14% on last year. If approved,
the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 8 September
to those shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 8 August.
Acquisitions and disposals
The company has been transformed in the last
two decades into a signiﬁcant national player
in the British eating and drinking out market.
We have added acquisitions to organic
growth to extend our product offer and our
geographical spread, and have made asset
disposals to improve the average quality
of our estate.
This year we acquired Loch Fyne Restaurants
in August 2007 for £64.2m. They had 36
outlets at the time, and now have 41, and
the acquisition marks an important further
step forward in the development of our
food retailing. We also acquired New
Century Inns for £32.8m in November 2007.
They had 49 tenanted and leased pubs mostly
located in the north east, and have brought
us much better representation in that part
of the country.
Board
Howard Phillips will be retiring at our AGM
in September. He has served as a non-executive
director for ten years and I would like to thank
him for the experience and good sense he has
brought to the board over that time.
People
These results are particularly encouraging in
view of the tough trading environment in which
we ﬁnd ourselves. They have been achieved
through the dedication, passion and enthusiasm
of our employees and our partners in the
licensed trade. I would like to express my
thanks to all of you for the part you have
played in producing such a strong set of ﬁgures.
I also welcome those who have joined us
through our acquisitions, bringing fresh ideas
and valuable experience to our business.
For all of us, the crucial attributes of hard work
and skill will be all the more important in the
difﬁcult times ahead and I am conﬁdent that
we have a great team to handle that challenge.
Tim Bridge
Chairman
2 July 2008 Highlights
+5%
Revenue £960.5m
+8%
Operating proﬁt* £236.2m;
+4.5% excluding acquisitions
+0.8%pts
Operating proﬁt
margin* 24.6%
+2%
Proﬁt before tax* £142.0m
+14%
Adjusted earnings
per share* 74.0p
+14%
Dividend
per share 26.0p
£31.1m
Free cash ﬂow after capital
expenditure and dividend
£350m
Successful securitisation tap
(post year end);
no further re-ﬁnancing
needed until 2012
5
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Revenue £m
960.5 2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
917.5
818.6
707.5
552.7
Comparable earnings per share p*
74.0 2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
64.8
56.0
46.5
40.1
Proﬁt before tax, goodwill and exceptionals £m
142.0 2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
139.8
119.6
95.7
82.6
Operating proﬁt before goodwill and exceptionals £m
236.2 2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
218.1
190.9
158.3
111.8
Dividend per share p*
26.00 2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
22.90
20.15
18.15
16.50
EBITDA £m
283.3 2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
260.8
229.2
191.5
136.9
* all years adjusted for share split
* before exceptional items; the results are positively impacted by an additional week’s trading relative to last year 6
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Chief executive’s review
Business review
I am pleased to report another strong
set of results for Greene King. For the
ﬁnancial year 2007/08, revenue was
up 5% at £960.5m, operating proﬁt
up 8% at £236.2m and proﬁt before
tax up 2% at £142.0m* . This has
led to adjusted earnings per share
up 14% to 74.0p, and has allowed
the board to recommend a full-year
dividend up 14% to 26.0p.
Pub and restaurant retailing delivered
encouraging growth in sales and proﬁt.
Pub Partners grew in both revenue and margins.
Our key beer brands achieved signiﬁcant
growth again, despite the declining ale market.
Common to all our businesses have been
the themes of:
 Delivering quality and value for money
 Mitigating cost increases and reducing
the ﬁxed-cost base
 Growing sales in strategic categories
 Investing for future growth
Trading conditions have become more difﬁcult.
We are a year into the English smoking ban
and consumer conﬁdence is at its lowest for
18 years. We have faced major cost increases
across a wide range of categories. Looking
forward, pubs will have to ﬁght even harder
to protect and grow their share of discretionary
spending, and on-trade beer sales will be
under considerable pressure. But there are
a number of our sales categories that continue
to grow, including eating out, premium drinks
and accommodation; and newer consumer
groups continue to be attracted to our outlets.
We are well placed to face the challenges.
We remain focused on what is most important
in our business: high-quality, good-value food
and drink in the unique setting of the British
pub. We have never chased sales for their
own sake, but rather sustainable proﬁt growth
over the long term – reﬂected in our strong
margins. We maintain a balance sheet with
comfortable headroom, asset-backed by a
well-invested and overwhelmingly freehold
pub estate. We continue to generate healthy
free cash ﬂow, and have a long-term record
of doing what is required to deliver
industry-leading results.
Over the past two years, we have been
implementing an accelerated programme of
change, to optimise our position relative to
expected market developments. A signiﬁcant
part of the estate has been churned and we
have continued to add quality sustainable
outlets and brought in further expertise via
Hardys & Hansons and Loch Fyne. Food sales
now stand at 34% of our Retail revenues:
adding in food-related drink sales, our dining
revenue now accounts for half of the total.
In ales we focus on a small number of brands
that can lead their categories. We have
rationalised the cost base in all businesses:
Retail, Tenancy and Brewing & Distribution.
Although all our divisions have performed
well in difﬁcult circumstances, I am
particularly encouraged by Belhaven’s result.
Scotland’s smoking ban came over a year
before England’s. In the second year of the
Scottish smoking ban, the Belhaven team
have developed the business signiﬁcantly
towards food and families, and delivered
operating proﬁt growth of 18%.
* As throughout this document, the proﬁt ﬁgures are
shown before exceptional items. The results are
positively impacted by an additional week’s trading
relative to last year. 7
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Key performance indicators
Strategic priority Performance Deﬁnition
Earnings per share
EPS grew just over 14% to 74.0p – the 14th
consecutive year of double digit EPS growth.
Excluding the impact of our share buyback
programme in the year, EPS growth would
have been 11%.
Dividend per share
Following the strong results achieved in the
year, the board has recommended a ﬁnal
dividend payment of 18.7p per share, producing
total dividend per share for the year of 26.0p,
an increase of 14% on last year.
PBTE
Proﬁt before tax and exceptionals grew 2%
to £142m. Excluding the impact of our share
buyback programme in the year, PBTE growth
would have been 8%.
Operating proﬁt margin
Our operating proﬁt margin grew 0.8% in the
year, a great effort given the cost pressures
the business faced. We do not pursue revenue
growth at the expense of margins as this
does not generate sufﬁcient cash to support
long-term growth.
Average proﬁt per outlet
In the year, we grew average proﬁt per outlet
in our Retail and in our tenanted/leased estates
by 3% and 8% respectively.
Fixed charge cover
We returned £149m to shareholders in
2007/08 via a share buy-back of 15.4m shares,
funded from debt. The higher interest payments
and slightly higher rental payments meant that
ﬁxed charge cover has fallen as planned to 2.3x
at the year end.
Proﬁt for the period attributable to equity
holders, excluding the effect of exceptional
items, divided by the weighted average number
of shares in issue during the period excluding
own shares held.
Total dividend per share paid and proposed
in respect of the period.
Group proﬁt for the period after ﬁnancing
charges but before tax and exceptional items.
Operating proﬁt, pre-exceptional items,
divided by group revenue for the period.
Operating proﬁt for the period,
pre-exceptionals, divided by the average
number of outlets in the period.
Fixed charge cover is calculated using the
formula EBITDAR (operating proﬁt before
depreciation, amortisation, rent and
exceptionals) less maintenance capex
divided by the sum of interest and rent.
74.0p 2008
2007 64.8p
26.0p 2008
2007 22.9p
£142.0m 2008
2007 £139.8m
24.6% 2008
2007 23.8%
Retail
£145,400 2008
2007 £141,700
2.3x 2008
2007 2.6x
Growth +14%
Growth +14%
Growth +2%
Growth +0.8%
Growth +3%
Pub Partners
£56,400 2008
2007 £52,200
Growth +8% Hungry Horse
“The new development has really
encouraged families into the pub.
We also have a playbarn which is
especially popular with the children.”
Laura Dixon
Waitress at the Ship
We have been undertaking a signiﬁcant programme of capital investment into our Hungry Horse pubs,
with over 26 having been redeveloped to date. The pubs now beneﬁt from a new livery and a rationalised
menu with additional value. The Ship in Mirﬁeld, West Yorkshire, has seen sales increase by over 40%
since re-opening.
8
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 9
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Chief executive’s review
Retail
Business review
In Greene King Retail, made up of
our Local Pubs, Destination Pubs
and Loch Fyne Restaurants businesses,
sales were up 6% at £578.7m and
operating proﬁt up 5% at £116.5m.
Before the impact of the mainly
leasehold Loch Fyne restaurants,
Retail margins were up 0.5 percentage
points. Total like-for-like sales were
down 1%, while like-for-like food
sales were up by over 2%.
All businesses made meal deals more
prominent, many houses delayed passing on
the Chancellor’s budget increases in beer duty,
and, facing a strong euro, we introduced more
dollar-traded wines. We made major savings
from rationalising both menu items and
ingredients, energy savings have mitigated
increases in power costs, and we have
removed Sky from a number of pubs where
it made economic sense to do so.
Food and food-related sales now account for
half of our Retail sales and food remains our
top priority for sales growth. We have learned
much from Loch Fyne on development
planning, kitchen design, customer proﬁling
and direct marketing. The Locals team have
driven particularly high food growth this
year – focusing on top quality pub food, and
investing in kitchen upgrades to deliver this at
its very best. We have seen signiﬁcant growth
again in wine sales, and have agreed a wider
roll-out of Fairtrade coffee. The accommodation
business in Destination Pubs has been
upgraded with the replacement of all the beds
in Old English Inns, as well as improvements
to bathroom amenities and the breakfast offer.
Hungry Horse beneﬁts from a new livery, a
rationalised menu with additional value, and
an accelerated capital investment programme.
In the course of the year, we invested
£21.4m in 97 major property improvements.
Additionally, £27.0m went on maintenance
capex, with a further £7.5m on repairs from
the revenue account. Key strategic capital
projects included the upgrade of a further
tranche of pubs to the Premium Local format,
and beginning the conversion of a number
of pub sites to Loch Fyne restaurants, as well
as the major upgrades at Hungry Horse.
We began the ﬁnancial year with 788 Retail
sites. 36 sites were added from the Loch
Fyne acquisition, two new Loch Fyne sites
were acquired, 11 pubs were divested,
17 transferred to, and one from, Pub Partners,
and seven transferred to Belhaven. The closing
balance was therefore 792 sites, segmented
as follows:
Change
06/07 07/08 52 week
52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis
Average number
of pubs trading 781 801 +3% +3%
Revenue £546.0m £578.7m +6% +4%
EBITDA £138.0m £147.9m +7% +5%
Operating
proﬁt £110.7m £116.5m +5% +3%
Operating
proﬁt margin 20.3% 20.1% -0.1%pts -0.1%pts
Revenue per pub £699.1k £722.5k +3% +1%
Operating proﬁt
per pub £141.7k £145.4k +3% +1%
Outlets trading
Outlets at on average
year end during year
Local Pubs 492 500
Destination Pubs 261 273
Loch Fyne Restaurants 39 28
Total 792 801 10
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Chief executive’s review
Business review
Pub
Partners
Revenue at Pub Partners, our
tenancy/lease division in England and
Wales, was up 2% at £167.2m, while
operating proﬁt rose 9% to £81.4m.
Hence the operating proﬁt margin
rose signiﬁcantly, by 3.1 percentage
points, to 48.7%. Like-for-like proﬁt
was unchanged year on year.
An average of 1,443 sites traded over the year.
At the start of the ﬁnancial year, 1,417 pubs
were trading. 53 sites were added from
acquisitions, mainly New Century Inns, while
12 were sold and 17 transferred in from the
Retail division, with one going the other way.
The closing balance was therefore 1,474 pubs.
Pub Partners is focused on our partners’
business health. We have cut the price of
soft drinks and bottled lager on many newer
agreements, to allow more attractive pricing
to the end customer. “Share & Save”, our
third-party purchasing programme, can add
10% to a typical participating pub’s bottom
line. We optimise rather than maximise
rents, balancing short-term rental yield against
tenant morale, viability and long-term security
of income. We offer both tenancies and leases
and we try to ensure we always have the right
licensee on the right agreement in the right
pub. However, in general we do favour
tenancies, which account for 79% of Pub
Partners sites. With a tenancy, the licensee’s
ﬁxed cost base is somewhat reduced
compared to a straight lease, and we retain
more control.
We are not immune to the difﬁculties in the
market, but we believe we are better placed
than many others. In the year, rent concessions
remained below 1% of rent roll and were
actually lower than the prior year, bad debts
accounted for just 0.3% of sales and 17 pubs
were closed. Applications remained healthy,
at 93% of the previous year’s level, and
we have appointed three new regional
recruitment and training managers, managing
the whole process from recruitment to the
end of a new licensee’s ﬁrst year.
During the period, a total of £8.7m was invested
across the Pub Partners estate, including 30
major investments. An additional £10.0m went
on maintenance capex, and £3.8m on repairs
from the revenue account. These ﬁgures
exclude additional monies spent by licensees.
Change
06/07 07/08 52 week
52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis
Average number
of pubs trading 1,431 1,443 +1% +1%
Revenue £164.0m £167.2m +2% +0%
EBITDA £80.6m £88.2m +9% +7%
Operating proﬁt £74.7m £81.4m +9% +7%
Operating
proﬁt margin 45.5% 48.7%+3.1%pts +3.1%pts
EBITDA per pub £56.3k £61.1k +9% +6%
Operating proﬁt
per pub £52.2k £56.4k +8% +6% Pub Partners Go for Growth training course is designed to help tenants grow their proﬁt to create long-term
sustainable businesses. Aimee and Ashley Winsbury-Cutts, licensees of the Dolphin, Stisted, Essex, attended the
course in May 2007. Following the advice, they repositioned the pub, changed food suppliers and, as a result,
increased both their food margin and their food covers by 100 to 500 per week. They also changed electricity
suppliers to achieve a signiﬁcant saving.
Pub Partners
“We learned a great deal on the
Go for Growth course, especially the
need to focus on constructive planning.
We are now ahead of the game and
intend to stay that way.”
Ashley Winsbury-Cutts
Licensee
11
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 Belhaven has undertaken a number of developments during the year, including to re-position young persons’
venues so that they appeal to a wider customer base. The City Walls, in Stirling, was redeveloped in the autumn
of 2007, and re-opened for business in December 2007. Previously with no natural light, the development
included the opening of an atrium roof, as well as a more welcoming entrance and increased seating inside.
It now offers freshly cooked value food and has seen sales increase by more than £25k per week.
12
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Belhaven
“The redevelopment of the pub has been
fantastic. With such a historic location
it was only right that we should make
the most of all that it has to offer.
Our customer base has increased
dramatically, and many come to
eat as well as to drink.”
Paul Young
Manager at the City Walls Chief executive’s review
13
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Business review
Belhaven
Belhaven, our Scottish division,
operates in managed pubs, tenanted/
leased pubs and brewing & drinks
distribution. In the second year of
trading following Scotland’s smoking
ban, the team delivered an outstanding
result, with revenue up 8% at
£126.1m, operating proﬁt up 18%
at £27.5m and the operating proﬁt
margin up 1.8 percentage points at
21.8%. All of Belhaven’s businesses
grew both sales and proﬁts.
The number of pubs trading grew during
the year from 299 to 321, including seven
pubs transferred from the English Retail
business just before the ﬁnancial year end.
95 of the 321 are managed and the balance
tenanted/leased. On average during the year,
306 pubs were trading.
In tenancy/lease, like-for-like rents and beer
supply income were both positive. Debt was
tightly controlled and support was given to
our tenants through various initiatives including
equitable beer pricing policies, ﬁnancial and
accounting guidance and catering planning
assistance; and we are taking the lead role
in ensuring that our tenanted and leased
pubs comply fully with the new Scottish
licensing regime.
Belhaven’s managed pubs enjoyed an excellent
year, with strong proﬁt growth being achieved
despite a reduction in the number of units
operated. Growth came from the successful
repositioning of a number of specialist pubs to
appeal to a broader consumer base, increased
focus on food and value for money, and
an impressive improvement in the rate of
conversion of sales to operating proﬁt. Food
business development has been a key theme
throughout the estate; overall, Belhaven’s food
revenue has increased by more than 50% over
the last two years.
Belhaven’s drinks business grew beer volume
and proﬁt in an on-trade market down 6%.
Net new business in free trade drove the
growth, and margins held up despite the
intensity of competition for market share.
Belhaven Best volume was up 4.6%, representing
another substantial increase in market share.
As planned, Stuart Ross is due to retire this
autumn, having led Belhaven for nearly 20 years.
Since he joined the Greene King top team at
the time of the acquisition, the whole business
has beneﬁted extensively from his experience
and exceptional talent. On a personal level,
I would like to extend my sincere thanks to
Stuart for his commitment and support, and for
his professional execution of the integration and
ongoing development of the Belhaven business.
The results achieved in Scotland this year
make a ﬁtting valediction. Stuart’s commitment
and work rate have been as strong in this,
his retirement year, as in any other year.
The process to ﬁnd a replacement to lead
Belhaven through its next stage of development
is well under way, and I am delighted that
Stuart has accepted my invitation to stay on
with Belhaven in an advisory capacity. Stuart
has always placed great emphasis on putting in
place a strong team around him; the Belhaven
team will, I am sure, maintain the momentum
of the last couple of years into the future.
Change
06/07 07/08 52 week
52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis
Revenue £116.4m £126.1m +8% +6%
Operating proﬁt £23.3m £27.5m +18% +16%
Operating
proﬁt margin 20.0% 21.8% +1.8%pts +1.8%pts 14
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Chief executive’s review
Business review
Brewing Company enjoyed a strong
ﬁrst half but had a more difﬁcult
second half. Our own brands
performed strongly, and especially
so in the take-home market.
However, sales of third-party lager
and other drinks sales declined year
on year in an increasingly challenging
on-trade market, which in turn led
to under-recovery of our ﬁxed costs.
Nevertheless, the operating proﬁt
margin, at 24.4%, remains
sector-leading.
Own-brewed volume was up 6% on the prior
year, with Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen
and Abbot Ale growing 4%, 9% and 12%
respectively. Despite the UK beer market
declining by 5%, we grew both our share and
our absolute volume. In the on-trade, Greene
King IPA remains Britain’s number one cask ale
brand, and Greene King is the largest brewer in
both standard and premium cask ale categories.
We are also market leader in premium ale in
supermarkets, where in the year, Old Speckled
Hen grew its volume by 28% and its share
of the category by two full percentage points
to 11.9%, according to AC Nielsen data.
Beneﬁting from a single brewery, we run
a lean brewing and distribution operation,
which enables us to achieve our strong
margins and return on capital employed.
About half of Brewing Company’s sales are
“factored” product, meaning lager, wine, spirits
and soft drinks produced by other companies
that we sell to the on-trade, to offer a full
range for our customers. We were affected
this year by the overall decline in the on-trade
lager market, and we also withdrew from
a number of unsustainable wholesaler
relationships. In common with others we also
had to absorb major cost increases for energy
and raw materials. We believe that some of
these changes, especially the decline in lager
volume, are structural rather than temporary.
Accordingly, we have been rationalising our
ﬁxed cost base throughout the year and have
announced further changes since the year end.
In August we will close one of our distribution
depots, outsource deliveries to outlying areas
to a third party, bring certain other deliveries
back in house and improve working practices.
Together, these actions will result in savings
of around £0.5m in 2008/09 and around
£1m per annum thereafter.
Greene King remains committed to long-term
investment in its brands. A major new
advertising campaign has just been launched
for Old Speckled Hen and in the year under
review, we ran a highly successful £2m multi-
media campaign for Greene King IPA including
TV, press and outdoor advertising. Greene King
IPA is the ofﬁcial beer of England Rugby and, to
underline our relationship with rugby, we have
signed Lawrence Dallaglio as an “ambassador”
for the brand in a new two-year deal.
Brewing
Company
+4%
growth
+9%
growth
+12%
growth
Change
06/07 07/08 52 week
52 weeks 53 weeks Change basis
Revenue £91.1m £88.5m -3% -5%
Operating proﬁt £23.0m £21.6m -6% -8%
Operating
proﬁt margin 25.2% 24.4% -0.8%pts -0.8%pts Brewing Company brews Greene King IPA, the number 1 cask ale in England, which is also the Ofﬁcial Beer
of England Rugby. As well as promotional activity in the on and off-trade to drive awareness and sales, we
also operate a bar, the Rose and Crown at Twickenham, on England match days.
Brewing Company
“The sponsorship of England Rugby is an incredibly important
part of our plans, allowing us the opportunity to reach millions
of rugby fans across the country. There is a clear and natural
afﬁnity between the sport of rugby, its fans and cask ale drinking,
which is why we invest at all levels of the game – from high
proﬁle celebrities such as Lawrence Dallaglio to investment
in grassroots development at community club level.”
Keith Ironside
Greene King IPA brand manager
15
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 The Exchange Bar and Grill in Shefﬁeld is the ﬁrst former Greene King pub to be converted to a Loch Fyne
Restaurant. A complete refurbishment was undertaken in December, transforming an uninspiring pub into
an open and airy Loch Fyne Restaurant by opening up the kitchen, reducing the bar area and increasing
the external seating area. Since opening, the restaurant has been one of the best performing Loch Fyne sites.
Loch Fyne
“As a participant in Loch Fyne’s
Employee into Management training
programme, it’s great to work in a new
restaurant like this, especially as we are
so busy. I am already qualiﬁed to train
other staff on new openings, and would
hope to become a general manager
within the next few years.”
Simon James Hoey
Waiter
16
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 Chief executive’s review
17
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Business review
Acquisitions and disposals
On 7 August we acquired Loch Fyne
Restaurants for a ﬁnal consideration, including
net debt, of £64.2m, ﬁnanced from existing
debt facilities. Loch Fyne brings an important
new dimension to Greene King: its strong
position in premium casual dining complements
our pre-existing expertise in mid-market food-
led pubs. We have begun conversion of a
number of Greene King sites to the Loch Fyne
format. Trading at Loch Fyne for the year was
encouraging and like-for-like sales were up.
I am delighted that Mark Derry and his senior
team at Loch Fyne have agreed to continue
to manage the business’s growth. They and
all their employees are most welcome new
members of the Greene King team.
On 13 November, we acquired New Century
Inns for a total consideration, including net debt,
of £32.8m, also ﬁnanced from existing debt
facilities. These 49 high-quality tenanted and
leased pubs (all but one freehold), complement
our existing estate and strengthen our position
in the north and northeast. A programme
of improvements is under way, capture of
synergies is on track and trading in the estate
has been in line with our expectations.
We continually review our portfolio to identify
sites for disposal, namely those of lower quality,
limited potential or with a high alternative-use
value. In 2007/08, we disposed of 26 sites,
realising an exceptional proﬁt of £9.8m and
releasing cash of £41.4m to invest in higher-
potential sites and/or to acquire new sites
for the portfolio.
Real Estate Investment Trust
We stated our commitment to releasing
property value in our preliminary results
statement for 2006/07. Since then, we have
consulted with HM Revenue & Customs as to
the feasibility of a Real Estate Investment Trust
(REIT) for Greene King. They have indicated
that Greene King could in principle convert to
a REIT without de-merging the company. This
removes one key obstacle, but we still need to
be convinced that a REIT structure for Greene
King will deliver real long-term economic
value. We are also reviewing the operational
implications for the business. We will provide
an update at our interim results in December.
Current trading and outlook
Despite the difﬁcult economic conditions
our businesses are trading in line with our
expectations. In the ﬁrst eight weeks of the
new ﬁnancial year, Retail like-for-like sales
were 2.8% below last year, though we are
still seeing food and accommodation growth.
Like-for-like proﬁts in Pub Partners are level
with last year’s. Brewing Company’s own-
brewed volume is down by 2%, which we
believe to be ahead of the market. Belhaven
has maintained its strong performance into the
new ﬁnancial year, with retail like-for-like sales
up strongly again. Cost pressures continue
but we believe our margin and cash focus
will allow us to minimise the impact of these
pressures in the new ﬁnancial year. We are
better placed than many others due to the
resilience and ﬂexibility of our business, and
as a result we remain conﬁdent of meeting
our expectations for the year.
Rooney Anand
Chief Executive
2 July 2008 18
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Financial review
Business review
Revenue, proﬁt and earnings per share
Our revenue of £960.5m, up 5% on last year,
was driven by a combination of organic
growth, contributions from the Loch Fyne
and New Century Inns acquisitions and a full
year contribution from Hardys & Hansons.
Despite an environment of fragile sales and
hostile costs, our proﬁt conversion was good.
We improved margins through a combination
of purchasing initiatives and contract
re-negotiations, yield management focus,
labour productivity gains and other economies.
Together these initiatives more than offset
increases of £8.1m in our key cost categories.
Operating proﬁt grew 8% to £236.2m at
a margin of 24.6%. Interest costs of £94.2m
were £15.9m higher than the prior year,
as the two acquisitions, increased investment
in the estate, and share buy-backs were only
partially offset by the strong free cash ﬂows
of the core business.
Proﬁt before tax grew to £142.0m, up 2%,
delivering adjusted earnings per share of 74.0p,
an increase of 14%. The strength of the trading
performance underpins the proposed ﬁnal
dividend per share of 18.7p to give a full-year
dividend per share of 26.0p, an increase of
14%, with dividend cover of 2.8x.
Our strong growth in earnings per share,
up 14% to 74.0p, was achieved by increased
proﬁts (both organic and from acquisitions),
strengthened margins, tight cost control and
rigorous cash management, augmented by
share buy-backs. As the following graph shows,
adjusted earnings per share have continued
the growth trend and now represent the 14th
consecutive year of growth at a compound
rate in excess of 10% per annum.
Continued investment
This year we invested £107.9m in our existing
business, an increase of £16.4m on the prior
year. Continuous investment is important,
especially in more challenging times, for
sustained performance and the maintenance
of a quality estate. In the year, £34.4m was
spent on pub developments with good returns
ahead of our cost of capital, £17.5m on single
site acquisitions and £45.7m on maintaining
the excellent condition of our estate.
Cash ﬂow growth
We continue to focus on delivering strong
cash ﬂows. At £283.3m, EBITDA was almost
9% or £22.5m higher than last year. Combined
with effective working capital management
this converted to £31.1m of positive free
cash ﬂow, after interest, tax, dividends and
investment in the estate. Adding in the
proceeds from disposals, positive cash ﬂow
was £72.5m.
Share purchases
During the year, we returned £149m to
shareholders through the repurchase for
cancellation of 15.4m shares at an average
price of 969p per share, representing 10.2%
of the issued share capital. At the end of the
year, our net debt of £1,605.5m was £170.0m
higher than at the end of the previous year.
This was after investing £247.6m in New
Century Inns, Loch Fyne and our share
buy-back programme.
Financing and treasury
With a debt service cover ratio of 1.8x,
unchanged on last year, in our securitised
vehicle, we are comfortably within our
covenant of 1.1x. We remain well placed for
the future with ﬁxed charge cover at the year
end of 2.3x. At the year end we had net debt
of £1,605.5m at a composite rate of 6%, with
97% of it ﬁxed. We have sufﬁcient headroom
to continue ﬁnancing our business strategy
Comparable EPS* £m
74.0 2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
2000
1999
1998
1997
1996
1995
64.8
56.0
46.5
40.1
35.6
32.1
29.1
26.5
24.5
22.6
19.6
16.7
14.6
* All years adjusted for share split. 19
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
and growth. Our prudent and efﬁcient
approach to balance sheet management gives
us options for continued investment and
growth in our core estate, further acquisitions
and further share buy-backs.
Reﬁnancing after year end
We were pleased to announce on 26 June
that we had successfully ﬁnalised terms
for a second tap of our whole business
securitisation, issuing an additional £350m of
investment grade bonds. This maintains the
company’s ﬂexibility to continue to invest and
enhance shareholder income whilst taking
advantage of longer-term, more leveraged
bond ﬁnance. This will take the total
outstanding securitised debt to £1,451m,
backed by approximately 80% of our pubs.
The transaction was completed on 30 June,
when the funds raised were used to partially
repay existing bank facilities.
We also worked closely with our banking
partners to simplify our bank borrowings
to a four-year, £400m syndicated facility.
We appreciate the strength of our relationship
with the banks and their conﬁdence in us.
All of our debt is now ﬁxed and our blended
interest rate remains at 6%.
Following the securitisation tap, only around
half of our £400m bank facility will be drawn.
This means that – with no reﬁnancing risk, no
major repayments until 2012 and strong and
positive operational cash ﬂows after ongoing
capital expenditure – we have both the
efﬁciency and the ﬂexibility to take on the
challenges that the industry now faces.
As part of the securitisation tap process,
the directors commissioned Gerald Eve
to undertake a valuation of the securitisation
estate as at 1 May 2008. The subsequent
portfolio valuation of the 2,035 pubs was
£2.1bn, based on current market values,
a rise on average of 5% per pub since the
March 2006 tap valuation.
Pensions
The group maintains a deﬁned contribution
scheme, open to all new employees, and six
deﬁned beneﬁt schemes, which are all closed
to new entrants. The net pension liability
now stands at £68.4m (£40.2m last year).
In addition to a fall in investment returns, the
increase in the scheme deﬁcits has occurred
primarily as a result of the adoption of new
life tables and related assumptions used for
calculating the expected post-retirement
mortality rates.
Summary
We are pleased with another year of growth
both operationally and ﬁnancially, and
particularly so in a really quite challenging
environment. Greene King has a strong
reputation for its high quality estate, and we
have continued to invest in and grow our core
business, supplementing it with quality and
relevant acquisitions. Long-term ﬁnancing at
competitive rates, combined with our healthy
operational cash ﬂows, asset-backed model
and prudent and efﬁcient balance sheet, gives
us both options and conﬁdence in the future,
in what will no doubt be another challenging
year ahead and one of further transition for
the sector.
Ian Bull
Finance Director
2 July 2008 20
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Risks and uncertainties
Business review
This section highlights some of the
risks and uncertainties which affect
Greene King but is not intended to
be an extensive analysis of all risks
facing the business.
Greene King’s risk management processes are
designed to identify and evaluate risks based
on the likelihood of occurrence and scale of
potential impact on the company. Each risk
has an identiﬁed owner within the senior
management team, responsible for ensuring
that any identiﬁed risk improvement measures
are implemented and tested in a timely manner.
A company-wide risk committee has been
established to discuss in detail and monitor the
internal controls which have been put in place
to ensure that the risks are appropriately
managed. Executive oversight is then carried
out by the senior management of each
business unit, with the executive directors
reviewing group risks on a quarterly basis.
The audit committee receives regular reports
on the risk management processes in each of
the businesses within Greene King. Once a
year it reviews the company’s top risks, prior
to their submission to the board, which retains
ultimate responsibility for the company’s risk
management framework.
Regulatory, economic and social risks
We recognise that our businesses face daily
and ongoing challenges of increasing regulation
(e.g. smoking bans, decreasing tolerance of
alcohol related disorder, licensing, health &
safety); potential economic changes (e.g.
credit crunch, inﬂation, recession); and social
developments (e.g. entertaining at home,
healthier lifestyles, less available leisure time).
We constantly look to broaden our appeal
to customers by delivering quality and value
for money, excellent service and up-to-date
product offers. We have a diversiﬁed business
encompassing pubs, restaurants, brewing and
drinks distribution, as well as a good
geographic spread.
Training and risk management systems are in
place to deal with the regulatory requirements,
and careful planning is undertaken to deal with
new regulatory requirements.
People risks
This is a people business. Having a strong team
is a source of material competitive advantage
in our managed and tenanted pubs, our
brewing operations and our head ofﬁce.
We aim for an environment where we can
recruit the best people and then through
training, development and progression ensure
we retain them. Our licensee recruitment and
training programmes, and the variety of rental
agreements on offer, are designed to attract
and retain the best quality licensees.
Supply chain risks
It is fundamental to the operation of our
business that we are able to supply our pubs
and restaurants, not only with our own beers,
but also with the goods and services of third
parties. We take a serious approach to risk
management in our internal production and
distribution activities, always looking to
improve and learn from other best-in-class
operators. We have an on-going programme
of testing our disaster-recovery systems
relating to our brewing operations. We
likewise aim for similar or better approaches
to our third-party suppliers, producers and
supply chain partners. In so doing, we aim to
minimise the likelihood of failure or loss but
equally have back-up plans to cope with
difﬁculties should such an eventuality rise.
Financial and management control risks
Our business is growing, both organically
and via acquisition. Within this ever-changing
environment, we try to foster an
entrepreneurial spirit at Greene King,
preferring to empower our employees as
opposed to excessively controlling them.
We run our operations along divisional lines
with lean structures to support them and
signiﬁcant operational and ﬁnancial autonomy
on a day-to-day basis. In this environment, we
seek to ensure that for both the ﬁnancial and
management controls that we put in place,
the balance is right between such controls
being effective and appropriate without
being unnecessarily controlling and restrictive.
Further details on the company’s internal
controls are contained in the corporate
governance section on pages 78 to 81.
Reputational risks
We are a consumer-facing business in sectors
that hold important positions within the UK’s
culture and heritage. As a result, there is
enhanced interest in the well-being of our
businesses from stakeholders and other
interested parties. We endeavour to ensure
that we have a sufﬁcient/appropriate response
to any potentially damaging event and therefore
avoid reputational damage, potential loss of
trade and damage to our share price/valuation. Corporate social responsibility report
21
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Business review
We believe that over the last few years
we have made good progress in taking
our corporate responsibilities seriously.
In the current environment in which
we are operating it is fundamental
that we are recognised as a good
corporate citizen. We continue to
investigate further ways in which
we can ensure that all our business
activities are conducted in a socially
responsible manner.
Loch Fyne Restaurants
Loch Fyne has always taken seriously the
promotion of sustainability, traceability and
care for the marine landscape. The company
does not serve ﬁsh from endangered stocks
and ensures that the products used in the
restaurants derive from a sustainable resource,
either wild or farmed responsibly. Its excellent
ethical approach to ﬁsh purchasing was
recognised by the Ethical Consumer magazine
in a report written in the spring of 2008.
White ﬁsh come mainly from carefully selected
farms or from small day boats ﬁshing around
the coast of Britain. The company does not
source ﬁsh from deep-sea trawlers due to the
damage their vast nets have on by-catch and on
the overall health of the marine environment.
Loch Fyne serves farmed salmon – a decision
based on the urgent need to allow wild stocks
to replenish in the UK waters. The decision on
which farmed salmon to use was based on
quality, ﬂavour and animal welfare criteria and
the company’s main suppliers were the ﬁrst in
the UK to receive the RSPCA’s Freedom Food
accreditation for their pioneering approach to
rearing, feeding and managing their stocks.
The beauty of the shellﬁsh served at Loch
Fyne is the simplicity and purity of the farming
process. There is minimal human intervention
or artiﬁcial input until harvesting so the
mussels, oysters, langoustine and scallops
feed and grow at their own pace in the fertile
waters of the loch. When they reach the
optimum size, they are harvested and sent
daily to the restaurants to be enjoyed by
customers across the country.
Environment
Our business impacts on the environment
in a variety of ways, including our use of raw
materials, agricultural products, energy and
water, the distribution of our products, the
emission of greenhouse gases, odours and
noise, the generation of packaging which
needs to be disposed of and the production,
processing, collection and disposal of waste.
We continue to investigate ways in which
our environmental impact can be reduced
across all areas of the business, including
our pubs, breweries, distribution activities
and in our head ofﬁce, and to implement
environmental improvements.
An example of this has been in relation to our
use of patio heaters. With the introduction of
the smoking ban, the heating of external areas
has inevitably increased. To minimise the
impact thereof, our managed pubs estate has
sourced infra-red patio heaters which have
signiﬁcantly higher energy efﬁciency levels than
their gas equivalents. These are also more
cost effective and only work when there are
people using the external areas. We continue
as far as possible to avoid the use of
inefﬁcient heating appliances.
As part of our commitment to environmental
management and excellence, we are
undertaking a review of all our operations’
environmental impacts with a view to
establishing environmental key performance
indicators, measuring our emissions and use
of resources and to enable us to publicly
report on our progress in minimising our
environmental burden.
It is our aim to fully understand the nature and
source of our environmental impacts both
through our direct operations and our supply
chain. By undertaking this programme we will
be able to both minimise our impact on society
and the environmental risks to our business.
Next year we intend to publish our
environmental KPIs in accordance with both
the international Greenhouse Gas Protocol
and the UK DEFRA guidelines. This framework
will enable us to demonstrate to our investors
and our stakeholders our goals and progress
towards making continuous and meaningful
environmental improvement.
A responsible attitude to alcohol and
visiting pubs
The group strives to ensure that alcohol
produced by us or sold in our pubs is
consumed responsibly. Our promotional
materials carry clear and concise messages
encouraging the responsible consumption
of alcohol, and all bottles, cans and consumer
outer packaging for our beers specify the
number of units of alcohol. From September,
this will be extended so that they all also advise
female drinkers not to drink during pregnancy.
We continue to comply with both the
Portman Group’s code of practice on the
naming, packaging and promotion of alcoholic
drinks, and the British Beer and Pub
Association’s code on drinks promotions.
None of our adverts are designed to appeal
to under 18s, to focus on the alcoholic strength
of the beer, to suggest any association with 22
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Corporate social responsibility report
Business review
bravado or aggressive behaviour, nor to
imply that consumption can lead to social
or sexual success.
We remain a key supporter of the Publican
trade magazine’s “Proud of Pubs” campaign,
in which pubs pledge not to serve underage
drinkers or anyone who is drunk, to support
our local communities and respect local
residents and businesses. In our managed
pubs we support the “Challenge 21”
initiative, which requires our staff to ask for
identiﬁcation if a customer appears to be
under 21, so as to prove that they are at least
18 years old. We track attempts by under-age
drinkers to order alcoholic drinks and operate
a proof-of-age scheme; “all you can drink”
promotions and heavily discounted prices
are not a feature of our managed pubs.
Security training is provided for all our new
managers and we train our retail staff on how
to determine when it would be inappropriate
to serve a customer and how to manage
difﬁcult situations in a calm, safe and considered
manner. Security systems, including CCTV, are
in place in all our English managed pubs, backed
up by central monitoring systems in 290 of
them. 90% of our managed pubs participate
in the local Pub Watch scheme, an initiative
designed to promote a safer environment
for people to work and socialise in.
We also recognise that many of our
community pubs need to operate responsibly
in relation to gaming in pubs. All our fruit
machines carry the GamCare helpline number
on them.
We encourage our tenanted and leased pubs
to follow our lead in this area. All such pubs
have received Challenge 21 posters, check ID
stickers and training guidance for staff, as well
as information on responsible gaming.
Smoking
All our pubs are now smoke-free. Scottish
pubs have been smoke-free since 2005, and
in England and Wales the ban was introduced
last summer. We implemented a bespoke
programme of capital investment to de-
seasonalise our extensive external trading
areas, and provided a comprehensive staff and
customer education programme, as a result
of which there has been total compliance with
the new legislation in all our managed and
tenanted houses, with the exception of one
or two minor incidents.
Employees
We have a clear understanding of the need
to recruit and retain talented staff if we are
to meet our aim of being the best pub and
beer company in the UK. With best quality
customer service being a key priority, we focus
closely on the training of all customer-facing
employees. In a new initiative, all senior
employees will be participating in a mystery
guest programme for our pubs, giving feedback
on a regular basis to help improve our
standards of service and cleanliness.
A set of common values applies to all our
employees, from senior managers to bar staff,
and we have policies on a range of issues from
equal opportunities to ﬂexible working, given
that a large proportion of our employees are
female, and/or work part time. Employees
have the opportunity to express their views
and receive information about the company
on a regular basis. We have good consultative
and collective bargaining relationships with our
trade unions.
All our employees are offered access to a
stakeholder-compliant deﬁned contribution
pension scheme. Many of our employees
have beneﬁted from the range of employee
share schemes on offer, including a sharesave
scheme open to all and a proﬁt-sharing
scheme open to employees with the requisite
qualifying service, provided the relevant
performance criteria have been met.
Tenants
Pub Partners is committed to providing the
best possible support to tenants to help
them succeed with their businesses, and was
proud to win the NITA award for the Best
Development Programme for Non-managed
Estates in 2007, as well as the NITA supreme
award for its overall high standard of training.
Over 1800 licensees were trained during
the year, on courses covering subjects
ranging from ﬁnance, marketing and cellar
management to health and safety and security.
Our Go for Growth training programme is
speciﬁcally designed to help our new licensees
develop a proﬁtable and sustainable business,
with an initial induction day being followed
up six months later to ensure that the
momentum is continued. Independent
research has revealed that over 75% of those
attending the course during 2007/08 had
increased their proﬁts since attending the
course. Our share and save programme, with
45 approved suppliers, provides real beneﬁts
to our tenants in areas such as electricity,
food, credit card machines and furniture. 23
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
We aim to optimise rather than maximise
our rent, as we believe there should be a fair
division of the economic proﬁt in our tenanted
houses, and, in order to help support our new
tenants, we encourage open book accounting,
so that we can help them recognise early on
if there are issues.
In Scotland our focus this year has been on
assisting tenants in their preparations for the
signiﬁcant and challenging requirements of
the Licensing (Scotland) Act 2005.
Health and safety
We are committed to providing a safe and
secure environment for both our employees
and our customers. Jonathan Lawson has been
appointed as the main board director with
responsibility for championing health and
safety improvements across the business and
best practice is shared across all business units.
Following an external strategic review of safety
management undertaken during the year,
further improvements were made to our safe
ways of working and the support provided to
our operators.
The safety performance across our managed
estate has been strengthened through the
innovative use of available technology, and
we have embarked upon a capital programme
of risk reduction measures to further protect
our pubs from ﬁre and ﬂooding. Our Brewing
Company once again won two gold awards
at the prestigious RoSPA Occupational Health
and Safety Awards this year, for occupational
health and safety and managing occupational
road risk.
Charities and community
Our pubs are at the heart of the community
they serve and we are committed to being
an active and positive contributor to local
communities. We encourage all of our pub
managers and licensees to build up good
relationships with their neighbours. We are
particularly pleased when their efforts are
recognised, as happened in April when the
West End Inn in Melksham won the Wiltshire
Police and County Council’s Responsible
Organisation in the Community Award.
Many of our employees, licensees and
customers, not just in our pubs but throughout
the business, get involved in charitable
activities, ranging from sports events, quizzes,
rafﬂes, auctions and all manner of other
things to help either good local, national or
international causes. We often offer help by
donating prizes or additional funds. Signiﬁcant
amounts of money can be raised for many
different charitable causes in this way. 24
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Board of Directors
Executive directors
Business review
David Elliott
Managing director, Pub Partners (54).
Joined the company from Scottish &
Newcastle Retail and was appointed to
the board in 1998.
Jonathan Lawson
Managing director, Local Pubs (37).
Joined the company from J Sainsbury and
was appointed to the board in 2007.
Rooney Anand
Chief executive (44).
Joined the company from Sara Lee and was
appointed to the board as managing director,
Brewing Company, in 2001. Became chief
executive in 2005.
Justin Adams
Managing director, Brewing Company (42).
Joined the company from Maxxium and
was appointed to the board in 2005.
Ian Bull
Finance director (47).
Joined the company from BT Retail and
was appointed to the board in 2006. Non-executive directors
25
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Norman Murray
Independent non-executive director (60).
Appointed to the board in 2004. Chairman
of Cairn Energy PLC and a non-executive
director of Robert Wiseman Dairies plc.
Tim Bridge, DL
Non-executive chairman (59).
Joined in 1970 and was appointed to the
board in 1977. Became managing director
in 1990, chief executive in 1994 and chairman
in 2005. Non-executive director of
William Ransom & Son plc and Weatherbys
Ventures Ltd.
Howard Phillips
Senior independent non-executive
director (67).
Appointed to the board in 1998. Former
chief executive of Perkins Foods plc and
Golden Wonder Limited.
Jane Scriven
Independent non-executive director (48).
Appointed to the board in 2005. Chairman
of Origin8 Deli-Cafes Ltd and a former
director of Geest plc.
John Brady
Independent non-executive director (56).
Appointed to the board in 2005. Director
of McKinsey & Co until 2004. Non-executive
director of Invest Northern Ireland.
Ian Durant
Independent non-executive director (49).
Appointed to the board in 2007. Finance
director of Liberty International PLC. 26
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Group ﬁnancial record
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
Income statement
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 960.5 917.5 818.6 707.5 552.7
Operating profit before exceptionals 236.2 218.1 190.9 158.3 111.8
Profit before taxation 147.9 145.9 120.9 87.6 73.7
Profit before taxation and exceptionals 142.0 139.8 119.6 95.7 82.6
Basic earnings per share* 89.9p 71.9p 60.6p 45.0p 36.3p
Adjusted earnings per share* 74.0p 64.8p 56.0p 46.5p 40.1p
Dividends per share* 26.00p 22.90p 20.15p 18.15p 16.50p
Adjusted operating profit/revenue 24.6% 23.8% 23.3% 22.4% 20.2%
Adjusted tax expense/profit before tax 28.0% 30.0% 30.5% 30.5% 30.4%
Adjusted interest cover (times) 2.5 2.8 2.7 2.5 3.8
Adjusted dividend cover (times) 2.8 2.8 2.8 2.6 2.4
* All years adjusted for share split
Balance sheet
£m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill 673.8 607.7 505.1 360.0 113.1
Property, plant and equipment 2,057.9 1,985.8 1,771.8 1,572.3 1,073.5
Financial assets 34.8 33.7 34.0 15.2 18.1
Working capital (150.2) (119.9) (75.0) (76.1) (66.2)
Derivatives (5.5) 5.8 (17.3) ––
Provisions (256.6) (243.4) (210.4) (199.3) (37.8)
Net debt (1,605.5) (1,435.5) (1,246.7) (1,020.2) (446.6)
Net assets 748.7 834.2 761.5 651.9 654.1
Gearing 214% 172% 164% 156% 68%
Net assets per share* 553p 555p 498p 449p 459p
Cash ﬂow and investment
£m £m £m £m £m
EBITDA before exceptionals 283.3 260.8 229.2 191.5 136.9
Cash inflow from operations 276 275.3 217.6 208.7 135.6
Interest, tax and dividends (145.7) (134.6) (124.8) (72.3) (67.3)
Fixed asset purchases (98.3) (90.9) (77.9) (42.9) (75.1)
Fixed asset sales 41.4 70.3 17.9 45.6 7.9
Trade loans and investments (0.4) 0.9 4.1 (0.4) 1.5
Acquisitions (82.6) (172.5) (232.7) (199.6) –
Other (160.4) (137.3) (30.7) (512.7) (8.1)
Increase in net debt (170.0) (188.8) (226.5) (573.6) (5.5)
* All years adjusted for share split
Adjusted earnings per share, operating proﬁt, taxation, interest cover and dividend cover exclude the effect of exceptional items and the amortisation
of goodwill. Net assets per share exclude own shares held. Group income statement
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
27
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
2008 2007
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items T otal items items T otal
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,3 960.5 – 960.5 917.5 – 917.5
Operating costs 4 (724.3) (4.9) (729.2) (699.4) (4.9) (704.3)
Profit on disposal of property,
plant and equipment 5 – 9.8 9.8 – 21.1 21.1
Operating profit 2,4 236.2 4.9 241.1 218.1 16.2 234.3
Finance income 7 16.4 1.0 17.4 4.4 – 4.4
Finance costs 7 (112.0) – (112.0) (83.0) (10.1) (93.1)
Net finance income from pensions 1.4 – 1.4 0.3 – 0.3
Profit before tax 142.0 5.9 147.9 139.8 6.1 145.9
Tax 10 (39.7) 16.1 (23.6) (42.0) 4.7 (37.3)
Profit attributable to equity
holders of parent 102.3 22.0 124.3 97.8 10.8 108.6
Earnings per share
– basic 12 89.9p 71.9p
– adjusted basic 12 74.0p 64.8p
– diluted 12 89.7p 70.8p
– adjusted diluted 12 73.8p 63.8p
Dividends per share (paid and
proposed in respect of the period) 11 26.0p 22.9p 28
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Group balance sheet
As at 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
As at As at
4 May 2008 29 April 2007
Note £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 15 2,057.9 1,985.8
Goodwill 13 673.8 607.7
Financial assets 16 34.8 33.7
Derivative financial instruments 24 2.7 8.4
Deferred tax assets 10 28.6 26.3
Prepayments 5.2 6.2
Trade and other receivables 20 0.2 0.2
2,803.2 2,668.3
Current assets
Inventories 19 17.9 18.2
Trade and other receivables 20 51.7 48.9
Prepayments 13.0 6.4
Derivative financial instruments 24 0.7 2.0
Cash and cash equivalents 21 91.6 92.1
174.9 167.6
Current liabilities
Borrowings 23 (60.6) (136.4)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (1.0) (0.2)
Trade and other payables 22 (198.7) (168.2)
Income tax payable (39.5) (31.6)
(299.8) (336.4)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 23 (1,636.5) (1,391.2)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (7.9) (4.4)
Deferred tax liabilities 10 (211.4) (224.2)
Post-employment liabilities 9 (73.8) (45.5)
(1,929.6) (1,665.3)
T otal net assets 748.7 834.2
Issued capital and reserves
Share capital 25 17.0 18.8
Share premium 26 247.2 243.7
Capital redemption reserve 26 3.3 1.4
Hedging reserve 26 (3.6) 4.3
Own shares 26 (17.2) (18.9)
Retained earnings 26 502.0 584.9
T otal equity 748.7 834.2
Net debt 28 1,605.5 1,435.5
Signed on behalf of the board on 2 July 2008
TJW Bridge R Anand
Director Director Group cash ﬂow statement
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
29
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Operating activities
Operating profit 241.1 234.3
Operating exceptional items (4.9) (16.2)
Depreciation and amortisation 47.1 42.7
EBITDA* 2 283.3 260.8
Working capital and non-cash movements 27 (7.3) 14.5
Interest received 16.4 4.4
Interest paid (102.8) (91.5)
Tax paid (25.8) (16.0)
Net cash flow from operating activities 163.8 172.2
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (98.3) (90.9)
Purchase of other investments (0.2) –
Movements in financial assets (0.4) 0.9
Sales of property, plant and equipment 41.4 70.3
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 18 (82.6) (172.5)
Net cash flow from investing activities (140.1) (192.2)
Financing activities
Equity dividends paid 11 (33.5) (31.5)
Issue of shares 26 5.3 5.4
Purchase of own shares 26 (150.6) (44.2)
Financing costs (0.1) (4.3)
Repayment of borrowings 28 (101.8) (802.9)
Advance of borrowings 28 265.0 965.0
Net cash flow from financing activities (15.7) 87.5
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 8.0 67.5
Opening cash and cash equivalents 21 82.7 15.2
Closing cash and cash equivalents 21 90.7 82.7
* EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
2008 2007
Note £m £m
Cash flow hedges: (losses)/gains taken to equity 26 (3.2) 18.1
Cash flow hedges: (gains)/losses recycled to income on swap terminations 26 (8.1) 5.0
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes 9 (31.3) 10.2
Tax on items recognised directly in equity 10 12.2 (10.0)
Tax on share-based payments 10 (4.0) 6.3
Net income recognised directly in equity (34.4) 29.6
Profit for the period 124.3 108.6
T otal recognised income and expense for the period attributable to equity holders of parent 89.9 138.2
Group statement of recognised income and expense
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008 30
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
Corporate information
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc for the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008 were authorised for issue by the board of directors
on 2 July 2008. Greene King plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The company’s shares are listed on
the London Stock Exchange.
Statement of compliance
The group’s ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU
as they apply to the ﬁnancial statements of the group for the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008 applied in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 1985.
1 Accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies
reporting under IFRS. They are presented in pounds sterling, with values rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except where otherwise indicated.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc, its subsidiaries and its related party, Greene King
Finance plc. Greene King Finance plc is a special purpose entity set-up to raise bond ﬁnance for the group, which is consolidated as a quasi-subsidiary.
The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company with adjustments made to their ﬁnancial
statements to bring their accounting policies in line with those used by the group.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and continue to be
consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous ﬁnancial year except for the following:
 IFRS 7 – Financial instruments: Disclosure
 IAS 1 – Amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures
 IFRIC 8 – Scope of IFRS 2
 IFRIC 9 – Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives
 IFRIC 10 – Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment
 IFRIC 11 – IFRS 2 – Group and Treasury Share Transactions
 IFRIC 12 – Service Concession Arrangements
There is no impact on the current or prior period ﬁnancial position or results from the adoption of these standards and interpretations.
New disclosures that result from the adoption of IFRS 7, providing further details of the group’s ﬁnancial instruments and the nature and extent
of risks arising from those ﬁnancial instruments, are included throughout the ﬁnancial statements and comparative information has been revised
where necessary.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the assets (including previously unrecognised intangible assets)
and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) acquired. Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently
if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired, and is stated at cost less any impairment in value.
For the purposes of impairment testing goodwill is allocated at business segment level which is the lowest group of cash generating units where
goodwill is monitored by management. Allocation is based on expectations of where beneﬁts from the synergies of the combination will result.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Goodwill amortised prior to the conversion to IFRS on 3 May 2004 has not been reinstated and the net book value of goodwill at that date has
been carried forward as the carrying value. Prior to May 1998, goodwill was written off to reserves. Such goodwill has not been reinstated and
is not included in determining proﬁt or loss on disposal. 31
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
1 Accounting policies continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition to IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to
50 years, and short leasehold improvements are depreciated to their estimated residual values over the shorter of the remaining term of the
lease or useful life of the asset. Residual value is reviewed at least at each ﬁnancial year end and there is no depreciable amount if residual value
is the same as, or exceeds, book value. Plant and equipment assets are depreciated over their estimated lives which range from 3 to 20 years.
Residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed for all categories of property, plant and equipment and adjusted, if
appropriate, at each ﬁnancial year end.
An item of property, plant and equipment is de-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic beneﬁts are expected from its use. Proﬁt or
loss on de-recognition is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, and is included in the
income statement in the year of de-recognition.
Impairment
Non-ﬁnancial assets
Individual assets are grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are identiﬁable cash inﬂows independent
of the cash inﬂows of other groups of assets.
An assessment is made at each reporting date whether there is an indication of impairment or reversal of impairment. If an indication exists,
the group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount of each asset group, which is the higher of the assets’ fair value less costs to sell and
value-in-use, calculated using the identiﬁed cash ﬂows of the asset groups.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value of assets, including goodwill. If there is an
indication that any previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased, a reversal of the loss may be made only
if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amounts since the last impairment loss was recognised. The carrying
amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount only up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation, had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Impairment losses and any subsequent reversals are recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may
be impaired.
Impairment is determined by the recoverable amount of a business segment. Where this is less than the carrying value of the business segment
an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. This loss cannot be reversed in future periods.
Finance costs and income
Finance costs are expensed to the income statement using the effective interest method and are not capitalised. Finance income is recognised
in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Raw materials are valued at average cost. Finished goods and work in progress
comprise materials, labour and attributable production overheads, where applicable, and are valued at average cost.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three
months or less. For the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as deﬁned above,
net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised when the group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are de-recognised when
the group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the ﬁnancial instrument, normally through sale or when all cash ﬂows attributable
to the instrument are passed to an independent third party. 32
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
1 Accounting policies continued
Financial assets
Financial assets are classiﬁed as either ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt and loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments
or available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets. The group determines the classiﬁcation of its ﬁnancial assets at initial recognition and, where appropriate,
re-evaluates this designation at each ﬁnancial year end.
The group makes trade loans to publicans who purchase the group’s beer. Trade loans are non-derivative and are not quoted in an active market
and have therefore been designated as “Loans and receivables”, carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and losses are
recognised in income when the loans and receivables are de-recognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether any individual trade loan is impaired. If there is evidence that an impairment loss has been
incurred, the amount of loss is measured as the difference between the loan’s carrying amount and the expected future receipts (excluding future
credit losses that have not been incurred), discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate. The loss is recognised in operating proﬁt.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recorded at their original invoiced amount less an allowance for any doubtful amounts when collection of the full amount
is no longer considered probable.
Trade payables
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. After initial recognition, interest-
bearing loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge accounting
The group uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate ﬂuctuations on its variable rate loans, notes and bonds.
Interest rate swaps are initially measured at fair value, if any, and carried on the balance sheet as an asset or liability. Subsequent measurement is
at fair value determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. If a derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting the gain or loss
arising on the movement in fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge accounting
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedge relationship must be designated and documented at inception. Documentation must include the group’s
risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge and formal allocation to the item or transaction being hedged. The group also
documents how it will assess the effectiveness of the hedge and carries out assessments on a regular basis to determine whether it has been, and
is likely to continue to be, highly effective.
Hedges can be classiﬁed as either fair value (hedging exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability), or cash ﬂow (hedging the variability
in cash ﬂows attributable to an asset, liability, or forecast transaction). The group uses its interest rate swaps as cash ﬂow hedges.
Cash ﬂow hedge accounting
The effective portion of the gain or loss on an interest rate swap is recognised directly in equity, whilst any ineffective portion is recognised
immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period that the ﬁnancial income or expense is recognised, unless the
hedged transaction results in the recognition of a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability whereby the amounts are transferred to the initial carrying amount
of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for hedge accounting, amounts previously recognised
in equity are held there until the previously hedged transaction affects proﬁt or loss. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur,
the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. 33
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
1 Accounting policies continued
Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
The group operates a number of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes which require contributions to be made into separately administered funds.
The cost of providing beneﬁts under the schemes is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial method on
an annual basis. The current service cost is charged to operating proﬁt. Any actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of
recognised income and expense in the period in which they occur.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period or immediately if the beneﬁts have vested.
When a settlement or curtailment occurs the obligation and related scheme assets are re-measured and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in
the income statement in the same period.
The interest cost on scheme liabilities and the expected return on scheme assets are shown as a net amount on the face of the group
income statement.
The deﬁned beneﬁt asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet comprises the present value of the schemes’ obligations, less past service
costs not yet recognised, and less the fair value of scheme assets. Deﬁned beneﬁt assets are restricted to the extent that they are considered
recoverable.
Deﬁned contribution pension schemes
The cost of the group’s deﬁned contribution pension schemes amounts to the value of contributions made. Contributions are charged to the
income statement as they become payable.
Post-employment healthcare beneﬁt
The group also provided certain additional post-employment healthcare beneﬁts to employees which are unfunded. The cost of providing these
beneﬁts is determined on the same basis as the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes.
Share-based payments
Certain employees and directors receive equity-settled remuneration, whereby they render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes model, at the date at which they were granted. No account is taken in
the fair value calculation of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions. The fair value of shares and options granted is recognised as an
employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity spread over the period in which the performance conditions are fulﬁlled ending on the
relevant vesting date. The cumulative amount recognised as an expense reﬂects the extent to which the vesting period has expired, adjusted for
the estimated number of shares and options that are ultimately expected to vest. The periodic charge or credit is the movement in the cumulative
position from beginning to end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest provided vesting is not conditional on market related conditions. The dilutive effect
of outstanding options is reﬂected as additional share dilution in calculating earnings per share ﬁgures.
In accordance with the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 for ﬁrst time adopters, no expense is recorded in respect of grants made under the above
schemes prior to 7 November 2002 which had not vested by the date of transition to IFRS.
Own shares
Own shares consist of treasury shares and shares held within an employee beneﬁt trust. The group has an employee beneﬁt trust for the granting
of shares to applicable employees.
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from shareholders’ equity. Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares is also
recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds from the original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on transactions in treasury shares. 34
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
1 Accounting policies continued
Revenue
Generally, revenue represents external sales (excluding taxes) of goods and services, net of discounts. Revenue is recognised to the extent that
it is probable that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the group and is measured at the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding discounts,
rebates, and other sales taxes or duty. Revenue principally consists of:
Goods
Drink and food sales
Recognised at the point at which goods are provided either wholesale or in the group’s outlets.
Services
Accommodation sales
Recognised at the point at which the services are provided.
Rental income
Recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Machine income
Net takings recognised as earned.
Operating leases
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and beneﬁts of ownership are classiﬁed as operating leases. Lease payments are recognised
as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease premiums paid on entering into or acquiring operating leases represent prepaid lease payments and are held on the balance sheet as current
(the portion relating to the next ﬁnancial period) or non-current prepayments. These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Taxes
Income tax
The income tax charge comprises both the income tax payable based on proﬁts for the year and the deferred income tax. It is calculated using
taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid
to the taxation authorities.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities
and their carrying values in the ﬁnancial statements.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences except where the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset
or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting proﬁt nor taxable
proﬁt or loss or in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the
temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and carry forward of unused tax losses only to the extent that it is
probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax losses can
be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that
sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed
at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable proﬁt will allow the deferred tax asset
to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured, on an undiscounted basis, at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset
is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are deﬁned as items of income or expense which, because of their nature, size or expected frequency, merit separate
presentation to allow a better understanding of the ﬁnancial performance in the period. 35
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
1 Accounting policies continued
New standards and interpretations not applied
A number of standards and interpretations were issued by the IASB and IFRC with an effective date after the date of these ﬁnancial statements
and which have not been early adopted by the group. These are as follows:
IFRS 8 – Operating Segments
The standard replaced IAS 14, with revised requirements for the identiﬁcation, measurement and disclosure of segment information.
IAS 1 amendment – Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures
The amendment to the standard will require the company to choose whether to rename the primary statements and whether to present the new
statement of comprehensive income as a single statement replacing the income statement or as two statements.
IAS 23 – Borrowing Costs
The revised standard requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs when such costs relate to an asset that necessarily takes a substantial amount
of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.
In addition, the following standards and interpretations have been issued, none of which are anticipated to signiﬁcantly impact the group’s results
or assets and liabilities and are not expected to require additional disclosure:
– IFRS 2 amendment – Vesting Conditions and Cancellations
– IFRS 3 – Business Combinations (revised January 2008)
– IAS 27 – Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (revised January 2008)
– IFRIC 12 – Service Concession Arrangements
– IFRIC 13 – Customer Loyalty Programs
– IFRIC 14-IAS 19 – The Limit of Deﬁned Beneﬁt Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction
Signiﬁcant accounting judgments and estimates
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting
policies that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense. The group bases its estimates and judgments on historical
experience and other factors deemed reasonable under the circumstances, including any expectations of future events. Actual results may differ
from these estimates. The estimates and assumptions considered to be signiﬁcant are detailed below:
Impairment of non-ﬁnancial assets
The group determines whether non-ﬁnancial assets are impaired on at least an annual basis. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the
cash-generating unit that the assets are grouped within. Value in use calculations require assumptions to be made regarding the expected future
cash ﬂows from the cash-generating unit and choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash ﬂows. If the
actual cashﬂows are lower than estimated, future impairments may be necessary.
Impairment of goodwill
The group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis. Details of the tests and carrying value of the assets are shown
in note 14. This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Value in use calculations
require assumptions to be made regarding the expected future cash ﬂows from the cash-generating unit and choice of a suitable discount rate in
order to calculate the present value of those cash ﬂows. If the actual cash ﬂows are lower than estimated, future impairments may be necessary.
Residual values
Residual values of property are determined with reference to current market property trends. If residual values were lower than estimated,
an impairment of asset value and reassessment of future depreciation charge may be required. Useful economic lives are reassessed annually
which may lead to an increase or reduction in depreciation accordingly.
Pension liabilities
The present values of pension liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and depend on a number of actuarial assumptions which are disclosed
in note 9.
Any change in these assumptions will impact on the carrying amount of pension liabilities.
Taxation
Judgment is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be ﬁnally determined until a
formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities. Tax beneﬁts are not recognised unless it is probable that the beneﬁt will be obtained.
Tax provisions are made if it is possible that a liability will arise. The group reviews each signiﬁcant tax liability or beneﬁt to assess the appropriate
accounting treatment. 36
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
2 Segment information
The group’s primary reporting format is business segments which are divided into four core trading segments and are managed separately.
Retail covers the results of managed houses and restaurants, Pub Partners covers the results of tenanted houses, Brewing Company covers
brewing beer, marketing and selling, all predominantly in England. Belhaven covers the results of our Scottish operation which includes managed
and tenanted houses and brewing and selling beer. Corporate includes central costs and central assets/liabilities.
Retail includes 39 weeks trading from the acquired Loch Fyne Restaurants business which contributed £3.4m proﬁt before tax.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s-length basis.
Retail Pub Partners Brewing Company Belhaven Corporate Total operations
2008 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment revenue 578.7 167.2 130.8 127.9 – 1,004.6
Less: internal revenue – – (42.3) (1.8) – (44.1)
External revenue 578.7 167.2 88.5 126.1 – 960.5
Operating costs (462.2) (85.8) (66.9) (98.6) (10.8) (724.3)
Segment operating profit (pre-exceptionals) 116.5 81.4 21.6 27.5 (10.8) 236.2
Exceptional items (1.3) 2.7 0.2 0.1 3.2 4.9
Segment operating profit (post-exceptionals) 115.2 84.1 21.8 27.6 (7.6) 241.1
Net finance costs (93.2)
Income tax expense (23.6)
Net profit for the period 124.3
Balance sheet
Segment assets 1,324.3 882.7 240.0 361.8 45.7 2,854.5
Unallocated assets* 123.6
1,324.3 882.7 240.0 361.8 45.7 2,978.1
Segment liabilities (77.5) (9.6) (34.3) (30.1) (47.2) (198.7)
Unallocated liabilities* (2,030.7)
(77.5) (9.6) (34.3) (30.1) (47.2) (2,229.4)
Net assets 1,246.8 873.1 205.7 331.7 (1.5) 748.7
Other segment information
Capital expenditure – tangible assets 54.3 22.2 3.5 27.0 0.9 107.9
Capital expenditure – tangible assets acquired 17.0 25.9 – – – 42.9
Capital expenditure – goodwill 57.8 10.5 – – – 68.3
Depreciation 31.4 6.8 4.0 4.2 0.7 47.1
EBITDA** 147.9 88.2 25.6 31.7 (10.1) 283.3 37
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
2 Segment information continued
Retail Pub Partners Brewing Company Belhaven Corporate Total operations
2007 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment revenue 546.0 164.0 126.8 118.0 – 954.8
Less: internal revenue – – (35.7) (1.6) – (37.3)
External revenue 546.0 164.0 91.1 116.4 – 917.5
Operating costs (435.3) (89.3) (68.1) (93.1) (13.6) (699.4)
Segment operating profit (pre-exceptionals) 110.7 74.7 23.0 23.3 (13.6) 218.1
Exceptional items 2.1 17.2 (2.2) – (0.9) 16.2
Segment operating profit (post-exceptionals) 112.8 91.9 20.8 23.3 (14.5) 234.3
Net finance costs (88.4)
Income tax expense (37.3)
Net profit for the period 108.6
Balance sheet
Segment assets 1,264.3 823.4 243.6 328.4 47.4 2,707.1
Unallocated assets* 128.8
1,264.3 823.4 243.6 328.4 47.4 2,835.9
Segment liabilities (51.4) (7.1) (31.6) (21.5) (56.6) (168.2)
Unallocated liabilities* (1,833.5)
(51.4) (7.1) (31.6) (21.5) (56.6) (2,001.7)
Net assets 1,212.9 816.3 212.0 306.9 (9.2) 834.2
Other segment information
Capital expenditure – tangible assets 39.3 16.8 8.9 23.1 3.4 91.5
Capital expenditure – tangible assets acquired 122.2 79.8 – – 12.3 214.3
Capital expenditure – goodwill 50.8 42.9 8.9 – – 102.6
Depreciation 27.3 5.9 4.1 4.0 1.4 42.7
EBITDA** 138.0 80.6 27.1 27.3 (12.2) 260.8
* Unallocated assets/liabilities includes cash, borrowings, pensions, net deferred tax, net current tax, and derivatives.
** EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items and is calculated as operating profit before exceptionals adjusted for the depreciation
charge for the period.
Geographical segments
The group’s secondary format is geographical segments. The group’s assets and operations are predominantly located within the UK.
As the group has virtually only domestic activities, segment reporting is only required by business segment.
3 Revenue
Revenue is analysed as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Goods 852.7 813.8
Services 107.8 103.7
960.5 917.5 38
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
4 Other income and expenses
Operating proﬁt is stated after charging:
2008 2007
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Changes in inventory of finished goods
and work in progress 11.4 – 11.4 12.3 – 12.3
Cost of inventories recognised
as an expense 326.7 – 326.7 320.0 0.3 320.3
Employment costs (note 6) 224.1 1.1 225.2 204.9 3.5 208.4
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment 47.1 – 47.1 42.7 (0.4) 42.3
Operating lease rentals
– minimum lease rentals 13.7 – 13.7 12.3 – 12.3
Net profit on disposal of property, plant
and equipment – (9.8) (9.8) – (21.1) (21.1)
Other operating charges 101.3 3.8 105.1 107.2 1.5 108.7
724.3 (4.9) 719.4 699.4 (16.2) 683.2
Auditors’ remuneration during the period of £0.3m (2007: £0.3m) consisted of:
2008 2007
£m £m
Audit of the group financial statements 0.2 0.1
Other fees to auditors
– auditing of the accounts of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1
– other services relating to taxation – 0.1
– other services – –
Included in other operating charges 0.3 0.3
5 Exceptional items
2008 2007
£m £m
Included in operating profit
Integration of New Century Inns business 0.4 –
Integration of Hardys & Hansons business 1.3 4.9
Financial systems integration 1.0 –
Adjustment to carrying value of goodwill in respect of utilisation of tax losses (note 13) 2.2 –
Net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (9.8) (21.1)
(4.9) (16.2)
Included in financing costs
Early termination of interest rate swaps and loan facilities (1.0) 10.1
Total exceptional items before tax (5.9) (6.1)
Exceptional integration costs are items of one-off expenditure incurred to combine the acquired businesses with the rest of the group, primarily
comprising integration costs.
The net proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment of £9.8m (2007: £21.1m) comprises a total proﬁt on disposal of £15.4m (2007: £21.1m)
and a total loss on disposal of £5.6m (2007: £nil). 39
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
6 Employment costs
2008 2007
£m £m
Wages and salaries 196.9 178.6
Employee profit sharing scheme – 2.4
Other share-based payments 3.4 2.4
Total wages and salaries 200.3 183.4
Social security costs 15.6 14.7
Other pension costs (note 9)
– defined benefit 5.2 4.7
– defined contribution 3.0 2.1
Staff termination costs 1.1 3.5
225.2 208.4
The total expense of share-based payments and the employee proﬁt share relate to equity settled schemes.
The average number of employees during the period was as follows:
2008 2007
Retail 14,848 14,144
Pub Partners 119 113
Brewing Company 685 685
Belhaven 1,634 1,547
Corporate 106 110
17,392 16,599
The ﬁgures above include 8,796 (2007: 8,588) part-time employees.
Details of directors’ emoluments are shown in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 73 to 77.
7 Finance (costs)/income
2008 2007
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts (46.1) – (46.1) (21.8) – (21.8)
Other loans (65.9) – (65.9) (61.2) – (61.2)
Termination of swaps and loan facilities – –– – (10.1) (10.1)
Total finance costs (112.0) – (112.0) (83.0) (10.1) (93.1)
Bank interest receivable 16.4 – 16.4 4.4 – 4.4
Termination of swaps and loan facilities – 1.0 1.0 –––
Total finance income 16.4 1.0 17.4 4.4 – 4.4
Net finance costs (95.6) 1.0 (94.6) (78.6) (10.1) (88.7)
8 Share-based payment plans
The group operates four types of share-based payment arrangements; executive share option plans (“ESOS”), a senior management long-term
incentive plan (“LTIP”), general employee share option plan (“SAYE”) and a share incentive plan (“SIP”).
The general terms of each plan are detailed in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 73 to 77. All are equity settled.
The total expense recognised for the period arising from share-based payment transactions is £3.4m (2007: £4.8m), all of which relates to
equity-settled transactions. 40
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
8 Share-based payment plans continued
The fair value of equity-settled options and LTIP contingently issued shares are estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of the grants
and model inputs used to calculate the fair values of grants during the period were as follows:
2008 LTIP ESOS SAYE
Weighted average share price 808p 1087p 694p
Exercise price – 1087p 519p
Expected dividend yield 4.9% 4.9% 4.9%
Risk-free rate of return 4.6% 5.5% 4.1%
Volatility 25.3% 18.9% 27.6%
Expected life (years) 3.0 6.5 3.3
Weighted average fair value of grants in the year 698p 289p 189p
2007 LTIP ESOS SAYE
Weighted average share price 936p 813p 1150p
Exercise price – 813p 865p
Expected dividend yield 2.1% 2.1% 2.1%
Risk-free rate of return 4.8% 4.6% 5.1%
Volatility 21.5% 21.2% 22.1%
Expected life (years) 3.0 6.5 3.3
Weighted average fair value of grants in the year 880p 200p 374p
Risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds with the same life as the expected option life. Expected volatility is based
on historical volatility of the company’s share price which assumes that the past trend in share price movement is indicative of future trends.
Expected life of options has been taken as the mid-point of the relevant exercise period. This is not necessarily indicative of future exercise patterns.
No other feature of the equity instruments granted was incorporated into the fair value measurement.
The SIP shares are issued to employees after the period end at the market price ruling at the date of grant. As such, this is their fair value and the
assumptions stated above are not relevant for this scheme.
Movement in outstanding options and rights during the period is as follows:
Weighted average
Number of options exercise price
2008 2007 2008 2007
ESOS m m p p
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 3.5* 3.1* 622 512
Granted 1.1 1.2 1,087 813
Forfeited (0.3) (0.3) 759 647
Exercised (0.4) (0.5) 501 400
Outstanding at the end of the period 3.9* 3.5* 755 622
Exercisable at the end of the period 1.0 0.6 446 390
* Balance at the beginning of the period includes 0.3m (2007: 0.4m) shares under options granted before 7 November 2002 and 0.3m (2007: 0.3m) at the end of period. The options have
not been modified and therefore are not accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
Weighted average
Number of options exercise price
2008 2007 2008 2007
SAYE m m p p
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 1.4* 2.0* 590 441
Granted 0.6 0.3 519 865
Forfeited (0.3) (0.5) 654 421
Exercised (0.1) (0.4) 497 308
Outstanding at the end of the period 1.6* 1.4* 557 590
Exercisable at the end of the period 0.1 0.0 282 285
* Balance at the beginning of the period includes no shares (2007: 0.2m) under options granted before 7 November 2002 and none (2007: none) at the end of period. The options have not
been modified and therefore are not accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2. 41
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
8 Share-based payment plans continued
Number of options
2008 2007
LTIP m m
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.6 0.6
Granted 0.4 0.3
Forfeited – (0.1)
Exercised (0.2) (0.2)
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.8 0.6
Exercisable at the end of the period – –
The options and shares granted under the LTIP are at nil cost therefore the weighted average exercise price for rights outstanding at the beginning
and end of the period, granted, forfeited and exercised during the period is £nil (2007: £nil).
ESOS, SAYE and LTIP
Options were exercised on a range of dates. The weighted average share price through the period was 860p in 2008 and 956p in 2007. The rights
outstanding at 4 May 2008 under the LTIP had an exercise price of £nil (2007: £nil) and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.7 years
(2007: 2.1 years). The outstanding options for the ESOS scheme had an exercise price between 370p and 1087p (2007: 264p and 813p) and for
the SAYE scheme between 282p and 865p (2007: 285p and 865p). The weighted average remaining contractual life was 7.5 years for the ESOS
(2007: 7.9 years) and 2.8 years for the SAYE scheme (2007: 2.9 years).
SIP
The cost of the SIP is accrued at the year end based on the expected value of payout. The amount accrued at 4 May 2008 for the current year’s
service is £nil (2007: £2.4m) as disclosed in note 6. The shares issued during the period to employees were in relation to their services in the prior
period. The number of shares issued was 0.3m with a share price on date of grant of 958p. The SIP shares are held within an external trust until the
employee elects to sell.
9 Pensions
The group maintains a deﬁned contribution scheme, which is open to all new employees, and a number of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes.
The group also has a past service liability in relation to post-employment medical beneﬁts offered to employees to cover any medical costs after
employment. The beneﬁt is no longer given to new employees.
Deﬁned contribution pension scheme
Member funds for the deﬁned contribution scheme are held and administered by the Prudential Assurance Company. The total cost recognised
in operating proﬁt for the period was £3.0m (2007: £2.1m).
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes and post-employment beneﬁts
The group maintains the following deﬁned beneﬁt schemes which are all closed to new entrants and have had full actuarial valuations in the last
four years: Greene King Pension Scheme (closed 2 May 1997, last valued 5 April 2006), Morland Pension Scheme (closed 12 December 2000,
last valued 5 April 2006), Tolly Cobbold Pension Scheme (closed 29 July 2002, last valued 1 December 2004), Belhaven Pension Scheme (closed
31 October 2005, last valued 31 March 2005), and the Hardys & Hansons Pension Scheme (closed 1 July 2003, last valued 30 April 2006).
Member funds for the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are held in separate funds independently of the group’s ﬁnances and are administered by
pension trustees. Pension beneﬁts are related to members’ ﬁnal salary at retirement and their length of service. The group has opted to recognise
all actuarial gains and losses immediately via the statement of recognised income and expense.
The total cost recognised in the income statement was:
Post-employment
Pension schemes benefits
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Current service cost (5.6) (4.7) – –
Curtailments – – – –
Total recognised in operating profit (5.6) (4.7) – –
Expected return on pension scheme assets 15.4 12.7 – –
Interest on scheme liabilities (13.7) (12.1) (0.3) (0.3)
Total finance income/(cost) recognised 1.7 0.6 (0.3) (0.3) 42
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
9 Pensions continued
The total charge recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense was:
Post-employment
Pension schemes benefits
2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme assets (18.3) 3.5 – –
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities (1.6) 6.7 – –
Losses arising on scheme liabilities due to changes in actuarial assumptions (11.4) – – –
Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised through equity (31.3) 10.2 – –
The total contributions to the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes in the following period are expected to be £7.7m (2007: £6.7m) for the group.
The values of the schemes’ liabilities have been determined by a qualiﬁed actuary based on the results of the last actuarial valuation, updated to
4 May 2008 using the following principal actuarial assumptions:
2008 2007
% %
Discount rate 6.1 5.6
Expected rates of salary increases 5.5 5.0
Expected pension payment increases 3.6 3.1
Rate of inflation 3.7 3.2
Healthcare cost increase 9.0 9.0
The mortality assumptions imply the following expectations of years of life from age 65:
2008 2007
Man currently aged 40 23.2 20.5
Woman currently aged 40 25.9 23.4
Man currently aged 65 20.8 19.0
Woman currently aged 65 23.6 21.9
Mortality assumptions are based on standard tables adjusted for scheme experience and with an allowance for future improvement in life expectancy.
Overall expected rate of return on assets is established by applying brokers’ forecasts to each category of scheme asset.
The net liability of the schemes and other post-employment beneﬁt, as recognised in the balance sheet, is summarised below:
Pension plans
Long-term rate of Post-employment
return expected Value benefits
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
% % £m £m £m £m
Equities 8.8 8.4 150.8 155.3 – –
With profits 7.7 7.7 2.2 1.9 – –
Bonds 5.7 5.3 26.7 27.9 – –
Property 8.8 8.4 2.0 2.4 – –
Cash 5.0 5.3 17.2 14.3 – –
Fair value of assets 198.9 201.8 – –
Present value of scheme liabilities
Funded plans (267.3) (242.0) – –
Unfunded plans – – (5.4) (5.3)
Non-current liability recognised (68.4) (40.2) (5.4) (5.3) 43
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
9 Pensions continued
The movements in the pension schemes’ net liability and post-employment beneﬁt liability during the period are as follows:
Pension assets Pension liabilities Net pension liability
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At beginning of period 201.8 168.5 (242.0) (218.7) (40.2) (50.2)
Current service cost – – (5.6) (4.7) (5.6) (4.7)
Interest cost on benefit obligations – – (13.7) (12.1) (13.7) (12.1)
Expected return on plan assets 15.4 12.7 – – 15.4 12.7
Contributions paid – employers 7.0 6.4 – – 7.0 6.4
Contributions paid – employees 1.2 1.3 (1.2) (1.3) – –
Settlements and curtailments – – – – – –
Acquisitions (note 18) – 15.2 – (17.7) – (2.5)
Benefits paid (8.2) (5.8) 8.2 5.8 – –
Actuarial (loss)/gain (18.3) 3.5 (13.0) 6.7 (31.3) 10.2
At end of period 198.9 201.8 (267.3) (242.0) (68.4) (40.2)
Post-employment
benefits liability
2008 2007
£m £m
At beginning of period (5.3) (5.2)
Current service cost – –
Interest cost on benefit obligations (0.3) (0.3)
Other finance charge – –
Benefits paid 0.2 0.2
Actuarial gain/(loss) – –
At end of period (5.4) (5.3)
History of experience adjustments for the current and previous three periods are as follows:
Pension schemes:
2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligation (267.3) (242.0) (218.7) (177.9)
Plan assets 198.9 201.8 168.5 121.7
Deficit (68.4) (40.2) (50.2) (56.2)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 1.6 (5.4) (13.4) (10.1)
Percentage of scheme liabilities -0.6% 2.2% 6.1% 5.7%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets (18.3) 3.5 24.1 1.1
Percentage of scheme assets -9.2% 1.7% 14.3% 0.9%
Post-employment beneﬁts:
2008 2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m £m
Benefit obligation (5.4) (5.3) (5.2) (5.1)
Experience adjustments on benefit obligation – – – –
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 3 May 2004 in the statement of recognised income and expense is £1.4m
loss (2007: £29.9m gain). The amount prior to 3 May 2004 is not determinable as valuations were performed under different accounting and
actuarial bases. 44
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
10 Taxation
Consolidated income statement
2008 2007
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Income tax
Corporation tax before exceptional items 38.2 – 38.2 39.2 – 39.2
Exceptional tax credit – – – – (3.0) (3.0)
Recoverable on exceptional items – (0.4) (0.4) – (4.4) (4.4)
Current income tax 38.2 (0.4) 37.8 39.2 (7.4) 31.8
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (1.0) – (1.0) – – –
37.2 (0.4) 36.8 39.2 (7.4) 31.8
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.5 (15.7) (13.2) 2.8 2.7 5.5
Tax charge in the income statement 39.7 (16.1) 23.6 42.0 (4.7) 37.3
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
2008 2007
£m £m
Deferred tax
(Loss)/gain on actuarial valuation of pension liability (8.8) 3.1
Net (loss)/gain on revaluation of cash flow hedges (3.4) 6.9
Share-based payment – future taxable benefit 7.1 (3.5)
Deferred tax reported in equity (5.1) 6.5
Income tax
Share-based payments – current taxable benefit (3.1) (2.8)
Total tax reported in equity (8.2) 3.7
The tax effect of non-trading exceptionals was £nil (2007: £3.0m).
Reconciliation of income tax expense for period
The effective rate of taxation is lower than the full rate of corporation tax. The differences are explained below:
2008 2007
£m £m
Profit before tax 147.9 145.9
Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate corporation tax 29.8% (2007: 30%) 44.1 43.8
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.4 0.3
Exceptional deferred tax credit on indexation of properties (3.5) (3.8)
Exceptional deferred tax credit in respect of rate change (13.7) –
Exceptional tax credit – (3.0)
Tax credit on intra group transactions eliminated on consolidation (1.5) –
Relief for tax losses not previously recognised (note 13) (2.2) –
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (1.0) –
Income tax expense reported in the income statement 23.6 37.3
Factors that may affect future tax charges
The Finance Act 2007 reduced the rate of corporation tax from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008. The effect of the reduced rate is a
deferred tax credit of £13.7m in the period. This is included within the tax credit of £16.1m shown under exceptional items which is also stated
after an income tax charge of £0.3m on exceptional interest income, an income tax credit of £0.8m on exceptional integration costs, a deferred
tax credit of £3.5m on indexation of properties, a deferred tax charge of £3.8m on disposal of properties and a £2.2m tax credit for tax losses not
previously recognised following the Laurel acquisition. The tax recoverable on exceptional items of £4.4m in the prior period was in respect of tax
relief on integration costs and ﬁnance break costs. The exceptional tax credit of £3.0m in the prior year was in respect of tax relief on intra-group
transactions eliminated on consolidation. 45
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
10 Taxation continued
Deferred tax
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Deferred tax liability
Accelerated capital allowances 61.2 60.3
Revaluations of land and buildings 116.3 103.0
Rolled over capital gains 30.7 25.9
Acquisition fair value adjustments 3.2 31.7
Derivatives – 3.3
211.4 224.2
Deferred tax asset
Pensions and post-employment medical benefits (20.8) (12.2)
Other accruals and deferred income (3.6) (4.0)
Tax losses carried forward (2.2) –
Derivatives (0.1) –
Share-based payment (1.9) (9.4)
Acquisition fair value adjustments – (0.7)
(28.6) (26.3)
Net deferred tax liability 182.8 197.9
The deferred tax included in the income statement is as follows:
2008 2007
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax in the income statement
Accelerated capital allowances 1.8 – 1.8 4.6 – 4.6
Rolled over capital gains – 0.2 0.2 – 2.7 2.7
Pensions and post-employment medical benefit – – – 0.9 – 0.9
Share-based payments 0.4 – 0.4 (2.1) – (2.1)
Tax losses carried forward – (2.2) (2.2) 0.8 – 0.8
Temporary differences 0.3 – 0.3 (1.4) – (1.4)
Tax credit in respect of rate change – (13.7) (13.7) – – –
Deferred tax expense 2.5 (15.7) (13.2) 2.8 2.7 5.5
11 Dividends paid and proposed
2008 2007
£m £m
Declared and paid in the period
Interim dividend for 2008 – 7.30p (2007: 6.45p) 9.9 9.8
Final dividend for 2007 – 16.45p (2006: 14.35p) 23.6 21.7
33.5 31.5
Proposed for approval at AGM
Final dividend for 2008 – 18.70p (2007: 16.45p) 25.0 24.4
Total proposed dividend for 2008 – 26.00p (2007: 22.90p) 34.9 34.2
Dividends on own shares have been waived. 46
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
12 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to equity holders of £124.3m (2007: £108.6m) by the weighted
average number of shares in issue during the period (excluding own shares held) of 138.3m (2007: 151.0m).
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated on a similar basis taking account of 0.2m (2007: 2.3m) dilutive potential shares under option,
giving a weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution of 138.5m (2007: 153.3m).
Adjusted earnings per share excludes the effect of exceptional items and is presented to show the underlying performance of the group on both
a basic and dilutive basis.
Adjusted earnings per share
Earnings Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£m £m p p p p
Profit attributable to equity holders 124.3 108.6 89.9 71.9 89.7 70.8
Exceptional items (22.0) (10.8) (15.9) (7.1) (15.9) (7.0)
Profit attributable to equity holders
before exceptional items 102.3 97.8 74.0 64.8 73.8 63.8
Treasury shares and shares held by the EBT are excluded from the calculation of weighted average number of shares in issue.
There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of completion
of the ﬁnancial statements.
13 Goodwill
£m
Cost
At 30 April 2006 505.1
Acquired through business combinations (note 18) 102.6
At 29 April 2007 607.7
Acquired through business combinations (note 18) 68.3
Adjustments to carrying value of goodwill in respect of utilisation of tax losses (2.2)
At 4 May 2008 673.8
All goodwill was purchased as part of business combinations. As from 3 May 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, goodwill is no longer amortised
but is subject to annual impairment testing.
The adjustments to the carrying value of goodwill are due to the post-acquisition utilisation of tax losses, which were not recognised as deferred
tax assets following the acquisition of Laurel during 2004/05.
14 Impairment testing of goodwill
Goodwill has been allocated to business segments, the lowest group of cash-generating units in the group at which goodwill is monitored internally,
based on the extent that the beneﬁts of acquisitions ﬂow to that segment.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated £236.4m (2007: £180.8m) to Retail, £172.3m (2007: £161.8m) to Pub Partners, £138.7m
(2007: £138.7m) to Brewing Company, and £126.4m (2007: £126.4m) to Belhaven.
The recoverable amount of each segment was determined based on a value-in-use calculation, and in all cases exceeded the carrying amount.
The key assumptions used for all business segments are the discount rate applied to cash ﬂow projections of 9.0% (2007: 9.0%) and the projected
cash ﬂows beyond the one year budgets are extrapolated using a growth rate in line with an expected long-term inﬂation rate of 2.0% (2007: 2.0%)
which is below the long-term average growth rate for the industry. Other commercial assumptions relating to market growth, market share and
sales prices have been made based on historic trends adjusted for management estimates of future prospects. 47
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
15 Property, plant and equipment
Licensed estate Other
Land and Plant and Land and Plant and
buildings equipment buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balances at 30 April 2006 1,481.1 340.3 58.9 81.9 1,962.2
Acquisitions – Hardys & Hansons (note 18) 168.8 31.8 12.7 1.0 214.3
Additions during period 42.4 28.2 4.8 16.2 91.6
Disposals during period (38.3) (12.4) (3.7) (0.4) (54.8)
Balances at 29 April 2007 1,654.0 387.9 72.7 98.7 2,213.3
Acquisitions – Loch Fyne (note 18) 8.1 8.9 – – 17.0
Acquisitions – New Century Inns (note 18) 25.1 0.8 – – 25.9
Additions during period 60.2 40.0 1.8 5.9 107.9
Disposals during period (20.9) (5.7) (7.1) (1.4) (35.1)
Balances at 4 May 2008 1,726.5 431.9 67.4 103.2 2,329.0
Depreciation and impairment
Balances at 30 April 2006 0.8 145.6 1.8 42.2 190.4
Written back on disposals – (5.3) (0.1) (0.2) (5.6)
Provided during the year 0.3 37.2 0.4 4.8 42.7
Balances at 29 April 2007 1.1 177.5 2.1 46.8 227.5
Written back on disposals – (2.6) (0.2) (0.7) (3.5)
Provided during the year 0.3 41.1 0.4 5.3 47.1
Balances at 4 May 2008 1.4 216.0 2.3 51.4 271.1
Net book value
At 4 May 2008 1,725.1 215.9 65.1 51.8 2,057.9
At 29 April 2007 1,652.9 210.4 70.6 51.9 1,985.8
At 30 April 2006 1,480.3 194.7 57.1 39.7 1,771.8
The licensed estate relates to properties, and assets held within those properties, licensed to trade (ie managed, tenanted and leased houses).
Other assets relate to property, plant and equipment associated with unlicensed properties (ie brewing, distribution, and central assets).
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
2008 2007
£m £m
Freehold properties 1,694.9 1,638.1
Leasehold properties >50 years unexpired term 67.7 66.6
Leasehold properties <50 years unexpired term 27.6 18.8
1,790.2 1,723.5
Valuation
The licensed estate properties were valued by the group’s own professionally qualiﬁed chartered surveyors, as at 20 December 2003, on the basis
of existing use value, in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors’ Appraisal and Valuation Standards. A representative sample
of properties was also valued by external valuers, Gerald Eve Chartered Surveyors and Property Consultants, who conﬁrmed that the values
were consistent with their appraisal. Frozen revaluation has been taken as deemed cost on the transition to IFRS, therefore no historic cost analysis
is provided.
Up to 1999 the brewery and depots were valued at depreciated replacement cost and other properties at open market value. These valuations
have been retained but they have not been updated. Subsequent additions have been included at cost or, in the case of acquisitions, at fair value.
Charges over assets
Included in land and buildings are properties with a net book value of £1,287.4m (2007: £1,236.6m) over which there is a ﬁrst charge in favour
of the securitised debt holders as detailed in note 23.
Future capital expenditure
2008 2007
£m £m
Contracted for 4.8 0.8 48
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
16 Financial assets (non-current)
2008 2007
£m £m
Trade loans (net of provision) 33.8 31.1
Investments 1.0 2.6
34.8 33.7
Trade loans are net of provisions of £3.9m (2007: £3.6m); the provision represents the totality of impaired debt. During the year £0.2m of the
provision was utilised and £0.5m of new provision was created. All trade loans, net of any provision recognised, are considered to be neither past
due nor impaired.
Trade loans are advanced to customers on terms linked to supply terms such that returns are greater than interest income. The ﬁxed rate trade
loans amounted to £27.4m (2007: £24.1m) and variable rate trade loans amounted to £10.3m (2007: £10.6m). Included in ﬁxed rate loans are
£13.3m of loans with settlement related to purchase levels (2007: £14.1m). The write-down of these loans has been taken on a straight-line basis
over the remaining term of the loan as an approximation of the write-down. This is not necessarily the actual write-down that will occur.
The ﬁxed rate trade loans had a weighted average interest rate of 2.24% (2007: 1.02%) and a weighted average period of 6.72 years (2007: 6.23 years).
Interest rates on variable rate trade loans are linked to base rate.
Trade loans
2008 2007
£m £m
Balance at beginning of period 31.1 30.6
Acquired – 0.9
Advances 14.3 12.9
Repayments and provisions (11.6) (13.3)
Balance at end of period 33.8 31.1
17 Investment in subsidiaries
The main subsidiary undertakings are:
Proportion
of voting
Principal rights
activity Held by Holding %
Subsidiary undertakings
Greene King Brewing and Retailing Limited Brewing and retailing Parent Ordinary shares 100
Greene King Retailing Limited Pub retailing Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100
Greene King Leasing No. 1 Limited Property Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100
Greene King Leasing No. 2 Limited Property Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100
Greene King Services Limited Employment Parent Ordinary shares 100
Greene King Retail Services Limited Employment Parent Ordinary shares 100
Hardys & Hansons Limited Brewing and retailing, employment Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100
Belhaven Brewery Company Limited Brewing and retailing Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100
Loch Fyne Restaurants Limited Retailing Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100
Associates
The company owned a 33% holding in Pubco PLC, a company incorporated and operating in England, with an issued share capital of £100,000,
which was wound up during the year. The investment was not shown separately as the amount was not material. 49
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
18 Business combinations
The group acquired 100% of Loch Fyne Restaurants Limited share capital on 7 August 2007. The group also acquired 100% of the share capital
of New Century Inns Limited, a tenanted pub estate, on 14 November 2007.
In 2006/07, the group acquired 100% of the voting shares of Hardys & Hansons plc, an AIM listed group consisting of a brewery and managed
and tenanted estates.
2008
Fair value of assets acquired
Loch Fyne New Century Inns Total
Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 22.7 17.0 18.2 25.9 42.9
Intangible assets 13.7 – – – –
Investments 0.8 0.8 – – 0.8
Inventories 0.5 0.5 – – 0.5
Trade receivables 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.3
Other receivables/prepayments 0.8 0.7 0.4 0.3 1.0
Derivative financial instruments – 0.2 – – 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 2.2 (0.9) (0.9) 1.3
Trade payables (4.2) (4.2) (0.5) (0.5) (4.7)
Other payables/accruals (8.7) (8.8) (0.3) (0.3) (9.1)
Deferred tax 0.1 0.1 (1.2) (3.3) (3.2)
Fair value of net assets 28.0 8.6 15.9 21.4 30.0
Goodwill 57.8 10.5 68.3
66.4 31.9 98.3
Satisfied by:
Cash 16.6 18.5 35.1
Fees 0.4 – 0.4
17.0 18.5 35.5
Loan notes issued 14.4 – 14.4
Debt acquired 35.0 13.4 48.4
Total consideration 66.4 31.9 98.3 50
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
18 Business combinations continued
2007
Fair value of assets acquired
Hardys & Hansons
Carrying value Fair value
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 142.1 214.3
Intangible assets – –
Financial assets 1.1 0.9
Inventories 1.9 1.6
Trade receivables 3.0 2.9
Other receivables/prepayments 2.6 2.6
Cash and cash equivalents (0.5) (0.5)
Trade payables (12.7) (12.7)
Other payables/accruals (3.9) (3.3)
Borrowings – –
Derivative financial instruments – –
Pension liability (2.5) (2.5)
Deferred tax (3.0) (31.0)
Fair value of net assets 128.1 172.3
Goodwill 102.6
274.9
Consideration (including fees) satisfied by:
Cash 172.0
Loan notes issued 102.9
Total consideration 274.9
For all acquisitions goodwill has arisen primarily due to expected operating synergies and the difference between property portfolio value and
expected fair value-in-use. In respect of Loch Fyne the goodwill also recognises the proven ability of management to grow the business.
The main fair value adjustments relate to the revaluation of the freehold and leasehold properties acquired, recognition of related deferred tax
liability on these revaluations and, in relation to Loch Fyne, the reversal of goodwill on previous business combinations.
The fair value of properties acquired was established following a review that was carried out by qualiﬁed surveyors employed by the company.
Retained properties have been revalued at their existing use value and properties subsequently disposed have been valued at their fair value less
costs to sell. The value of other current assets and liabilities have been adjusted to amounts to be realised or paid respectively.
The fair values presented in the interim statements in respect of Loch Fyne were provisional due to the proximity of the acquisition to the interim
date. The changes to these numbers are not signiﬁcant and have resulted from the reassessment of certain prepayments and accruals.
The net cash ﬂow impact of the acquisitions was:
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash paid (35.5) (172.0)
Net cash acquired/(overdraft) 1.3 (0.5)
Net cash outflow (34.2) (172.5)
From the date of acquisition Loch Fyne has contributed £3.4m operating proﬁt and £13.3m net cash outﬂows to the group results.
From the date of acquisition the New Century Inns business has contributed operating proﬁts of £1.1m. Following the integration of the
New Century Inns business it is no longer practical to identify the related cash ﬂows separately.
In the prior year from the date of acquisition, Hardys & Hansons has contributed £12.2m operating proﬁt to the group results. As a result
of integrating the Hardys & Hansons operations, it was no longer practical to identify the related post acquisition cash ﬂows for Hardys &
Hansons separately.
Prior to acquisition the results of the acquired businesses were prepared under UK GAAP using different accounting policies and bases,
and therefore a proforma trading result has not been produced. 51
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
19 Inventories
2008 2007
£m £m
Raw materials and work in progress 0.9 1.6
Finished goods and goods for resale 14.9 14.6
Consumable stores 2.1 2.0
17.9 18.2
20 Trade and other receivables
2008 2007
£m £m
Other receivables 0.2 0.2
Total non-current 0.2 0.2
Trade receivables 39.4 40.3
Other receivables 12.3 8.6
Total current 51.7 48.9
Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Neither past due nor impaired 32.8 32.9
Less than 30 days 1.7 2.4
30-60 days 2.0 2.2
Greater than 60 days 2.9 2.8
39.4 40.3
Trade receivables are shown net of a provision of £2.4m (2007: £2.4m).
21 Cash and cash equivalents
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 24.9 20.1
Short-term deposits 66.7 72.0
Cash and cash equivalents for balance sheet 91.6 92.1
Bank overdrafts (0.9) (9.4)
Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow 90.7 82.7
Included in the balances above is £37.0m (2007: £90.8m) held within securitised bank accounts which are only available for use by the securitisation
entities within the group. The securitisation entities comprise Greene King Retailing Parent Limited and its subsidiaries.
Interest receivable on cash and short-term deposits is linked to base rate and is received either monthly or in line with the term of the deposit.
22 Trade and other payables: current
2008 2007
£m £m
Trade payables 83.7 60.5
Other payables
– Other taxation and social security costs 32.4 31.6
– Accruals and deferred income 62.8 62.7
– Interest payable 19.8 13.4
198.7 168.2
Trade payables and other payables are non-interest bearing. Interest payable is mainly settled monthly, quarterly or semi-annually throughout the
year, in accordance with the terms of the related ﬁnancial instrument. 52
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
23 Borrowings
2008 2007
Repayment Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
date £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts On demand 0.9 – 0.9 9.4 – 9.4
Bank loans – floating rate 2009/12 – 500.0 500.0 – 235.0 235.0
Bank loans – fixed rate 2018 3.3 58.3 61.6 3.0 61.6 64.6
Securitised debt 2005 to 2036 17.0 1,077.6 1,094.6 16.1 1,094.6 1,110.7
Loan notes 2009/11 39.4 0.6 40.0 107.9 – 107.9
60.6 1,636.5 1,697.1 136.4 1,391.2 1,527.6
Bank overdrafts
Overdrafts are utilised for the day-to-day management of cash. The group has facilities of £35.0m (£2007: £35m) available with interest linked
to base rate.
Bank loans – unsecured
The group has a ﬁve-year revolving credit facility, signed on 26 April 2007, of £550m, which was £480m (2007: £235m) drawn at the year end.
In addition the group has an 18 month revolving credit facility, signed on 9 April 2008, of £40m, which was £20m (2007: £nil) drawn down at the
year end. The amounts drawn down bear interest at a margin above LIBOR, with commitment payment on the undrawn portions. Interest is
payable at each renewal date which vary in maturity. Although the individual draw-downs are repayable within 12 months of the balance sheet date,
the group expects to renew this funding. Immediate renewal is available under the £550m facility until April 2012, and under the £40m facility until
9 October 2009, hence the related debt has been classiﬁed as non-current. Final repayment of the total drawn-down balance is due as one
payment on the agreement repayment date.
The effective interest rate for £335.0m of the £500m drawn-down is 6.02% after the effect of swaps, with the remaining £165m at a rate linked
to LIBOR.
The ﬁxed rate loan attracts interest at 7.351% and is payable annually. The principal is repayable over the term of the loan by annual payments
in accordance with the payment schedule.
Securitised debt
On 7 March 2005, £600.0m of bonds were issued in connection with the securitisation of 904 of the group’s pubs held in Greene King Retailing
Limited. The bonds are secured over the properties and their future income streams and were issued by Greene King Finance plc. The funds were
used to repay existing bank facilities and pay related issue costs.
On 8 May 2006, a further £550m of bonds were issued as a tap of the original securitisation, involving an additional 801 of the group’s pubs, held
in Greene King Retailing Limited. These were issued under substantially the same terms as the original securitisation. The funds were used to repay
existing bank facilities, pay related issue costs of £4.3m and early redemption of the debentures, incurring an accelerated interest cost of £0.7m,
debenture redemption costs of £4.0m, and swap termination costs of £4.7m.
The group’s securitised debt consists of the following tranches:
Nominal Effective Principal
value Carrying value (£m)*** interest repayment Expected
Tranche (£m) 2008 2007 Interest rate (%) period average life*
A1 150.0 148.3 148.3 Floating 5.54** 2031 6.0 years
A2 280.0 276.5 290.2 Fixed 5.32 2031 15.8 years
A3 165.2 164.0 166.6 Floating 5.34** 2021 5.0 years
A4 265.0 263.1 263.0 Fixed 5.11 2034 21.3 years
B1 130.0 128.5 128.5 Fixed/floating 5.70 2034 14.0 years
B2 115.0 114.2 114.1 Floating 5.67** 2036 6.1 years
1,105.2 1,094.6 1,110.7
* This assumes refinancing of the notes on the margin step-up dates detailed in the offering circular and available on the group’s website.
** Includes the effect of interest rate swaps.
*** Carrying value is net of related deferred finance fees. 53
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
23 Borrowings continued
Repayment of nominal is made by quarterly instalments, in accordance with the repayment schedule, within the date ranges shown above.
Payment of interest is made on quarterly dates for all classes of bond. All of the ﬂoating rate bonds are fully hedged using interest rate swaps.
The Class A1, A2, A3, and A4 bonds rank pari passu in point of security and as to payment of interest and principal, and have preferential interest
payment and repayment rights over the Class B bonds. The Class B1 and B2 bonds rank pari passu in point of security, principal repayment and
interest payment.
The securitisation is governed by various covenants, warranties and events of default, many of which apply to Greene King Retailing Limited,
a group company. These include covenants regarding the maintenance and disposal of securitised properties and restrictions on its ability to move
cash to other group companies.
Loan notes – unsecured
The group issued loan notes during 2006/07 in connection with the Hardys & Hansons acquisition. These have a maturity date of September 2011
and bear interest at a margin below LIBOR, payable semi-annually.The effective interest rate of the loan notes is 4.57% after taking into consideration
the effect of interest rate swaps. These loan notes are redeemable on demand of the holders on any of the interest payment dates and as such
have been classiﬁed as current debt.
During the year the group issued £14.4m of new loan notes with a maturity date of August 2009 in connection with the Loch Fyne acquisition.
£11.8m of these loans attracted interest at margin below LIBOR with the remainder attracting interest at a ﬁxed rate of 5.86%. Interest is payable
on repayment of the loan notes. At the year end £0.6m of these loan notes remained outstanding and these amounts have been classiﬁed as
non-current debt.
24 Financial instruments
The primary treasury objectives of the group are to identify and manage the ﬁnancial risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs, and
provide secure and competitively priced funding for the activities of the group. If appropriate, the group uses ﬁnancial instruments and derivatives
to manage these risks.
The principal ﬁnancial instruments held for the purpose of raising ﬁnance for operations are bank loans and overdraft, securitised bonds, loan notes,
cash and short-term deposits. Other ﬁnancial instruments arise directly from the operations of the group, such as trade receivables, payables, and
trade loans.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, are used to manage the interest rate risks related to the group’s operations and
ﬁnancing sources. No speculative trading in derivative ﬁnancial instruments is undertaken.
The main risks from the group’s ﬁnancial instruments are cash ﬂow risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The policy for managing each
of these risks is set out below.
Interest rate risk
Exposure to changes in interest rates on the group’s borrowings is reviewed with regard to the maturity proﬁle and cash ﬂows of the underlying
debt. The group uses a mixture of ﬁxed and ﬂoating interest rate debt with exposure to market interest rate ﬂuctuations primarily arising from the
ﬂoating rate instruments. The group operates a policy that no less than 95% of the overall interest exposure should be hedged. The group enters
into interest rate swaps to manage the exposure. The swaps are designated as cash ﬂow hedges at the date of contract included within the
accounts, and tested for effectiveness every six months.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the group has undertaken sensitivity analysis on its ﬁnancial instruments which are affected by changes in interest rates.
This analysis has been prepared on the basis of a constant amount of net debt, a constant ratio of ﬁxed to ﬂoating interest rates, and on the basis
of the hedging instruments in place at 4 May 2008 and 29 April 2007. The analysis relates only to balances at these dates and is not representative
of the year as a whole. The following assumptions were made:
 Balance sheet sensitivity to interest rates applies only to derivitative ﬁnancial instruments, as the carrying value of debt and deposits does not
change as interest rates move.
 Gains and loss are recognised within equity or the income statement in line with the accounting policies of the group.
 Cash ﬂow hedges were effective.
Based on the group’s net position at the year end, a 1% change in interest rates would change the group’s proﬁt before tax by approximately
£0.5m (2007: £0.6m) and the group’s equity by £51.3m (2007: £48.3m). 54
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
24 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The group mitigates liquidity risk by managing cash generated by its operations combined with bank borrowings and long-term debt. The group’s
objective is to maintain a balance between the continuity of funding and ﬂexibility through the use of overdrafts and bank loans. The group also
monitors the maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities to avoid the risk of a shortage of funds.
The standard payment terms that the company has with its suppliers is 60 days following month end (2007: 60 days following month end).
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is placed on interest-bearing deposit with maturities ﬁxed at no more than one month. Short-term ﬂexibility
is achieved through the use of short-term borrowing on the money markets.
The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 4 May 2008 and 29 April 2007 based on contractual
undiscounted payments including interest.
Period ended 4 May 2008
Within One to Two to More than
one year two years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings:
– Capital 61.0 42.7 547.1 1,057.0 1,707.8
– Interest 91.6 88.6 229.8 769.5 1,179.5
152.6 131.3 776.9 1,826.5 2,887.3
Derivative financial instruments 1.0 1.0 1.4 5.5 8.9
Trade and other payables 198.7 ––– 198.7
352.3 132.3 778.3 1,832.0 3,094.9
Period ended 29 April 2007
Within One to Two to More than
one year two years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings:
– Capital 136.8 20.7 306.0 1,075.2 1,538.7
– Interest 78.1 76.9 223.2 828.0 1,206.2
214.9 97.6 529.2 1,903.2 2,744.9
Derivative financial instruments 0.2 0.2 0.6 3.6 4.6
Trade and other payables 168.2 ––– 168.2
383.3 97.8 529.8 1,906.8 2,917.7
Credit risk
The policy for third-party trading is that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to regular credit veriﬁcation procedures.
Receivable balances are also monitored on an on-going basis and provided against where deemed necessary to limit the exposure to bad debts
to a non-signiﬁcant level.
Other ﬁnancial assets includes trade loans, cash, and certain derivative instruments. Credit risk is the risk of default by the counterparty to discharge
their obligation, the maximum exposure of the group is the carrying amount of these instruments.
There is no requirement for collateral and there are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk within the group.
Cash ﬂow hedging
At 4 May 2008, the group held nine (2007: six) interest rate swap contracts, with a nominal value of £410.0m (2007: £265.0m), designated as
hedges of the cash ﬂow interest rate risk of £410.0m (2007: £265.0m) of the group’s variable rate borrowings (excluding bonds). These are held
on the balance sheet as a fair value liability of £1.0m (2007: asset of £3.5m). The cash ﬂows occur quarterly and semi-annually, receiving a variable
rate of interest based on the base rate or LIBOR, which ranged from 4.50% to 5.67% (2007: 4.50% to 5.67%), and paying a ﬁxed rate ranging from
4.53% to 5.85% (2007: 4.53% to 5.09%). Remaining contract maturity dates range from June 2008 to May 2013. 55
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
24 Financial instruments continued
At 4 May 2008, the group also held two (2007: two) interest rate swap contracts for a nominal value of £435.0m (2007: £435.0m), entered into
as part of the securitisation and subsequent securitisation tap. A fair value liability of £4.5m (2007: asset of £2.3m) has been recognised on the
balance sheet in respect of these contracts which are designated cash ﬂow hedges against £435.0m (2007: £435.0m) of variable rate bonds,
receiving a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR and paying a weighted average ﬁxed rate of 4.947% (2007: 4.947%). The contract maturity
dates are June 2034 and March 2036. The bonds and interest rate swaps have the same critical terms.
Changes in cash ﬂow hedge fair values are recognised in the hedging reserve to the extent that the hedges are effective. The cash ﬂow hedges have
been assessed as being highly effective during the period and are expected to remain highly effective over the remaining contract lives. The net
unrealised loss of £11.3m was included in equity in respect of these contracts.
The percentage of debt that was ﬁxed as at the year end was 96.8% (2007: 96.1%) in line with the group’s policy of ﬁxing at least 95% of all debt.
Interest rate risk
The following tables set out the group’s exposure to interest rate risk and the maturity proﬁle for each class of interest bearing ﬁnancial asset and
ﬁnancial liability.
4 May 2008
Within One to Two to Three to Four to More than
one year two years three years four years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Securitised debt 3.7 3.9 7.3 10.6 3.1 639.5 668.1
Loan notes – 0.3 – – – – 0.3
Bank loan 3.3 3.7 4.1 4.5 4.9 41.1 61.6
Financial asset (3.6) (3.2) (2.6) (4.8) (1.8) (11.4) (27.4)
Variable rate
Securitised debt 13.3 14.1 11.7 9.7 9.8 367.9 426.5
Loan notes 39.4 0.3 – – – – 39.7
Bank loans – 20.0 – 480.0 – – 500.0
Overdraft 0.9 – – – – – 0.9
Financial asset (1.4) (1.0) (1.0) (1.0) (1.0) (4.9) (10.3)
Cash and short-term deposits (91.6) – – – – – (91.6)
Interest rate swap assets (0.7) (0.4) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1) (1.9) (3.2)
Interest rate swap liabilities 1.0 1.0 0.7 0.4 0.3 5.5 8.9
29 April 2007
Within One to Two to Three to Four to More than
one year two years three years four years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Securitised debt 13.6 3.7 3.9 7.5 10.4 642.7 681.8
Other loans – – – – – – –
Bank loan 3.0 3.3 3.7 4.1 4.5 46.0 64.6
Financial asset (4.9) (3.4) (2.7) (2.3) (2.1) (8.7) (24.1)
Variable rate
Securitised debt 2.5 13.3 14.1 11.7 9.7 377.6 428.9
Loan notes 107.9 – – – – – 107.9
Bank loans – – – – 235.0 – 235.0
Overdraft 9.4 – – – – – 9.4
Financial asset (1.4) (1.2) (1.2) (1.1) (0.9) (4.8) (10.6)
Cash (92.1) – – – – – (92.1)
Interest rate swap assets (2.0) (1.2) (0.8) (0.5) (0.3) (5.6) (10.4)
Interest rate swap liabilities 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 3.6 4.6
The interest on variable rate ﬁnancial instruments is repriced at intervals less than one year. The interest on ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments is ﬁxed
until the maturity of the instrument. Investments, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables are not included in the above as they
are non-interest bearing and are not subject to interest rate risk. 56
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
24 Financial instruments continued
Fair values
Set out below is a comparison of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the group’s ﬁnancial instruments.
Fair Carrying Fair Carrying
value value value value
2008 2008 2007 2007
£m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities
Overdraft 0.9 0.9 9.4 9.4
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
– Securitised debt 882.6 1,094.6 1,104.0 1,110.7
– Fixed rate bank loan 65.6 61.6 69.3 64.6
– Floating rate bank loans 500.0 500.0 235.0 235.0
– Other variable rate borrowings 40.0 40.0 107.9 107.9
Interest rate swaps 8.9 8.9 4.6 4.6
Financial assets
Cash (91.6) (91.6) (92.1) (92.1)
Financial assets (34.8) (34.8) (33.7) (33.7)
Interest rate swaps (3.4) (3.4) (10.4) (10.4)
Market values have been used to determine the fair value of listed bond ﬁnance. Fair values and effective interest rates of derivatives and other
borrowings have been based on quotations from counterparties and represent estimates of the amount the group would expect to pay or receive
on termination of the agreements. Carrying values are stated net of any deferred ﬁnance fees which amounted to £10.7m (2007: £11.1m). The fair
value of cash and other ﬁnancial assets is not materially different from book value.
Capital risk management
The group aims to maximise shareholder value by maintaining a strong credit rating and a core level of debt which optimises the weighted average
cost of capital (WACC) and shareholder value.
A number of mechanisms are used to manage debt and equity levels, as appropriate in the light of economic and trading conditions. To maintain
or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the period.
The group monitors capital using interest cover and several other measures including ﬁxed charged cover, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and
free cash ﬂow debt service coverage. Interest cover is calculated by dividing operating proﬁt before exceptional items by net ﬁnance costs before
exceptional items (note 7). For the period to 4 May 2008 interest cover was 2.5x (2007: 2.8x).
25 Share capital
2008 2007
Number of Share Number of Share
issued shares capital issued shares capital
m £m m £m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 12½p each 200.0 25.0 200.0 25.0
Called up, allotted and fully paid
At beginning of period 150.3 18.8 152.9 19.1
Issue of share capital – – 0.2 –
Issue of share capital – share options exercised 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.1
Repurchase and cancellation (15.4) (1.9) (3.1) (0.4)
At end of period 135.4 17.0 150.3 18.8
Details of options granted and outstanding are included in note 8.
During the period 15.4m (2007: 3.1m) shares were repurchased for £150.6m (2007: £34.2m) cash and subsequently cancelled. 57
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
26 Reconciliation of movements in equity
Share Share Capital Hedging Own Retained
capital premium redemption reserve shares earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 30 April 2006 19.1 240.6 1.0 (11.9) (11.1) 523.8 761.5
Issue of ordinary shares 0.1 3.1 – – – – 3.2
Release of shares
– share option proceeds – – – – 2.2 – 2.2
Repurchase of own shares (0.4) – 0.4 – (10.0) (34.2) (44.2)
Actuarial gain – – – – – 10.2 10.2
Tax on actuarial gain – – – – – (3.1) (3.1)
Share-based payments – – – – – 4.8 4.8
Tax on share-based payments – – – – – 6.3 6.3
Cash flow hedges
– gains taken to equity – – – 18.1 – – 18.1
– losses recycled to income – – – 5.0 – – 5.0
Tax on cash flow hedges – – – (6.9) – – (6.9)
Profit for the period – – – – – 108.6 108.6
Equity dividends – – – – – (31.5) (31.5)
At 29 April 2007 18.8 243.7 1.4 4.3 (18.9) 584.9 834.2
Issue of ordinary shares 0.1 3.5 – – – – 3.6
Release of shares
– share option proceeds – – – – 1.7 – 1.7
Repurchase of own shares (1.9) – 1.9 – – (150.6) (150.6)
Actuarial loss – – – – – (31.3) (31.3)
Tax on actuarial loss – – – – – 8.8 8.8
Share-based payments – – – – – 3.4 3.4
Tax on share-based payments – – – – – (4.0) (4.0)
Cash flow hedges
– losses taken to equity – – – (3.2) – – (3.2)
– gains recycled to income – – – (8.1) – – (8.1)
Tax on cash flow hedges – – – 3.4 – – 3.4
Profit for the period – – – – – 124.3 124.3
Equity dividends – – – – – (33.5) (33.5)
At 4 May 2008 17.0 247.2 3.3 (3.6) (17.2) 502.0 748.7
Share premium account
Share premium represents the excess of proceeds received over the nominal value of new shares issued.
Capital redemption reserve
Capital redemption reserve arose from the purchase and cancellation of own share capital, and represents the nominal amount of the share
capital cancelled.
Hedging reserve
Hedging reserve adjustments arise from the movement in fair value of the group’s derivative instruments used as an effective hedge, in line with
the accounting policy disclosed in note 1.
Own shares
Own shares relates to shares held in treasury and by the employee beneﬁt trust. At 4 May 2008 1.0m shares (2007: 1.0m) were held in
treasury and 0.9m shares (2007: 1.2m) by the employee beneﬁt trust. The market values at that date were £5.1m and £4.4m (2007: £10.5m
and £12.8m) respectively.
During the period no shares were repurchased and held in treasury (2007: 1.0m shares for £10.0m) or by the employee beneﬁt trust.
0.3m (2007: 0.7m) shares held by the employee beneﬁt trust were transferred for £1.7m (2007: £2.2 million) to satisfy awards under the
long-term incentive plan and options exercised under the executive share option scheme.
The employee beneﬁt trust is independently managed and has purchased shares in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options and
potential awards under the long-term incentive plan. None of the shares held at the period end have been allocated to speciﬁc option arrangements.
Goodwill
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off to retained earnings in respect of acquisitions made prior to May 1998 amounts to £89.7m
(2007: £89.7m). 58
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
27 Working capital and non-cash movements
2008 2007
£m £m
Increase in provision against financial assets 0.3 0.3
Decrease in inventories 0.8 3.5
Increase in trade and other receivables (3.9) (1.8)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (2.0) 14.8
Share-based payment expense 3.4 4.7
Difference between defined benefit pension contributions paid and amounts charged (2.7) (1.9)
Integration costs (3.2) (5.1)
Working capital and non-cash movements (7.3) 14.5
28 Analysis and movement in net debt
2008 2007
£m £m
Cash in hand, at bank 24.9 20.1
Short-term deposits* 66.7 72.0
Overdrafts (0.9) (9.4)
Current portion of borrowings (59.7) (127.0)
Non-current portion of borrowings (1,636.5) (1,391.2)
Closing net debt (1,605.5) (1,435.5)
* Included in cash on the balance sheet.
Movement in net debt
2008 2007
£m £m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 8.0 67.5
Proceeds – issue of securitised debt – (550.0)
Proceeds – advances of loans (265.0) (415.0)
Repayment of principal – securitised debt 16.5 15.3
Repayment of principal – loans and loan notes 85.3 787.6
Financing issue costs – 4.3
Increase in net debt arising from cash flows (155.2) (90.3)
Debt acquired through acquisitions – –
Debt issued for acquisitions (14.4) (102.9)
Other non-cash movements (0.4) 4.4
Increase in net debt (170.0) (188.8)
Opening net debt (1,435.5) (1,246.7)
Closing net debt (1,605.5) (1,435.5)
29 Financial commitments
The group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and items of plant and machinery. The terms of the leases vary but typically
on inception a property lease will be for a period of up to 30 years and plant and machinery will be for less than ﬁve years. Most property leases
have an upwards only rent review based on open market rents at the time of the review.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:
2008 2007
£m £m
Within one year 12.9 9.7
Between one and five years 44.1 32.0
After five years 195.6 148.3
252.6 190.0
The group leases its licensed estate and other non-licensed properties to tenants. The majority of lease agreements have terms of between
six months and 25 years and are classiﬁed for accounting purposes as operating leases. Most of the leases with terms of over three years include
provision for rent reviews on either a three year or ﬁve year basis. 59
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
29 Financial commitments continued
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Within one year 51.3 46.2
Between one and five years 129.1 128.0
After five years 117.9 101.5
298.3 275.7
30 Related party disclosures
No transactions have been entered into with related parties during the period.There is no balance (2007: nil) outstanding with the group’s associate.
Associated terms are disclosed within the group’s borrowings (note 23).
Greene King Finance plc is a special purpose entity set-up to raise bond ﬁnance for the group, and as such is deemed a related party. The results
of the entity have been consolidated.
Compensation of key management personnel of the group
2008 2007
£m £m
Short-term employee benefits 2.0 3.1
Post-employment pension and medical benefits 0.3 0.3
Termination benefits – 0.4
Share-based payments 1.1 1.7
3.4 5.5
Directors’ interests in an employee share incentive plan
Details of the options held by executive members of the board of directors are included in the remuneration report. No options have been
granted to the non-executive members of the board of directors under this scheme.
31 Post balance sheet events
Securitisation tap
On 30 June 2008, a further £350 million of bonds were issued as a tap of the original securitisation, increasing the number of pubs held in Greene
King Retailing Limited to 2,035. The bonds are secured over the properties and their future income streams and were issued by Greene King
Finance Plc. The funds were used to repay existing bank facilities.
Final dividend
A ﬁnal dividend of 18.7p per share (2007: 16.45p) amounting to a dividend of £25.0m (2007: £24.4m) was proposed by the directors at their
meeting on 2 July 2008. These ﬁnancial statements do not reﬂect this dividend payable.
Factors that may affect future tax charges
Refer to note 10 for details of factors arising that may affect future tax charges.
32 Contingent liabilities
The group has provided guarantees totalling £4.3m (2007: £4.8m) at 4 May 2008 in respect of free trade customers’ bank borrowings. 60
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Financial statements and notes
We have audited the group ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc for the period ended 4 May 2008 which comprise the group income statement,
the group balance sheet, the group cash ﬂow statement, the group statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes 1 to 32.
These group ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc for the year ended 4 May 2008 and on the
information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has
been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group ﬁnancial statements
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether in
our opinion the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements. The information given in the directors’ report
includes that speciﬁc information presented in the chief executive’s review incorporating the business review and the ﬁnancial review, cross referred
from the business review section of the directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information
speciﬁed by law regarding director’s remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reﬂects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code
speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to consider
whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group ﬁnancial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors’ report, the chairman’s statement, the chief executive’s review incorporating the business
review, the corporate social responsibility report and the corporate governance statement. We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend
to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group ﬁnancial statements. It also includes an
assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group ﬁnancial statements, and of whether
the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us
with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by
fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group
ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion :
 the group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the group’s
affairs as at 4 May 2008 and of its proﬁt for the year then ended;
 the group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation;
and
 the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the group ﬁnancial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
London
2 July 2008
Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Greene King plc (group) Company balance sheet
As at 4 May 2008
61
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
As at
As at 29 April 2007
4 May 2008 (restated)
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 37 2,617.2 2,558.8
Current assets
Deferred tax 38 0.3 –
Derivative financial instruments 40 0.8 2.4
Cash 44.3 –
Creditors: due within one year
Short-term debt 40 – (4.5)
Derivative financial instruments 40 (0.8) –
Other creditors 39 (1,629.9) (1,916.1)
Net current liabilities (1,585.3) (1,918.2)
Total assets less current liabilities 1,031.9 640.6
Creditors: due after more than one year
Deferred tax 38 – (0.7)
Medium and long-term debt 40 (500.0) (235.0)
Derivative financial instruments 40 (1.3) –
Net assets 530.6 404.9
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 41 17.0 18.8
Share premium account 42 247.2 243.7
Revaluation reserve 42 2.5 2.5
Hedging reserve 42 (1.0) 1.7
Other reserve 42 93.9 92.0
Own shares 42 (17.2) (18.9)
Profit and loss account 42 188.2 65.1
Equity shareholders’ funds 530.6 404.9
Signed on behalf of the board on 2 July 2008
T J W Bridge R Anand
Director Director 62
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the company accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
33 Accounting policies
Basis of accounting and presentation
The accounts are prepared on a going-concern basis, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting and ﬁnancial reporting
standards in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP). They are prepared under the historical cost convention with the exception of derivatives, where the
company uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate ﬂuctuations on its variable rate loans, notes and bonds.
Changes in accounting policy
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous ﬁnancial year except for the adoption of UITF 44. As a result of this
change, during the year the company has recognised an increase in investments of £3.4m with a corresponding credit to equity. This amount
is equivalent to the share-based payment charge calculated in accordance with FRS 20 that was recognised by the company’s subsidiaries in the
corresponding period. An adjustment of £6.4m has been made to the bought forward value of investments and equity to recognise the amounts
charged by subsidiaries in previous years.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost less impairment and held as ﬁxed assets on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions
or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the
following exceptions:
– provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation (and similar fair value adjustments) of ﬁxed assets, and gains on disposal of ﬁxed
assets that have rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date there is a binding agreement to dispose
of the assets concerned. However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely
than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold.
– Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable
proﬁts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing difference can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse,
based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised when the company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are de-recognised
when the company no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the ﬁnancial instrument, normally through sale or when all cash ﬂows
attributable to the instrument are passed to an independent third party.
The exemption has been taken per FRS 29.2D, whereby the company is exempt from producing disclosure required by the standard as the group
accounts contain disclosure that complies with FRS 29.
Finance costs and income
Finance costs are expensed to the proﬁt and loss account using the effective interest method and are not capitalised. Finance income is recognised
in the proﬁt and loss account using the effective interest method.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. After initial recognition, interest-
bearing loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge accounting
The company uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate ﬂuctuations on its variable rate loans, notes and bonds.
Interest rate swaps are initially measured at fair value, if any, and carried on the balance sheet as an asset or liability. Subsequent measurement
is at fair value determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. If a derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting the gain
or loss arising on the movement in fair value is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account. 63
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
33 Accounting policies continued
Hedge accounting
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedge relationship must be designated and documented at inception. Documentation must include the
company’s risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge and formal allocation to the item or transaction being hedged.
The company also documents how it will assess the effectiveness of the hedge and carries out assessments on a regular basis to determine
whether it has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly effective.
Hedges can be classiﬁed as either fair value (hedging exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability), or cash ﬂow (hedging the variability
in cash ﬂows attributable to an asset, liability, or forecast transaction). The company uses its interest rate swaps as cash ﬂow hedges.
For these cash ﬂow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the ineffective
portion is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the proﬁt and loss account when the hedged
transaction affects proﬁt or loss.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to proﬁt or loss. If the hedging
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts
previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the proﬁt and loss account as above.
If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to proﬁt or loss.
Own shares
Own shares consist of treasury shares and shares held within an employee beneﬁt trust. The company has an employee beneﬁt trust for the
granting of shares to applicable employees.
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from shareholders’ equity. Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares is
also recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds from the original cost being taken to revenue reserves. No gain or loss
is recognised in the performance statements on transactions in treasury shares.
Share-based payments
Certain employees and directors of subsidiary companies receive equity-settled remuneration, whereby they render services in exchange for shares
or rights over shares. The fair value of the options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes model, at the date at which they were granted.
No account is taken in the fair value calculation of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions. The fair value of shares and options granted
is recognised as an increase in the company’s investments in its subsidiaries with a corresponding increase in equity spread over the period in which
the performance conditions are fulﬁlled, ending on the relevant vesting date. The cumulative amount recognised as an investment reﬂects the
extent to which the vesting period has expired, adjusted for the estimated number of shares and options that are ultimately expected to vest.
In accordance with the exemption within FRS 20 no amount is recorded in respect of grants made under the above schemes prior to
7 November 2002 which had not vested by the date of implementation of FRS 20.
34 Profit for the period
No proﬁt or loss account is presented for the company as permitted by s230 of the Companies Act 1985. The proﬁt after tax for the period
is £303.8m (2007: £15.3m).
35 Auditors’ remuneration
Auditors’ remuneration in respect of the company audit was £15,000 (2007: £15,000).
36 Directors’ remuneration and employee costs
Details of directors’ remuneration is contained in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 73 to 77. The company has no employees other
than directors. Details of share options issued by the company are given in note 8 to the consolidated accounts. 64
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notes to the company accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
Financial statements and notes
37 Investments
Shares in
subsidiaries Loans to Total
(restated) subsidiaries (restated)
£m £m £m
Cost and NBV at 29 April 2007 as previously stated 1,105.9 1,446.5 2,552.4
Effect of implementing UITF 44 6.4 – 6.4
Cost and NBV at 29 April 2007 1,112.3 1,446.5 2,558.8
Share-based payment charge in respect of subsidiaries 3.4 – 3.4
Advances – 55.0 55.0
Cost and NBV at 4 May 2008 1,115.7 1,501.5 2,617.2
Principal subsidiaries
Principal Holding
activity Held by %
Greene King Brewing and Retailing Limited Brewing and retailing Parent 100
Greene King Retailing Limited Pub retailing Subsidiary 100
Greene King Leasing No. 1 Limited Property Subsidiary 100
Greene King Leasing No. 2 Limited Property Subsidiary 100
Greene King Services Limited Employment Parent 100
Greene King Retail Services Limited Employment Parent 100
Hardys & Hansons Limited Brewing and retailing, employment Subsidiary 100
Belhaven Brewery Company Limited Brewing and retailing Subsidiary 100
Loch Fyne Restaurants Limited Retailing Subsidiary 100
The country of operation and principal activity for all companies is the United Kingdom.
Associates
The company owned a 33% holding in Pubco PLC, a company incorporated and operating in England, with an issued share capital of £100,000,
which was wound up during the year. The investment was not shown separately as the amount was not material.
38 Deferred tax
£m
Deferred tax liability at 29 April 2007 (0.7)
Tax on net loss on revaluation of cash flow hedges charged through equity 1.0
Deferred tax asset at 4 May 2008 0.3 65
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
39 Other creditors
2008 2007
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 8.3 8.8
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1,621.6 1,907.3
1,629.9 1,916.1
40 Borrowings
2008 2007
Within After Within After
one year one year Total one year one year Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts ––– 4.5 – 4.5
Bank loans – floating rate – 500.0 500.0 – 235.00 235.0
– 500.0 500.0 4.5 235.0 239.5
Bank overdrafts
Overdrafts are utilised for the day-to-day management of cash. The company has facilities of £25.0m available with interest linked to base rate.
Details of the terms and interest rates of the other debt components above are included in note 23 to the consolidated accounts.
At 4 May 2008, the company also held 7 (2007: 4) interest rate swap contracts to hedge the cash ﬂow interest rate risk related to its ﬂoating
rate debt. These had a nominal value of £360.0m (2007: £215.0m) and are held on the balance sheet as a net fair value liability of £1.3m
(2007: fair value asset of £2.4m). The details of terms and interest rates are included as part of the group’s portfolio in note 24.
Bank loans due after one year are repayable as follows:
2008 2007
£m £m
Due between one and two years – –
Due between two and five years 500.0 235.0
Due after more than five years – –
500.0 235.0
£480m of the amounts above are drawn-down under one (2007: one) revolving credit facility. Although the draw-down is repayable within
12 months of the balance sheet date, the company expects to renew this funding. Immediate renewal is available until April 2012 (2007: April
2012) for the facility. In addition the company has an 18 month revolving renew credit facility £40m, which was £20m drawn-down at the year end.
41 Called-up share capital
2008 2007
£m £m
Ordinary shares of 12
1
⁄ 2p each
Authorised – 200m shares (2007: 200m) 25.0 25.0
Issued – 135.4m shares (2007: 150.3m) 17.0 18.8
Further information on share capital is given in note 25 of the consolidated accounts. 66
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Financial statements and notes
Notes to the company accounts
For the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008
42 Reconciliation of shareholders’ funds
Profit and loss
Share Share Revaluation Hedging Other Own account Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserve shares (Restated) (Restated)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 30 April 2006 19.1 240.6 2.5 (3.8) 91.6 (11.1) 109.1 448.0
Effect of adopting
UITF 44 ––– – –– 4.0 4.0
At 30 April 2006 19.1 240.6 2.5 (3.8) 91.6 (11.1) 113.1 452.0
Cash flow hedges
– gains taken to equity – – – 2.8 – – – 2.8
Cash flow hedges
– losses recycled to income – – – 5.0 – – – 5.0
Tax on cash flow hedges – – – (2.3) – – – (2.3)
Issue of share capital 0.1 3.1 – – – – – 3.2
Share option proceeds – – – – – 2.2 – 2.2
Purchase of own
share capital (0.4) – – – 0.4 (10.0) (34.2) (44.2)
Share-based payment
charge in respect
of subsidiaries – – – – – – 2.4 2.4
Profit for the period – – – – – – 15.3 15.3
Dividends – – – – – – (31.5) (31.5)
At 29 April 2007 18.8 243.7 2.5 1.7 92.0 (18.9) 65.1 404.9
Cash flow hedges
– losses taken to equity – – – (1.8) – – – (1.8)
Cash flow hedges
– gains recycled to income – – – (1.9) – – – (1.9)
Tax on cash flow hedges – – – 1.0 – – – 1.0
Issue of share capital 0.1 3.5 – – – – – 3.6
Share option proceeds – – – – – 1.7 – 1.7
Purchase of own
share capital (1.9) 1.9 – (150.6) (150.6)
Share-based payment
charge in respect
of subsidiaries – – – – – – 3.4 3.4
Profit for the period – – – – – – 303.8 303.8
Dividends – – – – – – (33.5) (33.5)
At 4 May 2008 17.0 247.2 2.5 (1.0) 93.9 (17.2) 188.2 530.6
Movement in own shares is described in note 26 to the consolidated accounts.
The other reserve consists of £3.3m (2007: £1.4m) capital redemption reserve arising from the purchase of own share capital and £90.6m (2007: £90.6m)
arising from transfer of revalued assets to other group companies and will only be realised when the related assets are disposed of by the group.
43 Contingent liabilities
At 4 May 2008 there were no contingent liabilities in respect of guarantees to third parties (2007: £nil). Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Greene King plc (company)
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc for the year ended 4 May 2008 which comprise the balance sheet
and the related notes 33 to 43. These parent company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the group ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc for the year ended 4 May 2008.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work has
been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report and for
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the parent company ﬁnancial statements in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) are set out
in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company
ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent company directors’ report is consistent
with the ﬁnancial statements. The information given in the directors’ report includes that speciﬁc information presented in the chief executive’s
review incorporating the business review and the ﬁnancial review, cross referred from the business review section of the directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company ﬁnancial
statements. The other information comprises only the directors’ report, the unaudited part of the directors’ remuneration report, the chairman’s
statement and the chief executive’s review incorporating the business review. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any
other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board. An audit
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part
of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgments made by the directors
in the preparation of the parent company ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company’s
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration
report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
 the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
of the state of the company’s affairs as at 4 May 2008;
 the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
 the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP
Registered auditor
London
2 July 2008
67
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 Directors’ report
Management and governance
Directors’ report
The directors present their annual report together with the audited ﬁnancial statements of the company and the group for the 53 weeks ended
4 May 2008.
Proﬁts and dividends
The group’s proﬁt before taxation and exceptional items for the period amounted to £142.0m (2007: £139.8m). An interim dividend of 7.3p
per share (2007: 6.45p) was paid on 29 January 2008. The directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 18.7p per ordinary share (2007: 16.45p),
making a total dividend for the period of 26.0p per share (2007: 22.9p). Subject to the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting
(AGM), the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 8 September 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 August 2008.
Activities
Greene King plc is the holding company for a group whose principal activities are operating managed, tenanted and leased public houses, brewing
beer, and wholesaling beers, wines, spirits and soft drinks.
Business review
Under the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, as amended, the company is required to produce a business review containing a fair review
of the business of the company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company. Shareholders are referred to the
chief executive’s review, the ﬁnancial review, the risks and uncertainties section and the corporate social responsibility report for the required
information. They are intended to provide a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the business of the
group during the ﬁnancial year and the position of the group at the end of the year.
Directors
Details of the current directors are given on pages 24 and 25. All of these directors held ofﬁce throughout the period.
Under article 85 of the company’s articles of association Tim Bridge, David Elliott, Jane Scriven and John Brady retire and, being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM. Howard Phillips, who has served on the board since June 1998, will be retiring at the
forthcoming AGM.
Details of the directors’ service agreements, remuneration, and interests in share options are set out in the remuneration report on pages 71 to 77.
There have been no changes in their interests between 4 May 2008 and the date of this report.
Directors’ interests in shares
The beneﬁcial interests of each of the directors and their immediate families in the ordinary share capital of the company are shown below:
4 May 2008 29 April 2007
Tim Bridge 813,736 774,919
Rooney Anand 54,441 29,138
Justin Adams 313 –
John Brady 5,000 5,000
Ian Bull 2,313 –
Ian Durant 13,950 2,800
David Elliott 99,191 78,888
Jonathan Lawson 666 –
Norman Murray 30,000 25,000
Howard Phillips 21,700 21,700
Jane Scriven 5,000 5,000
At 4 May 2008, Tim Bridge had a non-beneﬁcial interest in 89,768 (2007: 89,768) shares, in addition to the holding shown above.
Interests in contracts
No director had a material interest in any contract, other than an employment contract, that was signiﬁcant in relation to the group’s business
at any time during the period.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 1 July 2008, the last practical date prior to the date of this report, the company has been notiﬁed of the following interests in 3% or more
of the issued share capital of the company.
%
Capital Research & Management Company 5.19
AXA S.A. 4.16
Legal & General Group plc 4.15
HBOS plc 4.04
68
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08 69
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Share capital
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the company, which comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12½p are set out
in note 25 to the accounts on page 56. The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the articles of association. There are no special control
rights in relation to the company’s shares and the company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
A total of 274,924 ordinary shares, with an aggregate nominal value of £34,365 were allotted, for cash, during the period in connection with the
company’s sharesave and executive share option schemes. In addition, 250,521 ordinary shares were allotted to the trustees of the Greene King
Free4All Share Incentive Plan.
During the period the company bought back and cancelled 15,371,212 ordinary shares. The trustees of the company’s employee beneﬁt trust,
Kleinwort Benson (Guernsey) Trustees Limited, transferred 459,862 ordinary shares to employees to satisfy the exercise of share options. Although
no ordinary shares were acquired by the employee beneﬁt trust during the period, the company does make regular use of the employee beneﬁt
trust to satisfy the exercise of share options and the employee beneﬁt trust does therefore make market purchases of the company’s shares from
time to time to ensure that it has sufﬁcient shares to enable it to do so.
Voting rights
In a general meeting of the company, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one
vote. On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are the holder. The AGM
notice gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Under the Free4All Employee Proﬁt Share Scheme, participants are the beneﬁcial owners of the shares but not the registered owners.
The registered owner is the trustee, Killik & Co Trustees Ltd. The trustee will invite participants to direct it on the exercise of any voting rights
attaching to the shares held under the scheme by the trustee on the participants’ behalf. The trustee will only be entitled to vote on a show of
hands if all directions received from participants are identical. The trustee is under no obligation to call for a poll. In the case of a poll, the trustee
will follow the directions of the participants.
No voting rights will be exercised in respect of any treasury shares.
Transfer of shares
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company other than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing
laws and regulations (for example under the Market Abuse Directive).
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, directors of the company and persons discharging managerial
responsibility are required to obtain prior approval from the company to deal in the company’s securities, and are prohibited from dealing during
closed periods.
Change of control
All of the company’s share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in the
directors’ remuneration report on pages 71 to 77. Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change
of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
The group’s banking facility agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event
of a change of control. Certain of the company’s trading contracts also contain similar provisions.
There are two employees who, on a change of control of the company resulting in the termination of their employment, would be entitled
to compensation for loss of ofﬁce. However, in the context of the company as a whole, these agreements are de minimis.
Articles of association
The company’s articles of association and memorandum of association may only be amended by special resolution at general meetings of
shareholders. At the 2008 AGM a special resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the company’s articles of association
and memorandum of association to give effect to certain provisions of the new Companies Act 2006 and certain related issues.
Appointment and replacement of directors
The number of directors on the board shall be no less than ﬁve and no more than twelve. Directors may be appointed by the company by
ordinary resolution or by the board of directors. A director appointed by the board of directors holds ofﬁce until the next following AGM,
and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
At each AGM all those directors who were elected, or last re-elected, at the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current year shall
retire from ofﬁce and may stand for re-election.
The company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given, remove any director from ofﬁce. 70
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Directors’ report
Management and governance
Any director automatically ceases to be a director if (i) they give the company a written notice of resignation; (ii) they give the company a written
offer to resign and the directors decide to accept this offer; (iii) all of the other directors remove them from ofﬁce by notice in writing served upon
them; (iv) they are or have been suffering from mental ill health and have a court order for their detention or the appointment of a guardian made
in respect of them; (v) a bankruptcy order is made against them or they make any arrangement or composition with their creditors generally;
(vi) they are prohibited from being a director by law; or (vii) they are absent from board meetings for six months without leave and the other
directors resolve that their ofﬁce should be vacated.
Powers of the directors
The business of the company is managed by the directors who may exercise all the powers of the company, subject to its memorandum and
articles of association, any relevant legislation and any directions given by the company by passing a special resolution at a general meeting.
In particular, the directors may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, issue shares, appoint and remove directors and
recommend and declare dividends.
Communications with shareholders
The company does not propose, given the nature of its shareholder base, to seek individual shareholder consent to permit communication with
such shareholders by means of publication on the company’s website. However, shareholders who are interested in signing up to e-communications
should refer to the shareholders information page for further information on how to register via www.greeneking-shares.com.
Charitable donations
Donations by the company for charitable purposes made during the period amounted to £33,200 (2007: £15,900). The group makes no
political donations.
Payments to suppliers
The group understands the beneﬁts to be derived from maintaining good relationships with its suppliers and where possible enters into agreements
over payment terms. Where such terms have not been agreed it is the group policy to settle invoices close to the end of the month following
invoicing. This policy is dependent on suppliers providing accurate, timely and sufﬁciently detailed invoices. Payment in respect of 68 days’ average
purchases from trade creditors was outstanding at the end of the period (2007: 49 days).
Directors’ and ofﬁcers’ indemnity insurance
The group has taken out insurance to indemnify, against third-party proceedings, the directors of the company whilst serving on the board of the
company and of any subsidiary. This cover indemniﬁes all employees of the group who serve on the boards of all subsidiaries. These indemnity
policies subsisted throughout the year and remain in place at the date of this report.
Financial instruments
The group’s policy on the use of ﬁnancial instruments is set out in note 24.
Post balance sheet events
Details of events occurring after the year-end are set out in note 31.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors’ report are listed on pages 24 and 25. Having made enquiries
of fellow directors and of the company’s auditors, each of these directors conﬁrms that:
 to the best of each director’s knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the company’s
auditors are unaware; and
 each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and
to establish that the company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in ofﬁce and a resolution to re-appoint the ﬁrm as the company’s auditors will be
proposed at the AGM.
Annual general meeting
The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 2 September 2008 at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre,
Newmarket, Suffolk. The notice of the AGM is set out on page 83.
The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the notice of AGM are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders
as a whole. The directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
By order of the board
Lindsay Keswick
Company Secretary
2 July 2008 71
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Composition of the remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is appointed by the board and has comprised Howard Phillips, chairman, Norman Murray and Jane Scriven,
all of whom are regarded by the board as independent non-executive directors.
Terms of reference and reporting
The committee determines, and annually reviews, all elements of executive directors’ remuneration. It approves all contracts of executive directors,
and any compensation arrangements arising from their termination. It also approves all grants of share options and LTIP allocations to directors
and executives and reviews best practice in executive remuneration. The committee is made aware of the salary levels of certain senior employees.
Advisers to the remuneration committee
The committee has taken external advice on general remuneration levels and comparator information from New Bridge Street Consultants,
who do not provide any other services to the company. Advice is also obtained, where appropriate, from the company’s legal advisers, Linklaters.
The committee also received internal advice from Rooney Anand, chief executive, in determining appropriate remuneration and incentive packages
for the other executive directors.
Remuneration policy
The company operates in a highly competitive market and must attract, motivate and retain high-quality directors. The committee considers
current market practice and makes comparisons with turnover, market capitalisation and operational details against a selection of other companies.
The committee has regard to pay and conditions elsewhere within the group. No director makes a decision relating to his own remuneration.
Individual directors leave the meeting when their own remuneration is being discussed. A signiﬁcant proportion of each executive director’s
potential remuneration is performance-related, thus aligning the directors’ interests with those of shareholders and encouraging performance
at the highest levels.
Components of directors’ remuneration
The remuneration package of each executive director consists of the following elements:
Annual pay
Annual pay reﬂects the responsibilities, market value and sustained performance level of executive directors. Pay is reviewed annually or when
a change in responsibility occurs.
Beneﬁts in kind
The range of taxable beneﬁts available to executive directors is listed on page 73.
Bonus
Bonus payments are determined by the remuneration committee and awarded where justiﬁed by performance. For the ﬁnancial year 2007/8 and
for future ﬁnancial years, the executive directors have been and will be eligible to receive an annual incentive bonus, the maximum amount being
100% of annual pay, for the achievement of stretch targets. The targets are a combination of personal and ﬁnancial performance targets agreed in
advance by the committee, with the ﬁnancial targets relating to operating proﬁt and proﬁt before tax and exceptional items and speciﬁc business
unit related targets. The performance targets are commercially sensitive and are therefore excluded from this report.
Pensions
Tim Bridge is a deferred member of the group’s deﬁned beneﬁt and supplementary pension schemes. He is entitled to receive a pension equivalent
to 1/45 of his ﬁnal pensionable earnings for each year of service, with a pro-rata payment for part years, subject to HMRC limits. Final pensionable
earnings will be determined by reference to his earnings immediately prior to him ceasing to be chief executive. The scheme also provides a cash
lump sum accrual.
The pension arrangements for Rooney Anand, Justin Adams, Ian Bull, David Elliott and Jonathan Lawson are on a deﬁned contribution basis. They
all have self-invested personal pension schemes to which the company makes a contribution. The contribution rates are 25% for Rooney Anand,
as chief executive, and David Elliott, on an age-related basis, and 20% for the remainder of the executive directors. No element of remuneration
other than annual pay is treated as pensionable and the retirement age for the schemes is 60.
Justin Adams, David Elliott and Jonathan Lawson participate in a group death-in-service insurance scheme. Death beneﬁts in excess of the HMRC
maximum, where applicable, were provided through additional insurance. Since A-Day, life assurance provision for Rooney Anand and Ian Bull has
been through an HMRC approved excepted life policy. The cost of this insurance is disclosed as a non-cash beneﬁt in the emoluments table below.
Executive share option scheme
Executive directors and other senior employees are rewarded for delivering long-term performance by the phased granting of share options.
The group’s executive share option scheme offers the executive directors an annual grant with a value up to the level of their annual pay. In certain
exceptional situations, the remuneration committee can issue shares with an exercise cost up to 2½ times annual pay. The committee approves
all grants of share options to directors and does not grant options at a discount to the prevailing closing price.
Options can only be exercised between the third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant and then only if the stretching performance conditions
have been met. These conditions relate to the growth in audited adjusted earnings per share. Awards granted prior to September 2005 require
growth to exceed RPI inﬂation by 3% per annum compound, measured over any of the periods of three, four or ﬁve consecutive ﬁnancial years
of the company, starting with the year in which the award is granted. Awards granted from September 2005 onwards require growth to exceed
RPI inﬂation by 4% per annum compound, measured over the period of three consecutive ﬁnancial years of the company, starting with the year
in which the award is granted.
Directors’ remuneration report 72
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Directors’ remuneration report
Management and governance
Earnings per share growth has been chosen as the most appropriate performance measure as it directly aligns the individual incentive arrangement
with the long-term interests of shareholders. The speciﬁc performance measures were selected to ensure that options can only be exercised if
shareholders had ﬁrst beneﬁted from material earnings growth in real terms over a number of years.
Long-term incentive plan
The company also operates a long-term incentive plan (LTIP) for the beneﬁt of the executive directors and a limited number of senior executives,
to reward them for delivering superior long-term performance. No executive director will in any year receive an award which is greater than their
annual pay.
Awards granted to date under the LTIP will only vest if the company’s growth in earnings per share is equal to or greater than the increase in RPI
plus 4% per annum compound over the three consecutive ﬁnancial years starting immediately before the award. At this level, 25% of the award
(rounded down to the nearest 1,000 shares) will vest.
100% of the award will vest if the company’s growth in earnings per share is greater than the increase in RPI plus 10% per annum over the same
three-year period. There is a pro-rata scale (rounded down to the nearest 1,000 shares) between the minimum level of RPI plus 4% and the
maximum level of RPI plus 10%. If the targets are not met, the award will lapse.
As with the executive share option scheme, earnings per share growth has been chosen as the most appropriate performance measure as it directly
aligns with the long-term interests of shareholders.
In the light of the current challenging market conditions, as recognised by analysts’ forecasts, and the necessity of providing a long-term incentive
award package which is seen by participants to be appropriately challenging in the current economic environment, the company consulted with
a number of its major institutional shareholders with regard to the performance conditions. As a result the earnings per share growth range will
be changed from RPI plus 4-10% to RPI plus 3-8% for awards to be granted during 2008/9. The remuneration committee is satisﬁed that this
performance condition remains a challenging target. The performance target will continue to be reviewed for subsequent awards by the
remuneration committee to ensure that it is sufﬁciently challenging.
Employee share schemes
In common with all other employees, the executive directors are also entitled to participate in the sharesave and share incentive plan. Further details
of these schemes are given later in this report, together with the directors’ entitlements under them.
Remuneration from other companies
Since September 2007 Rooney Anand has served as a non-executive director of Drive Assist Holdings Limited, a company unconnected
with the group. He is entitled to receive and retain for his personal beneﬁt £40,000 per annum from that company by way of director’s fees.
Remuneration for non-executive directors
The fees paid to the chairman and the other non-executive directors are determined by the board as a whole. They are agreed after taking external
advice and making market comparisons, and relate to the services of the directors in connection with the company’s business. The non-executive
directors do not have service agreements and cannot participate in the pension scheme, the bonus scheme or the share option schemes.
Service agreements
Newly appointed executive directors are offered a service agreement with a notice period of one year. In the event of the employment of an
executive director being terminated, the committee would pay due regard to best practice and take account of the individual’s duty to mitigate
their loss.
Rooney Anand, Justin Adams, Ian Bull, David Elliott and Jonathan Lawson, whose contracts with the company commenced on 6 August 2001,
5 September 2005, 9 January 2006, 3 November 1998, and 10 April 2007 respectively, are all subject to one year notice periods from the
company. Those contracts do not contain any additional terms relating to compensation for termination of employment. The terms of Rooney
Anand’s appointment as chief executive were agreed and set out in a letter dated 24 December 2004.
Non-executive directors are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment for three-year periods. The table below sets out the start and expiry
date of their respective appointments.
Extendable
for a further
Director Date of appointment Expiry date three years?
Tim Bridge 2 May 05 1 May 11 Yes
John Brady 24 June 05 23 June 11 Yes
Ian Durant 16 Mar 07 15 Mar 10 Yes
Norman Murray 1 Jan 04 31 Dec 09 Yes
Howard Phillips 19 June 98 2 Sep 08 –
Jane Scriven 18 Mar 05 17 Mar 11 Yes
The appointments of all these non-executive directors can be terminated by the company at any time on three months’ written notice,
notwithstanding the expiry date above. 73
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Performance of Greene King
A graph showing the total shareholder return of Greene King relative to the FTSE All-Share Index over the past ﬁve years is shown below.
We have chosen this comparator group as it is the most appropriate market index of which the company is a member.
Audited information
Directors’ emoluments
Annual Annual Annual Non-cash Other cash
pay fees bonus benefits benefits Total Total
2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2007
Notes £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Tim Bridge* – 163 – 23 – 186 187
Rooney Anand 471 – 300 27 – 798 891
Justin Adams 236 – 44 25 – 305 368
John Brady* – 41 ––– 41 35
Ian Bull 312 – 175 21 – 508 599
Ian Durant* 1 – 41 ––– 41 4
David Elliott 271 – 51 5 10 337 488
Jonathan Lawson 2 204 – 100 38 27 369 15
Norman Murray* – 46 ––– 46 40
Howard Phillips* – 46 ––– 46 40
Jane Scriven* – 41 ––– 41 35
1,494 378 670 139 37 2,718 2,702
* Non-executive.
1 Appointed 16 March 2007.
2 Appointed 10 April 2007.
No payments were made to any third parties in respect of any directors’ services. Non-cash beneﬁts principally include the provision of company
cars, fuel for company cars, life assurance and private medical insurance, as well as relocation expenses for Jonathan Lawson. Other cash beneﬁts
include cash allowances paid in lieu of company cars and a disturbance allowance for Jonathan Lawson.
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
TSR (rebased to 100)
Greene King
FTSE All Share
May 03 Nov 03 May 04 Nov 06 May 07 Nov 05 May 05 May 06 Nov 04 May 08 Nov 07 74
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Directors’ remuneration report
Management and governance
Directors’ pensions
Accrued entitlements
Additional Additional
benefit earned benefit earned
during the during the Increase in Increase in
At At At At period ended period ended accrued benefit accrued benefit
4 May 2008 4 May 2008 29 April 2007 29 April 2007 4 May 2008 4 May 2008 net of inflation net of inflation
£’000 pa £’000 £’000 pa £’000 £’000 pa £’000 £’000 pa £’000
pension lump sum pension lump sum pension lump sum pension lump sum
Tim Bridge 352 25 339* 24* –– ––
* Note that the 2006/07 accounts incorrectly stated these amounts as £327,000 and £23,000.
Transfer value*
Transfer value
of year’s accrual Change in
before inflation and transfer value
At At net of director’s net of director’s
4 May 2008 29 April 2007 contributions contributions
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Tim Bridge 7,512 6,201 – 1,311
* The transfer value is the liability of the pension fund, not an amount that is to be paid or due to the individual. The increase has been largely due to a change in the way in which the
transfer value is calculated. Had the 2008 calculation basis applied at the time of the 2007 accounts, the transfer value would have been £7.0m.
Payments to the self-invested personal pension schemes of the executive directors made by the company in the period are shown in the table below.
2008 2007
£’000 £’000
Rooney Anand 118 110
Justin Adams 47 46
Ian Bull 62 59
David Elliott 68 64
Jonathan Lawson 41 3
Two former directors receive additional pension income from the company. John Bridge, who retired as a director on 31 December 1989,
receives a pension of £21,198 per annum in excess of his scheme entitlements and Bernard Tickner, who retired as a director on 27 August 1992,
receives a pension of £16,750 per annum in excess of his scheme entitlements. As required by law, both of these ﬁgures are stated net of their
company-funded pension in payment at 31 March 1997.
Share price during the period
The closing price of the company’s shares on 2 May 2008 (being the last business day before the ﬁnancial period end) was 521½p (2007: 1077p).
The closing price of the company’s shares during the period ranged between 1154p and 511½p. 75
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Executive share options
A summary of the directors’ interests in options granted under the company’s executive share option schemes is shown below.
Option price Outstanding as at Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during Outstanding as
Date of grant p 29 April 2007 the period the period the period at 4 May 2008 Exercise period
Tim Bridge 4 Jan 02 350½ 84,000 ––– 84,000 4 Jan 05-
3 Jan 12
18 Jul 02 370 80,000 ––– 80,000 18 Jul 05-
17 July 12
1 Aug 03 414¼ 90,000 ––– 90,000 1 Aug 06-
31 July 13
6 Aug 04 509 80,000 ––– 80,000 6 Aug 07-
5 Aug 14
Rooney Anand 18 Jul 02 370 42,000 ––– 42,000 18 Jul 05-
17 July 12
1 Aug 03 414¼ 48,000 ––– 48,000 1 Aug 06-
31 July 13
6 Aug 04 509 44,000 ––– 44,000 6 Aug 07-
5 Aug 14
4 Aug 05 658½ 60,000 ––– 60,000 4 Aug 08-
3 Aug 15
2 Aug 06 813 54,000 ––– 54,000 2 Aug 09-
1 Aug 16
9 Jul 07 1087 – 42,000 –– 42,000 9 Jul 10-
8 Jul 17
Justin Adams 2 Aug 06 813 28,000 ––– 28,000 2 Aug 09-
1 Aug 16
9 Jul 07 1087 – 14,000 –– 14,000 9 Jul 10-
8 Jul 17
Ian Bull 11 Jan 06 746 20,000 ––– 20,000 11 Jan 09-
10 Jan 16
2 Aug 06 813 36,000 ––– 36,000 2 Aug 09-
1 Aug 16
9 Jul 07 1087 – 28,000 –– 28,000 9 Jul 10-
8 Jul 17
David Elliott 1 Aug 03 414¼ 48,000 ––– 48,000 1 Aug 06-
31 July 13
6 Aug 04 509 44,000 ––– 44,000 6 Aug 07-
5 Aug 14
4 Aug 05 658½ 36,000 ––– 36,000 4 Aug 08-
3 Aug 15
2 Aug 06 813 31,000 ––– 31,000 2 Aug 09-
1 Aug 16
9 Jul 07 1087 – 24,000 –– 24,000 9 Jul 10-
8 Jul 17
Jonathan Lawson 9 Jul 07 1087 – 18,000 –– 18,000 9 Jul 10-
8 Jul 17
All figures are adjusted for two-for-one share split in September 2005.
No options were exercised and no changes were made during the period to the terms and conditions of any options then outstanding
(2007: no options exercised and no changes made). Since the year end, there have been no options exercised and no other changes to the date
of this report.
Options can only be exercised if a performance condition has been met. This condition relates to the growth in audited adjusted earnings per share
and is as follows:
 for options granted on or after 4 January 2002 and prior to September 2005, the growth must exceed RPI inﬂation by 3% per annum
compound, measured over any of the periods of three, four or ﬁve consecutive ﬁnancial years of the company, starting with the year in which
the award is granted; and
 for options granted during or after September 2005, the growth must exceed RPI inﬂation by 4% per annum compound, measured over the
period of three consecutive ﬁnancial years of the company, starting with the year in which the award is granted. 76
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Directors’ remuneration report
Management and governance
Long-term incentive plan
A summary of the directors’ interests in options granted under the long-term incentive plan (LTIP) is shown below.
Outstanding as at Granted during Vested during Lapsed during Outstanding as Performance
Date of grant Type of award 29 April 2007 the period the period the period at 4 May 2008 period
Tim Bridge 10 Dec 04 Restricted 66,000 – 66,000 – – May 04-
forfeitable shares May 07
Rooney Anand 10 Dec 04 Restricted 34,000 – 34,000 – – May 04-
forfeitable shares May 07
4 Aug 05 Restricted 60,000 ––– 60,000 May 05-
forfeitable shares May 08
2 Aug 06 Restricted 54,000 ––– 54,000 May 06-
forfeitable shares May 09
9 Jul 07 Restricted – 42,000 –– 42,000 May 07-
forfeitable shares May 10
Justin Adams 2 Aug 06 Restricted 28,000 ––– 28,000 May 06-
forfeitable shares May 09
9 Jul 07 Restricted – 14,000 –– 14,000 May 07-
forfeitable shares May 10
Ian Bull 2 Aug 06 Restricted 36,000 ––– 36,000 May 06-
forfeitable shares May 09
9 Jul 07 Restricted – 28,000 –– 28,000 May 07-
forfeitable shares May 10
David Elliott 10 Dec 04 Restricted 34,000 – 34,000 – – May 04-
forfeitable shares May 07
4 Aug 05 Restricted 36,000 ––– 36,000 May 05-
forfeitable shares May 08
2 Aug 06 Restricted 31,000 ––– 31,000 May 06-
forfeitable shares May 09
9 Jul 07 Restricted – 24,000 –– 24,000 May 07-
forfeitable shares May 10
Jonathan Lawson 9 Jul 07 Restricted – 18,000 –– 18,000 May 07-
forfeitable shares May 10
All figures are adjusted for two-for-one share split in September 2005.
The adjusted market price of the shares on 10 December 2004 was 635p, on 4 August 2005 was 655½p, on 2 August 2006 was 813p and
on 9 July 2007 was 1108p.
All awards granted under the LTIP will only vest if the company’s growth in earnings per share is equal to or greater than the increase in RPI
plus 4% per annum compound over the three consecutive ﬁnancial years starting immediately before the award. At this level, 25% of the
award (rounded down to the nearest 1,000 shares) will vest.
100% of the award will vest if the company’s growth in earnings per share is greater than the increase in RPI plus 10% per annum over the same
three year period. There is a pro-rata scale (rounded down to the nearest 1,000 shares) between the minimum level of RPI plus 4% and the
maximum level of RPI plus 10%. If the targets are not met, the award will lapse.
Details of the awards which vested during the year, the notional gain before tax achieved by each director and the number of shares retained
on vesting are shown below. Total gains made by directors under the LTIP in the period ended 4 May 2008 amounted to £1,081,380
(2007: £1,679,430).
Number Market value at Number
of shares Award price date of vesting Notional gain of shares
Date of exercise which vested pp before tax retained
Tim Bridge 10 Dec 07 66,000 Nil 807 £532,620 38,817
Rooney Anand 10 Dec 07 34,000 Nil 807 £274,380 19,990
David Elliott 10 Dec 07 34,000 Nil 807 £274,380 19,990
No changes were made during the period or since the year end to the date of this report to the terms and conditions of any awards then
outstanding. Save as set out above, no awards vested or lapsed during the period and there have been no changes to the date of this report. 77
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Sharesave scheme
The company has operated an HMRC approved sharesave scheme for a number of years. Options are granted over the company’s ordinary shares,
at an option price which, at board discretion, is at a discount of up to 20% of the closing price at the time of granting. The company has historically
granted all such options at a 20% discount.
The directors’ interests in options granted under the sharesave scheme were as follows:
Outstanding as at Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during Outstanding as Option price
29 April 2007 the period the period the period at 4 May 2008 p
Rooney Anand –––– – –
Justin Adams 1,893 –– 1,893 – 865
Justin Adams – 3,236 –– 3,236 519
Ian Bull –––– – –
David Elliott 4,514 ––– 4,514 370
Jonathan Lawson – 3,236 –– 3,236 519
All figures are adjusted for the two-for-one share split on 5 September 2005.
David Elliott’s options can be exercised between 1 April and 30 September 2009. Justin Adams’ and Jonathan Lawson’s options can be exercised
between 1 April and 30 September 2013.
All options outstanding at 4 May 2008 were granted at an option price below the year end closing price.
Share incentive plan
The directors’ beneﬁcial interests in Greene King shares resulting from participation in the company’s HMRC approved share incentive plan are
reﬂected in their shareholding data in the directors’ report.
Shareholders will be asked to vote on this remuneration report, as an ordinary resolution, at the company’s AGM.
Approved by the board of directors on 2 July 2008.
Howard Phillips
Chairman of the remuneration committee
2 July 2008 78
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Corporate governance
Management and governance
Governance structure
The board
The board considers that it is vital to ensure that there is an appropriate range of skills and experience among its members, and that the objectivity
and integrity of members should be exemplary. The board currently comprises a non-executive chairman, ﬁve other non-executive directors and
ﬁve executive directors. The directors’ biographies are on pages 24 and 25.
All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the ﬁrst annual general meeting after their appointment to the board and to
re-election by shareholders every three years thereafter. In addition, any non-executive director who has served for more than nine years is subject
to annual re-election.
The division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the
board. The job descriptions are available on request. The chairman has primary responsibility for running the board and devotes such time to his
role as is necessary to properly discharge his duties. The chief executive has responsibility for executing the company’s strategy and achieving
operational and ﬁnancial goals.
The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision, including approval of the long-term objectives and strategy, approval
of budgets and ﬁnancial statements including the report and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to the structure of the group and overall
corporate governance issues. It reviews trading performance and considers major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities. Management
is delegated the task of the detailed planning and implementation of the company’s strategy.
Information and training
Full and timely information is provided to the board to enable it to properly discharge its functions. All directors have access to the advice and
services of the company secretary and are provided with the opportunity to question management as required. The training needs of the board
are regularly reviewed. Explanations of issues and legislative changes affecting the industry have been provided to the board during the year.
There is an agreed procedure, set out in writing, for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the
company’s expense. The company has in place directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance.
Newly-appointed directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the board to acquaint them with the company. This takes the form
of meetings with other board members and the provision of an induction pack containing general information on the company, its policies and
procedures, ﬁnancial information and a brieﬁng on directors’ responsibilities.
Performance evaluation
The board believes it is appropriate to undertake a regular performance evaluation of the board, its committees and individual directors.
It has determined that an internal process of evaluation is most appropriate, to enable ﬁrst hand input from individual directors to be obtained.
An evaluation exercise was undertaken in March 2008 by means of a detailed questionnaire distributed to all board members, covering a wide
range of matters including board structure and composition, board processes, communications with shareholders and corporate governance
matters. Once each director had completed the questionnaire, the responses were discussed with the chairman and the chief executive and
the results reported to the full board in April. The board is satisﬁed that an open dialogue exists between all board members enabling issues
to be raised and dealt with as they occur rather than waiting for the next formal evaluation process, and accordingly believes that it and its
committees are operating effectively.
The performance of Tim Bridge, chairman, was also reviewed during the ﬁnancial year. The process was conducted by the non-executive directors,
led by Howard Phillips, the senior non-executive director, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The performance of the executive directors is reviewed annually by the remuneration committee in conjunction with their annual pay review and
the payment of bonuses.
Independence of non-executive directors
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are carefully examined
and fully discussed. Their independence and objectivity are of paramount importance. The board believes that they all have a range of skills and
experience which will help the company and that their understanding of the company, its strategy and operations increases over the years.
The board is satisﬁed that all of the non-executive directors were independent throughout the year, being free from any relationship with the
executive management which could result in any conﬂict or affect their independent judgment, and that they all remained independent in character
and judgment. None of the independent non-executive directors participates in the share option schemes or long-term incentive plan operated
by the company and none was dependent on the fees received from the company as their primary source of income.
The senior independent non-executive director is currently Howard Phillips, who was appointed to the board in June 1998, has never been
employed by the company and has had diverse business interests. The board considers that he has remained independent from management
in both character and judgment, that his performance has continued to be effective and that he has continued to demonstrate commitment
to the role. Howard Phillips has served on the board for 10 years and will be retiring at the forthcoming AGM. 79
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
The role of senior independent director will be taken on by Norman Murray, who was appointed to the board in 2004. He is chairman of Cairn
Energy PLC and a non-executive director of Robert Wiseman Dairies plc. He has never been employed by the company and the board is satisﬁed
that he is independent from management in both character and judgment. A key responsibility for the senior independent director is to be available
to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the chairman, chief executive or ﬁnance director.
Tim Bridge took over as chairman of the board on 2 May 2005 for an initial term of three years. The board noted that, because of his long tenure
as an executive director, he did not meet all of the independence criteria set out in the combined code. However, the board was, and remains,
conﬁdent that the strength of character and independent judgment that he exhibited as chief executive would continue in his role as chairman.
The board is satisﬁed that his performance as chairman is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role. He was therefore
re-appointed for a further three-year period in May 2008. Tim Bridge is also a non-executive director of William Ransom & Son plc and
Weatherbys Ventures Limited but these are not regarded as signiﬁcant commitments and do not impact upon his ability to perform his role
as chairman effectively.
Meetings and attendance
Board meetings are scheduled to be held nine times a year. There is also a strategy day and a pub away-day for the full board each year. Between
meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent contact to progress the company’s business and if necessary, board meetings can be held at
short notice. Where possible, however, ad hoc committees of the board are appointed to deal with matters which it is known will need to be
dealt with between scheduled board meetings. If directors are unable to attend meetings they are given the opportunity to be consulted and
comment in advance of the meeting. The chairman holds regular informal meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive
directors being present.
The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled board and board committee meetings during the year.
Audit* Remuneration* Nomination*
Board committee committee committee
Meetings held during 2007/08 9331
Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended
Executive directors
Rooney Anand 9–––
Justin Adams 7–––
Ian Bull 9–––
David Elliott 9–––
Jonathan Lawson 9–––
Non-executive directors
Tim Bridge 9––1
John Brady 92––
Ian Durant 93––
Norman Murray 9331
Howard Phillips 9–31
Jane Scriven 933–
* During the year, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees by invitation. These details have not
been included in the table.
– Indicates inapplicability, where a director is not a member of the committee.
Board committees
The board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal terms of
reference governing its method of operation. Each of the terms of reference, which are available on request and will be available for inspection
at the AGM, reﬂect the provisions of the combined code and have been approved by the board.
Set out below are reports from each of the nomination committee, audit committee and remuneration committee.
Nomination committee report
During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Tim Bridge, and the other members of the committee were Howard Phillips and
Norman Murray. Apart from the chairman, all members were considered by the board to be independent.
The committee’s role is to propose candidates for appointment to the board, to review regularly the structure, size and composition of the board
and make recommendations to the board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary. No new appointments were made to the
board during the year.
The committee met once during the year and the chief executive, at the request of the committee, attended the meeting.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following their appointment and subsequently in every third year. The nomination
committee undertakes a review of all directors who are due for re-election to determine whether or not to recommend their re-appointment.
Members of the committee do not participate in discussions regarding their own re-appointment. 80
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Corporate governance
Management and governance
Audit committee report
The audit committee has been chaired by Norman Murray and the other members of the committee during the year were Jane Scriven, John Brady
and Ian Durant. All members have been considered by the board to be independent. The board is satisﬁed that Norman Murray had recent and
relevant ﬁnancial experience, being a chartered accountant who has already chaired audit committees of other UK listed companies and is also a
past President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland. Following the AGM, Norman Murray will retire from the committee and his
role as chairman of the committee will be taken by Ian Durant, who is currently ﬁnance director of Liberty International plc and therefore has
recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience.
The role of the audit committee is to review the results of the full year audit and approve the interim results in each case prior to their submission
to the board. It is responsible for reviewing the company’s internal ﬁnancial control systems, advising the board on the appointment of external
auditors, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing the company’s whistle-blowing procedures and considering the need
for a full internal audit function. It also reviews the group’s risk management policies and procedures prior to submission to the board and receives
detailed reports on the risk management functions within the business units.
The committee had three meetings during the year and on each occasion the ﬁnance director and senior members of the ﬁnance function
attended. The external auditors attended all of the meetings. In addition, the chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external audit
partner to discuss matters relevant to the company.
The committee reviews the audit plan presented by the auditors before the start of each audit cycle and agrees the scope of the audit work.
During the audit process the committee keeps under review the consistency of accounting policies on a year-to-year basis and across the group,
and the methods used to account for signiﬁcant or unusual transactions. The ﬁnancial statements and interim results are reviewed in detail prior
to their submission to the board. Following the audit the committee discusses issues arising from the audit, and any matters the auditor may wish
to discuss.
The audit committee continuously monitors the relationship with the auditors and assesses their performance, cost-effectiveness, objectivity and
independence. The board is satisﬁed that the auditors are independent of the company and that best practice is being observed.
During the year the company made limited use of specialist teams within Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work such as taxation advice and
transaction support. The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the use of Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work. The company will
award non-audit work to the ﬁrm which provides the best commercial solution for the work in question. Pieces of work estimated to be in excess
of an agreed level are put out to tender unless agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit committee. Limits of authority have been placed on
the ability of the ﬁnance director and the chairman of the audit committee to approve speciﬁc engagements, with fees in excess of those limits
being subject to approval of the full committee.
The company has a limited internal audit function which focuses on the group’s managed house divisions, where the greatest ﬁnancial risks are
perceived to exist. Elsewhere within the group a combination of the external audit procedures and the types of ﬁnancial risks involved are felt
to be such that a wider internal audit function is not required.
Remuneration committee report
During the year the remuneration committee was chaired by Howard Phillips and the other members were Norman Murray and Jane Scriven.
All the members were considered by the board to be independent. Howard Phillips will be retiring from the board at the forthcoming AGM,
and his role as chairman of the remuneration committee will be taken over by Norman Murray. A third member of the committee will be
appointed at that time.
The role of the committee includes determining the remuneration policy for the executive directors and the chairman and ﬁxing the total individual
remuneration package of each of the executive directors, considering the granting of share options and awards under the long-term incentive plan
and determining bonuses payable to the executive directors.
The remuneration committee met three times during the year. The chairman and the chief executive, at the request of the committee, attend
its meetings. The chairman does not participate in any discussions relating to his own remuneration. The chief executive is consulted by the
committee on its proposals, but does not participate in any discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Details of the company’s policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are set out in the remuneration report on
pages 71 to 77.
Communication with shareholders
Shareholder communication is regarded as a key priority for the board, with the annual report and interim statements being the principal media
used. Both are sent to all shareholders. In addition, the AGM is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly with private shareholders, who
have the full opportunity to ask questions. The board aims to ensure that all members of the board, including in particular the chairmen of the
board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
All substantive items of business at shareholders’ meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution to adopt the report and
accounts. The chairman announces the results of the proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands. The notice
of meeting is issued in compliance with both the articles and the combined code and is sent to shareholders a minimum of 20 working days before
the meeting. 81
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year end and interim results. The board
receives regular reports from the chief executive on the meetings he and the ﬁnance director have with principal shareholders. The senior
independent non-executive director, Howard Phillips has been available to shareholders if they have had concerns about governance issues which
the normal channels of contact have failed to resolve. Following Howard Phillips’ retirement at the AGM, Norman Murray, as the new senior
independent director, will also be available to shareholders if they have similar concerns.
The company maintains a web site (www.greeneking.co.uk) to provide up-to-date, detailed information on the company’s operations and brands,
which includes a dedicated investor relations section. All company announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for
presentations to investment analysts.
Going concern
The directors expect the group to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have, therefore, used the going concern basis
in preparing the ﬁnancial statements.
Internal control
The board acknowledges its responsibility for the group’s systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. Such systems can only
be designed to manage, and not to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. They can provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance that the group’s assets are safeguarded and that the ﬁnancial information used within the business and for external reporting is reliable.
The company has assessed the key risks to which it is exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address these and other
issues. There are processes in place which are in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control. The board has
adopted a formal risk policy and regularly reviews risk management and internal controls, including key performance indicator data on the signiﬁcant
risks faced.
The executive directors routinely consider the effective management of risk throughout the business at their regular meetings. This group oversees
the development of risk management strategies, the implementation of suitable management actions and monitors progress made. The audit
committee receives regular reports on risk issues within the business.
The board is ultimately responsible for the company’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. A formal assessment of the
risk and control environment in place during the period and to the date of this report has been undertaken, based on detailed reports from,
and subsequent discussions with, senior management. No signiﬁcant problems were disclosed in these reports.
The control environment comprises the elements set out below.
 Internal control and risk management process
The directors routinely monitor all aspects of risk management and internal control, and regularly assess the data on the signiﬁcant risks faced.
Major risks are identiﬁed, the ﬁnancial implications of each risk assessed and the adequacy and effectiveness of the associated control
environment analysed. Any issues arising from this process are discussed with operational management as needed. Appropriate steps are then
taken to mitigate and monitor the effect of these risks. Data on the key exposures is reviewed regularly by the executive directors and the audit
committee of the board.
 Internal audit
The controls over the group’s managed houses are enhanced by an internal audit team and the availability of comprehensive information from
the EPOS till system. On behalf of the board, the audit committee assesses the scope of the internal audit functions within the group, including
seeking the views of the external auditors.
 Annual budgets
Detailed annual budgets covering all ﬁnancial aspects of the group’s business are evaluated and approved by the board. The actual results are
compared against these budgets on a four-weekly basis and variances analysed in order that any appropriate action can be taken.
 Capital and project control
There are clearly deﬁned evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure and project control. These include
escalating levels of authority, detailed appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews of all major projects to compare the actual
outcome with the original plan. Certain transactions are reserved for approval by the board. Limits of delegated responsibility and areas of
authority have been identiﬁed for employees.
 External audit
The audit committee reports to the board on matters discussed with the auditors during the course of the statutory audit and interim review.
Statement of compliance
The company is committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained. The board considers that the company has
complied with the 2006 combined code throughout the year. 82
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Directors’ statements
Management and governance
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the group ﬁnancial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the group ﬁnancial statements, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law
and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU).
The directors are required to prepare group ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year which present fairly the ﬁnancial position of the group and
the ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows of the group for that period. In preparing those group ﬁnancial statements the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply
them consistently;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc requirements in IFRS is insufﬁcient to enable users to understand the impact
of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the group’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial performance; and
 state that the group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the ﬁnancial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of the
group and enable them to ensure that the group ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud
and other irregularities.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the parent company ﬁnancial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the ﬁnancial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare
the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and
applicable law). The ﬁnancial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the proﬁt or
loss of the company for that period. In preparing those ﬁnancial statements, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
ﬁnancial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position of
the company and enable them to ensure that the group ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The directors conﬁrm, to the best of their knowledge:
 that these ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the company and the group; and
 that the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company
and the position of the company and the group, and a description of the risks and uncertainties faced.
The directors of Greene King plc are listed on pages 24 and 25.
T J W Bridge R Anand
Director Director 83
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Other information
Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty-ﬁrst AGM of Greene King plc will be held at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile
Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk on Tuesday 2 September 2008 at 12 noon. Resolutions 1 to 10 will be proposed as ordinary
resolutions and resolutions 11 to 14 will be proposed as special resolutions.
1 To receive the report of the directors and the accounts for the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008 and the auditors’ report thereon.
2 To approve the directors’ remuneration report (as set out on pages 71 to 77 of the annual report) for the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008.
3 To declare a ﬁnal dividend of 18.7p per ordinary share.
4 To re-elect Tim Bridge as a director of the company.
5 To re-elect David Elliott as a director of the company.
6 To re-elect Jane Scriven as a director of the company.
7 To re-elect John Brady as a director of the company.
8 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the company until the conclusion of the next AGM.
9 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors of the company.
10 That the authorities and powers conferred on the directors by article 11 of the articles of association of the company be renewed for the
period ending on the date of the AGM in 2009 and that for such period the section 80 amount shall be £5,604,835.50.
11 Special resolution
That the authorities and powers conferred on the directors by article 11 of the articles of association of the company be renewed for the
period ending on the date of the AGM in 2009 and that for such period the section 89 amount shall be £840,725.
12 Special resolution
That the company be and is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to
make market purchases (within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act 1985) of its ordinary shares of 12½p each provided that:
a) the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased shall be 13,451,605 ordinary shares;
b) the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the nominal value of the ordinary shares
at the time of purchase;
c) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be 105% of the average of the closing price
of the ordinary shares (as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofﬁcial List) for the ﬁve business days immediately preceding
the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased; and
d) the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2009, except in relation to the purchase of shares
pursuant to contracts entered into before such expiry whose execution may be wholly or partly after such expiry.
13 Special resolution
That the regulations contained in the document marked “A” submitted to the AGM and initialled for the purposes of identiﬁcation by the
chairman be approved and adopted as the new articles of association of the company, in substitution for and to the exclusion of the existing
articles of association with effect from 1 October 2008.
14 Special resolution
That the regulations contained in the document marked “B” submitted to the AGM and initialled for the purposes of identiﬁcation by the
chairman be approved and adopted as the new memorandum of association of the company, in substitution for and to the exclusion of the
existing memorandum of association with effect from the end of this AGM.
By order of the board Registered ofﬁce:
Westgate Brewery
Lindsay Keswick Bury St Edmunds
Company Secretary Suffolk
IP33 1QT
2 July 2008
Notice of meeting 84
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notice of meeting
Other information
Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting
Resolution 10
This resolution seeks to renew the authority of the directors to allot securities in the company up to an aggregate nominal amount of £5,604,835.50,
representing approximately 33.3% (excluding any shares held in treasury) of the issued ordinary share capital as at 1 July 2008, until the date of the
AGM in 2009. The directors consider that this authority is desirable to allow the company to retain ﬂexibility, although they have no present intention
of exercising this authority.
Resolution 11
This resolution seeks to renew the authority of the directors to dis-apply pre-emption rights and allot equity securities for cash in connection
with a rights issue and otherwise and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury (see below) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £840,725,
being approximately 5% of the ordinary share capital in issue at 1 July 2008, until the date of the AGM in 2009.
Resolution 12
This resolution seeks to renew shareholders’ authority for the company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares, up to a maximum
of 13,451,605 ordinary shares, as permitted by article 8 of the articles of association until the date of the AGM in 2009. This represents 10% of
the ordinary shares in issue as at 1 July 2008 (excluding shares held in treasury) and the company’s exercise of this authority is subject to the
stated upper and lower limits on the price payable which reﬂect the requirements of the Listing Rules.
The directors will only take advantage of this authority to purchase and cancel shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share
and the beneﬁts for shareholders generally. The authority will only be used after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions
prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall ﬁnancial position of the company.
Pursuant to the Companies Act 1985 (as amended), the company can hold any shares which are repurchased as treasury shares and either
re-sell them for cash, cancel them, either immediately or at a point in the future, or use them for the purposes of its employee share schemes.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the company to have this choice. Holding the repurchased shares as treasury shares will give the
company the ability to re-sell or transfer them in the future and will provide the company with additional ﬂexibility in the management of its
capital base. No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect of, treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings per share
(unless they are subsequently re-sold or transferred out of treasury).
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the company will not, save in accordance with a pre-determined, irrevocable and non-discretionary
programme, repurchase shares in the period of two months immediately preceding the preliminary announcement of its annual or interim results
or, if shorter, between the end of the ﬁnancial period concerned and the time of a relevant announcement or, except in accordance with the Listing
Rules, at any other time when, in terms of the model code, the directors would be prohibited from dealing in shares.
The full exercise of all options outstanding at the date of this report would require the issue of 5,110,438 ordinary shares. This represents 3.8% of
the current issued share capital (excluding any shares held in treasury) and 4.2% of what the share capital would be if the proposed authority to
purchase the company’s own shares had been obtained and exercised in full. The company has issued no warrants to subscribe for share capital.
Resolution 13
It is proposed in this resolution to adopt new articles of association (the “new articles”) with effect from 1 October 2008 in order to update the
company’s current articles of association (the “current articles”) primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by
the Companies Act 2006 and to update the provisions in the articles to take account of the changes in English company law brought about by the
Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004, as amended by the Companies Act 2006, relating to the indemniﬁcation
of directors against liability and to the funding of directors’ defence costs in proceedings.
The Companies Act 2006 is being implemented in phases with the ﬁnal phase coming into force on 1 October 2009. Accordingly, further changes
may be proposed at next year’s AGM, following full implementation of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the new articles are summarised in the Appendix. Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying
nature and also some more minor changes which merely reﬂect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted in the Appendix.
Copies of the current articles and the new articles showing all changes to the current articles are available for inspection during normal business
hours at the registered ofﬁce of the company until the date of the AGM or upon request from the company secretary. Copies will also be available
at least 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
Resolution 14
It is proposed in this resolution to adopt a new memorandum of association (the “new memorandum”) with effect from the end of the AGM,
in order to update the company’s current memorandum of association (the “current memorandum”) to include a new objects clause which takes
account of the changes in English company law brought about by the Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004,
as amended by the Companies Act 2006, giving the company the power to provide directors with funds to meet expenditure on defending
themselves against criminal or civil proceedings.
Copies of the current memorandum of association and the new memorandum of association showing all the changes to the current memorandum
of association are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered ofﬁce of the company until the date of the AGM or upon
request from the company secretary. Copies will also be available at least 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM. 85
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Appendix
Explanatory note of principal changes to the company’s articles of association.
1 Articles which duplicate statutory provisions
Provisions in the current articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended to bring them into line
with the Companies Act 2006. Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions and provisions regarding the
period of notice required to convene general meetings. The main changes made to reﬂect this approach are detailed below.
2 Form of resolution
The current articles contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special resolution or extraordinary
resolution is also effective. This provision is being amended as the concept of extraordinary resolution has not been retained under the Companies
Act 2006.
3 Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings
The provisions in the current articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings
are being amended to conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006. In particular an extraordinary general meeting to consider a special
resolution can be convened on 14 days’ notice whereas previously 21 days’ notice was required.
4 Votes of members
Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands as well as on a poll whereas under the current articles, proxies
are only entitled to vote on a poll. The time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the
Companies Act 2006 so that the articles cannot provide that they should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of
a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays
being permitted to be excluded for this purpose. Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights
attached to a different share held by the shareholder. Multiple corporate representatives may also be appointed. The new articles reﬂect all of these
new provisions.
5 Conﬂict of interest
The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors’ general duties, which largely codify the existing law, but with some changes. Under the Companies Act
2006, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conﬂicts, or possibly may
conﬂict, with the company’s interests. This requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another
company or a trustee of another organisation. The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conﬂicts and potential
conﬂicts, where appropriate, where the articles contain a provision to this effect. The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles to contain other
provisions for dealing with directors’ conﬂicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty. The new articles give the directors authority to approve such
situations and include other provisions to allow conﬂicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when the directors decide whether to authorise a conﬂict or potential conﬂict. Firstly, only directors who
have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision and secondly, in taking the decision, the directors must act
in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the company’s success. The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions
when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the new articles should contain provisions relating to conﬁdential information, attendance at board meetings and availability
of board papers to protect a director from being in breach of duty, if a conﬂict of interest or potential conﬂict of interest arises. These provisions
will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conﬂict has previously been authorised by the board. It is the board’s intention to
report annually on the company’s procedures for ensuring that the board’s powers to authorise conﬂicts are operated effectively.
6 Directors’ indemnities and loans to fund expenditure
The Companies (Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise) Act 2004 introduced various changes into the Companies Act 1985 in relation
to the indemniﬁcation of directors against liability and to the funding of directors’ defence costs in proceedings. In particular, it has enabled a
company to indemnify a director by means of a qualifying third-party indemnity provision and to pay directors’ defence costs even if the action
is brought by the company itself (provided that the director repays his defence costs to the company if any defence proves to be unsuccessful).
The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure
incurred in connection with certain actions against directors. In particular, a company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can
now indemnify a director against liability incurred in connection with the company’s activities as trustee of the scheme. In addition, the existing
exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose if funding a director’s defence in court proceedings now expressly covers
regulatory proceedings and applies to directors of associated companies.
These changes are reﬂected in the new articles. A new objects clause has also been added to the memorandum of association of the company
giving the company the power to provide directors with funds to meet expenditure on defending themselves against criminal or civil proceedings.
7 General
Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the new articles and in some areas to conform the language of the
new articles. 86
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Notice of meeting
Other information
Notes
1 A member is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to attend and speak and vote at the meeting. A proxy need not be a member.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to
a different share or shares held by that member. To appoint more than one proxy, please photocopy the form of proxy indicating on each copy
the name of the person you wish to appoint, the number of shares in respect of which the proxy is appointed over and the way in which you
wish them to vote on the resolutions that are to be proposed. Please also indicate by ticking the box on the proxy form if you intend to appoint
more than one proxy. All forms should be returned together to Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
2 A form of proxy is enclosed. The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting at the meeting
in person.
3 To be effective the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of attorney under which it is signed (or duly certiﬁed copy of any such power
of authority) must be sent to the company’s registrar, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, so as to
arrive not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or (in the case of a poll taken otherwise
than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting) for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
4 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been
nominated to receive communications from the company in accordance with the provisions of section 146 of the Companies Act 2006
(“nominated persons”). Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf
to be appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy. Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish
to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting
rights. Nominated persons should contact the member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
5 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the company. The total number of issued ordinary shares
in the company on 1 July 2008, which is the latest practicable date before the publication of this document is 135,490,032. On a vote by show
of hands every member who is present has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote has
one vote. On a poll vote every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share of which he is the holder.
6 Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting (and the number of votes which may be cast at the meeting), will be determined by reference
to the company’s register of members at 12 noon on Sunday 31 August 2008, or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the time ﬁxed
for the adjourned meeting. In each case, changes to the register after such time will be disregarded.
7 Employees participating in the Greene King “Free4All” proﬁt share scheme can instruct the trustees to vote on their behalf by completing the
form of direction.
8 Copies of the executive directors’ service agreements and the non-executive directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection from
the date of despatch of this notice until the date of the AGM at the registered ofﬁce of the company at any time during normal business hours
on any weekday (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays) and will also be available for inspection at the Millennium Grandstand,
Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk from 10.00am on the day of the meeting until its conclusion.
9 Short biographical details of the directors standing for election or re-election can be found on pages 24 and 25 of the annual report.
10 This year the company is again offering shareholders the opportunity to record a proxy vote electronically. Certiﬁcated shareholders who
would like to vote online may do so by visiting the shareholder portal, www.greeneking-shares.com, and following the instructions. If you have
not previously registered you will need to insert your Investor Code, your family name and postcode as shown on the enclosed proxy form
before you are able to vote. In addition, the company would like you to take the opportunity to register your email address for future
communications. If your shares are held electronically via CREST, you may register your votes via your usual CREST link following established
CREST procedures. In both cases, instructions should be received by 12 noon on Sunday 31 August 2008.
11 In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy
Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo’s speciﬁcations and must contain the information required for such
instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message (regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy, the revocation
of a proxy appointment or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy) must, in order to be valid, be transmitted
so as to be received by Capita Registrars (ID RA10) by the latest time(s) for receipt of proxy appointments speciﬁed in note 3 above. For this
purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications
Host) from which Capita Registrars is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time
any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to him by other means.
12 CREST members (and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers) should note that CRESTCo does not make available
special procedures in CREST for any particular messages. Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of
CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal
member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider
takes) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this
connection, CREST members (and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers) are referred, in particular, to those
sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings. 87
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
13 The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertiﬁcated Securities
Regulations 2001.
14 Except as provided above, shareholders who wish to communicate with the company in relation to the AGM should do so by writing to the
company secretary at the registered ofﬁce address or to the registrars, whose details are provided on page 88. No other methods of
communication will be accepted. In particular you may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or in any related
documents to communicate with the company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
15 Shareholders should note that, on a request made by shareholders of the company under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the
company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the company’s accounts
(including the auditor’s report and the conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the meeting for the ﬁnancial year beginning 5 May 2008;
or (ii) any circumstance connected with an auditor of the company appointed for the ﬁnancial year beginning 5 May 2008 ceasing to hold ofﬁce
since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid. The company may not require the shareholders requesting any such
website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 (requirements as to website availability) of the Companies Act
2006. Where the company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the
statement to the company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website. The business which may be
dealt with at the meeting for the relevant ﬁnancial year includes any statement that the company has been required under section 527 of the
Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
16 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place so that (i) if a corporate shareholder
has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions
of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting
directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate representative in accordance with those directions; and
(ii) if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder
has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from
those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that
designated corporate representative. Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives – www.icsa.org.uk – for further details of this procedure. The guidance includes a
sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in (i) above. 88
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
Shareholder information
Other information
Financial calendar
Shares trade ex-dividend from 6 Aug 08
Record date for ﬁnal dividend 8 Aug 08
Annual general meeting 2 Sep 08
Payment of ﬁnal dividend 8 Sep 08
Announcement of interim results Dec 08
Payment of interim dividend Jan 09
Preliminary announcement of the 2009 results July 09
Registrars Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersﬁeld HD8 0GA
Telephone: 0871 664 0300* Fax: 01484 601512
email: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com
*calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras
E-communications Greene King plc has teamed up with Climate Care to help combat climate change by providing shareholders
with the opportunity to receive communications from the company electronically. The company will donate £1
to Climate Care for every shareholder that registers. Climate Care funds projects that reduce greenhouse gases
– the main cause of climate change.
To register, visit www.greeneking-shares.com and either log in or click on “Register new user” and follow
the instructions.
By registering your email address you will receive emails with a web link to information posted on the
company’s website, including the report and accounts, notice of meetings and other information communicated
to shareholders.
Indirect investors’ Beneﬁcial owners of shares held on their behalf by a different registered holder now have certain information
information rights rights regarding Greene King. They have the right to ask their registered holder to nominate them to receive
all non-personalised information distributed to shareholders, in accordance with the provisions of section 146
of the Companies Act 2006.
Should you wish to be nominated to receive information from Greene King directly, please contact your
registered holder, who will need to notify our registrars, Capita Registrars, accordingly. Please note that,
once nominated, beneﬁcial owners of shares must continue to direct all communications regarding those
shares to the registered holder of those shares rather than to the registrars or to Greene King directly.
Company secretary Lindsay Keswick
and registered ofﬁce Westgate Brewery, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP33 1QT
Telephone: 01284 763 222 Fax: 01284 706 502
Website: www.greeneking.co.uk
Share dealing services Stocktrade
Telephone: 0845 601 0995
Redmayne Bentley
Moseley’s Farm Ofﬁces, Fornham All Saints, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP28 6JY
Telephone: 01284 723 761
Capita IRG Trustees Limited
Telephone: 0871 664 0454*
Website: www.capitadeal.com
*calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Capital gains tax For the purpose of computing capital gains tax, the market value of the ordinary shares on 31 March 1982,
after adjustment for the capitalisation issues in 1980 and 1982 was 72.5625p. After take-up of the rights issue
in July 1996, the March 1982 value becomes 129.6875p.
Corporate advisers
Financial advisers Citigroup, The Citigroup Centre, 33 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5LB
Stockbrokers Deutsche Bank AG London, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 3EQ
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP, 1 More Place, London SE1 2AF
Solicitors Linklaters, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ Designed and produced by 85four
Photography by Ric Gemmell
This Report is printed by Cousin on FSC certiﬁed paper under Chain of Custody SA-COC-1654 AK.
The paper is Revive 75 Silk containing 50% recovered waste, 25% Pre-consumer waste and 25% virgin ﬁbre.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management
and are both accredited to ISO14001.
50% Registered in England No. 24511
Registered Ofﬁce:
Westgate Brewery, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP33 1QT
T elephone: 01284 763222
www.greeneking.co.uk
GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007/08
