 GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09  Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
1
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Who we are
72 Directors’ report
75 Directors’ statements
76 Directors’ remuneration report
83 Corporate governance
88 Shareholder information
Management and governance
Other information
30 Group ﬁnancial record
31 Group income statement
32 Group balance sheet
33 Group cash ﬂow statement
Group statement of recognised
income and expense
34 Notes to the accounts
65 Independent auditors’ report to
the members of Greene King plc
(group)
66 Company balance sheet
67 Notes to the company accounts
71 Independent auditors’ report to
the members of Greene King plc
(company)
Financial statements and notes
1 Who we are
2 What we do
4 Chairman’s statement
5 Highlights
6 Chief executive’s review
18 Financial review
20 Risks and uncertainties
21 Key performance indicators
22 Corporate social responsibility report
28 Board of directors
Business review
Overview
Greene King is one of the country’s leading brewers and pub
retailers. With a long tradition of brewing beer and running
pubs, dating back over 200 years, our wide range of pubs,
restaurants and hotels, together with our world famous
traditional ale brands, makes us what we are today – a leader
in our ﬁeld.
We operate, rent and lease pubs and restaurants throughout
England, Wales and Scotland. We brew beer and sell drinks
to a wide range of customers across the licensed trade.
Our customers are diverse; they range from pub-goers and
hotel guests to licensees, supermarkets and national pub chains,
yet they all have one thing in common – they all appreciate
excellent service, ﬁrst-class product quality and value for money.
With our base in Suffolk, we serve communities throughout
mainland Britain. Our reputation for playing an important role
at the heart of those communities is as important to us as our
reputation with our shareholders for consistently delivering
solid results.
Contents Retail
(Destination Pubs, Local Pubs and Loch Fyne Restaurants)
Our Retail business includes our managed pubs, restaurants and hotels within England and Wales.
At year end, we had 772 outlets. The instantly recognisable brands/formats of Hungry Horse, Hardy’s
House, Old English Inns and Loch Fyne Restaurants all sit within our Retail division. These, together
with the 449 pubs in our Local Pubs division, put us ﬁrmly in local communities across the country.
Number
of pubs
113
Number
of pubs
31
Pub Partners
(tenanted and leased pubs)
This business operates all of our tenanted and leased pubs within England and Wales. There were
1,391 pubs within Pub Partners at the year end, split 22% leased and 78% tenancy. Pub Partners’
business model is based upon ensuring optimum proﬁt achievement for both licensee and Greene King.
Maintaining licensee viability is our main aim and, to help achieve that, we provide industry-leading
support and award-winning training programmes.
Tenancy
78%
Number of outlets
1,391
Leased
22%
Brewing Company
(industry-leading brands)
Brewing Company has, for many years, been Britain’s leading cask ale brewer, investing more in cask
ale than any other brewer and providing top level support and service to customers. We also lead the
off-trade premium ale market with our thriving take home business. The business is responsible for
brewing, distributing, marketing and selling our wide range of crafted ale brands, including Greene King
IPA, Old Speckled Hen and Abbot Ale. Our range also includes Ruddles, St Edmunds and Olde Trip and
numerous seasonal beers to help licensees drive cask ale sales. Our aim is to provide the best quality
brands and service to our many and varied customers – Greene King outlets, other pub companies,
free trade customers and supermarkets.
No.1
cask ale in UK
1
Belhaven
(Scotland)
Belhaven, our Scottish division, mirrors the Greene King model with managed and tenanted pubs
operating as well as a brewing business. Its pubs division now comprises over 300 tenanted, leased
and managed pubs, from Stranraer in the South to Wick in the North, and its brewing business
is conducted from Dunbar. Belhaven continues to be operated quite separately from the other
Greene King businesses.
Leading
ale in Scottish on-trade
Number of pubs
325
2
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
What we do
Greene King’s main businesses are Retail (Local Pubs, Destination Pubs and Loch Fyne Restaurants); Pub Partners,
our tenancy and leasing division; Brewing Company; and Belhaven, our Scottish business, which operates the
same three proﬁt streams separately from the rest of the UK operations. In total we operate about 2,500 pubs
and restaurants, two breweries (Bury St Edmunds and Dunbar) and a number of regional depots. Our head
ofﬁce is in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk, and we also have regional ofﬁces in Scotland.
No.2
premium cask ale in UK
1 Loch Fyne Restaurants Loch Fyne Restaurants,
the home of superb seafood and shellﬁsh, has 48
restaurants in the UK, all renowned for their unique
buildings and warm ambience. What sets Loch Fyne
apart is its approach to environmental issues combined
with its attention to detail and focus on quality. It now
has sustainability ambassadors in each restaurant who
are able to pass on the latest environmental thinking
to customers and colleagues alike.
Hungry Horse Every Hungry Horse pub is a friendly
local that goes out to impress everyone with its quality
family food offer, sense of fun and affordable prices.
Hardy’s House A Hardy’s House is the best choice
for quality pub food, friendly atmosphere and personal
touch in its locality – truly providing “something
for everyone”.
Old English Inns Interesting and characterful
hotels with great quality food and drink, where staff
are passionate about providing friendly hospitality,
whatever your occasion.
Number of
inns/hotels
58
Number of
restaurants
48
Retail 46.3%
Pub Partners 31.1%
Brewing Company 9.3%
Belhaven 13.3%
Percentage contribution
to operating proﬁt
Leases Our leased model offers longer, assignable
lease agreements with full repairing and insuring liability
sitting with the lessee. Lease agreements are generally
for a minimum of ten years with options to increase in
ﬁve-year periods to a maximum of 25 years, assignable
after three years. These lease agreements attract the
more entrepreneurial licensees who require more
freedom to run the business as they would like.
Tenancies Our tenanted model is based on a more
hands-on approach to working with our licensees.
Pub Partners tenancy agreements are for three years,
with a shared repair liability between the tenant and
Greene King. These tenancy agreements offer free
of tie for wines, spirits and minerals and other ﬂexible
options. They are an excellent ﬁt for ﬁrst-time
licensees and those that don’t wish to take on the
extra responsibility of a lease.
brand. Its new mate in the coop, Old Crafty Hen,
also won a Monde award and has wowed customers
in its ﬁrst year.
Abbot Ale Universally recognised for its outstanding
quality, award-winning Abbot Ale is the top-selling
premium cask ale in London and one of the top two
in Britain. Brewed longer to a unique recipe that uses
the ﬁnest barley from local farmers, this legendary ale
bursts with ﬂavour and retains its place as a favourite
with the nation’s discerning beer drinkers.
1 AC Nielsen On Trade Survey MAT to March 2009
2 AC Nielsen Scantrack data MAT to 18/04/09
Greene King IPA Award-winning Greene King IPA
retains its top spot as the best selling cask beer in the
UK and is making a signiﬁcant contribution to the
resurgence of interest in cask ale, attracting new
drinkers to the category. Recently given a new look
reﬂecting its roots in the heart of Suffolk, its association
with rugby, as the ofﬁcial beer of England Rugby,
Harlequins and Sale Sharks, continues to grow.
Old Speckled Hen Gold medal winner in the
prestigious Monde Awards, Old Speckled Hen is the
leading premium ale in supermarkets. Its consistent
growth since we acquired the brand ten years ago
continues apace, and it is also our leading export
No.1
premium ale in take home
2
Tenanted pubs Belhaven operates 229 tenanted and
leased pubs (48 tenanted and 181 leased), across most
of Scotland. The team prides itself on being the “most
considerate landlord” in Scotland and has introduced
a package of measures designed to increase tenants
cash ﬂow and proﬁtability.
Brewing Belhaven Best consolidated its position as
Scotland’s leading ale by increasing ale volume market
share to over 20% in 2008. Belhaven Best, the ofﬁcial
beer of the Scottish Golf Union, has beneﬁted from
tightly targeted TV advertising endorsing it as
“Scotland’s Best”. Other Belhaven brands include
80/-, Twisted Thistle and St Andrew’s Ale.
Managed pubs Belhaven operates 96 managed
pubs, the vast majority of which are not overtly
branded. Food has become an increasingly important
part of the operation, with sales growing by 49% in
2008/09 and now representing 25% of total managed
pub turnover.
In 2008/09 seven ex-Retail sites were transferred
to Belhaven, then extensively refurbished and ﬁnally
successfully reopened as Eating Inns, a food-led,
destination, family brand. The seven sites have
all shown substantial year-on-year sales growth.
Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
3
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09 4
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chairman’s statement
People
For our many long-standing employees and
licensees, this year will have been as tough
as any of us can remember. However, they,
and the many talented and hard-working
people who have joined the company in
recent years, should be proud of what has
been achieved. The pressures have been
intense at times, but we continue to see
positive thinking, tenacity and hard work
throughout the business.
Our strong reputation and continuing success
are entirely dependent on everyone’s efforts
and I would like to express my sincere thanks
to you all for your personal contribution.
Looking ahead, conditions are likely to remain
challenging, but I am conﬁdent that the team
at Greene King will continue to drive the
business forward.
Tim Bridge
Chairman
1 July 2009
* As throughout, profit figures are shown before
exceptional items.
** As throughout, 2007/08 rebased to 52 weeks
for comparative purposes.
ahead of last year. The ﬁnal dividend will
be paid on 14 September 2009 to those
shareholders on the register at the close
of business on 14 August 2009.
Dividend policy
Looking ahead, the board expects to pursue a
dividend policy which targets a dividend cover
of around two times underlying earnings.
At this level, we believe we can maintain
a balance between the cash requirement
of the business to invest capital in our assets
and pay down borrowings, and the need
to ensure that shareholders will beneﬁt from
our strong cash ﬂow and successful growth.
Acquisitions and disposals
We did not make any acquisitions during
the ﬁnancial year, but have announced an
acquisition since the year end, having reached
an agreement to purchase 11 high-quality,
freehold managed pubs from Punch Taverns
for a total consideration of £30.4m. The deal
was completed on 1 July 2009.
Despite a difﬁcult property market in the
last 12 months, we have improved the
average quality of our estate by successfully
disposing of 128 of our non-core assets
for £44.2m, realising a net proﬁt of £3.7m
against book value.
Rights issue
On 23 April we announced a three-for-ﬁve
rights issue to raise net proceeds of £207.5m,
which will allow us to repurchase some of
our securitised debt at signiﬁcantly below
par value and to make selective acquisitions
of freehold retail pubs. The rights issue was
completed successfully on 29 May 2009
when dealing in the new shares began.
Dividend
Although earnings were lower than last year,
our ability to convert proﬁt into cash and to
manage our balance sheet tightly has allowed
the board to recommend a ﬁnal dividend
payment of 15.1p per share, being the
equivalent of 18.7p per share before adjusting
for the rights issue. This, and the adjusted
total dividend of 22.4p per share, is marginally
I am pleased to report that, in very demanding trading conditions, we have once more delivered
resilient results. This year was tougher than last, yet we managed to grow our revenue by 1.3%**
to £954.6m. Faced with signiﬁcant margin pressures, we generated operating proﬁt of £216.2m*,
which was 6.7% below last year. Our proﬁt before tax was £118.5m, down 15.0% on last year,
but ahead of the £115.0m proﬁt forecast at the time of the rights issue. We delivered earnings
per share, before exceptional items, of 66.5p, 8.4% below last year. 2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
954.6
942.3**
917.5
818.6
707.5
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
216.2
231.8**
218.1
190.9
158.3
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
118.5
139.4**
139.8
119.6
95.7
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
267.3
278.0**
260.8
229.2
191.5
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
66.5
72.6**
64.8
56.0
46.5
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
21.0
20.9
18.4
16.2
14.6
Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
5
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Highlights
 Proﬁt before tax of £118.5m* vs. £115.0m proﬁt
forecast at time of rights issue
 Retail like-for-like sales up 1.7%** whilst maintaining
gross margins
 Pub Partners’ trends have stabilised
 Belhaven achieved milestone proﬁt of over £30m*;
growth of 11.9%**
 Strong market outperformance in Brewing Company;
own-brewed volume +1.8%**
 Unique amongst major players in:
– Continuing to pay down debt (£46.9m)
– Maintaining capital investment (£84.5m)
– Holding our dividend
 Successfully completed £207.5m rights issue
post year-end:
– Eleven high-quality pubs acquired (£30.4m)
– Bonds repurchased (£22.4m nominal)
 Although outlook remains uncertain,
current trading is encouraging
Revenue £m Operating proﬁt before exceptionals £m
Proﬁt before tax and exceptionals £m EBITDA £m*
Comparable earnings per share p
†
Adjusted dividend per share p
††
* As throughout, profit figures are shown before exceptional items.
** As throughout, 2007/08 rebased to 52 weeks for comparative purposes.
† All relevant years adjusted for share split.
†† Adjusted dividend per share reflects the impact of the bonus element of the post year end rights issue. 6
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chief executive’s review
In addition, our successful rights issue, which
completed after the year end, will further
strengthen our competitive and ﬁnancial
position. We raised £207.5m to selectively
acquire freehold, managed pubs and
opportunistically pay down our securitised
debt at below par values. Already we have
moved forward in both aims, buying back
£22.4m of our securitised bonds at 51%
of their nominal value and acquiring 11 high-
quality, freehold, managed pubs from Punch
Taverns for £30.4m. We expect to make
further progress during the next 12 months.
Current trading
Recent trading, particularly in Retail and
Brewing in both England and Scotland,
has been strong. In Retail, not only have
our invested food-led businesses continued
to perform well, but our wet-led businesses
have also been stronger. The beneﬁt
of the realignment and adaptation of these
businesses continues to come through,
supported by the recent warmer and drier
weather. After eight weeks of the new year
to 28 June, like-for-like sales in Greene King
Retail are +5.2% and like-for-like sales in
Belhaven Retail are +10.2%.
Momentum in our brewing businesses has
also been sustained. Own-brewed volumes
in Brewing Company remain well ahead
of the market at +12.1%, helped by the
renewed success of Ruddles in the on-trade
and the better weather, whilst Belhaven Best
volumes in the year-to-date are +9.0%.
Pub Partners’ trends have stabilised and
remain in line with the underlying
performance from the second half of 2008/09.
The actions we have taken to support our
licensees are beginning to take effect and
we have seen a better volume performance
in the past ﬁve weeks.
In each of our divisions the operating focus
is on achieving proﬁtable sales growth and
growing market share. This is achieved by
three main elements; ﬁrstly, providing value
for money offers for customers supported
by industry-leading service and standards;
secondly, consistently raising the quality
and performance bar of employees, licensee
partners and suppliers; and thirdly, rigorously
controlling costs to preserve cash and help
fund internal investment.
We believe we are in a stronger position
now than we were two years ago, when
the initial warning signs of an impending
slowdown appeared at the front line of our
businesses. The sector is polarising with the
weaker players underperforming and reducing
investment, whilst the stronger players
have healthier proﬁts and cash conversion,
are maintaining investment, accelerating
market share gains and selectively targeting
acquisitions. Within the overall strategy
framework, in order to strengthen our
position as one of the stronger players,
we have continued to realign our businesses.
During the past ﬁnancial year we have:
 Reduced our net debt by £46.9m.
 Further repositioned our Retail operations
toward growth categories such as food,
wine and coffee.
 Continued the repositioning and
adaptation of the Pub Partners
business model.
 Reduced Brewing Company’s ﬁxed cost
base whilst maintaining sector-leading
brand investment.
 Grown food sales in Belhaven Retail
to 25% of total sales.
Our consistent and long-term strategy has
stood Greene King in good stead through
both prosperous times and recessionary
periods. The primary objective of our strategy
is to create shareholder value by delivering
organic growth across our divisions,
augmented by value accretive investment
in our core brand and property assets,
a selective acquisition strategy and the
disposal of non-core assets.
The execution of the strategy is driven by
a number of key elements of the business
model including:
 A commitment to both managed and
tenanted pubs supported by a leadership
position in brewing.
 A high quality, freehold asset base.
 A focus on generating proﬁtable
sales growth for cash generation
and brand stability.
 A broad geographic spread but with
a primary focus on the prosperous
South East and resilient Scotland.
 Decentralised business units and ﬂat
management structure to stay close
to our customers.
These results represent a resilient performance by Greene King in what has proved to be one
of the toughest trading periods for many years. For the 52 weeks to 3 May 2009, revenue was
£954.6m, 1.3%** ahead of last year, operating proﬁt was £216.2m*, down 6.7% against last
year and proﬁt before tax was £118.5m, 15.0% below last year. Adjusted earnings per share
were down 8.4% at 66.5p. The board has declared a ﬁnal dividend of 15.1p per share, marginally
ahead of last year, being the equivalent of 18.7p per share before adjusting for the rights issue.
* As throughout, profit figures are shown before exceptional items.
** As throughout, 2007/08 rebased to 52 weeks for comparative purposes. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
7
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Locals
Events are playing an
increasingly important role
for our Local Pubs with
promotions offering value
for money on food and
drink for occasions such
as Valentine’s Day and
Christmas as well as key
sporting events. The recent
Father’s Day promotion
proved a great hit with
regulars at the Lady Bay
in Nottingham. 8
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Destinations
Our popular Hungry Horse family pubs, such as the Four Seasons
in Laindon, Essex, have seen a rise in the numbers of meals sold during
the year, driven by menus offering even greater value than ever. Last year
we continued to invest in the brand with 28 major refurbishments aimed
at appealing to families of all ages with attractions for youngsters such as
play zones and fun days and for adults with sports events, entertainment
and curry nights. Retail
Greene King Retail achieved sales of £569.5m in the year, 0.3% above last year despite trading
in 3% less sites. Operating proﬁt of £105.6m was down 7.6%. After an improved second half,
total like-for-like sales were +1.7%, driven by both liquor and food growth, including strong
performances from strategically important categories such as cask ale, wine, coffee and soft
drinks. Food is now 35% of total Retail sales. Hungry Horse, following its repositioning and
upweighted investment programme throughout the past 18 months, achieved like-for-like sales
growth of 8.1%. The underlying pub operating margin, excluding the impact of the mainly
leasehold Loch Fyne Restaurants, was just 1.2 percentage points down on last year, despite
the ongoing machine income decline, fewer sites and above inﬂationary cost increases.
Chief executive’s review
Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
9
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Estate numbers
We began the ﬁnancial year with 792
Retail sites. Four new Loch Fyne sites were
acquired, 18 pubs were sold and a net six
transferred to Pub Partners. The closing
balance was 772 sites, segmented as follows:
As always, we have managed our costs very
tightly. Investing in value for the customer
has not been at the expense of gross margins,
due to improved liquor and food yields and
further menu engineering. Our pub operating
margins, due to a number of factors, remain
industry-leading: wage efﬁciencies have
improved with the total wage cost falling; and
we have increased our use of “smart meters”
across the estate to drive outlet electricity
usage down 7% this year, partially offsetting
much higher rates.
Raising the calibre of our people has been a
further focus for the year. We have improved
the quality of our operations teams at area and
outlet level, taking advantage of our strong
appeal in a weaker employment market. We
have also stepped up our training programmes
across each of the three businesses within
Retail, concentrating on improving the
internal talent pool. Almost 40% of new
House Manager appointments came through
our Rising Star training programmes.
Unlike much of the pub and restaurant
sector, we have maintained a signiﬁcant
level of investment in our Retail business.
During the period, we invested £24.6m of
expansionary capital, a further £25.1m was
invested in maintaining our pubs and £8.1m
was spent on repairs from the revenue
account. The focus on Hungry Horse has
continued, where we have invested c. £10.0m
across 33 developments in the year, whilst we
also completed a “sparkle programme” across
20 pubs in the Locals estate. We converted
ﬁve Greene King sites to Loch Fyne in the
year and opened four other new sites.
Enhanced value-for-money across liquor and
food has been the main driver of Retail’s sales
performance. At Hungry Horse, a fall of 9%
in the average price of a main meal over
the year drove covers up 14%, whilst the
introduction of two meals for £9.95 in Inns
turned cover decline into cover growth in the
second half of the year. In Loch Fyne, we have
steered clear of the two-for-one offers that
are common place in the restaurant sector,
but have broadened our ﬁxed-price menu
offer and introduced regional pricing. Our
Local Savers value initiative now covers 77
pubs within the Local Pubs estate. At the end
of the ﬁrst quarter, when we launched Local
Savers, we reduced liquor prices on a number
of key lines in these pubs by 13%, which
led to a subsequent 12 percentage points
improvement in like-for-like sales for the
rest of the year. All main meals on the Local
Savers menu are now at £3.50 or below.
Value is not just about price. We have further
improved our customer offers, we continue
to invest in our sites, we are recruiting better
quality employees and we are improving
standards and customer service across the
business. For example, our “Beds, Baths,
Breakfasts” investment in Inns has driven
market outperformance with REVPAR up
1.5% in the year. All our Retail businesses
take part in Mystery Guest programmes and
scores have consistently improved during
the year and are benchmarking well against
competitors. Sport and other big events have
also increased in importance as part of our
value offer to our customers, with signiﬁcant
uplifts on key dates through well targeted
and communicated activities.
52 weeks 2007/08 2008/09 Change
Average number of sites trading 801 779 -2.7%
Revenue £567.7m £569.5m +0.3%
EBITDA £145.1m £139.8m -3.6%
Operating proﬁt £114.3m £105.6m -7.6%
Operating proﬁt margin 20.1% 18.5% -1.6%pts
Outlets trading
Outlets at on average
year end during period
Destination Pubs 275 266
Local Pubs 449 468
Loch Fyne Restaurants 48 45
Total 772 779 Pub Partners
Revenue at Pub Partners, our tenancy/lease division in England and Wales, was down 5.4%
at £155.2m, with operating proﬁt down 11.3% to £70.9m. Operating margins were 45.7%.
During the period, a total of £7.0m was invested across the Pub Partners estate, an additional
£6.3m went on maintenance capex and £3.3m on repairs from the revenue account. An average
of 1,445 sites traded over the period. At the start of the ﬁnancial year, 1,474 pubs were trading,
three were added from acquisitions, while 92 were sold or closed and a net six were transferred
in from the Retail division. The closing balance was therefore 1,391 pubs.
10
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chief executive’s review
As a result of the various initiatives and
investment we and our licensees have been
making, the vital signs of licensee health have
remained stable through the year. At the
year end, we only had 30 pubs closed for
reopening, just 2% of the entire estate,
there were 272 licensees on cash-with-order
against 245 at the end of last year and 137
temporary agreements against 131 last year.
We are monitoring developments following
the recent Business & Enterprise Committee
report. We have been successfully operating
a tie for over 200 years with short-term
tenancies currently representing 78% of our
agreements and long-term leases representing
just 22%. Tenancies offer the lowest cost
entry route into the pub industry for potential
licensees and the model ensures we share in
the upside and the downside of an economic
cycle with our licensees. We were the ﬁrst
to introduce a Code of Practice in 1998 and
it has been continuously evolving since then.
Going forward, our business model will
continue to adapt in order to ensure
Greene King remains appealing and fair
to both prospective and existing licensees,
whilst delivering attractive returns to
our shareholders.
existing licensees: 137 training courses were
held in the year, including 37 “Go for Growth”
induction courses. These helped to improve
ﬁrst year licensee retention rates up to 88%.
Finally, we launched a specialist tenant trainer
programme and we now have 20 licensee
trainers providing “on the job” training to
new licensees.
However, for some of our licensees, this
support has not been sufﬁcient to offset the
unprecedented pressures they have faced.
For these, we have provided over £4m of
additional ﬁnancial support during the year,
via rent concessions and product discounts.
This additional support is not given on the
basis of “charity”, but is conditional on our
licensees changing elements of their business
to increase their consumer appeal. This
support includes “Crunch Time”, an initiative
to ensure many of our licensees can compete
more effectively in the current environment,
guaranteeing licensees gross margins on
leading products at competitive prices.
120 pubs were fully operational on “Crunch
Time” by the year end, a further 80 have
signed up since then and the resulting
volume performance of these sites is very
encouraging so far. We have also introduced
the Pelican Buying Company to our licensees,
allowing them to beneﬁt, in terms of supplier
accessibility and cost savings, from its
economies of scale, and we have upgraded
our food and marketing support to licensees
by further utilising our Retail infrastructure.
In recognition of the pressures our licensees
are facing in the current environment,
we have been repositioning and adapting the
Pub Partners business model to make it more
pragmatic and more agile. In the ﬁrst half
of the year, we split the business into two:
in the Core estate we reduced the size of each
area to 44 pubs per Business Development
Manager (BDM) to get closer to our licensees
and to ﬁnd mutually beneﬁcial solutions
more quickly; and in the Independence Pub
Company, the ﬂexibility of our agreements
is industry-leading. By the year end, we had
12 totally Free of Tie agreements and 46
partially tied agreements, putting Pub Partners
ﬁrmly in the vanguard of industry business
model evolution. During the second half of
the year, we also took a prudent view of
both inventory values and potential bad debts
within the tail-end of the Pub Partners estate,
resulting in a P&L charge of £1.9m. Excluding
this and investment to strengthen the model,
underlying EBITDA per pub was -6.7%.
The most important element of the
tenanted/leased model is licensee quality.
During the year we received 1,241 applications
for our pubs and let 331 pubs, and at the year
end there were 495 fully vetted applicants on
our database. Our recruitment campaigns are
increasingly innovative. Both our Civvy Street
and Public Housewives campaigns are proving
successful, with the ﬁrst licensee recruits
starting to run their pubs. We continue to
offer industry-leading training to new and
52 weeks 2007/08 2008/09 Change
Average number of pubs trading 1,443 1,445 NC
Revenue £164.0m £155.2m -5.4%
EBITDA £86.5m £78.1m -9.7%
Operating proﬁt £79.9m £70.9m -11.3%
Operating proﬁt margin 48.7% 45.7% -3.0%pts Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
11
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Pub
Partners
During the year, we provided
over £4 million of additional
ﬁnancial support to our tenants
in the form of rent concessions
and product discounts. As
part of this package of support,
Pub Partners launched a
major value for money drinks
promotion entitled “Crunch
Time” which offers top brands
at value prices. The Victory,
in Walton-on-the-Naze, is
one of over 200 pubs across
the UK now beneﬁting from
the promotion. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Belhaven
Food has become an increasingly important part of the Belhaven offer
where sales rose 49% last year. The seven pubs redeveloped into Eating
Inns, such as the SpringKerse View in Stirling, with its new décor, waitress
service and great menu offering plenty of value, lead the way with sales
almost doubling after refurbishment. 52 weeks 2007/08 2008/09 Change
Revenue £123.7m £136.0m +9.9%
EBITDA £31.1m £34.9m +12.2%
Operating proﬁt £27.0m £30.2m +11.9%
Operating proﬁt margin 21.8% 22.2% +0.4%pts
Belhaven
Belhaven revenues grew 9.9% to £6.0m in the year and Belhaven achieved a record operating
proﬁt of £0.m, growth of .9% with increased contributions from all three divisions.
Even though there were signiﬁcant cost pressures in the year, very tight cost control in all
businesses helped deliver an operating margin of .%, up 0.4 percentage points. The number
of pubs trading grew from  to 5 and on average  pubs were trading during the period.
Despite the demanding conditions and senior management change in the year, the Belhaven team
has yet again performed very strongly. However, we remain cautious on the outlook, mainly due
to the risk to Scottish public sector employment levels as we move into 00.
Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chief executive’s review
Yet again Belhaven Best, Scotland’s leading
ale brand with a 21.5%* share of the
Scottish on-trade ale market, outperformed
that market. In an ale market down 9.0%*,
Belhaven Best grew its volumes in the year,
supported by a return to TV advertising in
the ﬁnal quarter. Industry-leading customer
service levels and an attractive brand
portfolio combined to help our highly
motivated and successful free trade team
win further market share through growing
their free trade account base without
sacriﬁcing margin; in the year, trading proﬁt
per barrel grew 1.2%.
* AC Nielsen, Volume MAT to March 2009.
Belhaven’s retail operations went from
strength to strength during the year. By the
year end, like-for-like sales were up 5.4%,
driven by food like-for-like sales growth of
16.0% and liquor like-for-like sales growth of
2.6%. Total food revenues were up 49% and
food is now 25% of total revenues, up from
15% just two years ago. The seven pubs
redeveloped as Eating Inns contributed much
of the growth, with average weekly sales
growth almost doubling post refurbishment.
The average return on investment on these
pubs is 25%. The rest of the estate achieved
like-for-like sales growth of 3.3%, driven by
the repositioning of four high street venue
sites into more food-led offers, growing
post-refurbishment sales 48%.
Whilst conditions for our licensee partners in
Scotland remain challenging, we have further
increased our support to them, including
towards the end of the year reducing the
already unrivalled 40 pubs for each BDM
to 36. This ensures we maintain very close
relationships with our licensees leading to
stronger licensee performance and lower
potential risk. At year end, we only had six
closed pubs and 20 temporary agreements,
in line with the position at the start of the
year. Tenanted operating proﬁt rose 12.1%
in the year, driven by a 7% increase in the
number of pubs, like-for-like rental income
growth and improved gross margins. 52 weeks 2007/08 2008/09 Change
Revenue £86.8m £93.9m +8.2%
EBITDA £25.1m £25.4m +1.2%
Operating proﬁt £21.2m £21.2m NC
Operating proﬁt margin 24.4% 22.6% -1.8%pts
Brewing Company
A stronger second half for Brewing Company drove own-brewed volume growth of .8% in the
year. This led to signiﬁcant market share gains in a UK ale market down 5.6%**. Revenues grew
8.% to £9.9m, whilst operating proﬁt was unchanged at £.m. The margin decline in the
year of .8 percentage points is mainly a technical issue driven by a decline in internal volumes,
which have no associated revenue, but do contribute to Brewing Company trading proﬁt.
However, with a £.5m increase in fuel, energy and raw materials, we were pleased with
second half margins being held to within 80bps of last year.
4
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chief executive’s review
No.1 premium ale in the off-trade with a
13.3%*** volume share of the premium ale
market in multiple grocers. In the year we also
launched Old Crafty Hen and both brands
won gold medals at the recent international
Monde awards. Just after the year end, Old
Speckled Hen began sponsoring Prime Time
TV on the Dave channel.
We have continued to both remove cost
and switch from ﬁxed to variable cost to
improve efﬁciency. During the year we
outsourced our Totton and Crayford depots
to Tradeteam. Not only does this make
our business model even more efﬁcient,
but increased delivery frequencies should
improve customer service levels and lower
HGV mileage and CO
2
emissions which
will help protect the environment.
* AC Nielsen On-Trade MAT to March 2009.
** BBPA MAT to April 2009.
*** AC Nielsen Off-Trade MAT to April 2009.
Brewing Company’s continued
outperformance is driven by a consistent,
focused strategy: most importantly, we brew
high quality beer from an efﬁcient, single-site
brewery; we have a focused brand portfolio,
minimising the complexity and cost of a multi-
brand strategy; we invest more than any other
cask ale brewer; we rigorously attack costs at
all levels of the business; we recruit and retain
the best people in the market; and we retain
a passionate focus on our customers.
Greene King IPA remains the UK’s No.1
cask ale with a 20.5%* volume share of the
standard cask ale market and the fastest rate
of sale of all brands with over 5%* distribution.
During the year, we upgraded our livery and
branding to reﬂect the Suffolk heritage of
the brand, we further leveraged our England
Rugby sponsorship through Lawrence
Dallaglio’s role as brand ambassador and
we began the roll out of the innovative Cask
Revolution font. Old Speckled Hen is the Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
5
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Brewing
Company
Greene King IPA was
rebranded this year to
reﬂect the proud Suffolk
heritage of the UK’s No1
cask ale. This year also saw
the launch of our new
Revolution font – the ﬁrst
major innovation in cask
dispense for over 200 years.
Revolution offers drinkers
a choice of pours – “clean
and crisp” (looser bubbles
and softer froth), or “smooth
and creamy” (a tighter head
that holds until the end
of the pint). 6
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Loch Fyne
The focus for Loch Fyne has been to continue to invest in the expansion
of the brand and on broadening its customer base with popular set price
menus and a wider range on offer. Aimed at attracting the younger diner,
the Loch Fyne in Oxford’s vibrant Jericho district is the ﬁrst Loch Fyne
Bar and Grill. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Chief executive’s review
Outlook
I am encouraged by our performance,
both last year and through the ﬁrst few
weeks of this year, in what are demanding
circumstances. We have strengthened our
position within the sector through our
resilience, the ongoing realignment of our
businesses and, post the year-end, our
successful rights issue. Our balance sheet
is in good shape, our cash ﬂows are healthy
and our proﬁt conversion is strong. We are
unique amongst the major companies within
our sector in paying down debt, continuing
to invest in our business and maintaining
dividends to shareholders. Greene King’s
reputation within the industry ensures our
team remains highly motivated to succeed
and we continue to attract high calibre
people from both within and outside the
industry. The future remains uncertain,
but I believe we will continue to grow
our market share and outperform our
competitors, further strengthening our
leadership position.
Rooney Anand
Chief executive
1 July 2009 We are pleased to report revenue grew to £954.6m, in what has been one of the most challenging
trading periods for many years. This represents growth of .3% over last year, when adjusted
for the 53rd week, and broadly ﬂat growth when adjusted for acquisitions last year. The cost
environment has been equally difﬁcult. With £2.4m of non-wage inﬂation, in large part offset
by our continued focus on margins, costs and overheads across our businesses, we were able to
hold gross margins. With some resilience in operating margin to within 2.0 percentage points of
last year, we delivered operating proﬁt before exceptional items of £26.2m, down by 6.7%
against last year on a 52-week basis. Interest costs of £97.7m reﬂect the excellent and positive
cash ﬂows, net of capex, from our core business plus the full year effect of acquisitions last year.
Proﬁt before tax and exceptional items was £.5m, delivering adjusted earnings per share of
66.5p per share, down .4% on a 52-week basis.

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Financial review
At the end of the year, before adjusting for
the rights issue, our net debt of £1,558.6m
represented a net reduction in debt of
£46.9m over last year. With interest rate
hedges in place to ﬁx 98% of our debt,
we have a strong and efﬁcient balance sheet
with a blended interest rate of 6.0%, net
debt/EBITDA of 5.8x and ﬁxed charge
cover of 2.1x at the year end. Our free cash
ﬂow debt service cover ratio of 1.5x in the
securitised vehicle means we are comfortably
above our covenant levels and have sufﬁcient
headroom to continue to be able to ﬁnancially
support our business strategy and growth.
Pensions
The group maintains a deﬁned contribution
scheme, which is open to all new employees,
and a number of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes,
which are all closed to new entrants.
Following a turbulent year with movements
in both equity markets and corporate bond
yields, the net pension liability under IAS 19
now stands at £91.6m.
Exceptional charges
We have recorded £52.1m of operating
exceptional items, as a result of their nature
or size, and these are shown separately in
the income statement to give full visibility
of our underlying business performance.
Such charges include costs for operational
restructuring in preparing the business for
continued challenging times and for systems
integration work of £6.0m. These were
in part offset by £3.7m of net proﬁt on
disposed properties and a £3.7m credit from
share-based payment schemes which are not
going to meet their performance criteria.
Positive free cash ﬂow
post investment
We continue to focus on delivering strong
cash ﬂows. EBITDA from operating activities
of £267.3m was 3.8% and £10.7m lower than
this time last year, based on 52 weeks. Taking
into account the disposal proceeds and as a
result of strong working capital management
holding ﬂat year over year, we generated
£46.9m of positive cash ﬂow, after funding
interest, dividends and continued investment
in the estate. The resilient trading
performance and solid cash ﬂows enable
us to continue to invest in our businesses,
to pay down debt, and to pay dividends.
Dividends
The proposed ﬁnal dividend of 15.1p per share
has been held to give a full year dividend of
22.4p per share, also held ﬂat against the full
dividend last year and dividend cover was 2.5x
(both adjusted for the effect of the recent
rights issue). The board expects to adopt
a dividend policy targeting a dividend cover
of around two times underlying earnings.
This is aimed at ensuring that shareholders
continue to beneﬁt from the successful
growth and strong cash ﬂows of the group,
whilst retaining an appropriate percentage
of earnings to maintain investment in the
estate and pay down borrowings.
Financing and treasury
Our consistent business strategy and high
quality freehold estate supports £1,434m of
securitised debt, underpinned by 2,032 pubs,
representing approximately 80% of our estate.
We also have a ﬁve-year syndicated bank
borrowing facility of £400m, of which £245m
was drawn at the year end and £99m was
set aside on short-term deposit. Across both
debt structures, there is no reﬁnancing
required before March 2012.
Investment and disposals
We ﬁrmly believe that continuous
investment, especially in more challenging
times, is important for sustained performance
and maintenance of a quality estate. We
invested £84.5m in our businesses this year,
very slightly lower than the corresponding
level of spend last year. This included £31.0m
on developments with returns ahead of
our cost of capital, £6.4m on single site
acquisitions in England and Scotland and
£40.1m on ensuring our estate remains
in good condition through ongoing repairs
and maintenance.
We continually review our portfolio to
identify sites for disposal: we aim to sell those
of lower quality or limited potential which are
not central to our strategy, and those with
a higher alternative use value. In a particularly
challenging property market during 2008/09,
we are pleased to have disposed of 128 sites
and other non-trading assets, realising a net
exceptional gain of £3.7m against book value
and generating cash of £44.2m. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
9
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Summary
In what has been a very challenging year,
we believe we are able to report a resilient
performance both operationally and
ﬁnancially. Long-term ﬁnancing at competitive
rates, combined with our strong operational
cash ﬂows, asset backed-business model and
prudent and efﬁcient balance sheet, gives us
both options for and some conﬁdence in the
future, whilst this challenging economic and
trading environment continues.
Ian Bull
Finance director
1 July 2009
We have also reviewed the pubs in the tail of
our estate and have recognised an impairment
charge of £53.5m against the net book value
of a relatively small number of pubs, an
increase of £15.5m from the charge made
in our interim accounts.
Post our rights issue, we have cancelled a
number of interest rate swaps to maintain
our 100% ﬁxed interest proﬁle. They have
been treated as ineffective in these accounts,
resulting in an exceptional ﬁnancing charge
of £12.1m.
Post balance sheet event – rights issue
Our three-for-ﬁve rights issue, which we
announced in April and completed successfully
in May, raised £207.5m net proceeds to
be used for both opportunistic repurchase
of bond debt and for targeted acquisitions.
Since the year end, we have purchased
£22.4m aggregate principal amount of bonds,
with a weighted average purchase price of
£511.3 per £1,000, as the ﬁrst step in the use
of proceeds for debt repurchase. On 9 June
2009, we announced an agreement to
acquire 11 high-quality, freehold, managed
pubs from Punch Taverns PLC, for a total
consideration of £30.4m. This was likewise
the ﬁrst step in the use of the rights issue
proceeds for targeted acquisitions.
Together, had the rights issue, bond
repurchase and recent acquisition occurred
at the start of the 2008/09 year, our net debt
at year end would have been £1,373.8m,
net debt/EBITDA would have been 5.1x and
ﬁxed charge cover would have been 2.4x. 20
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Risks and uncertainties
litigation, regulatory intervention and customer
complaints could result in damage to our
reputation, a loss of trade and a reduction in
our perceived valuation by key stakeholders.
We endeavour to maintain tight controls
to protect and enhance our reputation
and brand values. We focus constantly on
consistency and quality, with staff training,
targeted investment programmes and
mystery guest visits all designed to help
maintain standards, and have systems in place
to escalate and respond to relevant incidents.
People risks
This is a people business. Having a strong
team is a source of material competitive
advantage in our managed and tenanted pubs,
our brewing operations and our head ofﬁce.
We aim for an environment where we can
recruit the best people and then through
training, development and progression ensure
we retain them. Our licensee recruitment and
training programmes, and the variety of rental
agreements on offer, are designed to attract
and retain the best quality licensees.
Financial and control risks
We try to foster an entrepreneurial spirit
at Greene King, preferring to empower
our employees as opposed to excessively
controlling them, but recognise the risks
associated with this. We also recognise the
ﬁnancial risks associated with the current
economic climate.
We run our operations along divisional lines
with lean structures to support them and
appropriate operational and ﬁnancial
autonomy on a day-to-day basis. In this
environment, we seek to ensure that, for
both the ﬁnancial and management controls
that we put in place, the balance is right
between such controls being effective and
appropriate without being unnecessarily
controlling and restrictive.
We are keen to maintain our robust ﬁnancial
position, with our strong and prudent balance
sheet and so have rigorous controls in place
to monitor compliance with the covenants in
our borrowing facilities. Whilst we have no
reﬁnancing need in relation to either our bank
facility or our securitisation vehicle until 2012,
we aim to ensure that we will be in the best
possible position to be able to reﬁnance in
the lead up to that point. For further detail on
our ﬁnancial risks, shareholders are referred
to note 24 of the ﬁnancial statements and
to the information on the company’s internal
controls contained in the corporate
governance section on pages 83 to 87.
We have a diversiﬁed business encompassing
pubs, restaurants, brewing and drinks distribution,
as well as a broad geographic spread.
Regulatory risks
Increasing regulatory requirements or costs
in areas such as the smoking ban, alcohol
tolerance, licensing, health & safety, corporate
manslaughter, taxation and the National
Minimum Wage impact many parts of our
business. Changes in regulations, including the
current debate around the beer tie, may have
an impact on our business going forward.
We have a range of policies and procedures
in place to ensure compliance with existing
regulatory requirements, including in relation
to health and safety, ﬁre safety and food
safety. Improvements are constantly being
introduced in relation to the reporting and
monitoring of such risks, backed up by
investment where appropriate. Compliance
systems are regularly reviewed and updated
where appropriate. Training systems are
in place to ensure that staff are aware of
regulatory requirements which impact on
them, and careful planning is undertaken
to deal with new regulatory requirements.
We offer training and support to our
licensees in many of these areas.
We will carefully monitor developments in
relation to Business and Enterprise Select
Committee’s report on the beer tie, and aim
to ensure that the full facts are given and fully
understood if any inquiry takes place.
Supply chain risks
It is fundamental to the operation of our
business that we are able to supply our pubs
and restaurants, not only with our own beers,
but also with the goods and services of third
parties, where we are reliant on a number of
a key suppliers, particularly in relation to food
and alcohol, and third-party distributors.
We work closely with our third-party suppliers,
producers and supply chain partners to
ensure that our relationships with them are
positive and constructive at all times. We also
need to minimise the likelihood of failure by
or loss of a key supplier and at the same time
therefore continuously review our back-up
plans to cope with difﬁculties should such
an eventuality rise.
We take a serious approach to risk
management in our internal production and
distribution activities, always looking to improve
and learn from other best-in-class operators.
We have an ongoing programme of testing
our disaster-recovery systems relating to our
brewing operations.
Reputational risks
We are a consumer-facing business in sectors
that hold important positions within the UK’s
culture and heritage. Issues such as a failure
to properly execute our branded models,
This section highlights some of the key risks
and uncertainties which affect Greene King
but is not intended to be an exhaustive
analysis of all risks facing the business.
Greene King has in place clear risk
management processes which are designed
to identify and evaluate both internal and
external risks facing the company, based
on the likelihood of their occurrence and
the scale of their potential impact on the
company. Each risk has an identiﬁed owner
within the senior management team,
responsible for ensuring that any identiﬁed
risk improvement measures are implemented
in a timely manner so that the impact of the
risk can be mitigated.
A company-wide risk committee has been
established to discuss in detail and monitor
the internal controls which have been put in
place to ensure that the risks are appropriately
managed. Executive oversight is then carried
out by the senior management of each
business unit, with the executive directors
reviewing group risks on a quarterly basis.
The audit committee receives regular reports
on the risk management processes in each of
the businesses within Greene King. Once a
year it reviews the company’s top risks, prior
to their submission to the board, which
retains ultimate responsibility for the
company’s risk management framework.
Economic risks
The continuing economic downturn and
consequential changes in consumer
expenditure, tastes and preferences is having
an impact on our business. At the same time,
costs are increasing and there is uncertainty
across the industry about the impact of future
inﬂationary cost increases. Our licensees are
also affected by the current economic climate,
leading to the risk of more tenant defaults
and business failures.
We constantly look to broaden our appeal
to customers by delivering quality and value
for money, excellent service and up-to-date
product offers. We work hard across the group
to continue to drive down costs in all areas
whilst at the same time fostering mutually
beneﬁcial and long-term relationships with
our suppliers. We constantly monitor the
vital signs of our licensee health, and look
to provide our licensees with additional
operational and ﬁnancial support wherever
needed and appropriate.
Property values are also impacted by the
economic downturn, and with it our ability
to improve the average quality of our estate
as extensively. However, we continue to
successfully complete non-core asset
disposals. Within our estate, operational
focus is given to poorer performing sites
across our estate in order to optimise their
proﬁtability in difﬁcult times. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
2
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Key performance indicators
2009
2008
2007
66.5p
72.6p*
64.8p
Strategic priority Deﬁnition Performance
Adjusted earnings per share
EPS declined 8.4% to 66.5p, following a number
of years of annual EPS growth. This year has
presented an unprecedented challenge for the
business and this result highlights the resilience
of our business model.
Proﬁt for the period attributable to equity holders,
excluding the effect of exceptional items, divided
by the weighted average number of shares in issue
during the period excluding own shares held.
2009
2008
2007
21.0p
20.9p
18.4p
2009
2008
2007
£118.5m
£139.4m*
£139.8m
2009
2008
2007
22.6%
24.6%
23.8%
2009
2008
2007
£135.6k
£142.7k*
£141.7k
2009
2008
2007
£49.1k
£55.3k*
£52.2k
2009
2008
2007
2.1x
2.3x
2.6x
Adjusted dividend per share
On a rights issue adjusted basis and despite the
EPS decline, the board has recommended a ﬁnal
dividend payment of 15.1p per share, marginally
ahead of last year, producing a total adjusted
dividend per share for the year of 21.0p, also
marginally ahead of last year.
Total dividend per share paid and proposed
in respect of the period.
PBTE
Proﬁt before tax and exceptionals declined
15% to £118.5m.
Group proﬁt for the period after ﬁnancing charges
but before tax and exceptional items.
Operating proﬁt margin
Our operating proﬁt margin declined 2.0
percentage points in the year. Despite introducing
enhanced value into our business during the year,
gross margins remained stable. Margins were mainly
impacted by declines in high margin machine
income and above inﬂationary cost rises in utilities
and other ﬁxed costs, in part offset by other cost
mitigation and savings.
Operating proﬁt, pre-exceptional items,
divided by group revenue for the period.
Average proﬁt per outlet
In an extremely tough trading environment,
Retail average proﬁt per outlet fell 5%, whilst our
tenanted/leased estate fell by 11% after we took
certain prudent measures to rebase the proﬁtability
of the business.
Operating proﬁt for the period, pre-exceptionals,
divided by the average number of pubs in
the period.
Retail
Pub Partners
Fixed charge cover
The full-year impact of higher interest payments and
of higher rental payments in Loch Fyne, partially offset
by organic net debt reduction through strong cash
ﬂows of £47m, meant that ﬁxed charge cover fell to
2.1x at the year end. Subsequent to the year end,
the impact of the successful rights issue takes ﬁxed
charge cover back up to 2.4x on a pro-forma basis.
Fixed charge cover is calculated using the formula
EBITDAR (operating proﬁt before depreciation,
amortisation, rent and exceptionals) less
maintenance capex divided by the sum of
interest and rent.
* As throughout, 2007/08 rebased to 52 weeks for comparative purposes. 22
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Corporate social responsibility report
We continue to develop lighter options and
support our customers to make healthier
choices. Baking and grilling are central cooking
methods in our kitchens, where no salt
is added in the cooking process. We have
begun to provide nutritional information to
consumers across the Hungry Horse brand
and best selling lines, and are currently
working towards providing a full nutritional
proﬁle for all our dishes. In addition, we are
now publishing information for those suffering
from coeliac disease on our Inns menus, and,
to increase accessibility, we have committed
to making all our menus in our Retail division
available in Braille and in MP3 format.
By working with the FSA, our suppliers and
partners and with the help of our independent
nutritionist, we have committed to ensuring
that our steps to support the four pillars of
healthy eating are based on sound nutrition.
Going forward we have committed to
the following:
 We will actively source lower salt,
lower saturated fat and lower calorie
versions of ingredients during product
tender processes.
 We will use the FSA salt guidelines
to benchmark our key menu items.
Red Tractor accreditation
Greene King has become the ﬁrst brewer
in the UK to be awarded the prestigious
Red Tractor certiﬁcation for all our beers.
Red Tractor is an independent mark that
guarantees the quality and origin of
ingredients and the ethical production
methods of food and drink. Any brand that
has been certiﬁed comes from farms and
producers that meet high standards of food
safety and hygiene, animal welfare and
environmental protection.
Scores on the doors
Greene King supports the adoption of a
national “Scores on the Doors” scheme to
give clarity to customers on what standards
to expect, and to enable all operators
to achieve a recognised industry standard.
In areas where this scheme does operate,
we have achieved 5-star, excellent ratings
in three of our pubs and are now working
to ensure all of our pubs reach this standard.
Healthy eating
This year we have worked closely with the
Food Standards Agency (FSA) on improving
our menus and the nutritional information
available to our diners. We are committed
to great tasting, quality food, and we focus on
providing our customers with choice through
a wide range of menu options including
fresh fruit, vegetables, ﬁsh and lean meat
to support a healthy and balanced diet.
Protection
We take pride in ensuring what we do
is ethical and sustainable.
Food safety and supply
Food safety and the security of supply are
of paramount importance. We require all
our suppliers to have either British Retail
Consortium (BRC) or Safe and Local Supplier
Approval (SALSA) accreditation. Both of
these quality marks provide a benchmark
for best practice in the food industry,
and demonstrate that our suppliers deliver
consistent food safety and quality. SALSA
accreditation was launched in March 2007
in response to the increased popularity
of local and regionally sourced products.
All food products supplied to us must meet
our strict labelling requirements and our
suppliers must be able to demonstrate full
traceability of all products supplied. Our
suppliers are required to endorse, support
and implement the Food Safety Act 1990,
together with any other relevant legislation
regarding the supply of goods, and their staff
must hold the minimum of a basic hygiene
certiﬁcate or equivalent. Furthermore, we
require that all our suppliers ensure that all
products, labour and ingredients fall within
ethical guidelines.
Greene King does not use genetically
modiﬁed foods.
Greene King takes its responsibilities to the environment and our various stakeholder
communities very seriously and works hard to ensure we are a good corporate citizen.
Our staff work throughout the business to meet high standards of quality, safety and
environmental awareness.
Our work on corporate social responsibility falls into four key areas. Healthy children at Hungry Horse
Our new children’s menu in Hungry Horse now offers parents peace of mind when
choosing for their children. The menu provides the right size portions for the age of
child, in line with Government guidelines, and is the ﬁrst to offer free extra vegetable
portions for our young diners.
The menu is set out to help youngsters learn to make choices and contains reduced
fat and reduced salt options. It also includes organic pasta dishes and vegetarian options
but without taking out any of the fun. And, by adding a portion of free vegetables,
the children’s menu now enables mums and dads to provide four of their children’s
5-A-Day fruit and vegetables in one meal.
In line with our commitment to the FSA, we have now also provided full nutritional
information on all our children’s meals through a handy nutritional guide on the
Hungry Horse website. Credit card-sized versions of these guides will be available
in our Hungry Horse pubs over the next few months.
Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
23
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Fair trade
We are proud to serve Fair Trade coffee
in our managed pubs, hotels and restaurants
in England and Wales.
Health and safety
We are committed to providing a safe and
secure environment for both our employees
and customers. Championed at board level,
health and safety improvements and best
practice are a priority.
We have embarked on a capital programme
of risk reduction measures to protect our
estate from ﬁre and ﬂoods and now have
over 75% of our estate protected by ﬁre
suppression systems.
Our Brewing Company holds two RoSPA
Gold Awards and one RoSPA Gold Medal
for Occupational Health and Safety.
Loch Fyne understands that where they
source their produce is key. No one works
harder than Loch Fyne to make sure that
every oyster, salmon and ﬁsh that leaves
their kitchens is cultivated, farmed or ﬁshed
in accordance with their strict environmental
and quality guidelines.
They take advice from respected marine
bodies regarding the ﬁsh and seafood they
serve. Where species are not plentiful they
will ﬁnd alternatives and will not source ﬁsh
caught by methods deemed to be harmful
to the marine ecosystem such as deep-sea
trawlers, beam trawlers or industrial long-
liners. The approach at Loch Fyne is being
shared with the rest of our retail business as
they lead the way on best practice in this area.
All Loch Fyne products are sourced according
to quality, provenance and sustainability.
 We will ensure that the FSA is regularly
updated on the progress and developments
we make and publish speciﬁc changes that
we make.
 We will provide nutritional information
on our menus in Hungry Horse, Hardy’s
and our Inns division on the next menu
change. (This will be provided via various
websites and referred to on our menus.)
 We will ensure we can provide
information on gluten, fat, saturated fat,
salt and sugar content of dishes to
customers who have a speciﬁc dietary
need on all the menus noted above.
Loch Fyne Restaurants
Loch Fyne stands out for its approach
to environmental issues – something that
has been at the heart of the business since
it began. It is committed to independent
producers using sustainable methods
to produce high quality foods. 24
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Corporate social responsibility report
 The recycling of over 50 tonnes of ofﬁce
waste in 2008/09.
 The introduction of energy packs
to turn off equipment and lights when
a pub is closed.
 The recycling of 1.8 million litres of cooking
oil into fuel over the past two years.
 A company-wide “Turn it off” campaign
aimed at staff.
 The replacement of thousands of ordinary
light bulbs with low-energy ones.
Going forward we intend to:
 Build on this work and set targets
for the next few years.
 Explore how we can introduce more
energy efﬁcient equipment across
our estate.
 Undertake a full review of our waste
management plan and reduce our reliance
on landﬁll.
We were also proud to sponsor the
Greenest Pub, Club and Hotel category
of Suffolk – Creating the Greenest County
awards. These awards celebrate the
environmental excellence of different
organisations across Suffolk and demonstrate
how Suffolk’s communities, businesses
and schools are leading the way on a wide
range of environmental areas, from cutting
transport to buying local products to
protecting local biodiversity.
We have now identiﬁed key priorities aimed
at reducing our carbon footprint. The key
area of focus for us is the reduction of CO
2
emissions and, therefore, our consumption of
electricity, gas and fuel in our pubs, breweries,
distribution activities and in our head ofﬁce.
Key achievements to date include:
 The creation of an environment steering
committee which has representatives
from all areas of the business and which
reports to the board, to drive forward
environmental improvements.
 The installation of an increasing number
of smart meters for electricity, gas and
water across the estate.
 The saving of 200,000 HGV miles pa
(net) from the re-organisation of our
distribution operations.
 The introduction of nitrogen in the tyres
of our distribution ﬂeet vehicles, which
gives us more energy efﬁcient vehicles
and cuts down on carbon emissions.
 The development of new lightweight
bottles that have 25% lower glass content,
saving over 100 tonnes of CO
2
emissions.
 The use of lighter boiler fuel which has
reduced pollutant emissions by 25%.
 The recycling of over 6,000 tonnes
of spent grain and 800 tonnes of yeast
annually for animal feed.
 Over 1,300 tonnes of yeast sent to
Marmite in 2008/09.
Environment
We recognise that all of our operations
and the actions of our employees impact
on our environment and have undertaken
environmental impact assessments to
highlight areas where our impact on the
environment is most signiﬁcant.
Our policy is to:
 Comply with all our legal obligations
in relation to the environment and
to prepare for proposed environmental
legislation and regulations.
 Aim for continual improvement in
performance in relation to environmental
matters throughout all our production,
distribution and retailing operations,
so that we minimise the extent of the
environmental impact of our operations,
so far as reasonably practicable, by
minimising harmful emissions or efﬂuents,
conserving energy and water resources,
minimising the use of materials which
may be harmful to the environment,
and re-using and recycling waste.
Wherever possible we have committed to:
 Set targets and monitor environmental
performance to enhance the efﬁcient
use of resources and to avoid waste.
 Work with our suppliers and customers
to minimise adverse environmental
impacts throughout the supply chain.
 Provide the resources for programmes
of sustainable environmental performance
improvement projects.
Consumption/usage Unit 2007/08 2008/09 Difference % change
Gas MWh 206,767 186,102 -20,665 -10.0
Electricity MWh 203,747 195,503 -8,244 -4.0
Water m
3
2,205,506 2,083,998 -121,508 -5.5
Other fossil fuel MWh 62,398 61,826 -572 -0.9
(diesel) of which:
Vehicles* MWh 35,301 35,711 410 1.2
Process MWh 16,299 15,419 -880 -5.4
Buildings MWh 10,798 10,696 -102 -0.9
Emissions (CO
2
) tonnes 163,173 154,767 -8,406 -5.2
* Data includes company cars.
Environmental data Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
25
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
 The RoSPA MORR™ award, which
rewards excellence in managing
occupational road risk and encourages
improvement in this key area where
the Health and Safety Executive estimates
that there may be as many as 1,000 work-
related road fatalities per year. In addition,
the Department of Transport says that
as many as one in three road crashes
involves a vehicle being driven for work,
and believes that nearly all of the deaths
and injuries are preventable
 The British Safety Council International
Safety Award which demonstrates that
we have in place comprehensive health
and safety policies, targeted plans, and
a clear commitment to health and safety
from the shop ﬂoor to the boardroom.
To win the award, an organisation must
also have demonstrated the competence
of those responsible for the management
of health and safety, and provide clear
evidence about improvements they
have achieved in health and safety during
the year.
All our employees are offered access to
a “stakeholder” pensions scheme and many
of our employees have beneﬁted from our
sharesave scheme, which is open to all staff.
Training
Dedicated training programmes and
development courses ensure constant growth
both for individuals and the company as a
whole. Our induction programme ensures
all staff are trained on entry in compliance,
licensing, conﬂict management, food safety
and health and safety (including ﬁre safety).
Our new career path, training programme,
introduced in Locals in 2008/09, now
provides staff with a clear career ladder,
with training on every rung, that can take
them from team member to business
development manager and beyond.
Health and safety
Greene King enjoys a good record on
health and safety. We are committed to the
promotion of a positive safety culture and to
ensuring that we do all we can to protect our
staff and customers. This year has seen our
organisation awarded a number of prestigious
health and safety awards including:
 The RoSPA Gold Award for
Occupational Health and Safety
for the ﬁfth consecutive year.
People
Employer of choice
Our workforce is our greatest asset –
our aim is to be an employer of choice.
Greene King has a proud history of being
a ﬁrst-class employer. Our values of respect,
honesty and courage, customer focus, results
and execution underpin the way in which
we do business.
We recruit, develop, reward and promote
our staff on the basis of their skills and
suitability for the role. We are committed
to ensuring that all employees receive
equal treatment regardless of their colour,
nationality, race, religion/belief, ethnic origin,
sex, marital status, disability, part-time or
ﬁxed term status, parental responsibilities,
sexual orientation or age. Our ﬂexible
beneﬁts enable employees to tailor their
beneﬁts to what is important to them,
including childcare and healthcare, as well as
offering ﬂexible working hours and working
from home options where practicable.
We are committed to engaging with our staff
through our many communication channels,
such as regular business performance
updates, and actively encourage feedback
directly to our chief executive. We have
good consultative and collective bargaining
relationships with our trade unions.
Career ladder
Before joining Greene King, Phil Venables had spent ten years working in the pub trade.
In common with many, he found he lacked the opportunity and the training he needed
to make a career in pub management. A year ago, Phil joined Greene King Local Pubs,
stepped on to the Greene King career ladder and, since then, hasn’t looked back.
Phil says: “The training is excellent. I was on the Rising Stars programme for potential
house managers. It’s a fast-track scheme which takes you on a personalised leadership
and management development programme that can see you running your own pub
within months.”
The career ladder offers team members a clear career path mapped out with
development programmes to progress their career at every stage. From joining
as a team member through supervisor and assistant manager, to running their own
pub and beyond, there is a training programme to meet everyone’s aspirations.
As a result of the programme, Phil is now manager of the Red Hart in Hitchin.
Since taking over, Phil has applied his training, driven sales and has seen turnover
at the pub increase. 26
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Corporate social responsibility report
of British”. Staff at our Coleshill Hotel really
went the extra mile with the help of the
Household Cavalry, who donated dinner
in the mess and a day’s riding with the Blues
and Royals to an impressive list of prizes,
and raised over £6,000.
By demonstrating to our employees that
we are responsive to the charities and
organisations they care about most, we
facilitate their giving in a variety of ways
including product donations, payroll giving
and volunteering.
Good neighbours
We strive to be good neighbours. One of
the most important constituents in running
a good pub is the prevention of disorder
and nuisance. Mindful of the need to ensure
we get it right, many of our pub managers
regularly meet with local residents to openly
discuss any issues or concerns and to involve
them in consultation on all new developments.
We support initiatives such as Best Bar None,
the Home Ofﬁce endorsed award scheme,
aimed at promoting the responsible
management and operation of alcohol-
licensed premises.
Place
Our pubs are at the heart of the
community they serve, and we are
committed to being an active and positive
contributor to local communities.
Charity
We recognise the importance of establishing
good relationships with the communities in
which we operate and work in partnership
with a number of charitable organisations.
We appreciate that a mix of ﬁnancial support,
as well as actual involvement with time, skills
and donations in kind are all beneﬁcial when
investing in charities and communities.
To help either good local, national or
international causes, many of our employees,
licensees and customers across the UK get
involved in raising money through a varied
range of activities such as sports events,
quizzes, rafﬂes, auctions and karaoke. Last
year, our English managed pubs raised in
excess of £180,000 for local and national
charities. One example of this came in
October last year when a number of our
Destination Pubs joined together to help
raise money for The Royal British Legion
during a weekend celebration of “The Best
RoadSafe
In 2008, Greene King became a RoadSafe
business champion. RoadSafe aims to reduce
road deaths and injuries and promote safer
driving. It brings together representatives from
Government, the vehicle and component
manufacturing and road transport industries,
road safety professionals and the specialist
media, to work together to ﬁnd new
approaches to reducing casualties amongst
vulnerable groups.
FISHnet
In October 2008, Greene King was invited
to join the HSE’s Food Industry Safety and
Health Network (FISHnet). Made up of
representatives from the HSE and local
companies involved in food and drink
manufacture, the network, in conjunction
with the HSE, provides seminars covering
topics such as migrant workers, falls from
height, and workplace transport safety.
Greene King also joined forces with British
Sugar in October 2008 to deliver eight,
15-minute sessions on workplace transport
safety and pedestrian trafﬁc in the workplace,
to around 100 companies in Norfolk.
Druids Head is Best Bar None
Best Bar None is an awards scheme for licensed premises, currently running in over
80 locations across the UK. Originally developed in Manchester, the scheme employs
a partnership approach between licensed premises, the emergency services and
the local authority, to address alcohol related crime, improve the night time
environment in towns and city centres and establish a standard of excellence
among participating premises.
In Kingston-upon-Thames, where the Manager of the Druids Head, Declan McCullough,
has won the coveted award two years running, the scheme targets key areas including
security, drink/drunkenness, drugs policy, ﬁrst aid provision, and information on transport.
Premises are asked to complete a questionnaire and the responses are then tested
during an inspection.
As the oldest pub in Kingston, the Druids Head has a rich heritage. It has been part
of the community for over three centuries. For Declan and his team, the award
demonstrates to the local community that he has a well-run pub where the safety
of customers and staff is a priority.
So successful is Declan’s pub in achieving the award, that Declan himself has now been
asked to mentor other local pubs to help them attain the same high standards as the
Druids Head. In addition, plans are now under way to develop the scheme nationally. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
27
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Tenant training
Our industry-leading and award-winning
training for tenants is nationally recognised
as some of the best tenant training in
the country.
Our induction programme for new tenants,
“Going for Growth”, equips them with
the skills they need to develop a proﬁtable
and sustainable business, with independent
research showing that 75% of those
undertaking the training can expect to see
increased proﬁts after attending the course.
Partnership
At Greene King we take a partnership
approach to working with tenants.
Tenant support
At Greene King we will and do support good
businesses. Our support for licensees over
the past year has taken a number of different
forms, including ﬁnancial, training and business
development advice and support.
This year saw Pub Partners launch a major
value for money drinks campaign entitled
“Crunch Time” designed to help bring
customers out of their homes and back into
the pubs. The promotion, which includes free
point-of-sale materials, is being supported by
Pub Partners to the tune of almost £2m and
builds on the extensive support already in
place for tenants.
The introduction of Pelican, a new online
one-stop shop for licensees, delivered savings
on many goods and services licensees need
to run their pub.
Responsible retailing
We strive to ensure that alcohol produced
or sold by us is consumed responsibly. Our
promotional materials carry clear and concise
messages encouraging sensible drinking and
all bottles, cans and outer packaging for all
our beers specify the number of units of
alcohol. In addition, they also advise women
not to drink during pregnancy.
We comply with the Portman Group’s
code of practice on the naming, packaging
and promotion of alcoholic drinks.
All of our pubs operate Challenge 21 and
if you are lucky enough to appear under 21,
you can expect to be asked to prove your
age. Research shows that pubs turn away
over one million customers each month
who, when challenged, are unable to provide
acceptable proof of age – indicating that
the trade is making a huge effort to enforce
the law and prevent underage sales.
Licensee forum
Greene King works in partnership with our licensees and shares ideas and information
through our licensee forum.
Established ten years ago, the forum is made up of a wide array of licensees from
across the country. It includes wet-led businesses, food-led businesses, single and
multiple operators. The forum meets four or ﬁve times a year to discuss a range
of topics covering the current trading environment, the services provided by Pub
Partners, as well as wider industry issues such as the recent BEC report on the tie.
Ted Docherty has been running pubs for 20 years. Currently, Ted operates ﬁve
successful pubs, three of which are with Greene King. Ted’s latest venture combines
a fresh ﬁsh and pizza offering where customers can choose their ﬁsh and how they
want it cooked.
Ted joined the forum nine months ago and ﬁrmly believes that the mix of type
and size of operator on the forum provides an excellent sounding board. Ted says:
“The forum is open and honest – it’s a great way for Greene King to gauge opinion
among a variety of operators. Ideas can be tested to ensure what might work
for one type of operator doesn’t impact adversely on another type of operator.
And it’s a great way to share information and ﬁnd out about proposed new initiatives
from Pub Partners.” Rooney Anand
Chief executive
Rooney Anand, age 45, was appointed to the
board of Greene King in 2001 as managing
director of Brewing Company, having joined
the company from Sara Lee, the international
consumer goods business, where he was
president and managing director of its UK
bakery division. He was previously with
United Biscuits. In 2005 he was appointed
to the role of chief executive.
David Elliott
Managing director, Pub Partners
David Elliott, age 55, was appointed to the
board of Greene King in 1998 when he
joined the group as managing director of
Pub Partners. He has a wealth of experience
in the pub industry, having worked at
Scottish & Newcastle Retail in a variety
of operational roles.
Justin Adams
Managing director, Brewing Company
Justin Adams, age 43, joined Greene King
in 2005 as managing director of Brewing
Company. He was previously managing
director of Maxxium UK and Ireland, a spirits,
champagne and wine joint venture company
and, before that, managing director of
Guinness Germany (Diageo).
2
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Board of directors
Ian Bull
Finance director
Ian Bull, age 48, joined Greene King as ﬁnance
director and was appointed to the board in
2006. He joined from BT Retail, having been
CFO, and then subsequently CEO of BT
Retail Enterprises. He was previously VP
Finance with Disney, covering Europe,
Middle East and Africa, having initially
joined as ﬁnance director for its UK home
entertainment business.
Jonathan Lawson
Managing director, Local Pubs
Jonathan Lawson, age 38, was appointed
to the board of Greene King in April 2007,
when he joined the group as managing
director of Local Pubs. He was previously
retail operations director of Sainsbury’s
Convenience. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes
29
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Norman Murray
Non-executive director
Norman Murray, independent non-executive
director, age 61, was appointed to the board
in 2004. He is chairman of Cairn Energy plc
and a non-executive director of Robert
Wiseman Dairies plc. He was also recently
president of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in Scotland.
Ian Durant
Non-executive director
Ian Durant, independent non-executive
director, age 50, was appointed to the
board in 2007. He is ﬁnance director
of Liberty International plc.
Tim Bridge, DL
Chairman
Tim Bridge, age 60, is chairman of Greene
King. He joined Greene King in 1970 and
was appointed to the board in 1977. He has
held a variety of positions within the group,
becoming managing director in 1990 and
chief executive in 1994. In 2005 he stepped
down as chief executive to take over the
role of chairman. He is a non-executive
director of William Ransom & Son plc
and Weatherbys Ventures Ltd.
Jane Scriven
Non-executive director
Jane Scriven, independent non-executive
director, age 49, was appointed to the board
in 2005. She is chairman of Origin8 Deli-
Cafés Ltd and a former director of Geest plc,
having been responsible for their continental
European operations, and previously trained
as a solicitor with Norton Rose.
John Brady
Non-executive director
John Brady, independent non-executive
director, age 57, was appointed to the board
in 2005, having been a director of McKinsey
and Company until 2004 and having led their
European retail and marketing practices.
He is also a non-executive director of
Invest Northern Ireland. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Group ﬁnancial record
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
Proﬁt and loss account
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
(52 weeks) (53 weeks) (52 weeks) (52 weeks) (52 weeks)
IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS
£m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 954.6 960.5 917.5 818.6 707.5
Operating profit before exceptionals 216.2 236.2 218.1 190.9 158.3
Profit before taxation 54.3 147.9 145.9 120.9 87.6
Profit before taxation and exceptionals 118.5 142.0 139.8 119.6 95.7
Basic earnings per share* 29.5p 89.9p 71.9p 60.6p 45.0p
Adjusted basic earnings per share* 66.5p 74.0p 64.8p 56.0p 46.5p
Adjusted dividend per share* 21.0p 20.9p 18.4p 16.2p 14.6p
Adjusted operating profit/revenue 22.6% 24.6% 23.8% 23.3% 22.4%
Adjusted tax expense/profit before tax 25.0% 28.0% 30.0% 30.5% 30.5%
Adjusted interest cover (times) 2.2 2.5 2.8 2.7 2.5
Adjusted dividend cover (times) 2.5 2.8 2.8 2.8 2.6
* All relevant years adjusted for share split.
Balance sheet
£m £m £m £m £m
Goodwill 673.8 673.8 607.7 505.1 360.0
Property, plant and equipment 1,997.3 2,057.9 1,985.8 1,771.8 1,572.3
Financial assets 40.3 34.8 33.7 34.0 15.2
Working capital (143.5) (150.2) (119.9) (75.0) (76.1)
Derivatives (144.5) (5.5) 5.8 (17.3) –
Provisions (221.4) (256.6) (243.4) (210.4) (199.3)
Net debt (1,558.6) (1,605.5) (1,435.5) (1,246.7) (1,020.2)
Net assets 643.4 748.7 834.2 761.5 651.9
Gearing 242% 214% 172% 164% 156%
Net assets per share* 474p 553p 555p 498p 449p
* All relevant years adjusted for share split.
Cash ﬂow and investment
£m £m £m £m £m
EBITDA before exceptionals 267.3 283.3 260.8 229.2 191.5
Cash inflow from operations 260.9 276.0 275.3 217.6 208.7
Interest, tax and dividends (154.3) (145.7) (134.6) (124.8) (72.3)
Fixed asset purchases (95.5) (98.3) (90.9) (77.9) (42.9)
Fixed asset sales 44.2 41.4 70.3 17.9 45.6
Trade loans and investments (6.0) (0.4) 0.9 4.1 (0.4)
Acquisitions – (82.6) (172.5) (232.7) (199.6)
Other (2.4) (160.4) (137.3) (30.7) (512.7)
Decrease/(increase) in debt 46.9 (170.0) (188.8) (226.5) (573.6)
Adjusted earnings per share, operating proﬁt, taxation, interest cover and dividend cover exclude the effect of exceptional items and the
amortisation of goodwill. Net assets per share exclude own shares held. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Group income statement
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
2009 (52 weeks) 2008 (53 weeks)
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
Note £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue 2,3 954.6 – 954.6 960.5 – 960.5
Operating costs 4 (738.4) (55.8) (794.2) (724.3) (4.9) (729.2)
Profit on disposal of property,
plant and equipment 5 – 3.7 3.7 – 9.8 9.8
Operating profit 2,4 216.2 (52.1) 164.1 236.2 4.9 241.1
Finance income 7,3 5.8 – 5.8 16.4 1.0 17.4
Finance costs 7 (102.6) (12.1) (114.7) (112.0) – (112.0)
Net finance (expense)/income
from pensions (0.9) – (0.9) 1.4 – 1.4
Profit before tax 118.5 (64.2) 54.3 142.0 5.9 147.9
Tax 10 (29.6) 14.8 (14.8) (39.7) 16.1 (23.6)
Profit attributable to equity
holders of parent 88.9 (49.4) 39.5 102.3 22.0 124.3
Earnings per share
– basic 12 29.5p 89.9 p
– adjusted basic 12 66.5p 74.0p
– diluted 12 29.4p 89.7 p
– adjusted diluted 12 66.2p 73.8p
Dividends per share (paid and
proposed in respect of the period) 11 22.4p 26.0p
Adjusted dividend per share (paid and
proposed in respect of the period)* 11 21.0p 20.9p
* Adjusted dividend per share reflects the impact of the bonus element of the post year end rights issue. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Group balance sheet
As at 3 May 2009
As at As at
3 May 2009 4 May 2008
Note £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 15 1,997.3 2,057.9
Goodwill 13 673.8 673.8
Financial assets 16 40.3 34.8
Derivative financial instruments 24 – 2.7
Deferred tax assets 10 73.3 28.6
Prepayments 4.2 5.2
Trade and other receivables 20 0.2 0.2
2,789.1 2,803.2
Current assets
Inventories 19 21.9 17.9
Trade and other receivables 20 62.0 51.7
Prepayments 6.9 13.0
Derivative financial instruments 24 – 0.7
Cash and cash equivalents 21 120.9 91.6
211.7 174.9
Current liabilities
Borrowings 23 (38.4) (60.6)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (12.7) (1.0)
Trade and other payables 22 (195.4) (198.7)
Income tax payable (43.3) (39.5)
(289.8) (299.8)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 23 (1,641.1) (1,636.5)
Derivative financial instruments 24 (131.8) (7.9)
Deferred tax liabilities 10 (197.6) (211.4)
Post-employment liabilities 9 (97.1) (73.8)
(2,067.6) (1,929.6)
Total net assets 643.4 748.7
Issued capital and reserves
Share capital 25 17.0 17.0
Share premium 26 247.5 247.2
Capital redemption reserve 26 3.3 3.3
Hedging reserve 26 (94.9) (3.6)
Own shares 26 (17.5) (17.2)
Retained earnings 26 488.0 502.0
Total equity 643.4 748.7
Net debt 28 1,558.6 1,605.5
Signed on behalf of the board on 1 July 2009
T J W Bridge R Anand
Director Director Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Group cash ﬂow statement
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
2009 2008
(52 weeks) (53 weeks)
Note £m £m
Operating activities
Operating profit 164.1 241.1
Operating exceptional items 52.1 (4.9)
Depreciation 51.1 47.1
EBITDA* 2 267.3 283.3
Working capital and non-cash movements 27 (6.4) (7.3)
Interest received 5.8 16.4
Interest paid (100.3) (102.8)
Tax paid (24.9) (25.8)
Net cash flow from operating activities 141.5 163.8
Investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (95.5) (98.3)
Purchase of other investments (0.3) (0.2)
Movements in financial assets (6.0) (0.4)
Sales of property, plant and equipment 44.2 41.4
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 18 – (82.6)
Net cash flow from investing activities (57.6) (140.1)
Financing activities
Equity dividends paid 11 (34.9) (33.5)
Issue of shares 26 0.4 5.3
Purchase of own shares 26 (0.4) (150.6)
Financing costs (7.7) (0.1)
Repayment of borrowings 28 (361.3) (101.8)
Advance of borrowings 28 349.8 265.0
Net cash flow from financing activities (54.1) (15.7)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 29.8 8.0
Opening cash and cash equivalents 21 90.7 82.7
Closing cash and cash equivalents 21 120.5 90.7
* EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and exceptional items.
Group statement of recognised income and expense
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
2009 2008
Note £m £m
Cash flow hedges: losses taken to equity 26 (144.2) (3.2)
Cash flow hedges: ineffective portion transferred to income statement 26 12.1 –
Cash flow hedges: losses/(gains) recycled to income on swap terminations 26 5.3 (8.1)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 9 (24.5) (31.3)
Tax on items recognised directly in equity 10 42.4 12.2
Tax on share-based payments 10 2.2 (4.0)
Net expense recognised directly in equity (106.7) (34.4)
Profit for the period 39.5 124.3
Total recognised income and expense for the period attributable to equity holders of parent (67.2) 89.9 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
1 Accounting policies
Corporate information
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009 were authorised for issue by the board of
directors on 1 July 2009. Greene King plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales. The company’s shares
are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Statement of compliance
The group’s ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the
EU as they apply to the ﬁnancial statements of the group for the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009 applied in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act 2006.
Basis of preparation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies
reporting under IFRS. They are presented in pounds sterling, with values rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except where otherwise
indicated.
Basis of consolidation
The consolidated ﬁnancial statements incorporate the ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc, its subsidiaries and its related party, Greene King
Finance plc. Greene King Finance plc is a special purpose entity set up to raise bond ﬁnance for the group, which is consolidated as a quasi-
subsidiary. The ﬁnancial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company with adjustments made
to their ﬁnancial statements to bring their accounting policies in line with those used by the group.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated, from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and continue to be
consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Changes in accounting policies
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous ﬁnancial year with the one exception noted below.
IFRIC 14 – The Limit on a Deﬁned Beneﬁt Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction became effective during the ﬁnancial
year. The application of this interpretation by the group has had no impact on the group’s ﬁnancial statements.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the assets (including previously unrecognised intangible
assets) and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) acquired. Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment annually, or more
frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired, and is stated at cost less any impairment
in value.
For the purposes of impairment testing goodwill is allocated at business segment level which is the lowest group of cash generating units where
goodwill is monitored by management. Allocation is based on expectations of where beneﬁts from the synergies of the combination will result.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Goodwill amortised prior to the conversion to IFRS on 3 May 2004 has not been reinstated and the net book value of goodwill at that date has
been carried forward as the carrying value. Prior to May 1998, goodwill was written off to reserves. Such goodwill has not been reinstated and
is not included in determining proﬁt or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition to IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods
up to 50 years, and short leasehold improvements are depreciated to their estimated residual values over the shorter of the remaining term
of the lease or useful life of the asset. Residual value is reviewed at least at each ﬁnancial year-end and there is no depreciable amount if residual
value is the same as, or exceeds, book value. Plant and equipment assets are depreciated over their estimated lives which range from three
to 20 years.
Residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed for all categories of property, plant and equipment and adjusted,
if appropriate, at each ﬁnancial year end.
An item of property, plant and equipment is de-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic beneﬁts are expected from its use.
Proﬁt or loss on de-recognition is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset,
and is included in the income statement in the year of de-recognition. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
1 Accounting policies continued
Impairment
Property, plant and equipment
Individual assets are grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are identiﬁable cash inﬂows independent
of the cash inﬂows of other groups of assets.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is an indication of impairment. If an indication exists, the group makes an
estimate of the recoverable amount of each asset group, which is the higher of the assets’ fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use, calculated
using the identiﬁed cash ﬂows of the asset groups.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value of assets, including goodwill. If there is an
indication that any previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased, a reversal of the loss may be made only
if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amounts since the last impairment loss was recognised. The carrying
amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount only up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation, had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Impairment losses and any subsequent reversals are recognised in the income statement.
Details of the impairment losses recognised in respect of property, plant and equipment are provided in note 15.
Goodwill
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may
be impaired.
Impairment is determined by the recoverable amount of a business segment. Where this is less than the carrying value of the business segment
an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. This loss cannot be reversed in future periods.
Finance costs and income
Finance costs are expensed to the income statement using the effective interest method and are not capitalised. Finance income is recognised
in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Raw materials are valued at average cost. Finished goods and work
in progress comprise materials, labour and attributable production overheads where applicable, and are valued at average cost.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three
months or less. For the consolidated cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as deﬁned above,
net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised when the group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are de-recognised
when the group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the ﬁnancial instrument, normally through sale or when all cash ﬂows
attributable to the instrument are passed to an independent third party.
Financial assets
Financial assets are classiﬁed as either ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt and loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments
or available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets. The group determines the classiﬁcation of its ﬁnancial assets at initial recognition and, where appropriate,
re-evaluates this designation at each ﬁnancial year end.
The group makes trade loans to publicans who purchase the group’s beer. Trade loans are non-derivative and are not quoted in an active
market and have therefore been designated as “Loans and receivables”, carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Gains and
losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are de-recognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether any individual trade loan is impaired. If there is evidence that an impairment loss
has been incurred, the amount of loss is measured as the difference between the loan’s carrying amount and the expected future receipts,
(excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred), discounted at the loan’s original effective interest rate. The loss is recognised
in operating proﬁt.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are recorded at their original invoiced amount less an allowance for any doubtful amounts when collection of the full
amount is no longer considered probable. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
1 Accounting policies continued
Trade payables
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. After initial recognition,
interest-bearing loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge accounting
The group uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate ﬂuctuations on its variable rate loans, notes and bonds.
Interest rate swaps are initially measured at fair value, if any, and carried on the balance sheet as an asset or liability. Subsequent measurement
is at fair value determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. If a derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting, the gain
or loss arising on the movement in fair value is recognised in the income statement.
Hedge accounting
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedge relationship must be designated and documented at inception. Documentation must include
the group’s risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge and formal allocation to the item or transaction being hedged.
The group also documents how it will assess the effectiveness of the hedge and carries out assessments on a regular basis to determine whether
it has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly effective.
Hedges can be classiﬁed as either fair value (hedging exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability), or cash ﬂow (hedging the
variability in cash ﬂows attributable to an asset, liability, or forecast transaction). The group uses its interest rate swaps as cash ﬂow hedges.
Cash ﬂow hedge accounting
The effective portion of the gain or loss on an interest rate swap is recognised directly in equity, whilst any ineffective portion is recognised
immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period that the ﬁnancial income or expense is recognised,
unless the hedged transaction results in the recognition of a non-ﬁnancial asset or liability whereby the amounts are transferred to the initial
carrying amount of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualiﬁes for hedge accounting, amounts previously
recognised in equity are held there until the previously hedged transaction affects proﬁt or loss. If the hedged transaction is no longer
expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes
The group operates a number of deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes which require contributions to be made into separately administered funds.
The cost of providing beneﬁts under the schemes is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial method on
an annual basis. The current service cost is charged to operating proﬁt. Any actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement
of recognised income and expense in the period in which they occur.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period or immediately if the beneﬁts have
vested. When a settlement or curtailment occurs the obligation and related scheme assets are re-measured and the resulting gain or loss is
recognised in the income statement in the same period.
The interest cost on scheme liabilities and the expected return on scheme assets are shown as a net amount on the face of the group
income statement.
The deﬁned beneﬁt asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet comprises the present value of the schemes’ obligations, less past
service costs not yet recognised, and less the fair value of scheme assets. Deﬁned beneﬁt assets are restricted to the extent that they are
considered recoverable.
Deﬁned contribution pension schemes
The cost of the group’s deﬁned contribution pension schemes amounts to the value of contributions made. Contributions are charged to
the income statement as they become payable.
Post-employment healthcare beneﬁt
The group also provided certain additional post-employment healthcare beneﬁts to employees which are unfunded. The cost of providing
these beneﬁts is determined on the same basis as the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
1 Accounting policies continued
Share-based payments
Certain employees and directors receive equity-settled remuneration, whereby they render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
The fair value of the shares and options granted are measured using a Black-Scholes model, at the date at which they were granted. No account
is taken in the fair value calculation of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions. The fair value of shares and options granted is
recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity spread over the period in which the performance conditions are
fulﬁlled ending on the relevant vesting date. The cumulative amount recognised as an expense reﬂects the extent to which the vesting period
has expired, adjusted for the estimated number of shares and options that are ultimately expected to vest. The periodic charge or credit is the
movement in the cumulative position from beginning to end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest provided vesting is not conditional on market related conditions. The dilutive
effect of outstanding options is reﬂected as additional share dilution in calculating earnings per share ﬁgures.
In accordance with the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 for ﬁrst time adopters, no expense is recorded in respect of grants made under the
above schemes prior to 7 November 2002 which had not vested by the date of transition to IFRS.
Own shares
Own shares consist of treasury shares and shares held within an employee beneﬁt trust. The group has an employee beneﬁt trust for the
granting of shares to applicable employees.
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from shareholders’ equity. Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares
is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds from the original cost being taken to revenue reserves. No gain
or loss is recognised in the performance statements on transactions in treasury shares.
Revenue
Generally, revenue represents external sales (excluding taxes) of goods and services, net of discounts. Revenue is recognised to the extent that
it is probable that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the group and is measured at the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding discounts,
rebates, and other sales taxes or duty. Revenue principally consists of:
Goods
Drink and food sales
Recognised at the point at which goods are provided either wholesale or in the group’s outlets.
Services
Accommodation sales
Recognised at the point at which the services are provided.
Rental income
Recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Machine income
Net takings recognised as earned.
Operating leases
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and beneﬁts of ownership are classiﬁed as operating leases. Lease payments
are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease premiums paid on entering into or acquiring operating leases represent prepaid lease payments and are held on the balance sheet
as current (the portion relating to the next ﬁnancial period) or non-current prepayments. These are amortised on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.
Taxes
Income tax
The income tax charge comprises both the income tax payable based on proﬁts for the year and the deferred income tax. It is calculated using
taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or
paid to the taxation authorities.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
1 Accounting policies continued
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their carrying values in the ﬁnancial statements.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences except where the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an
asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting proﬁt nor
taxable proﬁt or loss or in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and carry forward of unused tax losses only to the extent that it is
probable that taxable proﬁt will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax losses can
be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable
that sufﬁcient taxable proﬁt will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are
reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable proﬁt will allow the
deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured, on an undiscounted basis, at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset
is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Exceptional items
Exceptional items are deﬁned as items of income or expense which, because of their nature, size or expected frequency, merit separate
presentation to allow a better understanding of the ﬁnancial performance in the period.
New standards and interpretations not applied
A number of standards and interpretations were issued by the IASB and IFRC with an effective date after the date of these ﬁnancial statements
and which have not been early adopted by the group. These are expected to be applied as follows:
IFRS 8 – Operating segments effective 1 January 2009
The standard replaced IAS 14 , with revised requirements for the identiﬁcation, measurement and disclosure of segment information.
IAS 1 (revised) – Presentation of ﬁnancial statements effective 1 January 2009
The amendment to the standard will require the company to choose whether to rename the primary statements and whether to present
the new “statement of comprehensive income” as a single statement replacing the income statement or as two statements.
IAS 23 – Borrowings costs effective 1 January 2009
The revised standard requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs when such costs relate to an asset that necessarily takes a substantial amount
of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.
Amendment to IFRS 2 – Share-based payments effective 1 January 2009
The amendment clariﬁes the deﬁnition of vesting conditions and the accounting treatment of cancellations by the counterparty to share-based
payment agreements.
Amendment to IFRS 7 – Financial instruments disclosure
The amendment enhances the disclosures relating to fair value measurement and liquidity risk.
In addition, the following standards and interpretations have been issued, none of which are anticipated to signiﬁcantly impact the group’s results
or assets and liabilities and are not expected to require additional disclosure:
– IFRS 3 – Business combinations (revised January 2008) effective 1 July 2009
– IAS 27 – Consolidated and separate ﬁnancial statements (revised January 2008) effective 1 July 2009
– IAS 13 – Customer loyalty programmes effective 1 July 2008 Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
1 Accounting policies continued
Signiﬁcant accounting judgments and estimates
The preparation of ﬁnancial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting
policies that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense. The group bases its estimates and judgments on historical
experience and other factors deemed reasonable under the circumstances, including any expectations of future events. Actual results may differ
from these estimates. The estimates and assumptions considered to be signiﬁcant are detailed below:
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
The group determines whether property, plant and equipment is impaired where there are indicators of impairment. This requires an estimation
of the value-in-use of the cash-generating unit that the assets are grouped within. Value-in-use calculations require assumptions to be made
regarding the expected future cash ﬂows from the cash-generating unit and choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present
value of those cash ﬂows.
Note 15 describes the assumptions used in the impairment testing of property, plant and equipment together with an analysis of the sensitivity
to changes in key assumptions.
Impairment of goodwill
The group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis. Details of the tests and carrying value of the assets are shown
in note 14. This requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated. Value-in-use
calculations require assumptions to be made regarding the expected future cash ﬂows from the cash-generating unit and choice of a suitable
discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash ﬂows. If the actual cash ﬂows are lower than estimated, future impairments
may be necessary.
Residual values
Residual values of property are determined with reference to current market property trends. If residual values were lower than estimated,
an impairment of asset value and reassessment of future depreciation charge may be required. Useful economic lives are reassessed annually
which may lead to an increase or reduction in depreciation accordingly.
Pension liabilities
The present values of pension liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and depend on a number of actuarial assumptions which are
disclosed in note 9. Any change in these assumptions will impact on the carrying amount of pension liabilities. Note 9 describes the key
assumptions used in the accounting for retirement beneﬁt obligations.
Taxation
Judgment is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be ﬁnally determined until
a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities. Tax beneﬁts are not recognised unless it is probable that the beneﬁt will be
obtained. Tax provisions are made if it is possible that a liability will arise. The group reviews each signiﬁcant tax liability or beneﬁt to assess
the appropriate accounting treatment.
Share-based payments
Judgment is required when calculating the fair value of awards made under the group’s share-based payment plans. Note 8 describes the key
assumptions and valuation model inputs used in the determination of these values. In addition, estimates are made of the number of awards
that will ultimately vest, and judgment is required in relation to the probability of meeting non-market based performance conditions and the
continuing participation of employees in the plan. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
2 Segment information
The group’s primary reporting format is business segments which are divided into four core trading segments and are managed separately.
Retail covers the results of managed houses and restaurants, Pub Partners covers the results of tenanted houses, Brewing Company covers
brewing beer, marketing and selling, all predominantly in England. Belhaven covers the results of our Scottish operation which includes managed
and tenanted houses and brewing and selling beer. Corporate includes central costs and central assets/liabilities.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arm’s-length basis.
Pub Brewing Total
Retail Partners Company Belhaven Corporate operations
2009 – 52 weeks £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment revenue 569.5 155.2 138.4 138.0 – 1,001.1
Less: internal revenue –– (44.5) (2.0) – (46.5)
External revenue 569.5 155.2 93.9 136.0 – 954.6
Operating costs (463.9) (84.3) (72.7) (105.8) (11.7) (738.4)
Segment operating profit (pre-exceptionals) 105.6 70.9 21.2 30.2 (11.7) 216.2
Exceptional items (27.5) (17.8) (1.5) (5.3) – (52.1)
Segment operating profit (post-exceptionals) 78.1 53.1 19.7 24.9 (11.7) 164.1
Net finance costs (109.8)
Income tax expense (14.8)
Net profit for the period 39.5
Balance sheet
Segment assets 1,287.8 859.3 243.5 369.2 46.8 2,806.6
Unallocated assets* 194.2
1,287.8 859.3 243.5 369.2 46.8 3,000.8
Segment liabilities (65.8) (8.8) (41.9) (30.5) (48.4) (195.5)
Unallocated liabilities* (2,162.0)
(65.8) (8.8) (41.9) (30.5) (48.4) (2,357.4)
Net assets 1,222.0 850.5 201.6 338.7 (1.6) 643.4
Other segment information
Capital expenditure – tangible assets 54.2 13.3 2.1 14.7 0.2 84.5
Capital expenditure – tangible assets acquired
through business combinations –– ––– –
Capital expenditure – goodwill –– ––– –
Depreciation 34.2 7.2 4.2 4.7 0.8 51.1
EBITDA** 139.8 78.1 25.4 34.9 (10.9) 267.3 Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
2 Segment information continued
Pub Brewing Total
Retail Partners Company Belhaven Corporate operations
2008 – 53 weeks £m £m £m £m £m £m
Segment revenue 578.7 167.2 130.8 127.9 – 1,004.6
Less: internal revenue –– (42.3) (1.8) – (44.1)
External revenue 578.7 167.2 88.5 126.1 – 960.5
Operating costs (462.2) (85.8) (66.9) (98.6) (10.8) (724.3)
Segment operating profit (pre-exceptionals) 116.5 81.4 21.6 27.5 (10.8) 236.2
Exceptional items (1.3) 2.7 0.2 0.1 3.2 4.9
Segment operating profit (post-exceptionals) 115.2 84.1 21.8 27.6 (7.6) 241.1
Net finance costs (93.2)
Income tax expense (23.6)
Net profit for the period 124.3
Balance sheet
Segment assets 1,324.3 882.7 240.0 361.8 45.7 2,854.5
Unallocated assets* 123.6
1,324.3 882.7 240.0 361.8 45.7 2,978.1
Segment liabilities (77.5) (9.6) (34.3) (30.1) (47.2) (198.7)
Unallocated liabilities* (2,030.7)
(77.5) (9.6) (34.3) (30.1) (47.2) (2,229.4)
Net assets 1,246.8 873.1 205.7 331.7 (1.5) 748.7
Other segment information
Capital expenditure – tangible assets 54.3 22.2 3.5 27.0 0.9 107.9
Capital expenditure – tangible assets acquired
through business combinations 17.0 25.9 –– – 42.9
Capital expenditure – goodwill 57.8 10.5 –– – 68.3
Depreciation 31.4 6.8 4.0 4.2 0.7 47.1
EBITDA** 147.9 88.2 25.6 31.7 (10.1) 283.3
* Unallocated assets/liabilities includes cash, borrowings, pensions, net deferred tax, net current tax, and derivatives.
** EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items and is calculated as operating profit before exceptionals adjusted for the
depreciation charge for the period.
Geographical segments
The group’s secondary format is geographical segments. The group’s assets and operations are predominantly located within the UK. As the
group has virtually only domestic activities, segment reporting is only required by business segment.
3 Revenue
Revenue is analysed as follows:
2009 2008
(52 weeks) (53 weeks)
£m £m
Goods 854.6 852.7
Services 100.0 107.8
Revenue 954.6 960.5
Finance income 5.8 16.4
Total revenue 960.4 976.9 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
4 Other income and expenses
Operating proﬁt is stated after charging/crediting:
2009 (52 weeks) 2008 (53 weeks)
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Changes in inventory of finished goods
and work in progress 12.6 – 12.6 11.4 – 11.4
Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 339.1 – 339.1 326.7 – 326.7
Employment costs (note 6) 218.5 (1.4) 217.1 224.1 1.1 225.2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 51.1 – 51.1 47.1 – 47.1
Operating lease rentals
– minimum lease rentals 15.2 – 15.2 13.7 – 13.7
Net profit on disposal of property,
plant and equipment – (3.7) (3.7) – (9.8) (9.8)
Other operating charges 101.9 57.2 159.1 101.3 3.8 105.1
738.4 52.1 790.5 724.3 (4.9) 719.4
Fees paid to the auditors during the period consisted of:
2009 2008
£m £m
Audit of the group financial statements 0.2 0.2
Other fees to auditors
– auditing of the accounts of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1
– other services relating to taxation – –
– other services relating to the issue of securitised debt 0.1 –
– other services – –
Included in other operating charges 0.4 0.3
Fees relating to the issue of securitised debt have been recognised as part of ﬁnancing issue costs.
In addition to the above the group has incurred £0.2m of non-audit fees in connection with the post year end rights issue described in note 31.
5 Exceptional items
2009 2008
(52 weeks) (53 weeks)
£m £m
Included in operating profit
Integration of New Century Inns business – 0.4
Integration of Hardys & Hansons business – 1.3
Divisional restructuring 2.6 –
Financial systems integration 3.4 1.0
Adjustment to carrying value of goodwill in respect of utilisation of tax losses (note 13) – 2.2
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (note 15) 53.5 –
Share-based payment credit (3.7) –
Net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (3.7) (9.8)
52.1 (4.9)
Included in financing costs
Early termination of interest rate swaps and loan facilities – (1.0)
Ineffective cash flow hedges – transfer from equity (note 24) 12.1 –
Total exceptional items before tax 64.2 (5.9)
Exceptional divisional restructuring and ﬁnancial systems integration costs are items of one-off expenditure incurred in connection with the
restructuring of certain trading segments within the group and the review of group-wide ﬁnancial systems.
Integration costs relating to the New Century Inns and Hardys & Hansons businesses are items of one-off expenditure incurred in the prior year
to combine the acquired businesses with the rest of the group.
The net proﬁt on disposal of property, plant and equipment of £3.7m (2008: £9.8m) comprises a total proﬁt on disposal of £11.1m (2008: £15.4m)
and a total loss on disposal of £7.4m (2008: £5.6m).
The share-based payments credit results from the reversal of the previously recognised expense of share-based payment schemes which are
no longer expected to meet their performance criteria. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
6 Employment costs
2009 2008
(52 weeks) (53 weeks)
£m £m
Wages and salaries 195.7 196.9
Other share-based payments (3.1) 3.4
Total wages and salaries 192.6 200.3
Social security costs 15.7 15.6
Other pension costs (note 9)
– defined benefit 5.0 5.2
– defined contribution 1.5 3.0
Staff termination costs (included within exceptional divisional restructuring) 2.3 1.1
217.1 225.2
The total expense of share-based payments relates to equity settled schemes.
The average number of employees during the period was as follows:
2009 2008
Retail 15,385 14,848
Pub Partners 105 119
Brewing Company 637 685
Belhaven 1,798 1,634
Corporate 102 106
18,027 17,392
The ﬁgures above include 9,191 (2008: 8,796) part-time employees.
Details of directors’ emoluments are shown in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 79 to 82.
7 Finance (costs)/income
2009 (52 weeks) 2008 (53 weeks)
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank loans and overdrafts (19.5) – (19.5) (46.1) – (46.1)
Other loans (83.1) – (83.1) (65.9) – (65.9)
Ineffective cash flow hedges
– transfer from equity (note 24) – (12.1) (12.1) –– –
Total finance costs (102.6) (12.1) (114.7) (112.0) – (112.0)
Bank interest receivable 5.8 – 5.8 16.4 – 16.4
Termination of swaps and loan facilities –– – – 1.0 1.0
Total finance income 5.8 – 5.8 16.4 1.0 17.4
Net finance costs (96.8) (12.1) (108.9) (95.6) 1.0 (94.6) 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
8 Share-based payment plans
The group operates four types of share-based payment arrangements; executive share option plans (ESOS), a senior management long-term
incentive plan (LTIP), general employee share option plan (SAYE) and a share incentive plan (SIP).
The general terms of each plan are detailed in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 79 to 82. All are equity settled.
The total credit recognised for the period arising from share-based payment transactions is £3.1m (2008: expense of £3.4m), all of which relates
to equity-settled transactions.
This includes a charge of £0.6m (2008: £3.4m) included within operating costs and an exceptional credit of £3.7m (2008: £nil).
The fair value of equity-settled options and LTIP contingently issued shares are estimated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of the
grants and model inputs used to calculate the fair values of grants during the period were as follows:
2009 LTIP ESOS SAYE
Weighted average share price 502p 560p 438p
Exercise price – 560p 341p
Expected dividend yield 4.3% 4.3% 4.3%
Risk-free rate of return 3.1% 4.5% 1.7%
Volatility 38.5% 26.2% 44.6%
Expected life (years) 3.0 6.5 3.3
Weighted average fair value of grants in the year 416p 66p 110p
2008 LTIP ESOS SAYE
Weighted average share price 808p 1087p 694p
Exercise price – 1087p 519p
Expected dividend yield 4.9% 4.9% 4.9%
Risk-free rate of return 4.6% 5.5% 4.1%
Volatility 25.3% 18.9% 27.6%
Expected life (years) 3.0 6.5 3.3
Weighted average fair value of grants in the year 698p 289p 189p
Risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero coupon UK government bonds with the same life as the expected option life. Expected volatility
is based on historical volatility of the company’s share price which assumes that the past trend in share price movement is indicative of future
trends. Expected life of options has been taken as the mid-point of the relevant exercise period. This is not necessarily indicative of future
exercise patterns.
No other feature of the equity instruments granted was incorporated into the fair value measurement.
The SIP shares are issued to employees after the period end at the market price ruling at the date of grant. As such, this is their fair value
and the assumptions stated above are not relevant for this scheme.
Movement in outstanding options and rights during the period is as follows:
Weighted average
Number of options exercise price
2009 2008 2009 2008
ESOS m m p p
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 3.9* 3.5* 755 622
Granted 1.4 1.1 560 1,087
Forfeited (0.4) (0.3) 715 759
Exercised (0.1) (0.4) 492 501
Outstanding at the end of the period 4.8* 3.9* 703 755
Exercisable at the end of the period 1.5 1.0 528 446
* Balance at the beginning of the period includes 0.3m (2008: 0.3m) shares under options granted pre- 7 November 2002 and 0.3m (2008: 0.3m) at the end of period.
The options have not been modified and therefore are not accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
8 Share-based payment plans continued
Weighted average
Number of options exercise price
2009 2008 2009 2008
SAYE m m p p
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 1.6 1.4 557 590
Granted 1.0 0.6 341 519
Forfeited (0.7) (0.3) 578 654
Exercised (0.2) (0.1) 333 497
Outstanding at the end of the period 1.7* 1.6* 449 557
Exercisable at the end of the period 0.4 0.1 558 282
Number of shares
2009 2008
LTIP m m
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.8 0.6
Granted 0.6 0.4
Forfeited (0.1) –
Vested (0.2) (0.2)
Outstanding at the end of the period 1.1 0.8
Exercisable at the end of the period – –
The options and shares granted under the LTIP are at nil cost therefore the weighted average exercise price for rights outstanding at the
beginning and end of the period, granted, forfeited and exercised during the period is £nil (2008: £nil).
ESOS, SAYE and LTIP
Options were exercised on a range of dates. The weighted average share price through the period was 454p in 2009 and 860p in 2008.
The rights outstanding at 3 May 2009 under the LTIP had an exercise price of £nil (2008: £nil) and a weighted average remaining contractual
life of 1.8 years (2008: 1.7 years). The outstanding options for the ESOS scheme had an exercise price between 370p and 1087p (2008: 370p
and 1087p) and for the SAYE scheme between 341p and 865p (2008: 282p and 865p). The weighted average remaining contractual life was
7.3 years for the ESOS (2008: 7.5 years) and 3.3 years for the SAYE scheme (2008: 2.8 years).
SIP
The cost of the SIP is accrued at the year-end based on the expected value of payout. The amount accrued at 3 May 2009 for the current
year’s service is £nil (2008: £nil) disclosed in note 6. The shares issued during the period to employees were in relation to their services
in the prior period. There were no shares issued in the period (2008: £0.3m). The SIP shares are held within an external trust until the employee
elects to sell.
9 Pensions
The group maintains a deﬁned contribution scheme, which is open to all new employees, and a number of deﬁned beneﬁt schemes.
The group also has a past service liability in relation to post-employment medical beneﬁts offered to employees to cover any medical costs
after employment. The beneﬁt is no longer given to new employees.
Deﬁned contribution pension scheme
Member funds for the deﬁned contribution scheme are held and administered by the Prudential Assurance Company. The total cost recognised
in operating proﬁt for the period was £1.5m (2008: £3.0m).
Deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes and post-employment beneﬁts
The group maintains the following deﬁned beneﬁt schemes which are all closed to new entrants and have had full actuarial valuations in the last
four years: Greene King Pension Scheme (closed 2 May 1997, last valued 5 April 2006), Morland Pension Scheme (closed 12 December 2000,
last valued 5 April 2006), Belhaven Pension Scheme (closed 31 October 2005, last valued 31 March 2005), and the Hardys & Hansons Pension
Scheme (closed 1 July 2003, last valued 30 April 2006). During the period the Tolly Cobbold Pension Scheme (closed 29 July 2002, last valued
1 December 2004) merged with the Greene King Pension Scheme. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
9 Pensions continued
Member funds for the deﬁned beneﬁt schemes are held in separate funds independently of the group’s ﬁnances and are administered
by pension trustees. Pension beneﬁts are related to members’ ﬁnal salary at retirement and their length of service. The group has opted
to recognise all actuarial gains and losses immediately via the statement of recognised income and expense.
The total cost recognised in the income statement was:
Post-employment
Pension schemes benefits
2009 2008 2009 2008
(52 weeks) (53 weeks) (52 weeks) (53 weeks)
£m £m £m £m
Current service cost (5.0) (5.6) – –
Total recognised in operating profit (5.0) (5.6) – –
Expected return on pension scheme assets 15.7 15.4 – –
Interest on scheme liabilities (16.3) (13.7) (0.3) (0.3)
Total finance (cost)/income recognised (0.6) 1.7 (0.3) (0.3)
The total charge recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense was:
Post-employment
Pension schemes benefits
2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m
Actual return on scheme assets (37.6) (2.9) – –
Less: expected return on scheme assets (15.7) (15.4) – –
Experience gains and losses on scheme assets (53.3) (18.3) – –
Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities 2.6 (1.6) – –
Losses arising on scheme liabilities due to changes in actuarial assumptions 26.2 (11.4) – –
Actuarial loss recognised through equity (24.5) (31.3) – –
The total contributions to the deﬁned beneﬁt pension schemes in the following period are expected to be £7.7m (2008: £7.7m) for the group.
The values of the schemes’ liabilities have been determined by a qualiﬁed actuary based on the results of the last actuarial valuation, updated to
3 May 2009 using the following principal actuarial assumptions:
2009 2008
Discount rate 6.0% 6.1%
Expected rates of salary increases 4.2% 5.5%
Expected pension payment increases 3.1% 3.6%
Rate of inflation 3.2% 3.7%
Healthcare cost increase 9.0% 9.0%
The mortality assumptions imply the following expectations of years of life from age 65:
Man currently aged 40 23.3 23.2
Woman currently aged 40 26.0 25.9
Man currently aged 65 20.9 20.8
Woman currently aged 65 23.7 23.6
Mortality assumptions are based on standard tables adjusted for scheme experience and with an allowance for future improvement
in life expectancy. Overall expected rate of return on assets is established by applying brokers’ forecasts to each category of scheme asset. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
9 Pensions continued
The net liability of the schemes and other post-employment beneﬁt, as recognised in the balance sheet, is summarised below:
Pension plans
Long term rate of Post-employment
return expected Value benefits
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
% % £m £m £m £m
Equities 8.3 8.8 118.2 150.8 – –
With profits 6.0 7.7 1.8 2.2 – –
Bonds 5.5 5.7 32.8 26.7 – –
Property 8.3 8.8 1.2 2.0 – –
Cash 0.5 5.0 5.7 17.2 – –
Fair value of assets 159.7 198.9 – –
Present value of scheme liabilities
Funded plans (251.3) (267.3) – –
Unfunded plans – – (5.5) (5.4)
Non current liability recognised (91.6) (68.4) (5.5) (5.4)
The movements in the pension schemes’ net liability and post-employment beneﬁt liability during the period are as follows:
Pension assets Pension liabilities Net pension liability
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At beginning of period 198.9 201.8 (267.3) (242.0) (68.4) (40.2)
Current service cost – – (5.0) (5.6) (5.0) (5.6)
Interest cost on benefit obligations – – (16.3) (13.7) (16.3) (13.7)
Expected return on plan assets 15.7 15.4 – – 15.7 15.4
Contributions paid – employers 6.9 7.0 – – 6.9 7.0
Contributions paid – employees 1.1 1.2 (1.1) (1.2) – –
Benefits paid (9.6) (8.2) 9.6 8.2 – –
Actuarial (loss)/gain (53.3) (18.3) 28.8 (13.0) (24.5) (31.3)
At end of period 159.7 198.9 (251.3) (267.3) (91.6) (68.4)
Post-employment
benefits liability
2009 2008
£m £m
At beginning of period (5.4) (5.3)
Current service cost – –
Interest cost on benefit obligations (0.3) (0.3)
Other finance charge – –
Benefits paid 0.2 0.2
Actuarial gain/(loss) – –
At end of period (5.5) (5.4) 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
9 Pensions continued
History of experience adjustments for the current and previous four periods are as follows:
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Pension schemes £m £m £m £m £m
Defined benefit obligation (251.3) (267.3) (242.0) (218.7) (177.9)
Plan assets 159.7 198.9 201.8 168.5 121.7
Deficit (91.6) (68.4) (40.2) (50.2) (56.2)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (2.6) 1.6 (5.4) (13.4) (10.1)
Percentage of scheme liabilities 1.0% -0.6% 2.2% 6.1% 5.7%
Experience adjustments on scheme assets (53.3) (18.3) 3.5 24.1 1.1
Percentage of scheme assets -33.4% -9.2% 1.7% 14.3% 0.9%
2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Post-employment benefits £m £m £m £m £m
Benefit obligation (5.5) (5.4) (5.3) (5.2) (5.1)
Experience adjustments on benefit obligation – –– ––
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 3 May 2004 in the statement of recognised income and expense is
£25.9m loss (2008: £1.4m). The amount prior to 3 May 2004 is not determinable as valuations were performed under different accounting
and actuarial bases.
10 Taxation
Consolidated income statement
2009 (52 weeks) 2008 (53 weeks)
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Income tax
Corporation tax before exceptional items 32.3 – 32.3 38.2 – 38.2
Recoverable on exceptional items – (1.7) (1.7) – (0.4) (0.4)
Current income tax 32.3 (1.7) 30.6 38.2 (0.4) 37.8
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (1.7) – (1.7) (1.0) – (1.0)
30.6 (1.7) 28.9 37.2 (0.4) 36.8
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (1.0) (13.1) (14.1) 2.5 (15.7) (13.2)
Tax charge in the income statement 29.6 (14.8) 14.8 39.7 (16.1) 23.6
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
2009 2008
£m £m
Deferred tax
Loss on actuarial valuation of pension liability (6.9) (8.8)
Net loss on revaluation of cash flow hedges (35.5) (3.4)
Share-based payment – future taxable benefit (2.0) 7.1
Deferred tax reported in equity (44.4) (5.1)
Income tax
Share-based payments – current taxable benefit (0.2) (3.1)
Total tax reported in equity (44.6) (8.2)
The tax effect of non-trading exceptionals was a deferred tax credit of £3.4m (2008: £nil). Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
10 Taxation continued
Reconciliation of income tax expense for period
The effective rate of taxation is lower than the full rate of corporation tax. The differences are explained below:
2009 2008
(52 weeks) (53 weeks)
£m £m
Profit before tax 54.3 147.9
Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate corporation tax 28.0% (2008: 29.8%) 15.2 44.1
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.2 1.4
Exceptional deferred tax charge/(credit) on indexation of properties 2.6 (3.5)
Exceptional tax charge on restriction of indexation on impairment 1.4
Exceptional tax credit on abolition of industrial buildings allowance (0.7) –
Exceptional deferred tax credit in respect of rate change – (13.7)
Tax credit on intra group transactions (1.7) (1.5)
Relief for tax losses not previously recognised (note 13) – (2.2)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods – income tax (1.7) (1.0)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods – deferred tax (0.5) –
Income tax expense reported in the income statement 14.8 23.6
The Finance Act 2008 abolished allowances on industrial buildings and hotels on a phased basis. This has resulted in an exceptional deferred
tax credit of £0.7m. This is included within the tax credit of £14.8m shown under exceptional items which is also stated after a current tax
credit of £1.7m on exceptional integration costs, a deferred tax charge of £1.1m on exceptional share-based payments credit, a deferred tax
charge of £2.6m on indexation of properties, a deferred tax charge of £0.9m on disposal of properties, a deferred tax credit of £13.6m on
impairment of property, plant and equipment and a deferred tax credit of £3.4m on movements in fair value of interest rate swaps.
The Finance Act 2007 reduced the rate of corporation tax from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008. The effect of the reduced rate is
a deferred tax credit of £13.7m in the prior period. This is included within the tax credit of £16.1m shown under exceptional items in the prior
period which is also stated after an income tax charge of £0.3m on exceptional interest income, an income tax credit of £0.8m on exceptional
integration costs, a deferred tax credit of £3.5m on indexation of properties and a deferred tax charge of £3.8m on disposal of properties and
a £2.2m deferred tax credit for tax losses not previously recognised following the Laurel acquisition.
Deferred tax
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Deferred tax liability
Accelerated capital allowances 58.5 61.2
Revaluations of land and buildings 105.0 116.3
Rolled over capital gains 34.1 30.7
Acquisition fair value adjustments – 3.2
197.6 211.4
Deferred tax asset
Pensions and post-employment medical benefits (27.2) (20.8)
Other accruals and deferred income (4.3) (3.6)
Derivatives (39.0) (0.1)
Share-based payment (2.8) (1.9)
Tax losses carried forward – (2.2)
(73.3) (28.6)
Net deferred tax liability 124.3 182.8 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
10 Taxation continued
2009 (52 weeks) 2008 (53 weeks)
Before Before
exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional
items items Total items items Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax in the income statement
Accelerated capital allowances (3.0) (0.7) (3.7) 1.8 – 1.8
Rolled over capital gains – (10.1) (10.1) – 0.2 0.2
Pensions and post-employment medical benefits 0.5 – 0.5 – – –
Share-based payments – 1.1 1.1 0.4 – 0.4
Net loss on revaluation of cash flow hedges – (3.4) (3.4) – – –
Tax losses carried forward 2.2 – 2.2 – (2.2) (2.2)
Other temporary differences (0.7) – (0.7) 0.3 – 0.3
Tax credit in respect of rate change – – – – (13.7) (13.7)
Deferred tax expense (1.0) (13.1) (14.1) 2.5 (15.7) (13.2)
11 Dividends paid and proposed
2009 2008
£m £m
Declared and paid in the period
Interim dividend for 2009 – 7.3p (2008: 7.3p) 9.8 9.9
Final dividend for 2008 – 18.7p (2007: 16.45p) 25.1 23.6
34.9 33.5
Proposed for approval at AGM
Final dividend for 2009 – 15.1p (2008: 18.7p) 32.4 25.0
Total proposed dividend for 2009 – 22.4p (2008: 26.0p) 42.2 34.9
Total adjusted dividend* for 2009 – 21.0p (2008: 20.9p) 42.2 34.9
* Adjusted dividend per share reflects the impact of the bonus element of the post year end rights issue.
Dividends on own shares have been waived.
12 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to equity holders of £39.5m (2008: £124.3m) by the weighted
average number of shares in issue during the period (excluding own shares held) of 133.7m (2008: 138.3m).
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated on a similar basis taking account of 0.7m (2008: 0.2m) dilutive potential shares under option,
giving a weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution of 134.4m (2008: 138.5m). Where the average share
price during the year is lower than the option price or the performance conditions of the option had not been met or were not expected to
be met the options become anti-dilutive and are excluded from the calculation. The number of options where the average share price was
lower than the option price was 2.6m (2008: 3.4m), the number of options that were anti-dilutive as a result of performance conditions not
being met was 2.5m (2008: 0.9m).
Adjusted earnings per share excludes the effect of exceptional items and is presented to show the underlying performance of the group on
both a basic and dilutive basis.
Adjusted earnings per share
Earnings Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share
2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
£m £m p p p p
Profit attributable to equity holders 39.5 124.3 29.5 89.9 29.4 89.7
Exceptional items 49.4 (22.0) 37.0 (15.9) 36.8 (15.9)
Profit attributable to equity holders
before exceptional items 88.9 102.3 66.5 74.0 66.2 73.8
Treasury shares and shares held by the EBT are excluded from the calculation of weighted average number of shares in issue.
As detailed in note 31, since the year end the company has issued 80.7m ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue. In accordance
with IAS 33 the impact of this issue on the earnings per share calculations has not been reﬂected above. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
13 Goodwill
£m
Cost
At 29 April 2007 607.7
Acquired through business combinations (note 18) 68.3
Adjustments to carrying value of goodwill in respect of utilisation of tax losses (2.2)
At 4 May 2008 and 3 May 2009 673.8
All goodwill was purchased as part of business combinations. As from 3 May 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, goodwill is no longer
amortised but is subject to annual impairment testing.
The adjustments to the carrying value of goodwill in the prior year were due to the post-acquisition utilisation of tax losses, which were not
recognised as deferred tax assets following the acquisition of Laurel during 2004/05.
14 Impairment testing of goodwill
Goodwill has been allocated to business segments, the lowest group of cash-generating units in the group at which goodwill is monitored
internally, based on the extent that the beneﬁts of acquisitions ﬂow to that segment.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated £236.4m (2008: £236.4m) to Retail, £172.3m (2008: £172.3m) to Pub Partners, £138.7m
(2008: £138.7m) to Brewing Company, and £126.4m (2008: £126.4m) to Belhaven.
The recoverable amount of each segment was determined based on a value-in-use calculation, and in all cases exceeded the carrying amount.
The key assumptions used for all business segments are: the pre-tax discount rate applied to cash ﬂow projections of 9.0% (2008: 9.0%), which
is based on the group’s weighted average cost of capital and is used as an approximation for the risk adjusted cost of capital of the relevant
business segment; and the projected cash ﬂows beyond the one year budgets are extrapolated using an average growth rate of 2.0% (2008:
2.0%) which is below the long-term average growth rate for the industry. Other commercial assumptions relating to market growth, market
share and sales prices have been made based on historic trends adjusted for management estimates of future prospects. The calculation is
most sensitive to changes in the assumptions used for pre-tax discount rate and growth rate. Neither a 1% decrease in assumed growth rate
nor a 1% increase in the discount rate applied would have led to an impairment of goodwill in the current period. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
15 Property, plant and equipment
Licensed estate Other
Land Land
and Plant and and Plant and
buildings equipment buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost
Balances at 29 April 2007 1,654.0 387.9 72.7 98.7 2,213.3
Acquisitions – Loch Fyne (note 18) 8.1 8.9 – – 17.0
Acquisitions – New Century Inns (note 18) 25.1 0.8 – – 25.9
Additions during period 60.2 40.0 1.8 5.9 107.9
Disposals during period (20.9) (5.7) (7.1) (1.4) (35.1)
Balances at 4 May 2008 1,726.5 431.9 67.4 103.2 2,329.0
Additions during period 49.3 32.8 0.4 2.0 84.5
Disposals during period (33.0) (9.2) (2.6) (0.8) (45.6)
Balances at 3 May 2009 1,742.8 455.5 65.2 104.4 2,367.9
Depreciation and impairment
Balances at 29 April 2007 1.1 177.5 2.1 46.8 227.5
Written back on disposals – (2.6) (0.2) (0.7) (3.5)
Provided during the year 0.3 41.1 0.4 5.3 47.1
Balances at 4 May 2008 1.4 216.0 2.3 51.4 271.1
Written back on disposals – (4.6) (0.1) (0.4) (5.1)
Provided during the year 0.3 44.6 0.4 5.8 51.1
Impairment (see below) 50.5 – 3.0 – 53.5
Balances at 3 May 2009 52.2 256.0 5.6 56.8 370.6
Net book value
At 3 May 2009 1,690.6 199.5 59.6 47.6 1,997.3
At 4 May 2008 1,725.1 215.9 65.1 51.8 2,057.9
At 29 April 2007 1,652.9 210.4 70.6 51.9 1,985.8
The licensed estate relates to properties, and assets held within those properties, licensed to trade (ie managed, tenanted and leased houses).
Other assets relate to property, plant and equipment associated with unlicensed properties (ie brewing, distribution, and central assets).
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:
2009 2008
£m £m
Freehold properties 1,657.9 1,694.9
Leasehold properties >50 years unexpired term 65.9 67.7
Leasehold properties <50 years unexpired term 26.4 27.6
1,750.2 1,790.2
Valuation
The licensed estate properties were valued by the group’s own professionally qualiﬁed chartered surveyors, as at 20 December 2003, on the
basis of existing use value, in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors’ Appraisal and Valuation Standards. A representative
sample of properties was also valued by external valuers, Gerald Eve Chartered Surveyors and Property Consultants, who conﬁrmed that the
values were consistent with their appraisal. Frozen revaluation has been taken as deemed cost on the transition to IFRS, therefore no historic
cost analysis is provided.
Up to 1999 the brewery and depots were valued at depreciated replacement cost and other properties at open market value. These valuations
have been retained but they have not been updated. Subsequent additions have been included at cost or, in the case of acquisitions, at fair value.
Charges over assets
Included in land and buildings are properties with a net book value of £1,475.3m (2008: £1,287.1m) over which there is a ﬁrst charge in favour
of the securitised debt holders as detailed in note 23. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
15 Property, plant and equipment continued
Future capital expenditure
2009 2008
£m £m
Contracted for 3.6 4.8
Impairment of property plant and equipment
During the year £53.5m of impairment losses (2008: £nil) were recognised in the income statement as exceptional costs. These are analysed
between the group’s principal reporting segments as shown below:
2009 2008
£m £m
Retail 30.0 –
Pub Partners 15.5 –
Belhaven 5.0 –
Corporate 3.0 –
53.5 –
The group considers that each of its individual pubs is a cash generating unit (CGU). Each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
When indicators of impairment are identiﬁed the carrying value of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount
is the higher of the CGU’s fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use.
The group estimates value-in-use using a discounted cash ﬂow model. The key assumptions used are the discount rate applied to cash ﬂow
projections of 9% (2008: 9%) and the projected cash ﬂows extrapolated using an average growth rate of 2% (2008: 2%) which is below the
long-term average growth rate for the industry. Other commercial assumptions relating to individual CGUs have been made based on historic
trends adjusted for management’s estimates of medium term trading prospects.
The impairment recognised in the Retail, Pub Partners and Belhaven estates is primarily the result of the reduced trading performance of
a relatively small number of pubs due to a combination of site speciﬁc trading circumstances and the general weakening of the UK consumer
environment seen in the year.
The impairment losses recognised within the Corporate estate is primarily as a result of the reduction in the fair value less costs to sell off
unlicensed properties acquired as part of business combinations in previous years.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon judgments used in arriving at fair values, future growth rates and the discount rate
applied to cash ﬂow projections. The impact on the impairment charge of applying different assumptions to the growth rates used to calculate
cash ﬂow projections and in the pre-tax discount rates would be as follows:
Increased/(decreased) impairment resulting from a 1% change to discount rate:
1% increase 1% decrease
£m £m
Retail 4.3 (4.7)
Pub Partners 3.4 (2.6)
Belhaven 2.0 (1.4)
Corporate ––
9.7 (8.7)
Increased/(decreased) impairment resulting from a 1% change to growth rate:
1% increase 1% decrease
£m £m
Retail (2.4) 2.4
Pub Partners (1.3) 1.7
Belhaven (0.8) 1.1
Corporate ––
(4.5) 5.2 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
16 Financial assets (non-current)
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade loans (net of provision) 39.0 33.8
Investments 1.3 1.0
40.3 34.8
Trade loans are net of provisions of £4.7m (2008: £3.9m), which represents the totality of impaired debt. During the year £1.2m (2008: £0.2m)
of the provision was utilised and £2.0m (2008: £0.5m) of new provision created. All trade loans, net of any provision recognised, are considered
to be neither past due nor impaired.
Trade loans are advanced to customers on terms linked to supply terms such that returns are greater than interest income. The ﬁxed rate trade
loans amounted to £28.4m (2008: £27.4m) and variable rate trade loans amounted to £15.3m (2008: £10.3m). Included in ﬁxed rate loans are
£14.1m of loans with settlement related to purchase levels (2008: £13.3m). The write-down of these loans has been taken on a straight-line
basis over the remaining term of the loan as an approximation of the write-down.
The ﬁxed rate trade loans had a weighted average interest rate of 1.91% (2008: 2.24%) and a weighted average period of 6.69 years
(2008: 6.72 years). Interest rates on variable rate trade loans are linked to base rate.
Trade loans
2009 2008
£m £m
Balance at beginning of period 33.8 31.1
Advances 15.1 14.3
Repayments (9.1) (11.3)
Provisions (0.8) (0.3)
Balance at end of period 39.0 33.8
17 Subsidiary undertakings
The main subsidiary undertakings are:
Proportion
Principal of voting
activity Held by Holding rights
Subsidiary undertakings
Greene King Brewing and Retailing Limited Brewing and retailing Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Retailing Limited Pub retailing Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Services Limited Employment Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Greene King Retail Services Limited Employment Parent Ordinary shares 100%
Hardys & Hansons Ltd Employment Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Belhaven Brewery Company Limited Employment Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Loch Fyne Restaurants Limited Retailing Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100%
Belhaven Group Properties Limited Property Parent Ordinary shares 100% Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
18 Business combinations
During the period ended 3 May 2009 there were no business combinations made.
The group acquired 100% of Loch Fyne Restaurants Limited’s share capital on 7 August 2007. The group also acquired 100% of the share capital
of New Century Inns Limited, a tenanted pub estate, on 14 November 2007.

Fair value of assets acquired
Loch Fyne New Century Inns Total
Carrying value Fair value Carrying value Fair value 2008
£m £m £m £m £m
Property, plant and equipment 22.7 17.0 18.2 25.9 42.9
Intangible assets 13.7 – – – –
Investments 0.8 0.8 – – 0.8
Inventories 0.5 0.5 – – 0.5
Trade receivables 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.3
Other receivables/prepayments 0.8 0.7 0.4 0.3 1.0
Derivative financial instruments – 0.2 – – 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 2.2 (0.9) (0.9) 1.3
Trade payables (4.2) (4.2) (0.5) (0.5) (4.7)
Other payables/accruals (8.7) (8.8) (0.3) (0.3) (9.1)
Deferred tax 0.1 0.1 (1.2) (3.3) (3.2)
Fair value of net assets 28.0 8.6 15.9 21.4 30.0
Goodwill 57.8 10.5 68.3
66.4 31.9 98.3
Satisfied by:
Cash 16.6 18.5 35.1
Fees 0.4 – 0.4
17.0 18.5 35.5
Loan notes issued 14.4 – 14.4
Debt acquired 35.0 13.4 48.4
Total consideration 66.4 31.9 98.3
For all acquisitions goodwill has arisen primarily due to expected operating synergies and the difference between property portfolio value and
fair value-in-use. In respect of Loch Fyne the goodwill also recognises the proven ability of management to grow the business.
The main fair value adjustments relate to the revaluation of the freehold and leasehold properties acquired, recognition of related deferred tax
liability on these revaluations and, in relation to Loch Fyne, the reversal of goodwill on previous business combinations.
The fair value of properties acquired was established following a review that was carried out by qualiﬁed surveyors employed by the company.
Retained properties have been revalued at their existing use value and properties subsequently disposed have been valued at their fair value
less costs to sell. The value of other current assets and liabilities have been adjusted to amounts to be realised or paid respectively.
The net cash ﬂow impact of the acquisitions was:
2009 2008
£m £m
Cash paid – (35.5)
Net cash acquired – 1.3
Net cash outflow – (34.2)
From the date of acquisition to 4 May 2008 Loch Fyne contributed £3.4m operating proﬁt and £13.3m net cash outﬂows to the group’s results.
From the date of acquisition to 4 May 2008 the New Century Inns business contributed operating proﬁts of £1.1m. Following the integration of
the New Century Inns business, it is no longer practical to identify the related cash ﬂows separately. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
19 Inventories
2009 2008
£m £m
Raw materials and work in progress 1.9 0.9
Finished goods and goods for resale 18.3 14.9
Consumable stores 1.7 2.1
21.9 17.9
20 Trade and other receivables
2009 2008
£m £m
Other receivables 0.2 0.2
Total non-current 0.2 0.2
Trade receivables 48.5 39.4
Other receivables 13.5 12.3
Total current 62.0 51.7
Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Neither past due nor impaired 30.7 32.8
Past due but not impaired
– Less than 30 days 14.4 1.7
– 30–60 days 1.7 2.0
– Greater than 60 days 1.7 2.9
48.5 39.4
Trade receivables are shown net of a provision of £6.2m (2008: £2.4m).
21 Cash and cash equivalents
2009 2008
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 21.7 24.9
Short-term deposits 99.2 66.7
Cash and cash equivalents for balance sheet 120.9 91.6
Bank overdrafts (0.4) (0.9)
Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow 120.5 90.7
Included in the balances above is £41.3m (2008: £37.0m) held within securitised bank accounts which are only available for use by the
securitisation entities within the group. The securitisation entities comprise Greene King Retailing Parent Limited and its subsidiaries.
Interest receivable on cash and short-term deposits is linked to base rate and is received either monthly or in line with the term of the deposit.
22 Trade and other payables: current
2009 2008
£m £m
Trade payables 93.3 83.7
Other payables
– Other taxation and social security costs 30.3 32.4
– Accruals and deferred income 51.8 62.8
– Interest payable 20.0 19.8
195.4 198.7
Trade payables and other payables are non-interest bearing. Interest payable is mainly settled monthly, quarterly or semi-annually throughout
the year, in accordance with the terms of the related ﬁnancial instrument. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
23 Borrowings
2009 2008
Repayment Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total
date £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank overdrafts On demand 0.4 – 0.4 0.9 – 0.9
Bank loans – floating rate 2012 – 245.0 245.0 – 500.0 500.0
Bank loans – fixed rate 2018 – – – 3.3 58.3 61.6
Securitised debt 2005 to 2036 21.7 1,396.1 1,417.8 17.0 1,077.6 1,094.6
Loan notes 2009 to 2011 16.3 – 16.3 39.4 0.6 40.0
38.4 1,641.1 1,679.5 60.6 1,636.5 1,697.1
Bank overdrafts
Overdrafts are utilised for the day-to-day management of cash. The group has facilities of £25.0m (2008: £35m) available with interest linked
to base rate.
Bank loans – unsecured
The group has a ﬁve-year revolving credit facility, signed on 26 April 2008 and amended on 30 June 2008, of £400m (2008: £550m), of which
£245m (2008: £480m) was drawn at the year end. The amounts drawn down bear interest at a margin above LIBOR, with commitment
payments on the undrawn portions. Interest is payable at each renewal date which vary in maturity. Although the individual draw downs are
repayable within 12 months of the balance sheet date, the group expects to renew this funding. Immediate renewal is available under the
£400m facility until April 2012. Final repayment of the total drawn-down balance is due as one payment on the agreement repayment date.
The interest rate for the £245.0m drawn down is 4.25%, after the effect of swaps.
The ﬁxed rate loan was repaid during the year.
Securitised debt
On 7 March 2005, £600m of bonds were issued in connection with the securitisation of 904 of the group’s pubs held in Greene King Retailing
Limited. The bonds are secured over the properties and their future income streams and were issued by Greene King Finance plc. The funds
were used to repay existing bank facilities and pay related issue costs.
On 8 May 2006, a further £550m of bonds were issued as a tap of the original securitisation, involving an additional 801 of the group’s pubs,
held in Greene King Retailing Limited. These were issued under substantially the same terms as the original securitisation. The funds were used
to repay existing bank facilities, pay related issue costs of £4.3m and early redemption of the debentures, incurring an accelerated interest cost
of £0.7m, debenture redemption costs of £4.0m, and swap termination costs of £4.7m.
On 30 June 2008, a further £350m of bonds were issued as a tap of the original securitisation, increasing the number of pubs held in Greene
King Retailing Limited to 2,035. These were issued under substantially the same terms as the original securitisation. The funds were used to
repay existing bank facilities.
The group’s securitised debt consists of the following tranches:
Nominal Effective Principal
value Carrying value (£m)*** interest repayment Expected
Tranche (£m) 2009 2008 Interest rate (%) period average life*
A1 150.0 148.4 148.3 Floating 5.54%** 2031 7.0 years
A2 276.1 272.7 276.5 Fixed 5.32% 2031 16.8 years
A3 151.8 150.6 164.0 Floating 5.34%** 2021 6.0 years
A4 265.0 263.1 263.1 Fixed 5.11% 2034 22.3 years
A5 286.3 281.3 – Floating 6.26%** 2033 4.7 years
AB1 60.0 59.0 – Floating 7.36%** 2036 5.0 years
B1 130.0 128.6 128.5 Fixed/floating 5.70%** 2034 15.0 years
B2 115.0 114.1 114.2 Floating 5.67%** 2036 7.1 years
1,434.2 1,417.8 1,094.6
* This assumes refinancing of the notes on the margin step-up dates detailed in the offering circular and available on the group’s website.
** Includes the effect of interest rate swaps.
*** Carrying value is net of related deferred finance fees. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
23 Borrowings continued
Repayment of nominal is made by quarterly instalments, in accordance with the repayment schedule, within the date ranges shown above.
Payment of interest is made on quarterly dates for all classes of bond. All of the ﬂoating rate bonds are fully hedged using interest rate swaps.
The Class A1, A2, A3, A4 and A5 bonds rank pari passu in point of security and as to payment of interest and principal, and have preferential
interest payment and repayment rights over the Class AB1 and Class B bonds. The Class B1 and B2 bonds rank pari passu in point of security,
principal repayment and interest payment.
The Class AB1 bonds rank pari passu in point of security and as to payment of interest and principal, and have preferential interest payment
and repayment rights over the Class B bonds. The Class B1 and B2 bonds rank pari passu in point of security, principal repayment and
interest payment.
The securitisation is governed by various covenants, warranties and events of default, many of which apply to Greene King Retailing Limited,
a group company. These include covenants regarding the maintenance and disposal of securitised properties and restrictions on its ability to
move cash to other group companies.
Loan notes – unsecured
The group issued loan notes during 2007 in connection with the Hardys & Hansons acquisition. These have a maturity date of September 2011
and bear interest at a margin below LIBOR, payable semi-annually. The effective interest rate of the loan notes is 4.58% (2008: 4.57%) after
taking into consideration the effect of interest rate swaps. These loan notes are redeemable on demand of the holders on any of the interest
payment dates and as such have been classiﬁed as current debt.
During 2008 the group issued £14.4m of loan notes with a maturity date of August 2009 in connection with the Loch Fyne acquisition. At the
year-end £0.3m (2008: £0.6m) of these loan notes remained outstanding and attracted interest at margin below LIBOR. Interest is payable on
repayment of the loan notes.
24 Financial instruments
The primary treasury objectives of the group are to identify and manage the ﬁnancial risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs,
and provide secure and competitively priced funding for the activities of the group. If appropriate, the group uses ﬁnancial instruments and
derivatives to manage these risks.
The principal ﬁnancial instruments held for the purpose of raising ﬁnance for operations are bank loans and overdraft, securitised bonds,
loan notes, cash and short-term deposits. Other ﬁnancial instruments arise directly from the operations of the group, such as trade receivables,
payables, and trade loans.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, are used to manage the interest rate risks related to the group’s operations
and ﬁnancing sources. No speculative trading in derivative ﬁnancial instruments is undertaken.
The main risks from the group’s ﬁnancial instruments are cash ﬂow risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The policy for managing
each of these risks is set out below.
Interest rate risk
Exposure to changes in interest rates on the group’s borrowings is reviewed with regard to the maturity proﬁle and cash ﬂows of the underlying
debt. The group uses a mixture of ﬁxed and ﬂoating interest rate debt with exposure to market interest rate ﬂuctuations primarily arising from
the ﬂoating rate instruments. The group operates a policy that no less than 95% of the overall interest exposure should be hedged. The group
enters into interest rate swaps to manage the exposure. The swaps are designated as cash ﬂow hedges at the date of contract included within
the accounts, and tested for effectiveness every six months.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the group has undertaken sensitivity analysis on its ﬁnancial instruments which are affected by changes in interest rates.
This analysis has been prepared on the basis of a constant amount of net debt, a constant ratio of ﬁxed to ﬂoating interest rates, and on the basis
of the hedging instruments in place at 3 May 2009 and 4 May 2008. The analysis relates only to balances at these dates and is not representative
of the year as a whole. The following assumptions were made:
 Balance sheet sensitivity to interest rates applies only to derivative ﬁnancial instruments, as the carrying value of debt and deposits does
not change as interest rates move.
 Gains and losses are recognised within equity or the income statement in line with the accounting policies of the group.
 Cash ﬂow hedges were assumed to be effective or ineffective on the same basis as those as at the year-end. An explanation for the split
between those hedges that were effective at the year-end and those that were ineffective is detailed within the cash ﬂow hedging note.
Based on the group’s net position at the year end, a 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would change the group’s proﬁt before tax
by approximately £4.5m (2008: £0.5m) and the group’s equity by £93.2m (2008: £51.3m). Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
24 Financial instruments continued
Liquidity risk
The group mitigates liquidity risk by managing cash generated by its operations combined with bank borrowings and long-term debt.
The group’s objective is to maintain a balance between the continuity of funding and ﬂexibility through the use of overdrafts and bank loans.
The group also monitors the maturity of ﬁnancial liabilities to avoid the risk of a shortage of funds.
The standard payment terms that the company has with its suppliers is 60 days following month end (2008: 60 days following month end).
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is placed on interest-bearing deposit with maturities ﬁxed at no more than one month. Short-term
ﬂexibility is achieved through the use of short-term borrowing on the money markets.
The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 3 May 2009 and 4 May 2008 based on contractual
undiscounted payments including interest.
Period ended  May 
Within One to Two to More than
one year two years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings:
– Capital 40.4 25.0 310.9 1,319.8 1,696.1
– Interest 81.2 79.1 259.9 989.7 1,409.9
121.6 104.1 570.8 2,309.5 3,106.0
Derivative financial instruments 12.7 10.4 16.3 105.1 144.5
Trade payables and accruals 142.3 –– – 142.3
276.6 114.5 587.1 2,414.6 3,392.8
Period ended  May 
Within One to Two to More than
one year two years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Interest bearing loans and borrowings:
– Capital 61.0 42.7 547.1 1,057.0 1,707.8
– Interest 91.6 88.6 229.8 769.5 1,179.5
152.6 131.3 776.9 1,826.5 2,887.3
Derivative financial instruments 1.0 1.0 1.4 5.5 8.9
Trade payables and accruals 143.7 –– – 143.7
297.3 132.3 778.3 1,832.0 3,039.9
Credit risk
The policy for third-party trading is that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to regular credit veriﬁcation procedures.
Receivable balances are also monitored on an ongoing basis and provided against where deemed necessary to limit the exposure to bad debts
to a non-signiﬁcant level.
Other ﬁnancial assets includes trade loans, cash, and certain derivative instruments. Credit risk is the risk of default by the counterparty
to discharge their obligation, the maximum exposure of the group is the carrying amount of these instruments.
There is no requirement for collateral and there are no signiﬁcant concentrations of credit risk within the group. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
24 Financial instruments continued
Cash ﬂow hedging
At 3 May 2009, the group held four (2008: nine) interest rate swap contracts, with a nominal value of £198.0m (2008: £410.0m), designated
as hedges of the cash ﬂow interest rate risk of £198.0m (2008: £410.0m) of the group’s variable rate borrowings (excluding bonds), and which
are held on the balance sheet as a fair value liability of £15.1m (2008: £1.0m). The cash ﬂows occur quarterly, semi-annually or monthly, receiving
a variable rate of interest based on the base rate or LIBOR, which ranged from 4.58% to 5.79% (2008: 4.50% to 5.67%), and paying a ﬁxed rate
ranging from 4.50% to 5.79% (2008: 4.53% to 5.85%). Remaining contract maturity dates range from June 2009 to October 2011.
At 3 May 2009, the group also held three (2008: two) interest rate swap contracts for a nominal value of £763.1m (2008: £435.0m), entered
into as part of the securitisation and subsequent securitisation tap. A fair value net liability of £129.4m (2008: £4.5m) has been recognised on
the balance sheet in respect of these contracts which are designated cash ﬂow hedges against £763.1m (2008: £435.0m) of variable rate bonds,
receiving a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR and paying a weighted average ﬁxed rate of 5.091% (2008: 4.947%). The contract maturity
dates are December 2034 and March 2036. The bonds and interest rate swaps have the same critical terms.
Changes in cash ﬂow hedge fair values are recognised in the hedging reserve to the extent that the hedges are effective. As a result of the post
year-end rights issue and subsequent debt repurchase, described in note 31, the cash ﬂow hedges in respect of £148.0m of the group’s variable
rate borrowings and £22.4m of the securitised debt will cease to be effective. Accordingly an exceptional cost of £12.1m (2008: £nil) has been
recognised in respect of the fair value of these interest rate swaps no longer qualifying for hedge accounting. The three ineffective swaps have
been cancelled since the year end. The remaining interest rate swaps have been assessed as being highly effective during the period and are
expected to remain highly effective over the remaining contract lives. The net unrealised loss of £126.8m (2008: £11.3m) in respect of effective
interest rate swaps was included in equity in respect of these contracts. Losses recycled to the income statement in respect of swap terminations
amounted to £5.3m (2008: £8.1m gain) and are included within pre-exceptional ﬁnance costs.
The percentage of debt that was ﬁxed as at the year-end was 97.5% (2008: 96.8%) in line with the group’s policy of ﬁxing at least 95% of all debt.
Interest rate risk
The following tables set out the group’s exposure to interest rate risk and the maturity proﬁle for each class of interest bearing ﬁnancial asset
and ﬁnancial liability.
 May 
Within One to Two to Three to Four to More than
one year two years three years four years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Securitised debt 3.9 7.3 10.4 2.8 3.3 636.7 664.4
Financial asset (4.4) (3.6) (3.2) (3.0) (2.6) (11.6) (28.4)
Variable rate
Securitised debt 17.8 15.6 13.9 23.0 25.7 657.4 753.4
Loan notes 16.3 – – – – – 16.3
Bank loans – – 245.0 – – – 245.0
Overdraft 0.4 – – – – – 0.4
Financial asset (1.4) (1.4) (1.3) (1.3) (1.3) (8.6) (15.3)
Cash and short-term deposits (123.6) – – – – – (123.6)
Interest rate swap liabilities 12.7 10.4 6.6 4.9 4.9 105.0 144.5
 May 
Within One to Two to Three to Four to More than
one year two years three years four years five years five years Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed rate
Securitised debt 3.7 3.9 7.3 10.6 3.1 639.5 668.1
Loan notes – 0.3 – – – – 0.3
Bank loan 3.3 3.7 4.1 4.5 4.9 41.1 61.6
Financial asset (3.6) (3.2) (2.6) (4.8) (1.8) (11.4) (27.4)
Variable rate
Securitised debt 13.3 14.1 11.7 9.7 9.8 367.9 426.5
Loan notes 39.4 0.3 – – – – 39.7
Bank loans – 20.0 – 480.0 – – 500.0
Overdraft 0.9 – – – – – 0.9
Financial asset (1.4) (1.0) (1.0) (1.0) (1.0) (4.9) (10.3)
Cash and short-term deposits (91.6) – – – – – (91.6)
Interest rate swap assets (0.7) (0.4) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1) (1.9) (3.2)
Interest rate swap liabilities 1.0 1.0 0.7 0.4 0.3 5.5 8.9
The interest on variable rate ﬁnancial instruments is repriced at intervals less than one year. The interest on ﬁxed rate ﬁnancial instruments is
ﬁxed until the maturity of the instrument. Investments, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables are not included in the above
as they are non-interest bearing and are not subject to interest rate risk. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
24 Financial instruments continued
Fair values
Set out below is a comparison of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the group’s ﬁnancial instruments.
Fair Carrying Fair Carrying
value value value value
2009 2009 2008 2008
£m £m £m £m
Financial liabilities
Overdraft 0.4 0.4 0.9 0.9
Interest bearing loans and borrowings
– Securitised debt 1,120.3 1,417.8 882.6 1,094.6
– Fixed rate bank loan –– 65.6 61.6
– Floating rate bank loans 245.0 245.0 500.0 500.0
– Other variable rate borrowings 16.3 16.3 40.0 40.0
Interest rate swaps 144.5 144.5 8.9 8.9
Financial assets
Cash (123.6) (123.6) (91.6) (91.6)
Financial assets (40.3) (40.3) (34.8) (34.8)
Interest rate swaps –– (3.4) (3.4)
Market values have been used to determine the fair value of listed bond ﬁnance. Fair values and effective interest rates of derivatives and other
borrowings have been based on quotations from counterparties and represent estimates of the amount the Group would expect to pay or
receive on termination of the agreements. Carrying values are stated net of any deferred ﬁnance fees which amounted to £16.3m (2008: £10.7m).
The fair value of other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are not materially different from book value.
Capital risk management
The group aims to maximise shareholder value by maintaining a strong credit rating and a core level of debt which optimises the weighted
average cost of capital (WACC) and shareholder value.
A number of mechanisms are used to manage debt and equity levels (together referred to as capital), as appropriate in the light of economic
and trading conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital
to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the period.
The group monitors capital using interest cover and several other measures including ﬁxed charged cover, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA
and free cash ﬂow debt service coverage. Interest cover is calculated by dividing operating proﬁt before exceptional items by net ﬁnance costs
before exceptional items (note 7). For the period to 3 May 2009, interest cover was 2.2x (2008: 2.5x).
25 Share capital
2009 2008
Number of Share Number of Share
issued shares capital issued shares capital
million £m million £m
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 12.5p each 200.0 25.0 200.0 25.0
Called up, allotted and fully paid
At beginning of period 135.4 17.0 150.3 18.8
Issue of share capital – share options exercised 0.2 – 0.5 0.1
Repurchase and cancellation –– (15.4) (1.9)
At end of period 135.6 17.0 135.4 17.0
Details of options granted and outstanding are included in note 8.
During the period no (2008: 15.4m for £150.6m cash) shares were repurchased and subsequently cancelled. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
26 Reconciliation of movements in equity
Share Share Capital Hedging Own Retained
capital premium redemption reserve shares earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 29 April 2007 18.8 243.7 1.4 4.3 (18.9) 584.9 834.2
Issue of ordinary shares 0.1 3.5 – – – – 3.6
Release of shares – share option proceeds – – – 1.7 – 1.7
Repurchase of own shares (1.9) – 1.9 – – (150.6) (150.6)
Actuarial loss – – – – – (31.3) (31.3)
Tax on actuarial loss – – – – – 8.8 8.8
Share-based payments – – – – – 3.4 3.4
Tax on share-based payments – – – – – (4.0) (4.0)
Cash flow hedges
– losses taken to equity – – – (3.2) – – (3.2)
– gains recycled to income – – – (8.1) – – (8.1)
Tax on cash flow hedges – – – 3.4 – – 3.4
Profit for the period – – – – – 124.3 124.3
Equity dividends – – – – – (33.5) (33.5)
At 4 May 2008 17.0 247.2 3.3 (3.6) (17.2) 502.0 748.7
Issue of ordinary shares – 0.3 – – – – 0.3
Release of shares – share option proceeds – – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Repurchase of own shares – – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Actuarial loss – – – – – (24.5) (24.5)
Tax on actuarial loss – – – – – 6.9 6.9
Share-based payments – – – – – (3.2) (3.2)
Tax on share-based payments – – – – – 2.2 2.2
Cash flow hedges
– losses taken to equity – – – (144.2) – – (144.2)
– ineffective portion transferred
to income statement – – – 12.1 – – 12.1
– losses recycled to income – – – 5.3 – – 5.3
Tax on cash flow hedges – – – 35.5 – – 35.5
Profit for the period – – – – – 39.5 39.5
Equity dividends – – – – – (34.9) (34.9)
At 3 May 2009 17.0 247.5 3.3 (94.9) (17.5) 488.0 643.4
Share premium account
Share premium represents the excess of proceeds received over the nominal value of new shares issued.
Capital redemption reserve
Capital redemption reserve arose from the purchase and cancellation of own share capital, and represents the nominal amount of the share
capital cancelled.
Hedging reserve
Hedging reserve adjustments arise from the movement in fair value of the group’s derivative instruments used as an effective hedge, in line
with the accounting policy disclosed in note 1. Amounts recycled to income are included within ﬁnance costs in the income statement.
Own shares
Own shares relates to shares held in treasury and by the employee beneﬁt trust. At 3 May 2009 1.0m shares (2008: 1.0m) were held in
treasury and 0.8m shares (2008: 0.9m) by the employee beneﬁt trust. The market values at that date were £5.9m and £4.9m (2008: £5.1m
and £4.4m) respectively.
During the period 0.1m shares were repurchased by the employee beneﬁt trust (2008: nil). 0.2m (2008: 0.3m) shares held by the employee
beneﬁt trust were transferred for proceeds of £0.1m (2008: £1.7 million) to satisfy awards under the long-term incentive plan and options
exercised under the executive share option scheme.
The employee beneﬁt trust is independently managed and has purchased shares in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options
and potential awards under the long-term incentive plan. None of the shares held at the period end have been allocated to speciﬁc
option arrangements.
Goodwill
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off to retained earnings in respect of acquisitions made prior to May 1998 amounts to £89.7m
(2008: £89.7m). Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
27 Working capital and non-cash movements
2009 2008
(52 weeks) (53 weeks)
£m £m
Increase in provision against financial assets 0.8 0.3
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (4.0) 0.8
Increase in trade and other receivables (3.2) (3.9)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 8.1 (2.0)
Share-based payment expense 0.6 3.4
Difference between defined benefit pension contributions paid and amounts charged (2.1) (2.7)
Integration costs (6.6) (3.2)
Working capital and non-cash movements (6.4) (7.3)
28 Analysis and movement in net debt
2009 2008
(52 weeks) (53 weeks)
£m £m
Cash in hand, at bank 21.7 24.9
Short-term deposits* 99.2 66.7
Overdrafts (0.4) (0.9)
Current portion of borrowings (38.0) (59.7)
Non-current portion of borrowings (1,641.1) (1,636.5)
Closing net debt (1,558.6) (1,605.5)
* Included in cash on the balance sheet.
Movement in net debt
2009 2008
(52 weeks) (53 weeks)
£m £m
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 29.8 8.0
Proceeds – issue of securitised debt (349.8) –
Proceeds – advances of loans – (265.0)
Repayment of principal – securitised debt 21.2 16.5
Repayment of principal – loans and loan notes 340.1 85.3
Financing issue costs 7.2 –
Decrease/(increase) in net debt arising from cash flows 48.5 (155.2)
Debt issued for acquisitions – (14.4)
Other non-cash movements (1.6) (0.4)
Increase in net debt 46.9 (170.0)
Opening net debt (1,605.5) (1,435.5)
Closing net debt (1,558.6) (1,605.5)
29 Financial commitments
The group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and items of plant and machinery. The terms of the leases vary but typically
on inception a property lease will be for a period of up to 30 years and plant and machinery will be for less than ﬁve years. Most property leases
have an upwards only rent review based on open market rents at the time of the review.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases:
2009 2008
£m £m
Within one year 13.5 12.9
Between one and five years 46.3 44.1
After five years 195.7 195.6
255.5 252.6
The group leases its licensed estate and other non-licensed properties to tenants. The majority of lease agreements have terms of between
six months and 25 years and are classiﬁed for accounting purposes as operating leases. Most of the leases with terms of over three years include
provision for rent reviews on either a three year or ﬁve year basis. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
29 Financial commitments continued
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Within one year 46.9 51.3
Between one and five years 109.3 129.1
After five years 96.2 117.9
252.4 298.3
30 Related party disclosures
No transactions have been entered into with related parties during the period.
Greene King Finance plc is a special purpose entity set up to raise bond ﬁnance for the group, and as such is deemed a related party. The results
of the entity have been consolidated.
Compensation of key management personnel of the group
2009 2008
£m £m
Short-term employee benefits 2.5 2.0
Post-employment pension and medical benefits 0.3 0.3
Share-based payments 0.1 1.1
2.9 3.4
Amount of exceptional credit relating to key management share-based payment schemes (note 5) (1.3) –
1.6 3.4
Directors’ interests in an employee share incentive plan
Details of the options held by executive members of the board of directors are included in the remuneration report. No options have been
granted to the non-executive members of the board of directors under this scheme.
31 Post balance sheet events
Rights issue
Following the announcement of a three-for-ﬁve rights issue on 23 April 2009, 80,755,421 ordinary shares were issued at a price of 270p
per share on 29 May 2009. The total proceeds from the issue after the deduction of fees was £207.5m. The issue price represented a 40.7%
discount to the theoretical ex-rights price based on the closing price of 566p per share.
Debt buy-back
Since the year end the group has repurchased securitised debt with nominal value of £22.4m for consideration of £11.4m. In addition variable
rate borrowings of £205.0m have been repaid and associated interest rate swaps terminated (see note 24).
Final dividend
A ﬁnal dividend of 15.1p per share (2008: 18.7p) amounting to a dividend of £32.4m (2008: £25.0m) was proposed by the directors at their
meeting on 1 July 2009. These ﬁnancial statements do not reﬂect the dividend payable.
Pub acquisitions
On 1 July 2009 the company completed the acquisition of 11 freehold managed pubs for consideration of £30.4m.
32 Contingent liabilities
The group has provided guarantees totalling £3.5m at 3 May 2009 (2008: £4.3m) in respect of free trade customers’ bank borrowings. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Greene King plc (group)
We have audited the group ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc for the period ended 3 May 2009 which comprise the group income
statement, the group balance sheet, the group cash ﬂow statement, the group statement of recognised income and expense and the related
notes 1 to 32. These group ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc for the year ended 3 May 2009 and on the
information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom
law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors’
responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group ﬁnancial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group ﬁnancial statements
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report to you whether
in our opinion the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the ﬁnancial statements. The information given in the directors’
report includes that speciﬁc information presented in the chief executive’s review incorporating the business review and the ﬁnancial review,
cross referred from the business review section of the directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information speciﬁed by law regarding director’s remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reﬂects the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined
Code speciﬁed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required to
consider whether the board’s statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s
corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group ﬁnancial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors’ report, the chairman’s statement, the chief executive’s review incorporating the business
review, the corporate social responsibility report and the corporate governance statement. We consider the implications for our report if we
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend
to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group ﬁnancial statements. It also
includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the group ﬁnancial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide
us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group ﬁnancial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused
by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
group ﬁnancial statements.
Opinion
In our opinion:
 the group ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the
group’s affairs as at 3 May 2009 and of its proﬁt for the year then ended;
 the group ﬁnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation; and
 the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the group ﬁnancial statements.
Richard Murray (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
Statutory Auditor
London
1 July 2009 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Company balance sheet
As at 3 May 2009
As at As at
3 May 2009 4 May 2008
Note £m £m
Fixed assets
Investments 37 2,536.6 2,617.2
Current assets
Deferred tax 38 1.0 0.3
Derivative financial instruments 40 – 0.8
Cash 58.6 44.3
Creditors: due within one year
Derivative financial instruments 40 (7.3) (0.8)
Other creditors 39 (1,866.9) (1,629.9)
Net current liabilities (1,814.6) (1,585.3)
Total assets less current liabilities 722.0 1,031.9
Creditors: due after more than one year
Medium and long-term debt 40 (245.0) (500.0)
Derivative financial instruments 40 (6.8) (1.3)
Net assets 470.2 530.6
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 41 17.0 17.0
Share premium account 42 247.5 247.2
Revaluation reserve 42 2.5 2.5
Hedging reserve 42 (2.8) (1.0)
Other reserve 42 93.9 93.9
Own shares 42 (17.5) (17.2)
Profit and loss account 42 129.6 188.2
Equity shareholders’ funds 470.2 530.6
Signed on behalf of the board on 1 July 2009
T J W Bridge R Anand
Director Director Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the company accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
33 Accounting policies
Basis of accounting and presentation
The accounts are prepared on a going-concern basis, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting and ﬁnancial
reporting standards in the United Kingdom (UK GAAP). They are prepared under the historical cost convention with the exception of derivatives,
where the company uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate ﬂuctuations on its variable rate loans, notes and bonds.
Changes in accounting policy
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous ﬁnancial year.
Investments
Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost less impairment and held as ﬁxed assets on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions
or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following
exceptions:
 Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation (and similar fair value adjustments) of ﬁxed assets, and gains on disposal of
ﬁxed assets that have rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date there is a binding agreement to
dispose of the assets concerned. However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is
more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets
are sold.
 Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable
taxable proﬁts from which the future reversal of the underlying timing difference can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised when the company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are de-recognised
when the company no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the ﬁnancial instrument, normally through sale or when all cash ﬂows
attributable to the instrument are passed to an independent third party.
The exemption has been taken per FRS 29.2D, and the company is exempt from producing disclosure required by the standard as the group
accounts contain disclosure that complies with FRS 29.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings
All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs. After initial recognition, interest-
bearing loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Derivative ﬁnancial instruments and hedge accounting
The company uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate ﬂuctuations on its variable rate loans.
Interest rate swaps are initially measured at fair value, if any, and carried on the balance sheet as an asset or liability. Subsequent measurement
is at fair value determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. If a derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting, the gain
or loss arising on the movement in fair value is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account.
Hedge accounting
To qualify for hedge accounting the hedge relationship must be designated and documented at inception. Documentation must include the
company’s risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge and formal allocation to the item or transaction being hedged.
The company also documents how it will assess the effectiveness of the hedge and carries out assessments on a regular basis to determine
whether it has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly effective.
Hedges can be classiﬁed as either fair value (hedging exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability), or cash ﬂow (hedging the
variability in cash ﬂows attributable to an asset, liability, or forecast transaction). The company uses its interest rate swaps as cash ﬂow hedges.
For these cash ﬂow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the
ineffective portion is recognised in the proﬁt and loss account. Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the proﬁt and loss account when
the hedged transaction affects proﬁt or loss.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to proﬁt or loss. If the hedging
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts
previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs are transferred to the proﬁt and loss account as above.
If the related transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken to proﬁt or loss. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the company accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
33 Accounting policies continued
Own shares
Own shares consist of treasury shares and shares held within an employee beneﬁt trust. The company has an employee beneﬁt trust for
the granting of shares to applicable employees.
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from equity shareholders’ funds. Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such
shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds from the original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on transactions in treasury shares.
Share-based payments
Certain employees and directors of subsidiary companies receive equity-settled remuneration, whereby they render services in exchange
for shares or rights over shares.
The fair value of the shares and options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes model, at the date at which they were granted. No account
is taken in the fair value calculation of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions. The fair value of shares and options granted is
recognised as an increase in the company’s investments in its subsidiaries with a corresponding increase in equity spread over the period in which
the performance conditions are fulﬁlled ending on the relevant vesting date. The cumulative amount recognised as an investment reﬂects the
extent to which the vesting period has expired, adjusted for the estimated number of shares and options that are ultimately expected to vest.
In accordance with the exemption within FRS 20 no amount is recorded in respect of grants made under the above schemes prior to
7 November 2002 which had not vested by the date of implementation of FRS 20.
34 Proﬁt for the period
No proﬁt or loss account is presented for the company as permitted by s408 of the Companies Act 2006. The loss after tax for the period
is £20.5m (2008: £303.8m proﬁt).
35 Auditors’ remuneration
Auditors’ remuneration in respect of the company audit was £15,000 (2008: £15,000).
36 Directors’ remuneration and employee costs
Details of directors’ remuneration is contained in the directors’ remuneration report on pages 76 to 82. The company has no employees other
than directors. Details of share options issued by the company are given in note 8 to the consolidated accounts.
37 Investments
Investments in Loans to
subsidiaries subsidiaries Total
£m £m £m
Cost and NBV at 4 May 2008 1,115.7 1,501.5 2,617.2
Share-based payment credit in respect of subsidiaries (3.2) – (3.2)
Repayments – (63.9) (63.9)
Investment in subsidiaries 0.7 – 0.7
Liquidation of non-trading subsidiaries (14.2) – (14.2)
Cost and NBV at 3 May 2009 1,099.0 1,437.6 2,536.6
Principal subsidiaries
Principal activity Held by Holding
Greene King Brewing and Retailing Limited Brewing and retailing Parent 100%
Greene King Retailing Limited Pub retailing Subsidiary 100%
Greene King Services Limited Employment Parent 100%
Greene King Retail Services Limited Employment Parent 100%
Hardys & Hansons Ltd Employment Subsidiary 100%
Belhaven Brewery Company Limited Employment Subsidiary 100%
Loch Fyne Restaurants Limited Retailing Subsidiary 100%
Belhaven Group Properties Limited Property Parent 100%
The country of operation and principal activity for all companies is the United Kingdom. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
38 Deferred tax
£m
Deferred tax asset at 4 May 2008 0.3
Tax on net loss on revaluation of cash flow hedges charged through equity 0.7
Deferred tax asset at 3 May 2009 1.0
39 Other creditors
2009 2008
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 9.5 8.3
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1,857.4 1,621.6
1,866.9 1,629.9
40 Borrowings
2009 2008
Within After Within After
one year one year Total one year one year Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank loans – floating rate – 245.0 245.0 – 500.0 500.0
At 3 May 2009, the company also held interest rate swap contracts to hedge the cash ﬂow interest rate risk related to its ﬂoating rate debt.
These had a nominal value of £180.0m (2008: £360.0m) and are held on the balance sheet as a net fair value liability of £14.1m (2008: £1.3m).
The details of terms and interest rates are included as part of the group’s portfolio in note 24.
As a result of the post year-end rights issue and subsequent debt repayment, described in note 31, the cash ﬂow hedges in respect of £148.0m
of the company’s variable rate borrowings will cease to be effective. Accordingly a cost of £10.3m (2008: £nil) has been recognised in respect
of the movement on the fair value of these interest rate swaps no longer qualifying for hedge accounting. These ineffective swaps have been
cancelled since the year end.
Bank loans due after one year are repayable as follows:
2009 2008
£m £m
Due between one and two years – –
Due between two and five years 245.0 500.0
Due after more than five years – –
245.0 500.0
£245m of the amounts above are drawn down under a revolving credit facility. Although the draw down is repayable within 12 months of the
balance sheet date, immediate renewal is available until April 2012 (2008: April 2012) for the facility. In addition, in the prior year the company
had an 18-month revolving credit facility of £40m, which was £20m drawn down at the year end.
41 Called-up share capital
2009 2008
£m £m
Ordinary shares of 12.5p each
Authorised – 200m shares (2007: 200m) 25.0 25.0
Issued – 135.6m shares (2008: 135.4m) 17.0 17.0
Further information on share capital is given in note 25 of the consolidated accounts. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Notes to the company accounts
For the 52 weeks ended 3 May 2009
42 Reconciliation of shareholders’ funds
Share Share Revaluation Hedging Other Own Profit and loss
capital premium reserve reserve reserve shares account Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 29 April 2007 18.8 243.7 2.5 1.7 92.0 (18.9) 65.1 404.9
Cash flow hedges
– losses taken to equity – – – (1.8) – – – (1.8)
Cash flow hedges
– gains recycled to income – – – (1.9) – – – (1.9)
Tax on cash flow hedges – – – 1.0 – – – 1.0
Issue of share capital 0.1 3.5 – – – – – 3.6
Release of shares
– share option proceeds – – – – – 1.7 – 1.7
Purchase of own
share capital (1.9) –– – 1.9 – (150.6) (150.6)
Share-based payment
charge in respect
of subsidiaries – – – – – – 3.4 3.4
Profit for the period – – – – – – 303.8 303.8
Dividends – – – – – – (33.5) (33.5)
At 4 May 2008 17.0 247.2 2.5 (1.0) 93.9 (17.2) 188.2 530.6
Cash flow hedges
– losses taken to equity – – – (14.4) – – – (14.4)
Ineffective cash flow hedges:
transfer to income statement
(Note 24) – – – 10.3 – – – 10.3
Cash flow hedges
– losses recycled to income – – – 1.6 – – – 1.6
Tax on cash flow hedges – – – 0.7 – – – 0.7
Issue of share capital – 0.3 – – – – – 0.3
Release of shares
– share option proceeds – – – – – 0.1 – 0.1
Purchase of own share capital – – – – – (0.4) – (0.4)
Share-based payment credit
in respect of subsidiaries – – – – – – (3.2) (3.2)
Loss for the period – – – – – – (20.5) (20.5)
Dividends – – – – – – (34.9) (34.9)
At 3 May 2009 17.0 247.5 2.5 (2.8) 93.9 (17.5) 129.6 470.2
Share premium account
Share premium represents the excess of proceeds received over the nominal value of new shares issued.
Other reserve
The other reserve consists of £3.3m (2008: £3.3m) capital redemption reserve arising from the purchase of own share capital and £90.6m
(2008: £90.6m) arising from transfer of revalued assets to other group companies and will only be realised when the related assets are disposed
of by the group.
Hedging reserve
Hedging reserve adjustments arise from the movement in fair value of the company’s derivative instruments used as an effective hedge, in line
with the accounting policy disclosed in note 1.
Own shares
Own shares relates to shares held in treasury and by the employee beneﬁt trust. Movement in own shares is described in note 26 to the
consolidated accounts.
43 Contingent liabilities
There were no contingent liabilities at 3 May 2009 and 4 May 2008. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Independent auditors’ report to the members
of Greene King plc (company)
We have audited the parent company ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc for the year ended 3 May 2009 which comprise the balance sheet
and the related notes 33 to 43. These parent company ﬁnancial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors’ remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the group ﬁnancial statements of Greene King plc for the year ended 3 May 2009.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors’ report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors’ remuneration report and the parent company ﬁnancial statements
in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice)
are set out in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company
ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985. We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent company directors’ report is consistent
with the ﬁnancial statements. The information given in the directors’ report includes that speciﬁc information presented in the chief executive’s
review incorporating the business review and the ﬁnancial review, cross referred from the business review section of the directors’ report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speciﬁed by law regarding directors’ remuneration and other
transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company ﬁnancial
statements. The other information comprises only the directors’ report, the unaudited part of the directors’ remuneration report, the chairman’s
statement and the chief executive’s review incorporating the business review. We consider the implications for our report if we become aware
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company ﬁnancial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend
to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company ﬁnancial statements
and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited. It also includes an assessment of the signiﬁcant estimates and judgements
made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company ﬁnancial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate
to the company’s circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to
provide us with sufﬁcient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’
remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. In forming
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company ﬁnancial statements and
the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
 the parent company ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at 3 May 2009;
 the parent company ﬁnancial statements and the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
 the information given in the directors’ report is consistent with the parent company ﬁnancial statements.
Richard Murray (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP
Statutory Auditor
London
1 July 2009 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Directors’ report
The directors present their annual report together with the audited ﬁnancial statements of the company and the group for the 52 weeks
ended 3 May 2009.
Proﬁts and dividends
The group’s proﬁt before taxation and exceptional items for the period amounted to £118.5m (2008 (53 weeks): £142.0m). An interim
dividend of 7.3p per share (2008: 7.3p) was paid on 29 January 2009. The directors recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 15.1p per ordinary share
(2008: 15.1p, adjusted for the bonus element of the rights issue), making a total dividend for the period of 22.4p per share (adjusted 2008:
22.4p). Subject to the approval of shareholders at the AGM, the ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 14 September 2009 to shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 14 August 2009.
Activities
Greene King plc is the holding company for a group whose principal activities are operating managed, tenanted and leased public houses,
brewing beer, and wholesaling beers, wines, spirits and soft drinks.
Business review
Under the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the company is required to produce a business review containing a fair review of the business
of the company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company. Shareholders are referred to the chief executive’s
review, the ﬁnancial review, the KPIs, the risks and uncertainties section and the corporate social responsibility report for the required information.
They are intended to provide a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the business of the group during
the ﬁnancial year and the position of the group at the end of the year.
Directors
Details of the current directors are given on pages 28 and 29. All of these directors held ofﬁce throughout the period.
Under article 85 of the company’s articles of association Justin Adams and Ian Bull retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election
at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the directors’ service agreements, remuneration, and interests in share options and awards are set out in the remuneration report
on pages 76 to 82. There have been no changes in their interests between 3 May 2009 and the date of this report, save as set out therein.
Directors’ interests in shares
The beneﬁcial interests of each of the directors and their immediate families in the ordinary share capital of the company are shown below
as at the end of the year, the previous year and as at 30 June 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report. The changes
since the year end are as a result of the directors taking up rights to acquire ordinary shares (including, in the case of the executive directors,
rights acquired as a result of their holdings of restricted shares under the company’s long-term incentive plan) pursuant to the rights issue
completed on 29 May 2009:
4 May 2008 3 May 2009 30 June 2009
Tim Bridge 813,736 813,736 1,301,762
Rooney Anand 54,441 90,401 152,354
Justin Adams 313 1,654 19,264
John Brady 5,000 5,000 8,000
Ian Bull 2,313 2,313 30,821
Ian Durant 13,950 13,950 22,320
David Elliott 99,191 125,280 178,370
Jonathan Lawson 666 666 13,053
Norman Murray 30,000 30,000 36,700
Jane Scriven 5,000 5,000 8,000
At 3 May 2009 and 30 June 2009, Tim Bridge had a non-beneﬁcial interest in 89,768 (2008: 89,768) shares, in addition to the holding
shown above.
Interests in contracts
No director had a material interest in any contract, other than an employment contract, that was signiﬁcant in relation to the group’s business
at any time during the period.
Substantial shareholdings
As at 1 July 2009, the company has been notiﬁed of the following interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the company.
%
AXA S.A. 4.16
Capital Research & Management Company 5.19
Legal & General Group plc 3.98
Standard Life Investments Ltd 5.91 Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Share capital
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the company, which comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12½p, are set out
in note 25 to the accounts on page 61. The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the articles of association. There are no special control
rights in relation to the company’s shares and the company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
On 23 April 2009 the company announced an underwritten rights issue of 80,749,647 new shares at 270p per share to qualifying shareholders.
The rights issue was undertaken on the basis of three new shares at 270p per share for every ﬁve shares held by qualifying shareholders.
Shareholders approved the necessary resolutions at a general meeting of the company on 12 May 2009 and, on 29 May 2009, following the
exercise of a number of options under the company’s share schemes, a total of 80,755,421 new ordinary shares were issued to qualifying
shareholders or subscribers for those shares.
A total of 94,591 ordinary shares, with an aggregate nominal value of £11,824 were allotted, for cash, during the period in connection with
the company’s sharesave and executive option schemes.
The trustees of the company’s employee beneﬁt trust (EBT), Kleinwort Benson (Guernsey) Trustees Limited, transferred 282,750 ordinary
shares to employees to satisfy the exercise of share options and the vesting of LTIP awards. Although no ordinary shares were acquired
by the EBT during the period, the company does make regular use of the EBT to satisfy the exercise of share options and the EBT does
therefore make market purchases of the company’s shares from time to time to ensure that it has sufﬁcient shares to enable it to do so.
Voting rights
In a general meeting of the company, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have
one vote. On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
The AGM notice gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
Under the Free4All Employee Proﬁt Share Scheme, participants are the beneﬁcial owners of the shares but not the registered owners.
The registered owner is the trustee, Killik & Co Trustees Ltd. The trustee will invite participants to direct it on the exercise of any voting rights
attaching to the shares held under the scheme by the trustee on the participants’ behalf. The trustee will only be entitled to vote on a show of
hands if all directions received from participants are identical. The trustee is under no obligation to call for a poll. In the case of a poll, the trustee
will follow the directions of the participants.
No voting rights will be exercised in respect of any own shares.
Transfer of shares
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company other than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing
laws and regulations (for example, under the Market Abuse Directive).
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, directors of the company and persons discharging managerial
responsibility are required to obtain prior approval from the company to deal in the company’s securities, and are prohibited from dealing
during closed periods.
Change of control
All of the company’s share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in the
directors’ remuneration report on pages 76 to 82. Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change
of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
The group’s banking facility agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event
of a change of control. Certain of the company’s trading contracts also contain similar provisions.
There are two employees who, on a change of control of the company resulting in the termination of their employment, would be entitled
to compensation for loss of ofﬁce. However, in the context of the company as a whole, these agreements are de minimis.
Articles of association
The company’s articles of association may only be amended by special resolution at general meetings of shareholders.
At the general meeting of the company on 12 May 2009 a resolution to amend the borrowing limit in the articles was passed. The previous
articles required the borrowing to be restricted so that the aggregate amount borrowed by the group should not, without the previous sanction
of an ordinary resolution of the company, exceed a multiple of the adjusted capital and reserves of the group. The resolution removed the
requirement to deduct goodwill and other intangible assets from the calculation of adjusted capital and reserves, thus resolving a technical
breach of the borrowing limits of the articles and bringing the provisions of the articles more into line with other companies in the sector.
At the 2009 AGM a special resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the company’s articles of association to give
effect to certain provisions of the new Companies Act 2006.
Appointment and replacement of directors
The number of directors on the board shall be no less than ﬁve nor more than twelve. Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary
resolution or by the board of directors. A director appointed by the board of directors holds ofﬁce until the next following AGM, and is then
eligible for election by the shareholders.
At each AGM all those directors who were elected, or last re-elected, at the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current year
shall retire from ofﬁce and may stand for re-election. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Directors’ report
The company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given, remove any director from ofﬁce.
Any director automatically ceases to be a director if (i) they give the company a written notice of resignation, (ii) they give the company
a written offer to resign and the directors decide to accept this offer, (iii) all of the other directors remove them from ofﬁce by notice in writing
served upon them, (iv) they are or have been suffering from mental ill health and have a court order for their detention or the appointment
of a guardian made in respect of them, (v) a bankruptcy order is made against them or they make any arrangement or composition with their
creditors generally, (vi) they are prohibited from being a director by law or (vii) they are absent from board meetings for six months without
leave and the other directors resolve that their ofﬁce should be vacated.
Powers of the directors
The business of the company is managed by the directors who may exercise all the powers of the company, subject to its memorandum
and articles of association, any relevant legislation and any directions given by the company by passing a special resolution at a general meeting.
In particular, the directors may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, issue shares, appoint and remove directors and
recommend and declare dividends.
Communications with shareholders
Shareholders who are interested in signing up to e-communications should refer to the shareholders information page for further information
on how to register via www.greeneking-shares.com.
Charitable donations
Donations by the company for charitable purposes made during the period amounted to £18,700 (2008: £33,200). The group makes no
political donations.
Payments to suppliers
The group understands the beneﬁts to be derived from maintaining good relationships with its suppliers and where possible enters into
agreements over payment terms. Where such terms have not been agreed it is the group policy to settle invoices 60 days from the end of
the month of invoicing. This policy is dependent on suppliers providing accurate, timely and sufﬁciently detailed invoices. Payment in respect
of 72 days’ average purchases from trade creditors of the group was outstanding at the end of the period (2008: 68 days).
Directors’ and ofﬁcers’ indemnity insurance
The group has taken out insurance to indemnify, against third party proceedings, the directors of the company whilst serving on the board of the
company and of any subsidiary. This cover indemniﬁes all employees of the group who serve on the boards of all subsidiaries. These indemnity
policies subsisted throughout the year and remain in place at the date of this report.
Financial instruments
The group’s policy on the use of ﬁnancial instruments is set out in note 24.
Post balance sheet events
Details of events occurring after the year-end are set out in note 31.
Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to auditors
The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors’ report are listed on pages 28 and 29. Having made
enquiries of fellow directors and of the company’s auditors, each of these directors conﬁrms that:
 to the best of each director’s knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the
company’s auditors are unaware, and
 each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information
and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in ofﬁce and a resolution to re-appoint the ﬁrm as the company’s auditors will
be proposed at the AGM.
Annual general meeting
The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 8 September 2009 at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre,
Newmarket, Suffolk. The notice of the AGM is set out in the separate circular to shareholders.
The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the notice of AGM are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders
as a whole. The directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
By order of the board
Lindsay Keswick
Company Secretary
1 July 2009 Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Directors’ statements
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respects of the group ﬁnancial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the group ﬁnancial statements, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom
law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU).
The directors are required to prepare group ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year which present fairly the ﬁnancial position of the group
and the ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows of the group for that period. In preparing those group ﬁnancial statements the directors are
required to:
 select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply
them consistently;
 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;
 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speciﬁc requirements in IFRS is insufﬁcient to enable users to understand the impact
of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the group’s ﬁnancial position and ﬁnancial performance; and
 state that the group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the ﬁnancial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position
of the group and enable them to ensure that the group ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respects of the parent company ﬁnancial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the ﬁnancial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare ﬁnancial statements for each ﬁnancial year. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare
the ﬁnancial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards
and applicable law). The ﬁnancial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the
proﬁt or loss of the company for that period. In preparing those ﬁnancial statements, the directors are required to:
 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
ﬁnancial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the ﬁnancial position
of the company and enable them to ensure that the company ﬁnancial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
Directors’ responsibility statement
The directors conﬁrm, to the best of their knowledge:
 that these ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, ﬁnancial position and proﬁt of the company and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and
 that the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company
and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and a description of the risks and uncertainties faced.
The directors of Greene King plc are listed on pages 28 and 29.
T J W Bridge R Anand
Director Director 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Directors’ remuneration report
Composition of the remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is appointed by the board. At the start of the year the committee comprised Howard Phillips as chairman,
Norman Murray and Jane Scriven. With the retirement of Howard Phillips from the board on 2 September 2008, Norman Murray took over
as chairman and Ian Durant was appointed as the third member. All of the committee members during the year were regarded by the board
as independent non-executive directors.
Terms of reference and reporting
The committee determines, and annually reviews, all elements of executive directors’ remuneration. It approves all contracts of executive
directors, and any compensation arrangements arising from their termination. It also approves all grants of share options and LTIP allocations
to directors and executives and reviews best practice in executive remuneration. The committee is made aware of the salary levels of certain
senior employees.
Advisers to the remuneration committee
The committee has taken external advice on general remuneration levels and comparator information from Hewitt New Bridge Street,
who do not provide any other services to the company. Advice is also obtained, where appropriate, from the company’s legal advisers, Linklaters.
The committee also received internal advice from Rooney Anand, chief executive, in determining appropriate remuneration and incentive
packages for the other executive directors.
Remuneration policy
The company operates in a highly competitive market and must attract, motivate and retain high quality directors. The committee considers
current market practice and makes comparisons with turnover, market capitalisation and operational details against a selection of other
companies. The committee has regard to pay and conditions elsewhere within the group. No director makes a decision relating to his own
remuneration. Individual directors leave the meeting when their own remuneration is being discussed. A signiﬁcant proportion of each executive
director’s potential remuneration is performance related, thus aligning the directors’ interests with those of shareholders and encouraging
performance at the highest levels.
Components of directors’ remuneration
The remuneration package of each executive director consists of the following elements:
Annual pay
Annual pay reﬂects the responsibilities, market value and sustained performance level of executive directors. Pay is reviewed annually or when
a change in responsibility occurs.
Beneﬁts in kind
The range of taxable beneﬁts available to executive directors is listed on page 79.
Bonus
Bonus payments are determined by the remuneration committee and awarded where justiﬁed by performance. For the ﬁnancial year 2008/09
and for future ﬁnancial years, the executive directors have been and will be eligible to receive an annual incentive bonus, the maximum amount
being 100% of annual pay, for the achievement of stretch targets. The targets are a combination of personal and ﬁnancial performance objectives
agreed in advance by the committee, with the ﬁnancial targets relating to operating proﬁt and proﬁt before tax and exceptional items and
speciﬁc business unit related targets.
There has been a long-standing practice of the targets being set before the start of the year and then being subject to a mid-year review, where
appropriate, to take account of the effect of changes to the size of the estate following acquisitions and divestments since the start of the year,
internal transfers and changes in market conditions (with adjustments made up or down to ensure that they remain appropriately challenging).
At this half-year review, the committee took the view that there had been such a sharp and unforeseen change to the external economic
situation which had created such unprecedented trading conditions in the pub and hospitality trade that the performance targets set for the
majority of executive directors had been mis-calibrated and could conceivably encourage undue risk taking in suggesting to executives that
such targets remained appropriate. Accordingly, it was decided that the targets should be adjusted to reﬂect the current state of the market
so as to encourage the executives to deliver improved performance against stretching second half targets for the ﬁnancial year. In addition
to setting revised targets, the available quantum was scaled back below 100% of salary for the remaining period.
In cases where targets were adjusted, it was decided that one-third of any net bonus payment paid should be in shares and deferred. This will
stretch the time-horizon of the bonus over the deferral period to help ensure that the value of any bonus earned based on ﬁnancial performance
in the second half of the year would be impacted by future performance (affecting the value of the shares) encouraging a longer-term perspective.
This would also reduce the risk proﬁle of the bonus plan and act as a lock-in mechanism, as the deferred shares will be forfeited in the event
that the relevant director leaves the group, other than as a good leaver, before the end of December 2010.
The bonus payable to Justin Adams will not be subject to deferral as his original business unit targets were considered sufﬁciently achievable
and yet still challenging in the current climate and were therefore left unchanged. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Pension
Tim Bridge is now a pensioner member of the group’s deﬁned beneﬁt pension scheme. His pension is equivalent to 1/45th of his ﬁnal pensionable
earnings for each year of service, with a pro rata payment for a part year, subject to HMRC limits. His ﬁnal pensionable earnings were those
received immediately prior to him ceasing to be chief executive.
The pension arrangements for Rooney Anand, Justin Adams, Ian Bull, David Elliott and Jonathan Lawson are on a deﬁned contribution basis.
They all have self-invested personal pension schemes to which the company makes a contribution. The contribution rates are 25% for Rooney
Anand, as chief executive, and David Elliott, on an age-related basis, and 20% for the remainder of the executive directors. No element of
remuneration other than annual pay is treated as pensionable and the retirement age for the schemes is 60.
Justin Adams, David Elliott and Jonathan Lawson participate in a group death-in-service insurance scheme. Death beneﬁts in excess of the
HMRC maximum, where applicable, were provided through additional insurance. Since A-Day, life assurance provision for Rooney Anand
and Ian Bull has been through an HMRC approved excepted life policy. The cost of this insurance is disclosed as a non-cash beneﬁt in the
emoluments table below.
Long-term incentives
In previous years executive directors and other senior employees have been awarded long-term incentives in the form of share options and
restricted or conditional awards of shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP awards). The annual award levels for executive directors
have been 1x salary for each type of award. Both awards have been subject to an EPS-based performance condition.
Two changes are proposed to the company’s long-term incentive award strategy for 2009/10. The ﬁrst change relates to the type of award,
where it is proposed to grant only LTIP awards, rather than a mix of options and LTIP awards. The grant of LTIP awards alone will create a
simple and cohesive reward structure, help provide greater line of sight between performance and reward than share options (which can be
highly volatile) and provide a stronger alignment with the interests of shareholders.
The move to granting LTIP awards alone is not intended to increase the value of the long-term incentive awards overall. To calculate the value
of the increase to the LTIP awards (by the value of the option foregone), an option valuation methodology has been used. On this basis, the
value of a share option is approximately one-third of the value of an LTIP award and it is therefore proposed to increase the grant level for
LTIP awards to 133% of base salary.
As set out in the AGM notice, shareholder approval is being sought to increase the individual limit in the rules of the LTIP from 100% of salary,
to facilitate this policy. If shareholder approval is given, it is intended that no further share options will be granted under the executive share
option scheme in the immediate future. However, the committee wishes to retain the ﬂexibility to use the scheme again in exceptional
circumstances if the business strategy supports its future use. The company’s major shareholders will be consulted if any proposed future
use of share options would result in an increase in total remuneration.
The second change relates to the performance conditions to be applied to the LTIP awards. Rather than one EPS-based performance target,
there will be two performance conditions applying to distinct parts of the award, one being an adjusted EPS-based condition and the other
based on adjusted free cash ﬂow. The use of two separate ﬁnancial performance conditions will provide a more rounded assessment of ﬁnancial
performance. For awards in 2009 (and for the foreseeable future) the company intends to use both conditions measured over a three year
period. To emphasise the importance of cash management as a medium-term business priority there will be a 60:40 weighting in favour of
the cash measure.
The adjusted earnings per share part of the performance condition will be based on a sliding scale range of “pence per share” targets for
the 2011/12 year end, with between 0% and 100% of that part of the award vesting depending on the extent to which the targets are met.
Earnings per share has been retained as it is the key measure of company proﬁtability and the range to be set will, in the view of the
remuneration committee, be appropriately challenging bearing in mind the current business climate.
For the three-year adjusted free cash ﬂow measure it is proposed that the following deﬁnition will be adopted: net cash ﬂow from operating
activities less capital expenditure. Net cash ﬂow from operating activities will include the impact of changes in working capital, and interest
and tax payments, but will be adjusted to exclude exceptional items at the discretion of the remuneration committee in consultation with
the audit committee.
The deduction from the free cash ﬂow measure will be for capital expenditure on properties that were within the estate at the beginning of the
performance measurement period, where that capital expenditure has not been funded from property disposal proceeds. Free cash ﬂow has
been chosen as a performance condition because converting EBITDA to positive cash ﬂows to support debt repayment, continued investment
in the business and the ongoing payment of dividends is a key measure for both management and shareholders. A range will be set for the three
year aggregate adjusted cash ﬂow, with between 0% and 100% of that part of the award vesting, depending on the extent to which the targets
are met. Measuring on an aggregate three-year basis (rather than the more common approach of focusing on the end year only of the three)
ensures that there will be a focus on delivering cash across all three years.
In each case the precise details of the target range will be determined over this summer in the light of the rights issue and announced
if shareholder approval is granted to the changes to the LTIP rules referred to above.
The remuneration committee will continue to review the propriety of performance measures each time future awards are granted.
To the extent that any substantial changes are proposed, the company will consult with its major shareholders in advance. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Directors’ remuneration report
Employee share schemes
In common with all other employees, the executive directors are also entitled to participate in the sharesave and share incentive plan.
Further details of these schemes are given later in this report, together with the directors’ entitlements under them.
Remuneration from other companies
Since September 2007, Rooney Anand has served as a non-executive director of Drive Assist Holdings Limited, a company unconnected
with the group. He is entitled to receive and retain for his personal beneﬁt £40k per annum from that company by way of director’s fees.
Remuneration for non-executive directors
The fees paid to the chairman and the other non-executive directors are determined by the board as a whole. They are agreed after taking
external advice and making market comparisons, and relate to the services of the directors in connection with the company’s business.
The non-executive directors do not have service agreements and cannot participate in the pension scheme, the bonus scheme or the
share option schemes.
Service agreements
Newly appointed executive directors are offered a service agreement with a notice period of one year. In the event of the employment of an
executive director being terminated, the committee would pay due regard to best practice and take account of the individual’s duty to mitigate
their loss.
Rooney Anand, Justin Adams, Ian Bull, David Elliott and Jonathan Lawson, whose contracts with the company commenced on 6 August 2001,
5 September 2005, 9 January 2006, 3 November 1998, and 10 April 2007 respectively, are all subject to one-year notice periods from the
company. Those contracts do not contain any additional terms relating to compensation for termination of employment. The terms of Rooney
Anand’s appointment as chief executive were agreed and set out in a letter dated 24 December 2004.
Non-executive directors are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment for three-year periods. The table below sets out the start and expiry
date of their respective appointments.
Extendable for a
Director Date of appointment Expiry date further 3 years?
Tim Bridge 2 May 05 1 May 11 Yes
John Brady 24 June 05 23 June 11 Yes
Ian Durant 16 Mar 07 15 Mar 10 Yes
Norman Murray 1 Jan 04 31 Dec 09 Yes
Jane Scriven 18 Mar 05 17 Mar 11 Yes
The appointments of all these non-executive directors can be terminated by the company at any time on three months’ written notice,
notwithstanding the expiry date above.
Performance of Greene King
A graph showing the total shareholder return of Greene King relative to the FTSE All-Share Index over the last ﬁve years is shown below.
We have chosen this comparator group as it is the most appropriate market index of which the company is a member.
50
100
150
200
250
300
TSR (rebased to 100)
Greene King
FTSE All Share
May 04 Nov 04 May 05 Nov 07 May 08 Nov 06 May 06 May 07 Nov 05 May 09 Nov 08 Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Audited information
Directors’ emoluments
Annual Annual Annual Non-cash Other cash Total Total
pay fees bonus benefits benefits (52 weeks) (53 weeks)
2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2009 2008
£’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000 £’000
Tim Bridge* – 160 – 29 – 189 186
Rooney Anand 462 – 176 29 – 667 798
Justin Adams 232 – 161 24 – 417 305
John Brady* – 40 –– – 40 41
Ian Bull 306 – 112 20 – 438 508
Ian Durant* – 43 –– – 43 41
David Elliott 266 – 28 3 16 313 337
Jonathan Lawson 202 – 38 3 10 253 369
Norman Murray* – 45 –– – 45 46
Howard Phillips*
†
– 17 –– – 17 46
Jane Scriven* – 40 –– – 40 41
1,468 345 515 108 26 2,462 2,718
* Non-executive.
†
Retired 2 September 2008.
No payments were made to any third parties in respect of any directors’ services. Non-cash beneﬁts principally include the provision of
company cars, fuel for company cars, life assurance and private medical insurance. Other cash beneﬁts include cash allowances paid in lieu
of company cars and accommodation expenses.
The bonuses payable to Rooney Anand, Ian Bull, David Elliott and Jonathan Lawson will be paid as two-thirds of their amount in cash and
one-third of their amount in shares, which will be forfeited in the event that the relevant director leaves the group, other than as a good leaver,
before the end of December 2010.
Directors’ pensions
Payments to the self-invested personal pension schemes of the executive directors made by the company in the period are shown in the
table below.
2009 2008
£’000 £’000
Rooney Anand 116 118
Justin Adams 46 47
Ian Bull 62 62
David Elliott 67 68
Jonathan Lawson 40 41
Two former directors receive additional pension income from the company. John Bridge, who retired as a director on 31 December 1989,
receives a pension of £26,172 pa in excess of his scheme entitlements and Bernard Tickner, who retired as a director on 27 August 1992,
receives a pension of £20,740 pa in excess of his scheme entitlements. As required by law, both of these ﬁgures are stated net of their
company-funded pension in payment at 31 March 1997.
Share price during the period
The closing price of the company’s shares on 1 May 2009 (being the last business day before the ﬁnancial period end) was 610p (2008: 521½p).
The closing price of the company’s shares during the period ranged between 624p and 294¼p. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Directors’ remuneration report
Executive share options
A summary of the directors’ interests in options granted under the company’s executive share option schemes is shown below.
Option price Outstanding as at Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during Outstanding as
Date of grant (p) 4 May 2008 the period the period the period at 3 May 2009 Exercise period
Tim Bridge 4-Jan-02 350½ 84,000 –– – 84,000 4 Jan 2005-
3 Jan 2012
18-Jul-02 370 80,000 –– – 80,000 18 Jul 2005-
17 July 2012
1-Aug-03 414¼ 90,000 –– – 90,000 1 Aug 2006-
31 July 2013
6-Aug-04 509 80,000 –– – 80,000 6 Aug 2007-
5 Aug 2014
Rooney Anand 18-Jul-02 370 42,000 –– – 42,000 18 Jul 2005-
17 July 2012
1-Aug-03 414¼ 48,000 –– – 48,000 1 Aug 2006-
31 July 2013
6-Aug-04 509 44,000 –– – 44,000 6 Aug 2007-
5 Aug 2014
4-Aug-05 658½ 60,000 –– – 60,000 4 Aug 2008-
3 Aug 2015
2-Aug-06 813 54,000 –– – 54,000 2 Aug 2009-
1 Aug 2016
9-Jul-07 1087 42,000 –– – 42,000 9 Jul 2010-
8 Jul 2017
8-Aug-08 560 – 82,000 –– 82,000 8 Aug 2011-
7 Aug 2018
Justin Adams 2-Aug-06 813 28,000 –– – 28,000 2 Aug 2009-
1 Aug 2016
9-Jul-07 1087 14,000 –– – 14,000 9 Jul 2010-
8 Jul 2017
8-Aug-08 560 – 30,000 –– 30,000 8 Aug 2011-
7 Aug 2018
Ian Bull 11-Jan-06 746 20,000 –– – 20,000 11 Jan 2009-
10 Jan 2016
2-Aug-06 813 36,000 –– – 36,000 2 Aug 2009-
1 Aug 2016
9-Jul-07 1087 28,000 –– – 28,000 9 Jul 2010-
8 Jul 2017
8-Aug-08 560 – 54,000 –– 54,000 8 Aug 2011-
7 Aug 2018
David Elliott 1-Aug-03 414¼ 48,000 –– – 48,000 1 Aug 2006-
31 July 2013
6-Aug-04 509 44,000 –– – 44,000 6 Aug 2007-
5 Aug 2014
4-Aug-05 658½ 36,000 –– – 36,000 4 Aug 2008-
3 Aug 2015
2-Aug-06 813 31,000 –– – 31,000 2 Aug 2009-
1 Aug 2016
9-Jul-07 1087 24,000 –– – 24,000 9 Jul 2010-
8 Jul 2017
8-Aug-08 560 – 47,000 –– 47,000 8 Aug 2011-
7 Aug 2018
Jonathan Lawson 9-Jul-07 1087 18,000 –– – 18,000 9 Jul 2010-
8 Jul 2017
8-Aug-08 560 – 35,000 –– 35,000 8 Aug 2011-
7 Aug 2018
All relevant figures adjusted for two-for-one share split in September 2005. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
No options were exercised and no changes were made during the period to the terms and conditions of any options then outstanding
(2008: no options exercised and no changes made). Since the year end, the options granted in 2006 have lapsed, as a result of the remuneration
committee having determined that the performance conditions applicable to those options have not been met. In addition, adjustments have
been made in respect of all outstanding options, both to the option price and the number of options held by each director, to reﬂect the impact
of the rights issue completed in May 2009, to ensure that the aggregate exercise price of each option remains unchanged. There have been no
options exercised and no other changes to the date of this report.
Options can only be exercised if a performance condition has been met. This condition relates to the growth in audited adjusted earnings
per share which must exceed RPI inﬂation by 4% per annum, measured over the period of three consecutive ﬁnancial years of the company,
starting with the year in which the award is granted.
Long-term incentive plan
A summary of the directors’ interests in options granted under the long-term incentive plan (LTIP) is shown below.
Outstanding as Granted during Vested during Lapsed during Outstanding as Performance
Date of grant Type of award at 4 May 2008 the period the period the period at 3 May 2009 period
Rooney Anand 4-Aug-05 Restricted 60,000 – 60,000 – – May 2005-
forfeitable shares May 2008
2-Aug-06 Restricted 54,000 –– – 54,000 May 2006-
forfeitable shares May 2009
9-Jul-07 Restricted 42,000 –– – 42,000 May 2007-
forfeitable shares May 2010
8-Aug-08 Restricted – 82,000 –– 82,000 May 2008-
forfeitable shares May 2011
Justin Adams 2-Aug-06 Restricted 28,000 –– – 28,000 May 2006-
forfeitable shares May 2009
9-Jul-07 Restricted 14,000 –– – 14,000 May 2007-
forfeitable shares May 2010
8-Aug-08 Restricted – 30,000 –– 30,000 May 2008-
forfeitable shares May 2011
Ian Bull 2-Aug-06 Restricted 36,000 –– – 36,000 May 2006-
forfeitable shares May 2009
9-Jul-07 Restricted 28,000 –– – 28,000 May 2007-
forfeitable shares May 2010
8-Aug-08 Restricted – 54,000 –– 54,000 May 2008-
forfeitable shares May 2011
David Elliott 4-Aug-05 Restricted 36,000 – 36,000 – – May 2005-
forfeitable shares May 2008
2-Aug-06 Restricted 31,000 –– – 31,000 May 2006-
forfeitable shares May 2009
9-Jul-07 Restricted 24,000 –– – 24,000 May 2007-
forfeitable shares May 2010
8-Aug-08 Restricted – 47,000 –– 47,000 May 2008-
forfeitable shares May 2011
Jonathan Lawson 9-Jul-07 Restricted 18,000 –– – 18,000 May 2007-
forfeitable shares May 2010
8-Aug-08 Restricted – 35,000 –– 35,000 May 2008-
forfeitable shares May 2011
All relevant figures adjusted for two-for-one share split in September 2005.
The market price of the shares on the date on which each of the awards referred to above were granted, adjusted for the two-for-one share
split where relevant, was: 4 August 2005 – 655½p; 2 August 2006 – 813p; 9 July 2007 – 1108p; 8 August 2008 – 590p.
Awards granted under the LTIP prior to July 2008 will only vest if the company’s growth in earnings per share is equal to or greater than the
increase in RPI plus 4% per annum compound over the three consecutive ﬁnancial years starting immediately before the award. At this level,
25% of the award (rounded down to the nearest 1,000 shares) will vest.
100% of the award will vest if the company’s growth in earnings per share is greater than the increase in RPI plus 10% per annum over the same
three-year period. There is a pro-rata scale (rounded down to the nearest 1,000 shares) between the minimum level of RPI plus 4% and the
maximum level of RPI plus 10%. If the targets are not met, the award will lapse.
For awards granted since July 2008, the earnings per share growth range was changed from RPI plus 4-10% to RPI plus 3-8%.
Details of the awards which vested during the year, the notional gain before tax achieved by each director and the number of shares
retained on vesting are shown below. Total gains made by directors under the LTIP in the period ended 3 May 2009 amounted to £522,720
(2008: £1,081,380). 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Directors’ remuneration report
Number of shares Market value at Notional gain Number of
Date of vesting which vested Award price (p) date of vesting (p) before tax shares retained
Rooney Anand 04-Aug-08 60,000 nil 544½ £326,700 35,960
David Elliott 04-Aug-08 36,000 nil 544½ £196,020 21,575
No changes were made during the period, or since the year end to the date of this report, to the terms and conditions of any awards then
outstanding. Save as set out above, no awards vested or lapsed during the period. The awards granted in 2006 will lapse on the third anniversary
of their grant as a result of the remuneration committee having determined that the performance conditions applicable to those awards have
not been met. There have been no other changes to the date of this report.
Sharesave scheme
The company has operated an HMRC approved sharesave scheme for a number of years. Options are granted over the company’s ordinary
shares at an option price which, at board discretion, is at a discount of up to 20% of the closing price at the time of granting. The company
has historically granted all such options at a 20% discount.
The interests of directors in options granted under the sharesave scheme were as follows:
Outstanding as at Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during Outstanding as
4 May 2008 the period the period the period at 3 May 2009 Option price (p)
Justin Adams 3,236 –– 3,236 – 519
Justin Adams – 4,750 –– 4,750 341
David Elliott 4,514 – 4,514 – – 351
David Elliott – 2,749 –– 2,749 341
Jonathan Lawson 3,236 –– 3,236 – 519
Jonathan Lawson – 4,750 –– 4,750 341
All relevant figures adjusted for the two-for-one share split on 5 September 2005.
David Elliott exercised an option over 4,514 shares at a price of 351p on 1 April 2009, when the closing price of the shares was 516p, giving a
notional gain of £7,448. He retained the shares issued to him on exercise of the options. David Elliott’s new options can be exercised between
1 April and 30 September 2012. Justin Adams’ and Jonathan Lawson’s options can be exercised between 1 April and 30 September 2014.
All options outstanding at 3 May 2009 were granted at an option price below the year-end closing price.
Since the year end, adjustments have been made in respect of all outstanding options, both to the option price and the number of options
held by each director, to reﬂect the impact of the rights issue completed in May 2009, to ensure that the aggregate exercise price of each
option remains unchanged.
Share incentive plan
The directors’ beneﬁcial interests in Greene King shares resulting from participation in the company’s HMRC approved share incentive plan
are reﬂected in their shareholding data in the directors’ report.
Shareholders will be asked to vote on this remuneration report, as an ordinary resolution, at the company’s AGM.
Approved by the board of directors on 1 July 2009.
Norman Murray
Chairman of the remuneration committee
1 July 2009 Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Corporate governance
Governance structure
The board
The board considers that it is vital to ensure that there is an appropriate range of skills and experience among its members, and that the
objectivity and integrity of members should be exemplary. The board currently comprises a non-executive chairman, four other non-executive
directors and ﬁve executive directors. The directors’ biographies are on pages 28 and 29.
All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the ﬁrst annual general meeting after their appointment to the board and to
re-election by shareholders every three years thereafter.
The division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the
board. The job descriptions are available on request. The chairman has primary responsibility for running the board and devotes such time to
his role as is necessary to properly discharge his duties. The chief executive has responsibility for executing the company’s strategy and achieving
operational and ﬁnancial goals.
The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision, including approval of the long-term objectives and strategy,
approval of budgets and ﬁnancial statements including the report and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to the structure of the group
and overall corporate governance issues. It reviews trading performance and considers major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
Management is delegated the task of the detailed planning and implementation of the company’s strategy.
Information and training
Full and timely information is provided to the board to enable it to properly discharge its functions. All directors have access to the advice and
services of the company secretary and are provided with the opportunity to question management as required. The training needs of the board
are regularly reviewed. Explanations of issues and legislative changes affecting the industry have been provided to the board during the year.
There is an agreed procedure, set out in writing, for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the
company’s expense. The company has in place directors’ and ofﬁcers’ liability insurance.
Newly appointed directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the board to acquaint them with the company. This takes the
form of meetings with other board members and the provision of an induction pack containing general information on the company, its policies
and procedures, ﬁnancial information and a brieﬁng on directors’ responsibilities.
Performance evaluation
The board believes it is appropriate to undertake a regular performance evaluation of the board, its committees and individual directors. It has
determined that an internal process of evaluation is most appropriate, to enable ﬁrst-hand input from individual directors to be obtained. The
last evaluation exercise was undertaken in March 2008 and it is the board’s intention to conduct such reviews approximately every 18 months.
No formal evaluation exercise was therefore undertaken during the 2008/9 ﬁnancial year. The board is, however, satisﬁed that an open dialogue
exists between all board members enabling issues to be raised and dealt with as they occur rather than waiting for the next formal evaluation
process, and accordingly believes that it and its committees are operating effectively.
The performance of the executive directors is reviewed annually by the remuneration committee in conjunction with their annual pay review
and the payment of bonuses. The performance of Tim Bridge, chairman, was reviewed by the non-executive directors, led by Norman Murray,
the senior independent non-executive director, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Independence of non-executive directors
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are carefully
examined and fully discussed. Their independence and objectivity are of paramount importance. The board believes that they all have a range
of skills and experience which will help the company and that their understanding of the company, its strategy and operations increases over
the years.
The board is satisﬁed that all of the non-executive directors were independent throughout the year, being free from any relationship with the
executive management which could result in any conﬂict or affect their independent judgment, and that they all remained independent in
character and judgment. None of the independent non-executive directors participates in the share option schemes or long-term incentive
plan operated by the company and none was dependent on the fees received from the company as their primary source of income.
Following the retirement of Howard Phillips at the AGM in September 2008, Norman Murray took over the role of senior independent non-
executive director. Norman was appointed to the board in January 2004, has never been employed by the company and has had diverse business
interests. The board considers that he has remained independent from management in both character and judgement, that his performance has
been effective and that he has demonstrated commitment to the role. A key responsibility for the senior independent director is to be available
to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the chairman, chief executive or ﬁnance director.
Tim Bridge took over as chairman of the board in May 2005 for an initial term of three years. The board noted that, because of his long tenure
as an executive director, he did not meet all of the independence criteria set out in the combined code. However, the board was, and remains,
conﬁdent that the strength of character and independent judgement that he exhibited as chief executive would continue in his role as chairman.
The board is satisﬁed that his performance as chairman is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role. He was
therefore re-appointed for a further three-year period in May 2008. Tim Bridge is also a non-executive director of William Ransom & Son plc
and Weatherbys Ventures Limited but these are not regarded as signiﬁcant commitments and do not impact upon his ability to perform his
role as chairman effectively. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Corporate governance
Meetings and attendance
Board meetings are scheduled to be held eight times a year. There is also a strategy day for the full board each year. Between meetings,
as required, the board can be in frequent contact to progress the company’s business and if necessary, board meetings can be held at short
notice. Where possible, however, ad hoc committees of the board are appointed to deal with matters which it is known will need to be
dealt with between scheduled board meetings. If directors are unable to attend meetings, they are given the opportunity to be consulted
and comment in advance of the meeting. The chairman holds regular informal meetings with the non-executive directors without the
executive directors being present.
The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled board and board committee meetings during the year.
Audit* Remuneration* Nomination
Board committee committee committee
Meetings held during 2008/09 9331
Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended
Executive directors
Rooney Anand 9– ––
Justin Adams 9– ––
Ian Bull 9– ––
David Elliott 9– ––
Jonathan Lawson 9– ––
Non-executive directors
Tim Bridge 9– –1
John Brady 93 ––
Ian Durant 93 3–
Norman Murray
1
91 31
Howard Phillips
2
3– 1–
Jane Scriven 93 3–
* During the year, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee and the remuneration committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
– Not applicable (where a director is not a member of the committee).
1 Norman Murray ceased to be a member of the audit committee in September 2008. The number of audit committee meetings he attended is up to and including that date.
2 Howard Phillips retired as a director on 2 September 2008. The number of board and committee meetings he attended is up to and including that date.
Conﬂicts of interest
At the AGM in September 2008, shareholders gave authority to the board, by means of an amendment to the articles of association, to approve
potential situational conﬂicts of interest. A small number of such potential conﬂicts have been approved by the board following disclosure by
certain directors, in each case with the relevant director not taking part in any decision relating to their own position. Directors are also aware
that the disclosure and authorisation of any potential conﬂict situations does not detract from their requirement to notify the board separately
of an actual or potential conﬂict in relation to a proposed transaction by the company. The board will keep its authorisations under review
on a regular basis.
Board committees
The board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal terms of
reference governing its method of operation. Each of the terms of reference, which are available on request and will be available for inspection
at the annual general meeting, reﬂect the provisions of the combined code and have been approved by the board.
Set out below are reports from each of the nomination committee, audit committee and remuneration committee.
Nomination committee report
During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Tim Bridge, and the other members of the committee were Howard Phillips,
until his retirement, and Norman Murray. John Brady has recently been appointed as the third member. Apart from the chairman, all members
were considered by the board to be independent.
The committee’s role is to propose candidates for appointment to the board, to review regularly the structure, size and composition of the
board and make recommendations to the board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary. No new appointments were
made to the board during the year.
The committee met once during the year and the chief executive, at the request of the committee, attended the meeting.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following their appointment and subsequently in every third year. The nomination
committee undertakes a review of all directors who are due for re-election to determine whether or not to recommend their re-appointment.
Members of the committee do not participate in discussions regarding their own re-appointment. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Audit committee report
The audit committee was chaired by Norman Murray until the AGM in September 2008, at which point he stood down from the committee to
take up, instead, the chairmanship of the remuneration committee. Ian Durant, already a member of the committee, then took over as chairman.
The other members of the committee during the year were Jane Scriven and John Brady. All members have been considered by the board to
be independent. The board is satisﬁed that both Norman Murray and Ian Durant have recent and relevant ﬁnancial experience, Norman being
a chartered accountant who has already chaired audit committees of other UK listed companies and who is also a past President of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and Ian currently being ﬁnance director of Liberty International plc.
The role of the audit committee is to review the results of the full-year audit and approve the interim results in each case prior to their
submission to the board. It is responsible for reviewing the company’s internal ﬁnancial control systems, advising the board on the appointment
of external auditors, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing the company’s whistleblowing procedures and considering
the need for a full internal audit function. It also reviews the group’s risk management policies and procedures prior to submission to the board
and receives detailed reports on the risk management functions within the business units.
The committee had three meetings during the year and on each occasion the ﬁnance director and senior members of the ﬁnance function
attended. The external auditors attended all of the meetings. In addition, the chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external
audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the company.
The committee reviews the audit plan presented by the auditors before the start of each audit cycle and agrees the scope of the audit work.
During the audit process the committee keeps under review the consistency of accounting policies on a year to year basis and across the group,
and the methods used to account for signiﬁcant or unusual transactions. The ﬁnancial statements and interim results are reviewed in detail prior
to their submission to the board. Following the audit the committee discusses issues arising from the audit, and any matters the auditor may
wish to discuss.
The audit committee continuously monitors the relationship with the auditors and assesses their performance, cost-effectiveness, objectivity
and independence. The board is satisﬁed that the auditors are independent of the company and that best practice is being observed.
During the year the company made limited use of specialist teams within Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work such as taxation advice and
transaction support. The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the use of Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work. The company
will award non-audit work to the ﬁrm which provides the best commercial solution for the work in question. Pieces of work estimated to be in
excess of an agreed level are put out to tender unless agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit committee. Limits of authority have been
placed on the ability of the ﬁnance director and the chairman of the audit committee to approve speciﬁc engagements, with fees in excess of
those limits being subject to approval of the full committee.
The company has a limited internal audit function which focuses on the group’s managed house divisions, where the greatest ﬁnancial risks are
perceived to exist. Elsewhere within the group a combination of the external audit procedures and the types of ﬁnancial risks involved are felt
to be such that a wider internal audit function is not required.
Remuneration committee report
At the beginning of the year the remuneration committee was chaired by Howard Phillips and the other members were Norman Murray and
Jane Scriven. Howard Phillips retired from the board at the AGM in September 2008, and his role as chairman of the committee was taken
over by Norman Murray. Ian Durant was appointed as the third member of the committee at that time. All the members were considered
by the board to be independent.
The role of the committee includes determining the remuneration policy for the executive directors and the chairman and ﬁxing the total
individual remuneration package of each of the executive directors, considering the granting of share options and awards under the long-term
incentive plan and determining bonuses payable to the executive directors.
The remuneration committee met three times during the year. The chairman and the chief executive, at the request of the committee,
attend its meetings. The chairman does not participate in any discussions relating to his own remuneration. The chief executive is consulted
by the committee on its proposals, but does not participate in any discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Details of the company’s policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are set out in the remuneration report
on pages 76 to 82. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Corporate governance
Communication with shareholders
Shareholder communication is regarded as a key priority for the board, with the annual report and interim statements being the principal
media used. Both are made available to all shareholders. In addition, the AGM is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly with private
shareholders, who have the full opportunity to ask questions. The board aims to ensure that all members of the board, including in particular
the chairmen of the board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
All substantive items of business at shareholders’ meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution to adopt the report
and accounts. The chairman announces the results of the proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The notice of meeting is issued in compliance with both the articles and the combined code and is sent to shareholders a minimum of twenty
working days before the meeting.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year end and interim results.
The board receives regular reports from the chief executive on the meetings he and the ﬁnance director have with principal shareholders.
The senior independent non-executive director, Norman Murray, has been available to shareholders if they have had concerns about
governance issues which the normal channels of contact have failed to resolve.
The company maintains a website (www.greeneking.co.uk) to provide up-to-date, detailed information on the company’s operations and brands,
which includes a dedicated investor relations section. All company announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for
presentations to investment analysts.
Going concern
The group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the
chief executive’s review. The ﬁnancial position of the group, its cash ﬂows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the
ﬁnancial review. In addition, note 24 to the ﬁnancial statements include the group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital;
its ﬁnancial risk management objectives; details of its ﬁnancial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
The directors are currently of the opinion that the group’s forecast and projections, taking account of reasonable possible changes in trading
performance, show that the group should be able to operate within its current borrowing facilities and comply with its ﬁnancing covenants.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report
and ﬁnancial statements.
Internal control
The board acknowledges its responsibility for the group’s systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. Such systems can only
be designed to manage, and not to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives. They can provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance that the group’s assets are safeguarded and that the ﬁnancial information used within the business and for external reporting is
reliable.
The company has assessed the key risks to which it is exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address these and other
issues. There are processes in place which are in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control. The board has
adopted a formal risk policy and regularly reviews risk management and internal controls, including key performance indicator data on the
signiﬁcant risks faced.
The executive directors routinely consider the effective management of risk throughout the business at their regular meetings. This group
oversees the development of risk management strategies, the implementation of suitable management actions and monitors progress made.
The audit committee receives regular reports on risk issues within the business.
The board is ultimately responsible for the company’s system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. A formal assessment of the
risk and control environment in place during the period and to the date of this report has been undertaken, based on detailed reports from,
and subsequent discussions with, senior management. No signiﬁcant problems were disclosed in these reports. Overview Business review Management and governance Other information Financial statements and notes

GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
The control environment comprises the elements set out below:
 Internal control and risk management process
The directors routinely monitor all aspects of risk management and internal control, and regularly assess the data on the signiﬁcant risks
faced. Major risks are identiﬁed, the ﬁnancial implications of each risk assessed and the adequacy and effectiveness of the associated control
environment analysed. Any issues arising from this process are discussed with operational management as needed. Appropriate steps are
then taken to mitigate and monitor the effect of these risks. Data on the key exposures is reviewed regularly by the executive directors and
the audit committee of the board.
 Internal audit
The controls over the group’s managed houses are enhanced by an internal audit team and the availability of comprehensive information
from the EPOS till system. On behalf of the board, the audit committee assesses the scope of the internal audit functions within the group,
including seeking the views of the external auditors.
 Annual budgets
Detailed annual budgets covering all ﬁnancial aspects of the group’s business are evaluated and approved by the board. The actual results
are compared against these budgets on a four-weekly basis and variances analysed in order that any appropriate action can be taken.
 Capital and project control
There are clearly deﬁned evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure and project control.
These include escalating levels of authority, detailed appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews of all major projects
to compare the actual outcome with the original plan. Certain transactions are reserved for approval by the board. Limits of delegated
responsibility and areas of authority have been identiﬁed for employees.
 External audit
The audit committee reports to the board on matters discussed with the auditors during the course of the statutory audit and interim review.
Statement of compliance
The company is committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained. The board considers that the company
has complied with the 2006 combined code throughout the year, except in the following areas.
A.3.2
A.3.2 requires that at least half of the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors. Since 2 September,
when Howard Phillips retired, this requirement has not been met, in that the board now comprises the chairman, four non-executive directors
and ﬁve executive directors. The board is committed to having a balanced board going forward, yet also believes that the process of addressing
the balance should not be hurried.
A.4.1
A.4.1 requires the majority of members of the nomination committee to be independent non-executive directors. Since 2 September, when
Howard Phillips retired, this requirement was not met, in that the nomination committee had just two members, the chairman and Norman
Murray. Since the year end a third member, John Brady, whom the board regard as independent, has been appointed. During the period when
the committee had just two members it held just one routine committee meeting.
A.6
A.6 requires the board to undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its individual directors. The last
formal evaluation of the board and its non-executive directors was undertaken in March 2008. No evaluation has been undertaken since then,
given the board’s focus towards the end of the year on the rights issue announced in April 2009. The board intends to conduct such reviews
approximately every 18 months going forward and is satisﬁed that, between such reviews, an open dialogue exists between all board members
enabling issues to be raised and dealt with as they occur. 
GREENE KING PLC
ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Shareholder information
Financial calendar
Shares trade ex-dividend from 12 August 2009
Record date for ﬁnal dividend 14 August 2009
Annual general meeting 8 September 2009
Payment of ﬁnal dividend 14 September 2009
Announcement of interim results December 2009
Payment of interim dividend January 2010
Preliminary announcement of the 2009/10 results July 2010
Registrars Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersﬁeld HD8 0GA
Telephone: 0871 664 0300* Fax: 01484 601512
E-mail: shareholder.services@capitaregistrars.com
Website: www.capitaregistrars.com
*calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras
E-communications Greene King plc has teamed up with Climate Care to help combat climate change by providing shareholders
with the opportunity to receive communications from the company electronically. The company will donate
£1 to Climate Care for every shareholder that registers. Climate Care funds projects that reduce greenhouse
gases – the main cause of climate change.
To register, visit www.greeneking-shares.com and either log in or click on “Register new user” and follow
the instructions.
By registering your e-mail address you will receive e-mails with a web link to information posted on
the company’s website, including the report and accounts, notice of meetings and other information
communicated to shareholders.
Indirect investors’ Beneﬁcial owners of shares held on their behalf by a different registered holder now have certain information
information rights rights regarding Greene King. They have the right to ask their registered holder to nominate them to receive
all non-personalised information distributed to shareholders, in accordance with the provisions of section 146
of the Companies Act 2006.
Should you wish to be nominated to receive information from Greene King directly, please contact your
registered holder, who will need to notify our registrars, Capita Registrars, accordingly. Please note that,
once nominated, beneﬁcial owners of shares must continue to direct all communications regarding those
shares to the registered holder of those shares rather than to the registrars or to Greene King directly.
Company secretary Lindsay Keswick
and registered ofﬁce Westgate Brewery, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP33 1QT
Telephone: 01284 763 222 Fax: 01284 706 502
Website: www.greeneking.co.uk
Share dealing services Stocktrade
Telephone: 0845 601 0995
Redmayne Bentley
Moseley’s Farm Ofﬁces, Fornham All Saints, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP28 6JY
Telephone: 01284 723 761
Capita IRG Trustees Limited
Telephone: 0871 664 0454*
Website: www.capitadeal.com
*calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras
Capital gains tax For the purpose of computing capital gains tax, the market value of the ordinary shares on 31 March 1982,
after adjustment for the capitalisation issues in 1980 and 1982 was 72.5625p. After take up of the rights issue
in July 1996, the March 1982 value becomes 129.6875p. With the take-up of the rights issue in May 2009,
the March 1982 value becomes 182.3046875p.
CORPORATE ADVISERS
Financial advisers Citigroup, The Citigroup Centre, 33 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5LB
Stockbrokers Deutsche Bank AG London, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 3EQ
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP, 1 More London Place, London SE1 2AF
Solicitors Linklaters, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ Designed and produced by 85FOUR
Photography by Ric Gemmell
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certiﬁed and CarbonNeutral
®
This has been printed on revive 75 Silk paper. The paper has been independently certiﬁed
according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and awarded NAPM Recycled Mark.
50% GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008/09
Registered in England No. 24511
Registered Ofﬁce: Westgate Brewery, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP33 1QT
Telephone: 01284 763222 www.greeneking.co.uk
