 WELL -POSITIONED  
FOR GROWTH
GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC 
Annual Report 2014 iv GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Introduction
Gulf Marine Services (GMS) is one of the largest operators 
of self-propelled, self-elevating support vessels (SESVs)  
in the world. The Group builds and maintains its vessels  
in Abu Dhabi and operates these from its offices in Abu Dhabi, 
Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom.
LEADING THE WA Y IN  
OFFSHORE SUPPORT  
SOLUTIONS FOR THE OIL,  
GAS AND RENEWABLE  
ENERGY INDUSTRIES
INTRODUCTION  
01-05
2014 – Highlights 01
GMS at a Glance 02
Chairman’s Statement 04
STRA TE GIC REPORT  
06- 23 
CEO’s Review 08
Business Model 12
Our Strategy 14
Key Performance Indicators 18
Risk Management 20
PERFORMANCE 
24-37
Operating Review 26
Financial Review 30
Corporate Social Responsibility 32
GOVERNANCE  
38-65
Chairman’s Introduction 40
Board of Directors 42
Corporate Governance 44
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 47
Report of the Remuneration Committee 50
Report of the Nomination Committee 61
Directors’ Report 62
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 65
FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS  
66-1 13
Independent Auditor’s Report 68
Group Consolidated Financial Statements 72
Company Financial Statements 106
ADDITIONAL INFORMA TION  
1 1 4-124
Notice of AGM 116
Glossary 122
Corporate Information 124 01 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
2014 – HIGHLIGHTS 
Operational Highlights
 – The Group’s focus on providing 
cost-effective and flexible solutions  
to its clients is reflected in a continued 
high SESV fleet utilisation of 97% for 
the year. 
 – Six new contract wins (with charter day 
rates in line with previous guidance) and 
three significant contract extensions 
during 2014, comprising:
 – Two new contracts for the existing 
SESV fleet: a Large Class vessel 
four-year charter in the North Sea 
(two years firm with two 12-month 
options) and a Small Class vessel 
12-month charter in MENA (six 
months with up to six months option).
 – Four new contracts for the new build 
SESV fleet: one Large Class vessel 
initially contracted for four months 
directly followed by a long-term 
contract of four years (three years 
plus a one-year option, signed in 
January 2015), the first Mid-Size Class 
vessel contracted for five years (two 
years firm with three one-year 
options) and an enhanced Small Class 
vessel contracted for five years (three 
years firm plus a two-year option).  
 – Three significant contract extensions 
from existing clients for SESV fleet: 
one Large Class vessel in the North 
Sea and two Small Class vessels  
in MENA.
 – The new build programme, which will 
expand the SESV fleet from nine to 15 
vessels during the period 2014 to 2016, 
is going well with, to date, two SESVs 
delivered as planned and on charter and 
the remaining four SESVs at various  
stages of construction as scheduled. 
Financial Highlights
 – Revenue increased by 7% to US$ 196.6 
million (2013: US$ 184.3 million). 
 – Robust cash flows generated from 
operations, adjusted EBITDA of US$ 
124.8 million (2013: US$ 124.7 million).
 – Adjusted EBITDA margin 64%  
(2013: 68%). 
 – Adjusted net profit (excluding IPO 
costs) up by 13% to US$ 81.3 million  
for 2014 (2013: US$ 71.9 million). 
 – Adjusted diluted earnings per share 
increased in the year to 23.71 cents 
(2013: 23.56 cents).
 – Final dividend for the year proposed of 
1.06 pence (1.64 cents) per share taking 
total 2014 dividend payments to  
1.47 pence (2.33 cents). 
 – Successful IPO in March 2014 raised  
primary gross proceeds of approximately 
US$ 111.0 million.
Outlook
 – Demand for the Group’s cost-effective 
support solutions in the Opex cycle 
remains strong with a healthy secured 
backlog of US$ 707 million as at 1 March 
2015 comprising US$ 380 million firm 
and US$ 327 million extension options. 
 – Well-placed to continue progress with 
robust operating cash flows and net 
debt (including obligations under finance 
leases) of US$ 273.6 million (2013: US$ 
307.2 million) and committed undrawn 
bank facilities of US$ 130.0 million at  
31 December 2014. 
 – The 2014 to 2016 fleet expansion 
programme, which is fully-financed,  
will help drive significant growth in 2015 
and 2016.
The above highlights are based on the Group’s adjusted results. A full reconciliation between the adjusted and 
statutory results is contained in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. 02 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Introduction
Gulf Marine Services was founded in Abu Dhabi in 1977  
and is the operator of one of the world’s largest fleets of 
advanced self-propelled Self-Elevating Support Vessels 
(SESVs). The Group listed on the London Stock Exchange 
in March 2014.
A WORLD 
LEADER IN 
SESVs
GMS A T A GLANCE
GMS’ assets provide the stable platform for the 
delivery of a wide range of services performed  
by the Group’s clients throughout the total 
lifecycle of offshore oil, gas and renewable 
energy activities. The vessels are capable of 
operations in the Middle East, South East Asia, 
West Africa and Europe. 
The Group constructs and maintains its vessels  
at its yard in Abu Dhabi; its extensive new build 
programme makes the GMS fleet the most 
sophisticated in the industry. The current  
fleet of SESVs comprises 11 vessels; GMS  
will increase this to 15 vessels by 2016.
The Group’s SESV fleet is technically 
advanced and amongst the youngest in the 
industry, with an average age of eight years. 
The SESVs are four-legged vessels that 
move independently, with no requirement 
for anchor handling or tug support. They 
have a large deck space, crane capacity  
and accommodation facilities that can  
be adapted to the requirements of the 
Group’s clients. These vessels support  
GMS’ clients in a broad range of offshore  
oil and gas platform refurbishment and 
maintenance activities, well intervention 
work and offshore wind turbine maintenance 
work (which are Opex-led activities) and 
offshore oil and gas platform installation  
and offshore wind turbine installation  
(which are Capex-led activities). 
Further details on our Business Model and vessel 
flexibility can be found on pages 12 to 13.
OUR OFFERING
Gm S Supports:
 – Well intervention services and 
enhanced oil recovery
 – Drilling support, completions  
and testing
 – Platform construction, hookup  
and commissioning
 – Platform restoration and 
maintenance
 – Coil tubing, wireline, snubbing
 – Well abandonment and 
decommissioning
 – Wind turbine installation  
and maintenance MENA
NORTH WEST EUROPE
03 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Three classes of vessels serve a range of client needs
• 8 units
• Average age: 11 yrs  
(7 yrs excl Naashi)
• Water depth: 45m
• Accommodation for up  
to 300 people
• 3 units under construction
• Average age: N/A
• Water depth: 55m
• Accommodation for up  
to 300 people
• Harsh weather capable
• 3 units + 1 to be constructed
• Average age: 2 yrs
• Water depth: 65–80m
• Accommodation for up  
to 300 people
• Harsh weather capable
Small Class Mid-Size Class Large Class
OUR OFFERING
Market dominance in the MENA region.
Continued successful operations  
in North West Europe.
WHERE WE CURRENTL Y OPERA TE HISTORY
GMS was established in Abu Dhabi, UAE in 1977. 
In 2007 the Group was acquired by a consortium 
of investors, led by private equity firm Gulf 
Capital, and a new senior management team was 
appointed, headed by the current CEO Duncan 
Anderson. At this time, the Group was operating 
three self-propelled SESVs (with a fourth 
undergoing refurbishment) and had another 
under construction. Within just seven years, 
GMS has successfully expanded its fleet and 
geographical coverage, from a local operation  
in Abu Dhabi to become the number one player 
in the Middle East, and now one of the largest 
operators of self-propelled SESVs in the world. 
The Group’s current SESV fleet stands at  
11 vessels (as at March 2015); it also has an 
accommodation barge and two anchor- 
handling tug support (AHTS) vessels.
Gm S Fleet of SeSVs
Small c lass Vessels Year of Build
Naashi 1982
Kamikaze 1999
Kikuyu 2005
Kawawa 2006
Kudeta 2008
Keloa 2009
Kinoa 2012
Pepper 2015
l arge c lass Vessels Year of Build
GMS Endurance 2010
GMS Endeavour 2011
GMS Enterprise 2014
The Group’s first Large Class vessel, which 
opened up a market sector where vessels can 
operate in harsh weather and deeper water 
environments, was constructed in 2010,  
with a second delivered in 2011. In 2010 when 
GMS Endurance was completed it was initially 
deployed in Saudi Arabia, whilst the second,  
GMS Endeavour, was mobilised to the North  
Sea; both markets were a first for GMS and 
allowed the Group to continue its growth 
strategy and to expand its geographic and  
client footprint beyond the UAE where it had 
predominantly been working up to that time. 
GMS operated entirely in the oil and gas  
sector until 2011 when it entered the offshore 
wind power installation market in North West 
Europe with one of its Large Class vessels,  
GMS Endeavour. 
 In 2014 GMS embarked on a three-year new 
build programme to expand its fleet by a further 
six SESVs. The first of these, GMS Enterprise, 
was completed in 2014 and in the same year 
construction commenced on the first of  
three newly-designed Mid-Size Class vessels, 
with these due for delivery in 2015 and 2016. 04 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Introduction Introduction
During the year, we secured five new contract 
awards, totaling an aggregate contracted period 
of approximately 15.5 years (including options), 
which equates to around US$ 272.6 million of 
additional backlog. Our order book continues to 
be very healthy, and as the year drew to a close 
we negotiated a new four-year contract, signed 
in January, for one of our Large Class vessels  
in the MENA region, culminating in a secured 
backlog of over US$ 700 million as at 1 March 
2015. We delivered a strong set of results for 
2014. Total revenue and adjusted EBITDA for 
the year were US$ 196.6 million and US$ 124.8 
million respectively, with adjusted diluted 
earnings per share of 23.71 cents.
Central to our growth has been both the 
continued high utilisation of our existing fleet 
and the commencement of the delivery of 
additional SESVs under our fleet expansion 
programme. The Group’s continued positive 
development is testament to its long track 
record of successful operations, its excellent 
reputation and robust financial performance 
under the leadership of its CEO Duncan 
Anderson and his executive team. 
As GMS prepared for the IPO it appointed a new 
Board, which I am delighted to lead as Chairman. 
The Board is highly experienced and provides 
sound stewardship; it has also ensured that the 
appropriate Corporate Governance standards 
are in place. 
It gives me great pleasure to introduce Gulf Marine 
Services’ inaugural Annual Report. The Group’s  
IPO in March and admission onto the main market  
of the London Stock Exchange, which raised primary 
gross proceeds of approximately US$ 111 million, was 
a major highlight of 2014. GMS has since gone from 
strength to strength. We are implementing our 
business strategy to expand our fleet and operations 
as planned, we have maintained a strong balance 
sheet and achieved good revenue visibility. 
201 4: A YEAR 
OF DELIVERY
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT 05 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The Group’s dividend policy looks to maximise 
shareholder value and reflect GMS’ strong 
earnings and cash flow characteristics, whilst 
allowing the retention of sufficient capital to 
invest in long-term growth for the Group.  
For 2014, we were pleased to declare a maiden 
interim dividend of 0.41 pence per share, which 
was paid in October. The final dividend for the 
year will be 1.06 pence per share subject to 
shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 6 May 
2015 and this will be paid on 12 May 2015. 
GMS has maintained its excellent health and 
safety record and we remain committed to 
upholding the highest standards across all areas 
of our business. Focus on our employees has 
been important, as it is every year. We have 
supplemented our workforce at all levels and 
across all departments to support our expansion 
requirements. I would like to thank all employees, 
both onshore and offshore, for their energy and 
dedication to GMS during a very busy first year  
as a listed company. 
We are, of course, keeping a watchful eye on 
current challenging macroeconomic conditions. 
While we are not immune to low oil prices, we are 
more cushioned from the effects than others in 
the energy sector due to the Opex nature of our 
business and to the fact that the majority of our 
fleet is working in the MENA region, which gives 
us a greater resilience to ride out the current 
industry fluctuations. 
Looking to the future, the Group has a strong 
financial base from which to deliver the organic 
growth strategy we set out at IPO and this will 
be driven through the support services we 
provide to our core clients’ Opex-related oil  
and gas operations. 
We will continue to capitalise on strong demand 
for our assets in the MENA region, and will seek 
to increase our operations in Europe. Expansion 
into new geographies will be a longer-term goal 
aligned to the availability of our new tonnage. 
With a clear strategy and a proven management 
team, we are well-positioned to deliver 
shareholder value. The Board views the coming 
years with confidence and enthusiasm and  
I look forward to reporting on our progress.
Simon Heale
Chairman
23 March 2015 06 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
STRA TEGIC 
REPORT
CEO’s Review 08
Business Model 12
Our Strategy 14
Key Performance Indicators 18
Risk Management 20 07 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 08 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Strategic Report Strategic Report 
CEO’S REVIEW
The Group delivered a strong performance in 2014.  
GMS carried out the business strategy we set out at IPO, 
maintaining high utilisation levels of 97% for the SESV  
fleet and achieving charter rates in line with expectations. 
The new build programme, which will expand the fleet by 
two-thirds during the period 2014 to 2016, progressed  
as scheduled with a Large Class vessel delivered to its  
first contract in Q4 2014, and two further new vessels 
contracted well ahead of their Q2 2015 scheduled build 
completion. As our fleet continues to grow we believe 
2015 will be a year of progress.
201 4: WELL -
POSITIONED 
FOR GROWTH
GMS delivered a solid performance in the year, 
successfully implementing the business 
strategy we set out at IPO as we expanded both 
our fleet and operations. 
Group Financial Performance
Revenue improved by 7% compared to 2013  
to US$ 196.6 million and adjusted net profit 
increased by 13% to US$ 81.3 million (net profit 
was US$ 75.6 million). EBITDA (adjusted for IPO 
costs) has remained stable year on year at a 
robust US$ 124.8 million, with a healthy EBITDA 
margin of 64%. The Group’s IPO raised primary 
gross proceeds of approximately US$ 111.0 
million. For 2014, we declared a maiden interim 
dividend of 0.41 pence per share, which was  
paid on 27 October. The final dividend for the 
year will be 1.06 pence (1.64 cents) per share 
subject to shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 
6 May 2015 and this will be paid on 12 May 2015.
High Fleet Utilisation
GMS has continued to focus on providing 
cost-effective offshore support solutions  
to its clients and this, combined with the 
Group’s extensive operational expertise,  
is reflected in a high SESV utilisation rate  
of 97%.
 
Strong Order Book
Demand for our assets continues to be excellent 
in the MENA region and solid in Europe. The Group 
has entered 2015 with a very healthy secured 
backlog, comprising firm and extension 
options, of US$ 707 million as at 1 March 2015.  
GMS had an encouraging total of six new 
contract wins since the beginning of 2014  
to date. Two of these were for SESVs in our 
existing fleet, with a four-year charter for  
a Large Class vessel in the North Sea, and  
a 12-month charter for a Small Class vessel  
in MENA. A newly-built Large Class SESV  
was initially contracted for four months and 
directly followed by a long-term contract  
of four years in MENA. The remaining two new 
long-term contracts, each being five-year  09 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
charters, were secured for our new build SESVs 
well ahead of the vessels’ scheduled delivery 
dates, for operations in the MENA region. 
Operations 
The Group’s current SESV fleet is one of the 
youngest in the industry, with an average age  
of eight years. This is based on 11 years for  
the Small Class SESV fleet and two years for  
the Large Class SESV fleet. At the time of our 
IPO we set out our new build programme for 
the years 2014 to 2016. On its completion, 
which will see an increase in our SESV fleet to  
15 vessels, the average age of the SESV fleet 
will reduce still further. The GMS fleet offers 
clients not only the cost-efficient deployment 
of our vessels, but also the prospect of 
substantial operational efficiencies in their  
own maintenance activities that would not  
be available from less modern vessels.
Utilisation of the SESV fleet for the year was 
97%, with day rates in line with those previously 
indicated at IPO. The Group has built its 
reputation on the reliability of its fleet. Across 
our entire fleet, we only had 12 days of unpaid 
technical downtime (for repairs/maintenance) 
in 2014 and we would seek to maintain this level 
of performance in 2015.
Health, safety and environment (HSE) is a top 
priority for GMS, with the lives of our personnel, 
our contractors and others who are impacted 
by our activities dependent upon us upholding 
our high standards. The Group’s strong HSE 
track record has been maintained throughout  
a period of considerable expansion, with zero 
lost time injuries both onshore and offshore 
throughout our global business and operations. 
I would like to commend all our personnel for 
their diligence and vigilance. 
The recruitment and training of highly 
specialised crew to operate our vessels  
is always important. 
With a relatively small pool of SESV-qualified 
senior officers worldwide, it is essential to 
ensure we have enough appropriately-skilled 
crew to meet not only the needs of our current 
fleet, but also that of our expanding fleet. 
During the year we substantially enhanced the 
training opportunities for our crew, forming  
a partnership with Abu Dhabi Ports Company  
to develop the world’s first self-propelled  
SESV manoeuvring and jacking simulator 
course. This excellent facility allows us to  
repeat difficult and complex operations  
until the trainee is well-practised in any given 
scenario. A number of new training initiatives 
were introduced during the year for both land 
and sea-going personnel. The Group also 
continues to build a good pipeline of ‘home-
grown’ qualified staff to ensure the continuity  
of efficient operations as we grow the business. 
markets 
middle east
2014 has been characterised by excellent 
demand and high levels of utilisation across  
the SESV fleet. We completed two charters  
on Small Class vessels in 2014 which were 
immediately re-chartered on new contracts. 
Two further Small Class units that had 
outstanding options with existing long-term 
contracts had these options exercised by their 
respective clients during the year. Our entire 
Small Class fleet and one Large Class vessel  
are operational in the Middle East. They will be 
joined by the Group’s first new build Mid-Size 
Class SESV and a new enhanced Small Class 
vessel, which will commence contracts during 
the first half of 2015. 
GMS has long-term confidence in the Saudi 
Arabian market and, as announced previously, 
subject to the normal regulatory approvals  
by the relevant government authorities,  
plans to increase its ownership in its KSA joint 
venture to 75% by purchasing a 15% interest 
from its existing partner, which will at the  
same time sell its remaining 25% stake  
to a well-regarded KSA conglomerate. 10 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Strategic Report 
europe
Two Large Class SESV units have been operating 
in the Southern North Sea throughout 2014. 
One is chartered under a long-term oil and gas 
contract, and the second vessel that undertook 
a mixture of shorter-term contracts in both the 
oil and gas and renewables sectors during the 
year, will be directly chartered in Q2 2015 under  
a long-term contract for up to four years' work  
in the Dutch sector of the Southern North Sea.  
A number of other opportunities remain within 
the oil and gas sector in this region despite the 
current low oil price. While the renewables sector 
continues to provide short-term opportunities, 
demand in the wind farm segment is unpredictable. 
The flexibility of our SESVs will allow us to 
maximise opportunities should this sector  
pick up, subject to vessel availability. 
CEO’S REVIEW
Continued
Rest of World
During the year, the Group entered into 
cooperation agreements with local partners  
in Malaysia and Brunei, and these are providing 
greater levels of access and support within 
these new markets. While we believe the NOC 
client base in the South East Asian region is 
receptive to the SESV concept, development  
of this market has been restricted by a lack of 
available vessels within our current fleet. Going 
forward, we expect demand in South East Asia 
to be more sensitive to lower oil prices due  
to the higher production costs in that region 
compared to the Gulf. It is difficult to gauge 
what the impact is likely to be on demand over 
the next three to five years, but we believe that 
there will continue to be opportunities for GMS. 
 
The level of tendering activity for new business 
in West Africa during 2014 has been significantly 
lower than in previous years, in part due to the 
uncertainty associated with elections in some 
countries, but we are continuing to track 
opportunities in this market. 
enhancing our Offering
During the year, we continued to build up our 
in-house expertise in well services in order to 
engage more effectively with our clients and 
their sub-contractors, with a view to providing 
SESVs with increased capabilities specifically 
suited to their needs. As a result, we are seeing 
significant new opportunities developing across 
all of our current markets for enhanced well 
intervention services that can be performed 
from our vessels where clients may previously 
have used more expensive drilling rigs. Our 
ability to provide innovative and cost-effective 
new options to clients will continue to drive 
demand for our services and contribute towards 
maintaining high levels of utilisation in future.
n ew Build Programme
The Group’s new build programme, which will 
expand the fleet of SESVs from nine to 15 vessels 
during the period 2014 to 2016, progressed as 
planned throughout the year. GMS continues  
to benefit from the competitive advantage our 
well-established in-house quayside construction 
facility in Abu Dhabi provides, which allows us to 
build our vessels approximately 30% cheaper 
than our peers who rely on third party shipyards. 
This also allows us to control the quality of the 
entire construction process and manage the 
timely delivery of the completed vessel.
The first of the six new SESVs, GMS Enterprise, 
was completed ahead of schedule and under 
budget. The hull of the next new build, the 
Mid-Size Class vessel GMS Shamal, arrived  
at the yard in Q4 2014 and is scheduled for 
completion in Q2 2015. An Enhanced Small 
Class vessel, Pepper, will be completed in Q1 
2015, and a second Mid-Size Class vessel, GMS 
Scirocco, will be completed in Q3 2015. A third 
Mid-Size Class vessel, GMS Sharqi, is scheduled 
for Q1 2016 and a further Large Class vessel, 
GMS Evolution, is planned for Q4 2016. Various 
enhancements are being incorporated into  
the design of GMS Evolution in order to expand 
the well service offering on board to clients. 
These include higher deck loads and increased 
free deck space, and a cantilever crane that will  
not only further enhance the efficiency and 
cost-effectiveness of existing interventions, 
but will also extend the range of possible  
well interventions to include ESP (electric 
submersible pump) systems replacement  
or Plug and Abandonment for example.
The estimated cost to complete the remainder 
of the new build programme for the period 2015 
to 2016 is approximately US$ 175 million.
Our People 
Our people are at the very core of our business 
and are the strength behind the Group.  
GMS employs personnel from more than 50 
countries and this rich diversity ensures we look 
at ourselves, and the way we work, from many 
different viewpoints. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank all our staff for their great 
dedication and support as we prepared for  
our IPO and throughout our first year as a  
listed company. 
I would also like to extend my gratitude to the 
management team for its hard work in ensuring 
the Group has the correct strategy in place for 
our future growth, and to my colleagues on  
the Board of Directors, who provide us with  
the benefit of their extensive knowledge  
and experience.  11 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S
THE 2014 TO 2016 FLEET EXPANSION PROGRAMME  
IS FULL Y -FINANCED AND WILL HELP DRIVE GROWTH  
IN 2015 AND 2016.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Outlook
The Group is continuing to increase its SESV 
fleet throughout 2015 with the delivery of three 
new vessels; a further two vessels are scheduled 
for 2016. This 2014 to 2016 fleet expansion 
programme is fully-financed and will help drive 
earnings growth in 2015 and 2016. It is our 
intention to continue to expand the fleet 
beyond this at an appropriate rate to capitalise 
on the continuing strong demand we see for our 
vessels. Future growth will be paced responsibly, 
based on the Group’s view of market demand 
and investment returns. Whilst we will always 
have regard to our earnings progress and the 
capital required for investment in our new build 
programme, we expect the increasing strength 
in our cash flows to be reflected in a step up in 
our dividend payments ratio.
The recent rapid decline in the oil price is  
clearly already having significant effects  
across the oil and gas sector. Whilst we cannot 
say with certainty how GMS will be affected by 
this, any effects to date have been limited and 
we believe that we are well-placed to continue 
to grow our business. The Group has a strong 
backlog (over $700m) of firm and option-based 
contracts, and all of the activity in the backlog is 
in Opex rather than Capex-based work meaning 
that none of our contracts are vulnerable  
to the major cutbacks to capital expenditure 
that are already taking place. In addition,  
over 70% of the Group’s backlog will be derived 
from our work mainly for NOCs in the low cost 
production areas in the Middle East. The low  
oil price could well also lead to the acceleration 
of abandonment and decommissioning work  
by our clients which would provide further 
business opportunities for GMS.
We will monitor carefully any emerging effects  
of the low oil price environment and, if necessary, 
adjust our strategy accordingly. However,  
the outlook, based on our current pipeline of 
contracts under negotiation and other tender 
opportunities, is for continued strong demand 
driven primarily by our core Opex-related 
brownfield oil and gas client base, and in 
particular in the Middle East.
We are well-positioned for continued growth 
and I look forward to 2015 and beyond  
with confidence. 
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer 
23 March 2015 12 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Strategic Report 
CREA TE 
SHAREHOLDER 
VALUE
OUR CORE V ALUES
Excellence
O ﬀshore Support Vessels
Design and Build Sophisticated
Clients
Business Partners
Investors
Sta ﬀ
Communities and wider society
Governments
Recurring Contracts 
Focus on Long- T erm and 
Deliver Operational
Excellence
Maintain the Highest Levels 
of Health, Safety  and 
Enhance our O ﬀering 
Innovate and 
our People
Continuously Develop 
Relationships
Responsibility
OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR KEY ST AKEHOLDERS
Environmental (HSE) Performance
BUSINESS MODEL
The diagram represents the 
Group’s business. The outer  
circle represents the environment 
in which GMS works. Within the 
image, our core values, which  
are central to everything we  
do, are captured along with  
the business model we apply  
to create shareholder value. 
CREA TING VALUE FOR 
OUR SHAREHOLDERS
Our business model is centred on the provision of highly cost -effective sophisticated 
self-propelled jackup vessels to clients operating in the offshore energy sector.  
This service enables our clients primarily to carry out maintenance, modification and  
well services work on their offshore facilities, by providing a stable platform immediately 
adjacent to the facility. This allows the storage and application of materials and equipment 
necessary for the client's work, and for the accommodation of the workforce. We have 
developed an integrated approach focused around six key areas in order to deliver this 
business model. 13 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 > Design and Build Sophisticated 
Offshore Support Vessels
GMS has in excess of 30 years’ experience in the 
design and construction of SESVs solely for our 
own use. Our quayside construction facility in  
Abu Dhabi provides us with the in-house resource 
to speedily adapt or repair our vessels without 
relying on third parties; any client -requested 
changes can be made to the vessels at minimum 
cost and time to our clients. 
This ability to build SESVs for ourselves is 
essential to our low-cost integrated build model 
that allows management to better control the 
quality, componentry and timelines of delivery 
whilst also enabling construction of the vessels 
at around 30% cheaper than at a traditional 
shipyard. We can also respond rapidly to clients’ 
requests for bespoke specifications that can be 
efficiently incorporated at the build stage; this 
flexibility enables us to bid on a wide variety  
of tenders. 
The construction of an SESV takes around  
18 months with the four main processes  
being procurement of vessel components,  
hull construction that is outsourced to 
competitive yards, assembly at our yard in  
Abu Dhabi and commissioning. Since GMS  
is both builder and operator, we can closely 
manage our construction programme and  
are therefore well-placed to gear our fleet 
expansion programme according to our  
view of market demand.
 > Focus on l ong-t erm and  
Recurring c ontracts
The Group’s revenue is principally generated by 
the charter day rates we charge for each vessel. 
We target long-term contracts in order to 
maintain industry-leading levels of vessel 
utilisation and more predictable cash flows. 
GMS is active in the Opex phase of the oil and 
gas cycle, predominantly supporting long term 
oil production, traditionally in maintenance, 
refurbishment and repair, and more recently in 
well services. This means GMS is far less prone 
to the cyclical nature of the oil industry than 
many oil service companies exposed to the 
Capex-led exploration and development 
phases. A typical contract length for a Small 
Class vessel is three to five years, while for  
the Large Class vessels it ranges from six 
months to four years. Contracts normally 
include both a firm and extension period;  
the extension/option period is at the client’s 
discretion and historically 90% of these periods 
have been exercised. 
Nearly all of the Group’s revenue is sourced 
from the Opex-led activities of our clients,  
who generally will have an ongoing requirement 
for a SESV once all available options have been 
exercised. As the incumbent operator, GMS  
is always well-placed to win recurring work  
when the renewal contract is tendered and we 
have been very successful in securing renewal 
contracts. This is demonstrated by three of  
our oldest Small Class vessels, which between 
them have amassed more than 45 years of 
back-to-back contracts with the same clients, 
carrying out the same service. 
 > Deliver Operational excellence
We continually strive for excellence in all 
aspects of our operations. Within our market 
we have the largest pool of skilled employees 
that provide clients with safe and high quality 
services from a fleet of sophisticated SESVs.  
In addition, we are continually looking for ways 
to improve our offering through significant 
market knowledge and experience, technical 
expertise, client collaboration and by forming 
strategic business partnerships. 
GMS offers a range of benefits to its clients, 
resulting in greater operational efficiency and 
significant time and cost savings for them, along 
with high utilisation and premium day rates  
for GMS. All of our SESVs have rapid jacking 
capability and have a four-leg design with better 
stability and jacking speed relative to three- 
leg SESVs. In addition, all of our SESVs are 
self-propelled (with full propulsive redundancy) 
and the Large Class and Mid-Size Class vessel 
designs include DP2, a dynamic positioning 
system that enhances the ability of SESVs to 
safely manoeuvre close to our clients’ offshore 
installations. These features also allow the 
vessels to move faster in-field than conventional 
non-propelled vessels. We are focused on 
ensuring the efficient management of our fleet, 
with our in-house maintenance programme 
ensuring timely repairs and routine maintenance 
have minimal effect on operations. 
 > maintain the Highest l evels of 
Health, Safety and environmental 
(HSe) Performance
We place a high priority on managing the risks 
inherent to our operations and comply with 
national and international HSE standards. 
We employ an integrated management  
system covering the quality, health, safety and 
environmental principles and objectives of our 
business, which is implemented throughout all 
offshore and onshore operations. This aims to 
provide innovative and sustainable solutions to 
monitor our HSE performance and continuously 
improve the necessary safeguards to protect 
our employees and minimise the impact on the 
environment. This system is fully ISO 9001,  
ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 compliant,  
is externally audited and accredited, and is 
continually reviewed to capture best practice 
changes issued by the International Association 
of Oil and Gas Producers. We have also 
developed successfully UK North Sea Safety 
Cases for the operation of our Large SESVs  
in that region. 
Health and safety are considered by our clients 
when assessing bids for tenders and we regard 
our performance in this area as an advantage. 
We have consistently maintained low levels  
of lost time injuries (LTIs, meaning an injury  
that requires one or more days off work).  
In 2014 we had zero LTIs in our fleet and in  
our onshore operations. Further detail on our 
HSE performance can be found on page 19.
 > c ontinuously Develop our People
GMS operates in an industry where staff mobility 
rates are relatively high and as such, we seek to 
attract and retain high-calibre staff and ensure 
they are empowered to carry out their duties 
safely and effectively. We value the diversity  
of our employees and provide an environment 
where everyone can perform to their full potential 
and be rewarded for delivering excellence. 
Due to the niche nature of our sector, skilled and 
capable offshore crew members are in limited 
supply and we therefore pay attention to growing 
talent from within our organisation. We have  
a Competence Management System (CMS)  
in place based on recognised industry best 
practice. Its purpose is the integrated control  
of those activities within the company that will 
assure competency of personnel, particularly  
in safety critical activities. Annual assessments 
are carried out for offshore personnel to ensure 
appropriate certification and competence to 
undertake operational roles. 
Competency gaps are closed via training 
supported by the GMS Academy. Much of the 
GMS Academy training is knowledge-based  
and delivered via computer-based training 
which employees are able to access at any  
time, irrespective of their location. However,  
all Academy training is supplemented with  
the coaching and mentoring of crew by their 
officers and complimented by the Group’s 
Offshore Performance Coaches who are 
responsible for embedding the knowledge 
delivered via the GMS Academy through 
effective real-time coaching. We also have  
a wide range of development initiatives,  
such as an externally accredited management 
development programme, our newly developed 
simulator programme for our Masters, and 
Fleet Management programmes. Further  
detail can be found in our Performance  
section on page 32.
 > innovate and enhance our Offering
We have a long history of satisfying the needs 
of our national and international clients. Our 
experience, technical expertise and ability to 
modify and enhance our vessels means that we 
are ideally-placed to assess where best to place 
our existing fleet, and to ensure the design and 
construction of our new vessels meets clients’ 
expectations in terms of operational efficiency, 
safety and cost. Through close collaboration 
with clients on a project-by-project basis, GMS 
offers a cost-effective model that provides 
optimum efficiency and minimum non-
productive time during clients’ mobilisations  
or operations, whilst maintaining the flexible 
multi-role design as part of the Group’s core 
strategy for high utilisation. Examples of how 
the vessels can be modified may be found in  
the case studies on page 16. 14 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Strategic Report 
OUR STRA TEGY
The Group’s core business consists of well support services supplemented by pure 
accommodation oil and gas work, as well as wind farm installation, commissioning  
and maintenance. We continue to see the more stable demand going forward for  
our vessels in brownfield oil and gas Opex-related work and further growth potential  
in well intervention activities and enhanced oil recovery work. Going forward,  
we also see opportunities for decommissioning and plug and abandonment activities.
Our strategic focus is based on five elements:
Fleet Expansion
We believe that the demand 
for our SESVs remains 
strong, particularly in our 
core market of brownfield 
Opex work, and will continue 
to seek to both consolidate and grow 
our market share. That growth is best 
and most cost -effectively achieved 
through expanding our fleet mainly by 
constructing vessels in our own yard.
The fleet expansion programme will increase the 
fleet of SESVs from 9 to 15 vessels during the 
period 2014 to 2016. We are continuing to focus 
on our new build programme in response to high 
client demand. This includes the introduction of 
a new design, the Mid-Size Class, to the GMS 
fleet in 2015. 
Vessel Flexibility 
Designing, building and 
maintaining a technologically 
advanced flexible fleet of 
modern SESVs operated  
by our skilled employees 
delivers economies and efficiencies to 
our clients that will be reflected in high 
utilisation and good charter rates.
The Group’s assets provide the stable platform 
from which a diverse range of services are carried 
out by our clients throughout the total lifecycle of 
offshore oil, gas and renewable energy activities. 
Our flexibility and ability to adapt and tailor our 
assets to suit the requirements of our clients’ 
operations, in short timescales, means we can 
often offer more cost-effective and time-
efficient offshore solutions than a third party. 
The fact that we can modify our vessels to  
suit different operational needs has proved 
advantageous when winning and executing 
contracts in different sectors of our market. 
For example, when GMS Endeavour began 
operating in the North Sea in 2011 it was initially 
adapted for wind turbine installation work, with 
modifications including replacing the helideck 
with a blade rack and the large deck space filled 
with parts used to construct a windmill. On 
completion of that contract, the vessel then 
proceeded to another wind farm-related contract 
whereby it was supporting the commissioning of  
a substation; here the key demands of the client 
were for accommodation for its personnel and  
a large deck space to use as a working platform. 
The vessel will shortly be commencing a new 
contract in the oil and gas market where the large 
deck space will be filled with temporary living 
quarters, increasing the number of personnel  
it can accommodate from 142 to 300.
Growth in Existing  
and New Markets
The Group believes it is 
well-positioned in the MENA 
and North West Europe 
markets and continues to 
seek to grow in these regions. 
We expect that a larger fleet will allow 
GMS to take on additional contracts  
in existing areas of operation and will 
provide the opportunity to potentially 
enter new regions where we believe  
the demand for our vessels exists.
The primary demand for our SESVs in the 
MENA and North West Europe regions is  
in the brownfield market within the oil and  
gas sector. The brownfield market covers  
a broad range of repair and maintenance 
support services, including well and subsea 
maintenance services, for existing oil and gas 
fields. GMS is very well-placed to capitalise on 
the inherent maintenance and modification 
support requirement of ageing offshore 
structures, with our vessels providing the  
stable platform from which clients can carry  
out diverse operations.
The offshore renewable energy market is  
less mature than the oil and gas market and 
there is currently less demand for maintenance 
services as the infrastructure is, on the whole, 
relatively new. However, as a critical mass of 
installed capacity is reached, it is expected that 
the demand for maintenance work on these 
assets will increase and GMS will be well-placed, 
due to our experience working in this sector 
and the flexibility of our assets, to maximise 
opportunities in this maturing market as  
it develops.
Operational 
Expertise
Having a team of highly 
experienced and skilled 
employees enables us to 
provide safe and effective 
solutions to our clients’ 
needs whilst developing and maintaining 
a reputation as a quality provider of an 
advanced adaptable fleet with superior 
jacking systems.
Our technical expertise and experience in the 
construction of the SESVs we operate enables 
us to adapt our vessels efficiently in order to 
meet client-specific requirements, which in  
turn results in greater operational efficiency. 
The provision of highly sophisticated SESVs with 
comprehensive maintenance programmes, 
excellent client services and our in-depth 
knowledge of the markets in which we operate 
are the primary drivers for operational excellence. 
The Group also has a strong reputation born of 
our commitment to safety, quality and delivery. 
While we believe we offer the best offshore 
solution, we are also continually looking to 
innovate in terms of design and aim to exceed 
regulatory requirements and best practice.
We have recently partnered with Abu Dhabi Ports 
Company to introduce a SESV simulator to better 
assess and train our senior offshore personnel. 
STRA TEGIC FOCUS 15 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Financial  
Management
We are careful to manage 
the finances of the business 
in a prudent manner whilst 
allowing the responsible 
investment of capital to 
generate shareholder returns. 
We are significantly growing our business 
through fleet expansion. We take a disciplined 
approach to making new investments and 
financing them. We target (and are currently 
exceeding) a minimum return on capital of  
over 20% on the construction of our SESVs.  
We seek to maximise returns through a prudent 
approach to borrowing by not exceeding a 
target net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3 times at the 
peak periods of our new build programmes. 
Our integrated build model substantially 
reduces the cost of vessel construction and 
fleet maintenance compared to outsourcing  
it to third parties. It also provides us with far 
more flexibility to manage the new build 
timetable than would be possible by placing  
an order with a third party shipyard.
GMS targets blue chip companies as clients  
and the strong secured backlog with long-term 
contracts provide good revenue visibility on 
future earnings. We believe that the high degree 
of contracted future revenues and strong cash 
flow from operations combine to support the 
prudent capital structure within the Group.
The Group’s dividend policy will look to maximise 
shareholder value and reflect GMS’ strong 
earnings potential and cash flow characteristics, 
while allowing the retention of sufficient capital 
to fund ongoing operating requirements and to 
invest in the Group’s long-term growth. 16 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Strategic Report 
CASE STUDY
GMS ENTERPRISE
We believe we successfully delivered  
on all five elements of our strategy,  
as detailed on pages 14 to 15, during 
the year with GMS Enterprise.
In September 2014, GMS announced the 
completion of its latest new build vessel GMS 
Enterprise, a Large Class vessel that was 
constructed ahead of schedule and under 
budget and which, following successful sea 
trials, proceeded directly to its first charter.  
It is the first of six new SESVs to be added to  
the Group’s fleet during the period 2014 to 
2016. The vessel is currently working for a 
national oil company in the MENA region.
The Group has two other Large Class vessels  
that it built in 2010 and 2011 which operate in 
water depths of up to 65 metres; GMS enhanced 
the design of GMS Enterprise to allow it to work 
in depths up to 80 metres. Other improvements 
made to the new vessel include a larger crane, 
bigger helideck, longer legs, improved HVAC, 
enhanced cabin layout with all having ensuite 
toilet/shower cubicles, blast-proof windows and 
an improved fire rating for the accommodation. 
The timeframe for the vessel was one year from 
steel cutting to delivery; this is approximately  
six months faster than traditional shipyards.
CASE STUDY
GMS SHAMAL
In December 2014, GMS announced  
its first contract award for its new 
Mid-Size Class vessel, GMS Shamal. 
The vessel, which is the first of its kind in the 
world, is currently being built and is scheduled  
to be completed in Q2 2015 when it will proceed 
directly to its first charter for a national oil  
 
company in the MENA region. This SESV is not 
only a new design, it has also been adapted to suit 
the client’s specific needs as a specialised well 
intervention unit. The bespoke modifications 
include the supply and installation of pumping 
equipment and gas lines, the enlargement of the 
onboard brine capacity and the optimisation of 
the crane configuration. 
A key factor in the client’s decision to charter 
GMS Shamal was GMS’ ability, through its 
integrated engineering and construction 
process, to make modifications during the  
build process without these affecting the 
delivery schedule. Through collaboration  
with the client, GMS developed an SESV  
that will ensure optimum efficiency and 
minimum non-productive time during  
the client’s operations.  17 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
FLEXIBILITY OF GMS VESSELS 
ENSURES HIGH UTILISA TION
The Group’s SESVs are chartered to a high-quality worldwide client base 
and are used as customised work platforms for offshore oil, gas and 
renewable energy sectors. 
These vessels are operated by skilled 
employees and support our clients in a  
broad range of offshore oil and gas platform 
refurbishment and maintenance activities,  
well intervention work and offshore wind 
turbine maintenance work (which are Opex- 
led activities) and offshore oil and gas platform 
installation and offshore wind turbine 
installation (which are Capex-led activities). 
Our fleet of young and technically advanced 
SESVs has a niche and non-commoditised 
nature that allows competition against a diverse 
range of marine assets, including drilling rigs, 
accommodation service barges (non-propelled) 
and floating construction vessels. The SESVs are 
four-legged vessels that move independently 
and have a large deck space, crane capacity  
and accommodation facilities that can be  
readily adapted to the requirements of the 
Group’s clients. 
The four-legged design represents a significant 
competitive advantage over the more traditional 
non-propelled, three-legged barges available in 
the market in terms of both speed in jacking and 
safety. The SESVs are all self-propelled (with full 
propulsive redundancy). The Large Class and 
Mid-Size Class vessel designs include DP2,  
a dynamic positioning system that enhances  
the ability of the SESVs to safely manoeuvre 
close to clients’ offshore installations. These 
features all enable an increase in the speed of 
movement around a client’s field of assets and 
remove the need for costly support vessels. 
Some of the specific benefits of our fleet are:
 – Well intervention activities which require 
frequent changes in location are ideally 
suited to our self-propelled units. 
 – The ability to relocate quickly within small 
weather windows allows our clients to  
work more efficiently. This in turn provides 
them with an immediate benefit through 
increased production as a result of the 
intervention performed.
 – High-capacity accommodation can be 
installed, for 150 to 300 persons, along with 
multiple access routes to the client facility. 
This allows clients to simultaneously open 
up multiple work fronts and achieve high 
levels of productivity.
 – The high-capacity cranes are able to support 
construction and commissioning activities 
offshore where specialist crane barges 
would have previously been required, in 
addition to the accommodation barge.
GMS provides the stable platform to support  
a variety of clients’ needs. This flexibility and  
our technological capabilities are reflected in 
our high utilisation and premium charter rates.
TOPSIDE MAINTENANCE WELL INTERVENTION
COMMISSIONING AND  
ACCOMMODATION
WIND TURBINE INSTALLATION  
AND MAINTENANCE
GMS PROVIDES THE 
ST ABLE PLA TFORM TO 
SUPPORT A VARIETY  
OF CLIENTS’ NEEDS.  18 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Strategic Report 
$50
$100
$150
$200
0 2012 2013 2014
$143m
$184m
$197m
97%
94%
97%
$60
$30
$90
$120
$150
0 2012 2013 2014
$95m
$125m $125m
66%
68% 64%
$40
$20
$60
$80
$100
0 2012 2013 2014
$51m
$72m
$81m
DEPS
$0.17
DEPS
$0.24
DEPS
$0.24
1
2
3
0 2012 2013 2014
2.61
2.46
2.19
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICA TORS 
KPi Description Progress in 2014
Revenue and Utilisation Revenue reflects the value of operating activity 
and is derived primarily from the day rates and 
utilisation levels achieved.
SESV utilisation is the percentage of days  
SESVs are chartered on a day rate out of  
total available days. 
The 7% growth in revenue reflects the 
increase in fleet size combined with improved 
utilisation rates of SESVs. 
Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA is a key profit measure 
and means earnings before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortisation, excluding 
exceptional items. 
Adjusted EBITDA margin demonstrates  
our ability to convert revenue into profit. 
Strong level of adjusted EBITDA continued.
The Group’s adjusted EBITDA margin 
decreased from 68% in 2013 to 64% in 2014, 
primarily as general and administrative costs 
rose as we invested in and expanded our 
workforce to better position the business  
for a period of major organic growth. 
Adjusted Net Income and DEPS Adjusted net income measures the net 
profitability of the business excluding 
exceptional items. 
Adjusted DEPS means fully diluted earnings per 
share, which measures the level of net profit 
excluding exceptional items per ordinary share 
outstanding. 
Adjusted net income rose by 13% in 2014 
contributing to a small increase in adjusted 
DEPS for the year.
The increase in adjusted net income primarily 
occurs from a reduction in finance costs 
following a restructuring of Group financing 
arrangements in 2014.
Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA Net debt to adjusted EBITDA is the ratio of net 
debt (including finance lease obligations) at year 
end to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation, excluding exceptional items. 
This KPI demonstrates the Group’s level  
of borrowing against operating cash flows. 
Net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio has 
declined during a period of significant capex, 
reflecting the use of IPO proceeds to help 
fund the capex programme.
The level of debt has steadily declined as 
scheduled debt repayments were made  
during the year. 
The Group uses a number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to measure its performance 
and review the impact of its business strategy. The financial and operational KPIs adopted 
are kept under review to ensure that we focus on achieving our strategic objectives and are 
aligned to address the principal risks facing the Group.
% = SESV utilisation Bars = Revenue
% = Adjusted EBITDA Margin Bars = Adjusted EBITDA
DEPS = Adjusted DEPS Bars = Adjusted Net Income
The details of the adjustment derived in the above are contained in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. 19 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S
$400
$200
$600
$800
0 2012 2013 2014
$253m
$434m
$739m*
200
400
600
0 2012 2013 2014
352
394
573
77%
74%
90%
1.0
2.0
0
2012 2013 2014
0.4
0
0.25
0.13
0
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
KPi Description Progress in 2014
Backlog Backlog shows the total order book of contracts 
(comprising firm and option periods at year end). 
The Group uses this KPI as an indication of  
future revenue and utilisation levels. 
Strong growth in backlog provides good 
visibility on future revenues and utilisation  
of vessels.
Increase in backlog reflects the increase in 
the Group’s fleet capacity and the continued 
strong demand for our vessels.
*This backlog figure includes backlog for the Large Class vessel contract award announced on 28 January 2015.
New Build Programme Delivery New build programme delivery KPIs measure 
how successful the Group has been in managing 
vessel construction projects in terms of cost 
control and delivery schedule.
Delivery of our Large Class vessel on schedule 
and on budget in 2014 demonstrates 
effective project delivery and cost control. 
Employees Offshore staff retention shows percentage of 
senior officers (masters and chief engineers) 
who continued to be employees in the period. 
Average FTE employees means the average 
number of full time equivalent employees 
throughout the year which provides an  
indication of the Group’s service capacity  
and scale of operations. 
The increase in offshore staff retention is a 
result of increased investment in retention 
policies for key personnel.
Average FTE employees increased by 45% 
due to the increase in construction staff 
headcount for the new build programme 
along with other recruitments to position the 
business for anticipated growth.
TRIR & LTIR TRIR is the total recordable Injury rate per 
200,000 man hours, which provides a measure 
of the frequency of recordable injuries requiring 
first aid treatment in the year. 
LTIR is the lost time injury rate per 200,000 man 
hours which is a measure of the frequency of 
injuries requiring employee absence from work  
in the year for a period of one or more days. 
The combined strong KPI delivery illustrates 
the Group’s commitment to delivering high 
standards of health and safety.
Year n ew vessels completed On Schedule On Budget
2014 Enterprise 3 3
2013 None – –
2012 None – –
DEPS = Offshore staff retention Bars = Average FTE Employees
 = TRIR  = LTIR 20 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Strategic Report 
RISK MANAGEMENT
Business risks across the Group are addressed in 
a systematic and consistent way through the risk 
management framework, which has clear lines of 
reporting and communication to deal with risk 
management and internal control issues.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring 
that risks are effectively managed. However, the 
Audit and Risk Committee has been delegated 
responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness  
of the Group’s system of internal control and 
procedures for the identification, assessment, 
management, mitigation and reporting of risk.
The internal control process starts with 
identifying risks, compliance matters and other 
issues through routine reviews carried out by 
process owners and facilitated by regular 
Group-wide risk assessments. The Group’s 
system for identifying and managing risks is 
embedded in its organisational structure, 
operations and management systems and 
accords with the risk management guidelines 
and principles. The risks associated with the 
delivery of the strategy, business plan, annual 
work programme and the associated mitigation 
measures and action plans are maintained  
in a series of departmental risk registers which 
are consolidated and reviewed by the senior 
management team to formulate the Group  
risk management process.
For risks that are recorded in the Group  
risk register, the Group then assesses the 
implications and consequences and determines 
the likelihood of occurrence. The outcomes of 
risk identification and control assessments are 
formally reported to the senior management 
team and escalated to the Audit and Risk 
Committee and Board, as appropriate. The Board 
regularly reviews all key risks facing the Group  
as part of the Group risk management process. 
The Group’s Internal Audit function has been 
largely outsourced to a specialised team 
provided by a third party. All internal audit activity 
conducted by the Internal Audit team is done  
under the leadership of the Finance Director, 
who reports to the Chief Financial Officer, but 
also has an independent reporting line to the 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.  
In view of Internal Audit’s recommendations, 
management agrees and implements corrective 
action plans, which are tracked to completion  
by Internal Audit, with the results reported to 
executive management, the Audit and Risk 
Committee and the Board.
The effective identification and management of business risks and opportunities across 
the Group are a key priority of the business and integral to the delivery of the Group’s 
strategic objectives. The Group has a robust risk management system in place to support 
risk identification, analysis, evaluation, treatment and ongoing monitoring of risks across 
the Group as shown in the risk management framework below.
Risk 
Management
Process
Senior 
Management
The Senior Managment 
team implement the risk 
management process from 
risk identification through 
to mitigation.
Board of
Directors
The Board has overall 
responsibility for ensuring 
eﬀective management 
of risks.
Internal 
Audit
There are clear reporting 
lines from the Internal 
Audit function to the Audit 
and Risk Committee 
and the Senior 
Management T eam.
Audit and Risk
Committee
Evaluation
Mitigation
Identi ﬁcation
Analysis 21 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in the short to medium term are set out below, together with the principal mitigation measures. 
These risks are not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks that may arise in the ordinary course of business or otherwise.
Key:   Risk has increased since 2013  No change in risk since 2013  Risk has reduced since 2013
Risk Risk Profile
a ssessment 
of c hange 
in Risk mitigation, monitoring and a ssurance
Strategic The macroeconomic environment 
influences the demand for our services. 
A sustained period of low oil prices could 
affect the demand for the Group’s oil 
extraction support services. This could 
lead to lower utilisation or lower charter 
day rates causing profit margins to fall. 
Significant changes in the market-
place as a result of the actions of our 
competitors or the entrance of new 
competitors may jeopardise our market 
share or adversely affect utilisation levels 
or charter day rate levels achieved.
Over-exposure to any one geographic 
market or loss of a significant business 
partner could impact our performance.
Opex v Capex
The Group provides cost-effective services almost entirely in the Opex phase of oil 
companies’ budgets, supporting long-term oil production which tends to be much less 
cyclical than Capex phase work. This helps to insulate the Group from falls in demand for 
our services due to low oil prices. Additionally, our clients are mainly NOCs who tend to be 
less sensitive to varying outputs of oil as they generally act to address macroeconomic 
concerns in their country. 
Focus on low cost of production areas such as MENA
A larger share of the Group’s client base and revenues are generated in the MENA region, 
where the cost of oil production is significantly lower than in other parts of the world such 
that the effects of a sustained low oil price have less impact than in other regions. 
The well services we provide from our SESVs are more cost-effective than those provided  
by other solutions such as drilling rigs. This helps ensure our offering remains attractive  
even during times when our clients may be suffering from lower margins when energy 
prices are lower. 
Backlog visibility
We focus on long-term and recurring client contracts with a stable cost base such that 
operating margins can generally be forecast with reasonable accuracy, providing visibility  
of future earnings. 
Market and operational familiarity
We believe that the Group continues to have a competitive edge over most other market 
participants through operational experience and remains a leading operator of SESVs in 
the MENA region and one of the largest operators in the world. 
Construction and modification flexibility tailored to client needs
Our vessels are built to be as flexible as possible thus allowing us to compete for a wider 
share of the market than some of our competitors. This helps to maintain high utilisation 
levels and charter day rates across the fleet.
People The Group’s success depends on our 
ability to attract and retain sufficiently 
qualified and experienced personnel, 
particularly at senior management levels. 
The staffing requirements have been 
increasing for the Group as we continue 
to deliver and operate new build vessels 
as part of our fleet expansion programme. 
The Group therefore needs to recruit 
more suitably qualified personnel to 
operate the expanding fleet. 
Failure to attract, develop and retain 
sufficient competent crew to support 
our clients’ needs could result in vessels 
being off hire.
The Group maintains detailed management succession plans for shore-based personnel 
which are monitored by the Group HR team. Resource gaps are filled via internal 
development programmes and/or external recruitment. Succession planning for general 
promotion within the fleet is carried out for key positions.
We offer appropriate training and development programmes which include GMS bespoke 
training for our safety critical roles. 
Through regular monitoring and reviewing of our staffing needs, we strive to identify and 
nurture the best talent. The Group has a competitive remuneration structure that aims  
to attract, motivate and retain suitably qualified personnel through performance-based 
reward practices. 22 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Strategic Report 
RISK MANAGEMENT
Continued
Risk Risk Profile
a ssessment 
of c hange 
in Risk mitigation, monitoring and a ssurance
Safety and 
Assurance
The Group may suffer commercial 
and reputational damage as a result 
of an environmental or safety incident 
involving our employees, visitors  
or contractors.
Our operations have an inherent safety 
risk due to operating off shore. We have 
a fundamental obligation to protect our 
people and recognise the implications  
of poor safety procedures.
Safety and assurance continues to be a top priority and is underpinned by our HSSEQ 
management system and strong safety-focused culture within the Group.
Our employees undergo continuous training and sensitisation on operational  
best practice. As such we are an ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified 
company. The Group undergoes regular independent audits confirming our adherence  
to these standards.
Management reviews safety practices and procedures, disaster recovery plans and the 
insurance coverage of all commercial contracts prior to acceptance.
The Group follows regular maintenance schedules on its vessels and the condition of the 
vessels is consistently monitored. 
Financial Macro and micro economic events, 
such as a low oil price, may impact our 
ability to raise finance, achieve forecast, 
effectively manage our working capital, 
or may hamper management’s ability to 
make effective decisions or report on  
our financial position. 
The Group utilises external funding in 
financing major projects, and inability to 
obtain the required funding may hamper 
the successful undertaking of capital-
intensive projects.
Failure of the Group to service the debts 
and comply with debt covenants could 
result in negative repercussions for  
the Group.
We adhere to Group-wide financial and accounting policies which underpin our approach 
to risk management. This includes regular preparation of budgets and forecasts allowing 
constant monitoring of changes in the macro and micro economic environment and the 
impact these changes may have on the Group.
An extensive review and approval process is carried out for significant capital 
commitments, acquisitions and disposals.
The Management and the Board regularly monitor the Group’s debt obligations and 
funding requirements and seek to ensure that sufficient funding is always in place to 
meet the needs of the business as well as maintaining significant headroom over debt 
covenants thus minimising the risk of breach. 
Commercial There is a risk that the Group may not 
be able to win new or retain existing 
contracts, resulting in lower vessel 
utilisation.
Customers may opt not to exercise the 
contractual option periods resulting in 
gaps between long-term contracts.
The Group provides services to a limited 
number of clients including IOCs and 
NOCs. The reliance of the Group on a 
limited number of blue chip customers 
may expose us to losses in the event of 
disruptions in client relationships.
The Group has a clear record of established relationships in the MENA region, some going 
back over thirty years, which has resulted in an excellent understanding of our clients’ 
requirements and standards. Our vessels are then designed to maximise as many of 
these requirements as the limits of the design will permit. 
We seek to continually improve our offering through innovation including new vessel 
designs and specification improvements by responding directly to client feedback and 
modifying designs as appropriate.
In order to offer a degree of protection from clients not exercising options the Company  
will compete in tenders for all vessels nearing the end of their firm contracts, ensuring that, 
if a client chooses not to exercise their option, no other opportunities would be missed.
We seek to continually improve our offering through innovation including new vessel 
designs and specification improvements by responding directly to client feedback and 
modifying designs as appropriate. The Group’s vessels will be contracted for the greater 
part of the forthcoming financial year as evidenced by the Group’s strong order book of 
contracts and options.
The Group views expanding its geographical footprint as one of its strategic aims and 
seeks to diversify into other markets. We recently entered into a strategic business 
partnership in South East Asia. 23 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Risk Risk Profile
a ssessment 
of c hange 
in Risk mitigation, monitoring and a ssurance
Fleet 
Expansion 
The Group may fail to appropriately 
identify laws and regulations and other 
regulatory statute in new jurisdictions 
where it intends to expand its business.
Non-compliance with anti-bribery and 
corruption regulations could damage 
stakeholder relations and lead to 
reputational and financial loss. 
The Group closely monitors all capital projects which are undertaken by a team of 
experienced marine industry engineers and project managers. We execute regular 
budgeting, forecasting and monitoring processes over capital projects. 
In order to mitigate the risk of project delays and price fluctuations the Group procures 
significant components well in advance of lead times or locks option prices with suppliers  
for future orders.
The Group has significant experience in the construction of SESVs and, as a result of 
building them in our own yard facility, have the flexibility to modify the specification to 
ensure the vessels meet client needs in a cost effective and time efficient manner.
Compliance The Group may fail to appropriately 
identify laws and regulations and other 
regulatory statute in new jurisdictions 
where it intends to expand its business.
Non-compliance with anti-bribery-and-
corruption regulations could damage 
stakeholder relations and lead to 
reputational and financial loss.
Prior to venturing into new markets, the Group performs substantial due diligence work 
and obtains an understanding of the governing laws and regulations. The Group engages 
third parties to help assist in performing the respective due diligence work.
The Group has a Code of Conduct which employees are required to comply with when 
conducting business on behalf of the Group; this includes anti-bribery and corruption 
policies. Assessment of anti-bribery and corruption risks form an integral part of the 
decision-making process when entering new countries or negotiating with potential 
partners and major suppliers. If significant concerns arise, further research and 
assessment will be performed and may involve appropriate third parties, to establish 
whether potential issues are such that GMS must decline the opportunity under UK law.
The Group operates an anonymous whistleblowing hotline which offers a confidential 
platform for reporting suspected ethical breaches or concerns. All suspected breaches  
are investigated and the Board is informed of any significant issues.
Operational There is a risk that the Group’s assets 
may not be fit for purpose or may fail 
to operate in the manner intended by 
the management. Failure to deliver the 
expected operational performance  
could result in reputational damage, 
litigation or loss of clients.
Changes in the political regimes, civil 
and political unrest or sanctions in the 
jurisdictions in which we operate could 
adversely affect our operations.
The Group constantly monitors the condition of the vessels and other equipment which 
undergo mandatory dry docking within the specified timeframes. The Group has policies 
and procedures in place such as the Planned Maintenance System to ensure that the 
vessels undergo regular maintenance. The vessels are subject to periodic audits from 
third parties and the structural integrity of the vessels is certified.
For all our major assets, the Group maintains emergency preparedness plans. We 
regularly review the insurance coverage over the Group’s assets, ensuring these are 
comprehensively covered.
The Board constantly monitors the ever-changing political landscape in the regions that 
are considered volatile or unpredictable. 
The Group remains vigilant to potential changes and risks and as such the Group considers  
it a priority to engage with governments and continued legal counsel to ensure  
a comprehensive view of our stakeholders is presented.
Information contained within the Introduction on pages 1 to 5 and the Performance section on pages 26 to 37 of this document forms part of the 
Strategic Report by reference.
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
On behalf of the Board of Directors
23 March 2015 24 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
PERFORMANCE
Operating Review 26
Financial Review 30
Corporate Social Responsibility 32 25 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 26 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Performance
Operations 
Our fleet currently comprises 12 vessels.  
Of these, eight SESVs are operational in the 
Middle East (seven Small Class and one Large 
Class) along with two AHTS vessels, and two 
SESVs (both Large Class) are working in North 
West Europe. The SESVs have been primarily 
engaged in well services and accommodation 
support, with equal utilisation between  
the two segments. The two AHTS vessels  
have primarily been engaged in platform  
supply activities. 
a Y oung Sophisticated Fleet
The Group’s current SESV fleet is one of the 
youngest in the industry, with an average age  
of eight years. This is based on 11 years for the 
Small Class SESV fleet and two years for the 
Large Class SESV fleet. At the time of our IPO 
we set out our new build programme for the 
years 2014 to 2016. On its completion, which 
will see an increase in our SESV fleet to 15 
vessels, the average age of the SESV fleet  
will reduce still further. The GMS fleet offers 
clients not only the cost-efficient deployment 
of our vessels, but also the prospect of 
substantial operational efficiencies in their  
own maintenance activities that would  
not be available from less modern vessels.
SeSVs’ charter Rates, Utilisation  
and Operating costs
The fleet performed very well during the year, 
with continued high utilisation levels for the 
SESVs of 97% in 2014. Operating costs have 
remained stable and charter rates achieved  
in 2014 are in line with expectations. 
The table below provides a summary of our key 
performance metrics.
We continually seek to improve all areas of 
operations. The Group has built its reputation 
on the reliability of its fleet. Across an entire 
fleet, we had only 12 days of unpaid technical 
downtime (for repairs/maintenance) in 2014 
and we would seek to maintain this level of 
performance in 2015.
OPERA TING REVIEW
Small c lass l arge c lass total S eSVs
2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013
Average daily charter rate excluding 
hotel services (US$'000s) 38 38 100 112
Utilisation 99% 95% 88% 88% 97% 94%
Average daily vessel operating costs 
(US$'000s) 11 12 21 19
With a relatively small pool of SESV-qualified 
senior officers worldwide, it is important we focus 
our efforts on ensuring we have the appropriate 
crew to meet not only the needs of our current 
fleet, but also that of our expanding fleet. We 
place Captains under training annually and during 
the year developed the world’s first onshore SESV 
simulator, discussed on page 37 , to increase the 
training opportunities and our ability to fast -track 
our senior officers. 
Retaining our senior officers is also crucial to  
the successful continuity of our operations.  
Our retention rate for senior officers has been  
just under 90% during the period. Seeking to build 
on this success rate, we have incorporated our 
senior crew into our retention schemes. 
2014 also saw a number of new training 
initiatives to further develop our people and 
their operational expertise as we move forward. 
Examples include the introduction of the GMS 
Academy and a Fleet Management programme. 
Information on these is included in our 
performance section on page 32.
The fleet operations department had a very 
busy year, with our Operational Readiness 
Teams (ORTs) ensuring all necessary work,  
such as modifications and refurbishments, 
were carried out on our current fleet so the 
vessels could move as quickly as possible from 
one contract to the next. Since we both build 
and operate the SESVs, we are ideally placed  
to efficiently carry out these adaptations to  
the fleet as described on page 16. 
Our extensive SESV new build programme has 
also kept the ORTs occupied as they clear the 
way both administratively and technically, for 
the efficient delivery of our new SESVs to our 
clients for the commencement of operations 
worldwide. Large Class vessel GMS Enterprise 
was delivered in Q4 2014; Enhanced Small  
Class vessel Pepper and Mid-Size Class vessel 
GMS Shamal are the latest new builds to be 
prepared for their first contracts in Q1 and Q2 
2015 respectively. 
crewing
The fleet is manned with 343 crew members  
(as at 31 December 2014). This figure comprises 
57 senior ratings, 81 officers and 205 ratings,  
whom are all marine-qualified. We also have 94 
sub-contracted catering staff across the fleet. 
The average crew on board our vessels 
(excluding AHTS vessels) at any time varies 
between 15 and 21 persons, of which 
approximately 17% are senior officers.
Oil and Gas Opex led Activities
Oﬀshore Renewable Energy Capex led Activities
Oil and Gas Capex led Activities
77%
10%
13%
2014 revenue by type of work
GMS' business is heavily weighted towards clients' 
Opex-based activities as shown below. 27 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The way these, and other new vessels, are 
prepared for operations is absolutely key to  
the success of GMS and the ORT ensures  that the 
experience and knowledge gained in delivering 
one vessel is transferred to the next; this good 
practice will help enable continuous improvement 
throughout the fleet expansion programme. 
The Group’s strong HSE track record has been 
maintained throughout a period of considerable 
expansion, with zero lost time injuries both 
onshore and offshore throughout our global 
business and operations in 2014. Further 
information on our HSE performance may  
be seen on page 19. 
markets 
Demand for our assets continues to be 
excellent in the MENA region and strong in 
Europe. Our secured backlog is very healthy, 
being US$ 707 million as at 1 March 2015, 
comprising US$ 380 million firm and US$ 327 
million options, and provides a good indication 
of future revenue and utilisation. The contract 
duration by vessel is shown in the chart below.
The Group’s fleet is capable of supporting 
worldwide operations in the shallow water  
oil and gas and renewable energy industries  
and we tender for business across the globe. 
middle east
2014 has been characterised by excellent 
demand and high levels of utilisation across the 
operational fleet. We completed two charters 
on Small Class vessels in 2014, which were 
immediately re-chartered on new contracts. 
Two further Small Class units that had 
outstanding options with existing long-term 
contracts had these options exercised by their 
respective clients during the year. One new 
Large Class unit that was delivered during  
the year was immediately committed to a 
short-term EPC-related (Capex) requirement; 
the vessel has since been chartered under  
a further contract for the long-term support  
of maintenance-related (Opex) activities with  
a Middle East NOC and this new charter has 
followed on in direct continuation of the first 
contract and will be for a period of up to four 
years. During 2014 an enhanced Small Class 
unit was chartered by a local NOC to support  
its well intervention programme for a period  
of up to five years. The first Mid-Size Class unit, 
which is due to be delivered in Q2 2015, has 
been contracted in advance by a local NOC  
for up to five years in support of its well 
intervention activities.
GMS has long-term confidence in the Saudi 
Arabian market and, as announced previously, 
subject to the normal regulatory approvals by 
the relevant government authorities, plans to 
increase its ownership in its KSA joint venture  
to 75% by purchasing a 15% interest from its 
existing partner, which will at the same time  
sell its remaining 25% stake to a well-regarded 
KSA conglomerate.
europe
Two Large Class SESV units have been 
operating in the Southern North Sea 
throughout 2014. One is chartered under a 
long-term oil and gas contract and during the 
period the client exercised its option under this 
contract to extend the charter for a further  
12 months. The second vessel undertook a 
mixture of shorter-term contracts in both the  
oil and gas and renewables sectors. Sustained 
levels of enquiry for GMS assets have meant 
that utilisation levels on this vessel have 
remained high. Despite the delay in start up by 
one client and subsequent cancellation of an oil 
and gas contract in Q2, alternative work was 
successfully secured at short notice in order  
to maintain utilisation levels. Demand for our 
sophisticated assets in 2014 resulted in GMS 
securing a long-term contract for up to four 
years' work in the Dutch Sector of the Southern 
North Sea, commencing in Q2 2015. A number 
of other opportunities remain within the oil and 
gas sector in this region despite the current low  
oil price and we continue to evaluate these  
with the potential to bring additional vessels  
into the region in future. The renewables sector 
continues to provide short-term opportunities 
however, the demand for our assets in the wind 
farm segment remains unpredictable due to  
the industry’s project execution track record  
on the construction (Capex) side and a lack  
of fully-developed long-term maintenance  
(Opex) strategies.
E1
E2
E3
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2015 20162017201820192020
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Large Vessels
Mid-Size Vessel
Small Vessels
K1
K2
K3
K4
K5
K6
K7
K8
S1
Firm Options Under Construction
Secured Backlog($ millions)
 Firm Options Total
Total 380 327 707
E1
E2
E3
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2015 20162017201820192020
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Large Vessels
Mid-Size Vessel
Small Vessels
K1
K2
K3
K4
K5
K6
K7
K8
S1
Firm Options Under Construction
Secured Backlog($ millions)
 Firm Options Total
Total 380 327 707
SeSVs order book of contracts as at 1 march 2015 c onstruction of l arge c lass GmS enterprise
GMS Enterprise from steel cutting through to first charter in Q3 2014. Information on the design 
enhancements made to the vessel is contained on page 16.
28 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Performance
Rest of World
GMS has entered into cooperation agreements 
with local partners in two of the three key 
markets which it has previously identified in 
South East Asia. These partners in Malaysia  
and Brunei will provide greater levels of access 
and support within the respective markets than 
had previously been achieved. The third market 
in that region, Indonesia, continues to be 
developed with local partners on a project-by-
project basis. During 2014 there was a noticeable 
shift amongst the NOC client base in the South 
East Asian region, which has traditionally used 
less efficient floating assets, to being receptive 
to the SESV concept and the benefits that  
it brings. However, while we see South East  
Asia as a market opportunity, development  
has been restricted by lack of available SESV 
units within our current fleet. Going forward,  
we expect demand in South East Asia to be  
more sensitive to lower oil prices due to the 
higher production costs in that region compared 
to the Gulf. It is difficult to gauge what the  
impact is likely to be over the next three to five 
years, but we believe that there will continue  
to be opportunities for our flexible and 
innovative SESVs. 
The level of tendering activity for new business 
in West Africa during 2014 has been significantly 
lower than in previous years in part due to the 
uncertainty associated with elections in some 
countries. We continue to track opportunities  
in this market particularly in Nigeria, Gabon and 
Northern Angola. In addition to the established 
regional targets, GMS has also participated in 
tenders for opportunities in Mexico, Venezuela, 
New Zealand and Australia during 2014.
During the year, we continued to build up our 
in-house expertise in well services. The primary 
reason for doing so is to be able to engage 
more effectively with our clients and their 
sub-contractors to further develop the 
capabilities of our SESV assets. As a result,  
we are seeing significant new opportunities 
developing across all of our current markets  
for enhanced intervention services that can  
be performed from our vessels where clients 
may previously have used drilling rigs. Providing 
innovative and cost-effective new options to 
clients will continue to drive demand for our 
services and contribute towards maintaining 
high levels of utilisation in future.
Outlook
The outlook, based on our current pipeline of 
contracts under negotiation and other tender 
opportunities, is for overall stronger demand 
driven primarily by our core Opex-related 
brownfield oil and gas client base, and in 
particular in the Middle East.
n ew Build Programme
2014 has been an exceptionally busy year and 
full credit goes to everyone involved in ensuring 
the successful progression of our SESV new 
build programme, which will expand the fleet  
of SESVs from nine to 15 vessels during the 
period 2014 to 2016. 
We continue to benefit from the competitive 
advantage that our well-established in-house 
facility provides, which allows us to build our 
vessels, in the case of our Large Class vessels, 
for approximately 30% cheaper than our peers 
who rely on third party shipyards. This also 
enables us to manage the pace of our new build 
programme to ensure it is aligned to future 
demand and allows us to control the quality of 
the entire construction process and manage 
the timely delivery of the completed vessel.
The Group has a philosophy of ensuring a  
high degree of commonality of components 
between SESV classes ensuring lower training 
and spares costs. (Jacking systems, leg steel, 
HVAC, accommodation and switchboard 
components are common between Mid-Size 
and Large Class vessels.)
The first of the six new SESVs in the 2014  
to 2016 new build programme that was 
communicated at the time of our IPO, GMS 
Enterprise, was completed ahead of schedule 
and under budget. The vessel progressed 
directly to its first charter in September 2014,  
a four-month contract for an EPC contractor 
working for a MENA-based NOC. GMS 
Enterprise has continued to its next contract  
for another NOC in MENA, with this charter 
period for up to four years. 
The estimated cost to complete the remainder 
of the new build programme for the period 2015 
to 2016 is approximately US$ 175 million.
OPERA TING REVIEW
Continued 29 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
2014 2015 2016
New SESVs Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Enterprise (Large Class)
 
Pepper (Enhanced Small Class)
 
Shamal (Mid-Size Class)
 
Scirocco (Mid-Size Class)
 
Sharqi (Mid-Size Class)
 
Evolution (Large Class) 
 
 Scheduled delivery date of vessel
Delivery of Fleet expansion Schedule 
Set out below is the new build delivery schedule for the fleet expansion programme from 2014 to 2016. 30 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Performance
US$ million 2014 2013
Revenue 196.6 184.3
Gross profit 126.5 118.8
Adjusted EBITDA
1
 124.8 124.7
Net profit 75.6 69.4
Adjusted net profit
2
81.3 71.9
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (US cents)
2
23.71 23.56
Proposed final dividend per share (pence) 1.06 –
 
1. Adjusted EBITDA represents operating profit after adding back depreciation, amortisation and IPO Costs. 
Refer to note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. 
2. Adjusted Net Profit represents net profit after adding back exceptional IPO related costs. 
FINANCIAL REVIEW
introduction
The Group delivered a solid set of results  
in 2014 and produced a record year in terms  
of both revenue and profit. 
Our operations during the year have resulted  
in adjusted EBITDA of US$ 124.8 million  
(2013: US$ 124.7 million). Adjusted net profit  
for 2014 improved by 13% to US$ 81.3 million 
(2013: US$ 71.9 million), while adjusted  
diluted EPS for year increased to 23.71 cents 
(2013: 23.56 cents).
GMS continues to have a healthy financial 
position with robust operating cash flows and  
a strong balance sheet. Capital expenditure  
for 2014 of US$ 140.7 million (2013: US$ 53.5 
million) was primarily invested on construction 
of new vessels as part of the ongoing new build 
programme. The Group’s net debt level (being 
borrowings and finance lease obligations less 
cash) reduced by 11% to US$ 273.6 million at 
the year end compared to US$ 307.2 million  
as at 31 December 2013. The Group’s net debt 
(including obligations under finance leases)  
was 2.19 times adjusted EBITDA at year end 
(2013: 2.46 times), well below the maximum  
net leverage ratio permitted under the bank 
facility agreement of 4 times adjusted EBITDA. 
At the year end, the Group had undrawn 
committed bank facilities of US$ 130.0 million 
(2013: US$ 80.0 million). 
Each of the following sections discusses  
the Group's adjusted results as the Directors 
consider that they provide a useful indication  
of performance. The adjusting items  
are discussed below in this review and 
reconciliation between the adjusted and 
statutory results is contained in note 6  
to the consolidated financial statements. 
Revenue and Segment Results 
Revenue increased by 7% to US$ 196.6 million 
in 2014 (2013: US$ 184.3 million) due to the  
97% utilisation rate of our SESVs (2013: 94%) 
combined with the maintenance of strong 
average charter day rates. There was  
growth in all three segments of the business; 
Large Class, Small Class, and Other vessels. 
The Small Class segment made the largest 
contribution to Group revenue with US$ 104.4 
million (2013: US$ 94.4 million). 
Revenue from Large Class and Others 
segments was US$ 79.4 million (2013: US$ 77.7 
million) and US$ 12.8 million (2013: US$ 12.1 
million), respectively. The segment profit, being 
gross profit excluding depreciation, was US$ 
75.6 million (2013: US$ 65.5 million) for Small 
Class vessels, US$ 60.5 million (2013: US$ 63.5 
million) for Large Class vessels, and US$ 7.6 
million (2013: US$ 7.0 million) for Other vessels 
The increase in Small Class revenue primarily 
reflects the increase in average utilisation of 
Small SESVs from 95% in 2013 to 99% in 2014. 
The increase in Large Class revenue was mainly 
due to the successful deployment of our latest 
Large Class vessel GMS Enterprise in September 
2014 following which it subsequently continued 
on hire for the remainder of the year. The 
increase in revenue attributable to our Other, 
non-SESV, vessels is largely due to the increased 
utilisation of an accommodation barge in 2014. 
cost of Sales and General  
and a dministrative expenses
The Group has a relatively predictable operating 
cost base, which is kept under constant review 
to ensure that tight control is maintained as  
the Group grows. Cost of sales as proportion  
of revenue remained relatively stable year on 
year constituting 35.7% of revenue in 2014 
(2013: 35.5% of revenue). The increase in cost  
of sales to US$ 70.1 million (2013: US$ 65.5 
million) has been commensurate with the 
increase in operations required for a larger fleet. 
General and administrative expenses, excluding 
non-recurring IPO costs of US$ 5.7 million, 
increased to US$ 19.7 million (2013: US$ 12.6 
million including management fee of US$ 0.3 
million) mainly due to increased staff costs as we 
enhanced our management team and expanded 
our workforce to meet effectively the expected 
increase in requirements of our growing business. 
eBit Da
Adjusted EBITDA for the year was US$ 124.8 
million (2013: US$ 124.7 million). The Group’s 
adjusted EBITDA margin remained strong overall, 
having decreased from 68% in 2013 to 64% in 
2014, mainly as general and administrative costs 
increased as we continued to invest in positioning 
the business for an anticipated period of major 
organic growth. 
Finance costs
Net finance costs in 2014 were lower at US$ 20.5 
million (2013: US$ 28.8 million), mainly as a result 
of more favourable loan terms following the  
bank refinancing. 
t axation
The tax charge for the year was US$ 4.7 million 
(2013: US$ 3.9 million), representing 6% (2013: 
5%) of profit for the year before taxation. The 
small increase in tax charge is primarily due to a 
higher level of profits being generated in taxable 
jurisdictions during 2014.
a djusted n et Profit  
and earnings Per Share
The Group recorded an increase in adjusted net 
profit of 13% in 2014 to US$ 81.3 million (2013: 
US$ 71.9 million). The improvement in results is 
largely attributable to lower finance costs and 
increased fleet size in the final quarter of the 
year. The fully diluted adjusted earnings per 
share (DEPS) for the year increased to 23.71 
cents (2013: 23.56 cents). Adjusted DEPS is 
calculated based on adjusted profit after tax 
and a reconciliation between the adjusted and 
statutory profit, is provided in note 6.
Dividends
The Group paid an interim dividend of 0.41 
pence (0.69 cents) per ordinary share on 
27 October 2014 to shareholders on the 
register on 26 September 2014.
The Board has reviewed the results for the year 
and is pleased to recommend a final dividend  
of 1.06 pence (1.64 cents) per share to be paid 
in cash for the year ended 31 December 2014. 
Subject to shareholder approval, this will be  
paid on 12 May 2015 to all ordinary shareholders 
who were on the register of members at the 
close of business on 17 April 2015. This final 
dividend brings the 2014 dividends to the 
targeted payout ratio, communicated at the 
time of IPO, of 10% of the Group’s consolidated 
post-tax profit from its ongoing business.
c apital expenditure
The Group’s capital expenditure during the  
year ended 31 December 2014 was US$ 140.7 
million (31 December 2013: US$ 53.5 million). 
The main area of investment was additions  
to assets under the course of construction  
of US$ 136.6 million (US$ 53.0 million), of which 
US$ 96.0 million was transferred to vessels 
upon completion of a new large class vessel  
and improvements to certain existing vessels.  31 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
c ash Flow and l iquidity 
The Group’s net cash flow from operating 
activities continued to be robust for 2014, as 
reflected in a net inflow of US$ 120.3 million 
(2013: net inflow of US$ 113.3 million).
The net cash outflow from investing activities 
for 2014 was US$ 139.6 million (2013: US$ 52.5 
million). The increase in outflow was mainly due 
to investment on capital expenditure.
The Group’s net cash relating to financing 
activities during the year was an inflow of US$ 
31.9 million (2013: cash outflow of US$ 15.9 
million). This net positive balance was mainly 
attributable to receipt of net IPO proceeds 
during the year which were mainly invested  
in our ongoing new build programme. 
The year end net debt position was US$ 273.6 
million as at 31 December 2014 as compared  
to US$ 307.2 million as at 31 December 2013. 
The year end outstanding debt was US$ 333.1 
million (December 2013: US$ 354.1 million) 
constituting bank borrowings of US$ 249.2 
million (December 2013: US$ 265.3 million) and 
finance lease obligations of US$ 84.0 million 
(31 December 2013: US$ 88.8 million). Undrawn 
committed bank facilities were US$ 130.0 
million at year end (2013: US$ 80.0 million).  
The Group completed a drawdown of US$ 37.5 
million in March 2015 to fund the exercise of a 
purchase option on a leased vessel as discussed 
below. The Group remained in full compliance 
with its debt covenants, with significant 
headroom, during the year and expects  
to continue to do so.
In February 2014, the Group’s main bank facility 
was restructured, resulting in improvements 
to some of the key terms of the loan, such  
as available facility, margins and tenure. The 
Group’s net leverage ratio, being the ratio of  
net debt (including finance lease obligations) to 
adjusted EBITDA, reduced to 2.19 times at year 
end (2013: 2.46 times). While the Group targets 
its net debt net leverage ratio not to exceed  
3 times adjusted EBITDA, the maximum net 
leverage ratio permitted under the bank facility 
agreement is 4 times adjusted EBITDA. 
Secured undrawn debt facilities and strong 
operating cashflows, makes the Group fully 
financed to complete its capital expenditure 
program for the years 2015 and 2016.
Balance Sheet
The Group has a robust and well financed balance 
sheet. A review of the major components of the 
balance sheet follows. 
Total current assets at 31 December 2014 were 
US$ 109.5 million (December 2013: US$ 91.1 
million). This movement is attributable to an 
increase in cash and cash equivalents to US$ 
59.5 million (December 2013: US$ 46.9 million) 
and an increase in trade and other receivables 
to US$ 50.0 million (31 December 2013: US$ 
43.2 million).
Total current liabilities at 31 December 2014 
were US$ 99.8 million (31 December 2013:  
US$ 43.2 million). The principal movement was 
a reclassification of obligations under finance 
leases from non-current liabilities to current 
liabilities of US$ 41.5 million (December 2013: 
US$ 5.7 million), mainly as the period remaining 
for the option to purchase a leased Small Class 
vessel became exercisable within one year. The 
option to purchase the vessel was exercised in 
March 2015. There was an increase in trade and 
other payables to US$ 30.1 million (December 
2013: US$ 22.0 million) and an increase in bank 
borrowings classified as current liabilities  
to US$ 23.4 million (December 2013:  
US$ 11.0 million). 
The combined result of the above was a 
decrease in the Group’s combined working 
capital and cash to US$ 9.7 million at 
31 December 2014 (December 2013:  
US$ 47.9 million). 
Total non-current assets at 31 December  
2014 were US$ 620.2 million (December 2013: 
US$ 495.1 million). This increase is primarily 
attributable to the US$ 124.2 million increase  
in the net book value of property, plant and 
equipment, from the ongoing new build 
programme to expand the fleet.
Total non-current liabilities at 31 December 
2014 were US$ 270.7 million (December 2013: 
US$ 358.8 million). This reduction is primarily 
due to repayment of shareholder loans of US$ 
19.5 million, repayment of bank borrowings of 
US$ 13.0 million and obligations under finance 
leases of US$ 41.5 million being reclassified to 
current liabilities.
Shareholders’ equity increased from US$ 182.9 
million at 31 December 2013 to US$ 358.6 
million at 31 December 2014. The movement  
is mainly as a result of the new equity issued as 
part of the IPO which increased share capital to 
US$ 57.9 million (31 December 2013: US$ 0.3 
million) and share premium to US$ 93.2 million 
(December 2013: US$ nil), as well as the 
retained profit for the year of US$ 75.1 million 
(2013: US$ 68.2 million). Furthermore, a share 
based payment reserve of US$ 0.5 million and 
capital contribution reserve of US$ 1.4 million 
was created during the year in respect of share 
based payments. These increases in equity 
were partially offset by the Group restructuring 
reserve of US$ 49.4 million, created in the year 
as outlined in note 15 to the consolidated 
financial statements, and certain other items 
such as interim dividend of US$ 2.4 million 
which was paid in October 2014. 
a djusting items
The Group presents adjusted results, in 
addition to the statutory results, as the 
Directors consider that they provide a useful 
indication of performance. The pre-tax item 
that is excluded from adjusted results in 2014 is 
IPO costs of US$ 5.7 million (2013: IPO costs of 
US$ 2.1 million and management fee of US$ 0.3 
million). A reconciliation between the adjusted 
and statutory results is given in note 6 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Outlook
The Group is well placed to continue the 
progress it demonstrated in 2014. The 2014  
to 2016 fleet expansion programme is fully 
financed and funding allocation for future 
growth beyond that will be paced responsibly, 
based on the Group’s view of market demand 
and achieving its investment returns.
Our intention is that financial and business 
performance will be supported by a capital 
structure which is both sustainable and  
seeks in time to deliver significant total 
shareholder returns.
John Brown
Chief Financial Officer 
23 March 2015 32 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Performance
By living our values we can achieve our mission to 
create shareholder value through the provision 
of modern, innovative and sustainable solutions 
to our partners in the offshore energy sector. 
l iving our Values
Responsibility
We have a responsibility to our clients to provide 
cost-effective and flexible offshore support 
vessels that meet their business needs, while 
maintaining the highest standards in safety  
and operational efficiency and minimising 
downtime. In doing this, we generate value for 
our shareholders by delivering our existing and 
new contracts with high utilisation rates, our 
new build programme on schedule and our 
future growth strategy at a managed pace to 
maintain and expand a profitable business. 
We also have a responsibility to our employees 
and are committed to providing them with a 
safe working environment and to investing in 
their personal and professional development  
so they can reach their full potential within GMS. 
We strive to provide a high standard of training 
and develop our own training initiatives where 
we feel these will be of benefit to GMS and  
the employees. In 2014 these included an 
in-house leadership development programme 
for management whereby they can attain  
an Institute of Leadership and Management 
accreditation; the recruitment of Offshore 
Performance Coaches to embed the training 
we deliver and to provide more ‘on-the-job’ 
support to our crew as needed; and the 
introduction of the GMS Academy, which is  
a computer-based initiative that ensures the 
efficient induction and ongoing competency  
of our globally dispersed staff. 
We recognise the importance of building a 
pipeline of ‘home-grown’ qualified staff to 
ensure we have the right skills in place for  
our business and achieve this through a 
combination of internships and graduate 
development programmes. In order to retain 
the best talent, we offer career progression and 
a variety of opportunities within our business. 
Staff are encouraged through our Fleet 
Development Programme to develop their  
skill set in order to become more effective 
members of our operations function and have 
the further opportunity of secondment to 
other areas of the business to give them the 
breadth of knowledge and ability required for 
progression to senior positions within GMS. 
There are opportunities for offshore staff to 
work onshore, which is considered useful in 
spreading specialist knowledge and practical 
experience throughout the Group. We also hold 
in-house Business Awareness sessions which 
all levels of staff can attend; these are hosted  
by senior managers and managers who share 
their expertise with staff and this in turn helps 
employees to understand the wider business, 
where they fit in and how they might develop. 
As we carry out our business, we believe that 
living by our values also means living by our 
Code of Conduct, which sets out the basic rules 
of the Group and its purpose is to ensure we 
work safely, ethically, efficiently and within the 
laws of the countries in which we operate. Our 
reputation and our success is dependent on all 
staff taking responsibility for putting the Code 
of Conduct into practice and maintaining a high 
ethical standard in our work and in our dealings 
with host and foreign governments, joint 
venture partners and associates, contractors, 
employees, consultants, agents, and generally 
everyone with whom we have business dealings 
throughout the world. Our Code includes our 
standards and practices related to anti-bribery 
and corruption policies and anti-money 
laundering and competition laws, provides 
details on how to raise concerns and has 
information on our whistleblowing policy.  
All our staff receive Code of Conduct training. 
We proactively manage our financial risk and 
understand the importance of communicating 
this and our financial performance in a clear and 
concise manner and of maintaining relationships 
with the financial community, including investors, 
analysts and the financial media. Our investor 
relations strategy during the year included a 
series of investor roadshows and one-to-one 
sessions with our CEO and CFO and included 
results presentations, investor meetings and 
investment bank conferences in both the UAE 
and the UK. Senior management also responded 
to ad hoc requests from the investor community. 
We have developed our website to include 
investor relations information and plan to 
augment this during 2015.
We understand the importance of giving back 
to the communities where we work. We actively 
encourage participation in sports activities  
and sponsor a range of local and national 
organisations. We also regularly support  
a variety of charity events.
We believe that our day-to-day business, both onshore and offshore, 
should be carried out with the utmost integrity. Our core values  
of Responsibility, Excellence and Relationships define who we are,  
what we believe and strive for and how we act and behave. 
OPERA TING  
WITH INTEGRITY 
CORPORA TE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Excellence
The Group prides itself on operational excellence 
and we continually look for ways to improve how 
we work and to ensure our client offering is the 
best it can be. 
For GMS, Health, Safety, Security, Environment 
and Quality (HSSEQ) are of paramount 
importance, with the lives of our personnel, our 
contractors and others who are impacted by 
our activities dependent upon us upholding the 
highest standards. We are always conscious of 
the environment in which we work and we are 
fully committed to ensuring its protection. 
We constantly seek improvement and we do this 
by enhancing our employees’ competencies 
through training and knowledge transference 
and providing the robust safety tools required to 
prevent incidents. GMS expanded significantly in 
2014 and it was important to ensure our systems 
and HSSEQ toolkit evolved appropriately to 
support our growth. A new HSSEQ Director was 
appointed, reinforcing the Group’s commitment 
to outstanding performance in this key area. 
During the period we introduced a new initiative 
called GMS Advance to Zero (GMS’ A to Z), which 
includes improving the safety leadership skills  
of staff, simplifying our support systems, and 
setting and rewarding successful performance. 
We have adopted 12 mandatory Life-Saving 
Rules that supplement and support the existing 
company management systems, programmes 
and policies and which reinforce what employees 
and contractors must know and do to prevent 
serious injury or even fatality. The aim is to 
achieve zero lost time injuries (LTIs).
We are pleased to report that there were no 
LTIs in 2014, which is an improvement on 2013 
when one LTI was sustained. We also recorded 
further improvement in 2014 in our proactive 
HSE observation programme, demonstrating 
increased engagement with our staff.
Relationships
GMS values the relationships we have with  
our clients, which are built on trust and a  
proven track record of delivering successful 
operations. Many of these relationships are  
with long-term clients, in the case of ADNOC 
subsidiaries spanning more than 35 years.  
We are also working closely with our business 
partners to maximise opportunities in existing 
and new geographies and in 2014 we formed a 
marketing partnership with Dialog in Malaysia to 
focus on possible opportunities there, subject 
to future fleet availability.
We also maintain very good relationships with 
our high-quality core suppliers through the 
sourcing of components and often through 
ongoing maintenance agreements once the 
SESV is operational. Our key suppliers include 
Rolls Royce, Hydralift, BLM, Kongsberg, Gusto 
MSC and Wartsila. The length and depth of our 
relationships with our key suppliers are critical 
as they allow us to benefit from substantial 
economies of scale in the procurement of 
goods and services, which strengthens the 
viability of our low-cost model. When tendering 
for major vessel components, the main factors 
we consider in awarding contracts are quality, 
price and delivery schedule. 
The Group continues to work with industry 
bodies such as BROA and IJUBOA and is 
represented on the ABS Worldwide Technical 
Committee. We also participate in major 
industry exhibitions; in 2014 these included 
OTC Asia (the Offshore Technology 
Conference Asia, in Malaysia) and ADIPEC,  
(the international petroleum exhibition and 
conference, in Abu Dhabi). 
Our employee relationships are of great 
importance to us. We encourage in everyone, 
both onshore and offshore, a sense of pride  
in GMS. We welcome an honest and open 
dialogue and continually look for ways to 
engage with our employees. Our regular 
company magazine, Jack Flash, communicates 
a wide range of information on the Group’s 
activities and regularly features members of 
staff. In addition, our whistleblowing policy  
and careline offers staff a way to express 
grievances without fear of repercussions.
GMS also recognises the contribution made by 
individuals. In 2014 we introduced a Long Term 
Incentive Plan for managers and senior officers, 
rewarding their loyalty and allowing them to 
share in the future success of GMS. We also 
have an annual employee awards ceremony, the 
Oscars, which recognises outstanding service.  34 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Performance
CORPORA TE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Continued
Diversity Brings a Wealth  
of Talent to GMS
l and-Based management 
Total of 39 employees (36 male, 3 female).
Asia
Europe 
Africa 
Other 
(Americas, 
Australia)
MENA 
31
2
3
1
2
Land-Based Staff
Total of 243 (200 male, 43 female)
Asia
Europe 
Africa 
Other 
(Americas,  
Australia)
MENA 
215
6
6
16
Offshore Employees (343, all male)
Asia
Europe
Eastern Europe 
(Includes Azerbaijan)
Middle East 
(includes T urkey)
N & S Americas
Africa
229 14
1
5
74
20
 
For cultural and legal reasons the extent to which  
we can increase the number of female personnel  
is limited. For example, we cannot employ women 
offshore in the Middle East.
Diversity
We are very proud of our diverse workforce, 
which ensures we look at ourselves, and the  
way we work, from many different viewpoints.  
We employ personnel from more than 50 
countries. The majority of our employees  
are aged between 30 and 55. GMS is a global 
recruiter and in 2013 staff travelled to the 
Balanagar Technical Institute Association 
(BTIA) in Mookkannur, India as part of our 
recruitment drive for the construction of  
GMS Enterprise (during 2014) and subsequent 
vessels. The BTIA’s Manpower Recruitment 
Division has been instrumental in finding 
suitable placement for thousands of skilled, 
semi-skilled, and unskilled youngsters, not just 
from Mookkannur and the surrounding areas, 
but from all over the state, and was the ideal 
place for GMS to find a skilled labour force. 
The recruitment team also travelled to the 
Philippines in 2014 to further supplement  
our new build workforce.
Our core values of Responsibility, Excellence 
and Relationships define who we are, what  
we believe and strive for and how we act and 
behave. Information on our core values can  
be found on our website at www.gmsuae.com.
environment
Our aim in GMS is to minimise the impact we 
have on the environment. In 2014 we achieved 
our objective of not causing any accidental 
pollution across all our operations and new  
build programme. Going further than that we 
made sure that any potential incidents were 
investigated fully thus enabling us to address 
internal controls effectively. We are also 
establishing an environmental monitoring 
programme with the aim of introducing key 
initiatives across our business that will further 
reduce our environmental impact and footprint. 
WE ARE VERY PROUD  
OF OUR DIVERSE 
WORKFORCE, WHICH 
ENSURES WE LOOK A T 
OURSEL VES, AND THE WA Y 
WE WORK, FROM MANY 
DIFFERENT VIEWPOINTS.  35 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 36 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Performance
Scope: emissions from: tonnes c O
2
e
Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 39,515 
Scope 2 Electricity purchased * 1,038 
Total 40,553 
Revenue recognised during the reporting period
US$'000 
196,554
Intensity Ratio (Tonnes CO
2
e per US$ 1000) 0.2
* Note GMS did not purchase heat, steam or cooling for its own use in the reporting period.
For the 12-month period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014, our GHG emissions were  
as below:
CORPORA TE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Continued
Greenhouse Gas  
emissions Statement 
In accordance with the UK Government 
regulatory requirements, GMS is reporting  
its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions for the 
first time. Accordingly, we are not reporting 
comparative data for previous financial years. 
The sources for which we are reporting GHG 
emissions are those which we include within  
our consolidated financial statements.  
We do not have responsibility for emission 
sources in entities that are not included in our 
consolidated financial statements. The 
consumption of fuel during the operation of our 
vessels is the largest contributor to our GHG 
emissions. Although our vessels are leased on  
a long-term basis to our clients, who both pay 
for fuel and determine where each vessel sails, 
we have chosen to account for their GHG 
emissions within our footprint, in accordance 
with the ‘operational control’ approach to 
developing our GHG footprint.
The intensity ratio of tonnes CO
2
e per US$ 1000 
of Group revenue earned during the reporting 
period has been chosen because, as a service 
company, the amount of revenue earned best 
reflects our operational output and therefore 
the contribution to our GHG emissions.
In calculating our GHG emissions, we have used 
the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 
Reporting Standard (revised edition), the 2014 
UK Government Conversion Factors for 
Company Reporting, the Climate Registry  
2014 and the IEA CO
2
 Emissions from Fuel 
Combustion (2012 edition). 37 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S
CASE STUDY
LEADING THE FIELD. A WORLD-FIRST  
IN SESV SIMULA TOR TRAINING
A highlight in 2014 was the development 
by GMS, in partnership with Abu Dhabi 
Ports Company, of the world’s first 
bespoke onshore SESV simulator that 
has expanded the ‘offshore’ training 
opportunities for our Masters. 
As the demand for self-propelled  
SESVs grows, due to ageing oil and gas 
infrastructure and the increased need  
for well intervention work, so the world 
SESV fleet will increase in size and this  
will increase international demand for 
SESV-specialist senior crews. It was 
important for us to find a way to provide 
operational training onshore, at a central 
location, for our Masters to ensure their 
readiness to safely carry out manoeuvres 
at sea and to make sure our expanding 
fleet will have sufficient senior crewing  
in the years ahead. 
Abu Dhabi Ports Company already had  
a simulator for ship and port operations; 
we were able to modify the simulator  
and software to include our SESVs in 
offshore operations. We developed  
a training programme that is the first  
to have fully incorporated simulations  
for the manoeuvring and jacking of 
self-elevating, self-propelled vessels  
in a variety of operational scenarios as 
they move from one platform to the 
next. The Group has been successful  
in accelerating the clients’ Masters 
approval process. In addition, it allows 
the Group to create simulated disaster 
scenarios thus allowing its Masters to  
be better able to respond should such  
an incident actually occur.
We are now able to more closely control 
the training of our current and future 
senior crew and to ensure our vessels 
have the right people in place when our 
clients need them, which is essential  
for our operational delivery. Our clients 
in the UAE consider the simulator a 
partnering opportunity whereby they 
can work with us to potentially develop 
their own staff. We have also been 
working closely with the IJUBOA to 
ensure all owners of these highly 
specialised units worldwide have the 
same possibility to enhance the safety 
assurance of their operations.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 38 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
GOVERNANCE
Chairman’s Introduction 40
Board of Directors 42
Corporate Governance 44
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 47
Report of the Remuneration Committee 50
Report of the Nomination Committee 61
Directors’ Report 62
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 65 39 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 40 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
CHAIRMAN'S INTRODUCTION
Dear Shareholders,
I am pleased to introduce our Corporate Governance Report. Our evolution 
from being a predominantly private equity owned company to a premium 
listed company on the London Stock Exchange represented a significant 
milestone in the development of the business. 
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate 
governance. Prior to the Company’s listing, a robust governance 
structure and a high quality framework was implemented to ensure  
full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”). 
We believe this is integral to sustain our reputation and the continuing 
trust and support of our shareholders, employees, clients and  
other stakeholders. 
In February 2014, a new holding company of the Group was incorporated 
as Gulf Marine Services PLC and a new Board was then selected and 
appointed in March 2014. The Company undertook this selection process, 
which specified the skills and qualities we were seeking in the Directors, 
with the assistance of Spencer Stuart, an external search company.  
All of the Directors were provided with training by the Company’s legal 
advisers to ensure they were fully aware of their corporate governance 
and Director duties. The Board, as part of their induction programme,  
also met with the wider executive management team. 
The Board, which consists of seven Directors, comprises an independent 
Chairman (who, for the purposes of the Code was independent on 
appointment), one executive Director, three independent non-executive 
Directors and two non-executive Directors who are considered by the 
Board to not be independent because of their relationship with Gulf 
Capital, a substantial shareholder in the Company. The Company has 
established three Committees: the Audit and Risk Committee, the 
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee, all of which 
are compliant with the Code. 
The Board views effective governance as an essential foundation for  
the Group’s success in delivering shareholder value in a controlled 
sustainable environment. 
Since listing, the Company has complied in all respects with the provisions 
of the Code. This Corporate Governance Report, including the individual 
reports of the Board and its Committees, summarises the work undertaken 
in this area since listing. This report explains key features of the Company’s 
governance structure to provide a greater understanding of how the main 
principles of the Code have been applied and to highlight areas of focus 
during the year. 
The focus for the Board in 2015 is to further strengthen the existing 
corporate governance policies to support the growth strategy of the 
Company. Your Board is well-placed to challenge robustly the proposals 
placed before it and to provide independent oversight. 
Simon Heale 
Chairman 
23 March 2015
Simon Heale
Chairman 41 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Governance c alendar for 2014
m eeting attendance by Directors in 2014
The overall calendar of meetings of the Board and its Committees for 2014 is shown below. 
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Board (Main Meetings)
Audit and Risk Committee 
Remuneration Committee 
A Nomination Committee meeting was held after the year end on 22 March 2015. 
For more detail on the responsibilities of the Board Committees, their terms of reference are included on the Group’s website at  
www.gmsuae.com.
The attendance of the Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees is shown below. 
 Attended 
 Attended all or part of meeting as an invitee 
Board Audit & Risk Remuneration
Simon Heale
Duncan Anderson
Simon Batey
H. Richard Dallas
Dr. Karim El Solh
Mike Straughen
W. Richard Anderson
Christopher Foll, a Chartered Accountant and Chief Financial Officer at Gulf Capital, has been appointed as an alternate Director for H. Richard 
Dallas and Dr Karim El Solh; further details can be found in the Directors’ Report on page 62.
Note: Given the recent appointment of the Directors of the Company and the rigorous selection process undertaken by the Company and assisted by Spencer Stuart 
there was no meeting of the Nomination Committee in 2014. 42 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
Name
Simon Heale Duncan Anderson Simon Batey
Designation
independent  
n on-executive c hairman
c hief executive Officer Senior independent  
n on-executive Director
Appointment Date
February 2014 January 2014  
(with Group since October 2007)
February 2014
Experience
A non-executive director at Coats 
plc from 2010 to 2014. Served  
on the boards of PZ Cussons  
from 2007 to 2013 and Morgan 
Advanced Materials from 2005  
to 2014. Non-executive director 
and chairman at Panmure Gordon  
& Co plc from 2007 to 2011. Has 
extensive experience in senior 
executive roles, including as chief 
executive at the London Metal 
Exchange from 2001 to 2006,  
chief operating officer and chief 
financial officer at Jardine Fleming 
Ltd from 1997 to 2001 and deputy 
managing director at Cathay Pacific 
Airways from 1994 to 1997. 
A Chartered Accountant with a 
degree in Philosophy, Politics and 
Economics from Oxford University. 
Brings a wealth of experience, 
spanning more than 33 years, to the 
executive team gained from prior 
role as chief operating officer at the 
UAE-based Lamnalco Group, which 
included the management of a fleet 
of 90 vessels, as well as increasing 
the client base in West Africa and 
the Middle East. Also operated the 
largest offshore service vessel fleet 
in the region as chief operating 
officer at Gulf Offshore North  
Sea. Responsible for leading  
the management of the GMS 
Group and the implementation  
of its strategy. 
A UK Chartered Engineer with  
a post-graduate BSc (Hons)  
degree in Marine Machinery 
Monitoring Control. 
A non-executive director at Arriva 
plc from 2003 to 2010, THUS Group 
plc in 2006 and BlackRock New 
Energy Investment Trust plc from 
2010 to 2014. A member of the 
Postal Services Commission, 
responsible for the regulation  
of the UK postal services sector, 
from 2010 to 2011. As a Chartered 
Accountant, spent 12 years in 
professional practice with Armitage 
& Norton (now part of KPMG), 
latterly as a partner. Has more than 
20 years’ experience in a number  
of senior finance roles in industry. 
Group finance director of United 
Utilities plc between 2000 and 
2006. Chief financial officer at 
Thames Water Utilities Ltd from 
2006 to 2007. Between 1987 and 
2000, worked at AMEC Foster 
Wheeler plc, initially as deputy 
group finance director and then, 
from 1992, as group finance 
director.
A Chartered Accountant with  
an MA in Geography from  
Oxford University. 
External Appointments
Non-executive chairman at Kaz 
Minerals plc, previously known as 
Kazakhmys plc, since 2013 and a 
non-executive director since 2007. 
Non-executive director at Marex 
Spectron since 2007. A trustee of 
Macmillan Cancer Support.
Member of ABS Worldwide 
Technical Committee.
Independent non-executive 
director and chairman of the  
Audit Committee at Telecity  
Group since 2007.
Committees
Chairman of the Nomination 
Committee.
Chairman of the Audit  
and Risk Committee.
Member of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committees.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 43 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
W. Richard Anderson Mike Straughen H. Richard Dallas Dr Karim El Solh
independent  
n on-executive Director
independent  
n on-executive Director
n on-executive Director n on-executive Director
February 2014 February 2014 February 2014 February 2014
Has 36 years’ experience in the  
oil and gas industry and related 
finance and management. 
Previously president and chief 
executive officer at Prime Natural 
Resources Inc. from 1999 to 2007. 
Partner from 1989 to 1995 and then 
managing partner from 1995 to 
1998 at Hein & Associates LLP . 
Served on the boards of Calibre 
Energy Inc from 2005 to 2007, 
Transocean Ltd from 2007 to  
2011 and Boots & Coots Inc  
from 1999 to 2010.
A Certified Public Accountant, with 
a BSc in Business from University  
of Colorado, magna cum laude,  
and a Masters in T axation from  
the University of Denver.
Board member of the John Wood 
Group PLC and chief executive 
officer of the Engineering Division 
from 2007 to 2014. With AMEC  
for 25 years, latterly as group 
managing director responsible for 
UK activities across all sectors 
including global oil & gas. A member 
of PILOT, the UK Government Oil & 
Gas Advisory Board, from 2000 to 
2007 and chairman of the Energy 
Industry Council from 2002 to 2007. 
Recently a member of the UK 
Government’s Offshore Wind Cost 
Reduction T ask Force. A member of 
the Scottish Government’s Energy 
Advisory Board from January 2013 
to September 2014.
A Chartered Engineer with a BSc 
(Hons) degree in Mechanical 
Engineering from Newcastle 
University.
Previously served as managing 
director of Oryx Capital 
International, an investment group 
composed of families from GCC 
that specialised in small to mid-cap 
investments in the United States, 
from 1998 to 2007. A partner of 
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher from 
1985 to 1998 and established and 
managed offices in London and 
Saudi Arabia. 
Holds an A.B. degree in Economics, 
with honours, from Stanford 
University and a J.D. degree  
from the University of Southern 
California.
Co-founder of Gulf Capital, one  
of the largest alternative asset 
management firms in the Middle 
East, since its formation in 2006. 
Under his leadership, Gulf Capital 
has been associated with some  
of the region’s most prominent 
transactions, with the firm 
managing $3 billion in assets.
Chairman of Maritime Industrial 
Services from 2007 to 2011 and 
Chairman of Metito from 2006 to 
2014. Chief executive officer of the 
Abu Dhabi-based Investment Bank, 
The National Investor, from 2001  
to 2005. Senior banker in the 
European High Yield Capital 
Markets at Donaldson, Lufkin and 
Jenrette (DLJ), now part of Credit 
Suisse, from 1997 to 1999. Senior 
banker at Citigroup from 1995  
to 1997.
Holds a B.S. degree in Civil 
Engineering from Cornell 
University, an MBA from 
Georgetown University and a 
Doctorate in Economics from  
the Institute D’Etudes Politiques  
de Paris (Science Po).
Chief financial officer at Eurasia 
Drilling Company since 2008 and 
member of the board since 2011.
Chairman of the board at Vanguard 
Natural Resources LLC since 2008.
Non-executive director at Soma Oil 
& Gas Holdings since 2013.
A non-executive director of Glacier 
Energy Services Holdings Ltd since 
January 2014. A member of the 
Energy Institute since 2001.
Managing director at Gulf Capital 
since 2007. 
Chief executive officer  
of Gulf Capital since 2006.
Co-managing partner of  
Gulf Related since 2010.
Chairman of Reach Group  
since 2014. Board member, 
Destination of the World  
since 2014.
Chairman of the  
Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit and Risk,  
and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit and Risk, 
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committees.
Member of the Nomination 
Committee. 44 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
Division of Board Responsibilities
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE
c orporate Governance Report
c ompliance with UK c orporate Governance c ode
Since listing the Company has complied with all the relevant provisions 
set out in the Code. 
Governance Overview
membership of the Board 
The UK Code provides that independent non-executive Directors  
should comprise at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman. 
 
Chairman
Simon Heale
Executive Director
Duncan Anderson
Senior independent Directors
Simon Batey
Non-executive Directors
Karim El Sohl, H. Richard Dallas
Independent non-executive Directors
W. Richard Anderson, Mike Straughen
Board composition, Qualification and i ndependence 
It is intended that the composition, qualifications, experience and 
balance of skills on the Board will be regularly reviewed by the Board to 
ensure that there is the right mix on the Board and its committees and 
that they are working effectively. There are currently seven Directors  
on the Board, which comprises an independent Chairman (who, for the 
purposes of the Code was independent on appointment), one executive 
Director, three independent non-executive Directors and two non-
executive Directors who are considered by the Board to not be 
independent due to their relationship with the major shareholder Gulf 
Capital. The current members of the Board have a wide range of skills  
and experience and their biographies can be found on pages 42 to 43. 
n on-executive Director independence
The Board considers and reviews the independence of each non-executive 
Director on an annual basis as part of the Directors’ performance evaluation. 
In carrying out the review, consideration is given to factors such as their 
character, judgment, commitment and performance on the Board and 
relevant committees and their ability to provide objective challenge to 
management. Following the annual review for 2014, the Board concluded 
that each of the independent non-executive Directors reviewed continue  
to demonstrate those behaviours and continued to be considered by the 
Board as independent.
chairman Chief Executive Officer 
 – Provided strategic insight from his wide-ranging business 
experience and contacts built up over many years.
 – Met major shareholders on governance matters and was an 
alternate point of contact instead of the Chief Executive Officer  
for shareholders on other matters as well.
 – Provided a sounding board for the Chief Executive Officer on key 
business decisions, challenging proposals where appropriate.
 – Agreed executive Directors’ subjects for particular consideration  
by the Board during the year at Board meetings, ensuring that 
adequate time is available to discuss all agenda items. 
 – Brought matters of particular significance or risk to the Chairman, 
for discussion and consideration if appropriate.
 – Represented the Group to its shareholders, customers, suppliers 
and the general industry.
 – Led the business and the rest of the management team.
 – Led the development of the Group’s strategy with input from  
the rest of the Board and our advisers.
 – Worked with the Chairman in agreeing subjects for particular 
consideration by the Board during the year.
Effective Division of Responsibilities and Board Operation
Senior independent Director c ompany Secretary 
 – Made himself available to shareholders if they had concerns  
that could not be addressed through normal channels.
 – Acted as an internal sounding board for the Chairman.
 – Served as an intermediary for the other Directors with the  
Chairman when necessary.
 – Ensured balanced understanding of major shareholders' issues  
and concerns.
 – Secretary to the Board and each of its Committees, reporting 
directly to their Chairman.
 – Assisted the Chairman to ensure that Board papers are clear, 
accurate, timely, succinct and of sufficient quality to enable  
the Board to discharge its duties effectively.
 – Provided advice to the Board and each of its Committees on  
Board and governance matters. 45 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Board c alendar for 2014
How the Board Operates
The Board is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership and 
effective oversight of the Company. It also agrees the strategic direction 
and governance structure that will help achieve the long-term success of 
the Company and deliver shareholder value. The Board takes the lead in 
areas such as strategy, financial policy, risk management and the overall 
system of internal control. The Board’s full responsibilities are set out  
in the matters reserved for the Board. The ultimate responsibility for the 
Company rests with the Board and its legal powers and responsibilities 
are stated in the Articles of Association, which are available for inspection 
at the Company’s registered office in the UK. 
The Board delegates authority to its committees to carry out certain 
tasks on its behalf, so that it can operate efficiently and give the right 
level of attention and consideration to relevant matters. The composition 
and role of each committee is summarised on pages 47 to 61 and their 
full terms of reference are available on our website at www.gmsuae.com. 
The composition, experience and balance of skills on the Board are 
regularly reviewed to ensure that there is the right mix on the Board and its 
committees and they are working effectively. The current members of the 
Board have a wide range of skills and experience and their biographies can 
be found on pages 42 to 43.
The Chairman, along with the Chief Executive Officer and the Company 
Secretary, has established Board processes designed to maximise  
its performance. Key aspects of these are shown below:
 – the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary meet 
towards the beginning of each year to agree an overall calendar  
of subjects to be discussed by the Board during the year.
 – Board meetings are timetabled to ensure adequate time for 
discussion of each agenda item for that particular meeting.
 – discussions at Board meetings are held in a collaborative atmosphere 
of mutual respect and open discussion allowing for questions, 
scrutiny and constructive challenge where appropriate.
 – full debates on key matters allow decisions to be taken by consensus 
(although any dissenting views would be minuted accordingly).
 – the development of strategy is led by the Chief Executive Officer,  
with input, challenge, examination and ongoing testing from the  
non-executive Directors.
 – the Group strategy is reviewed by the Board throughout the year,  
with particular strategic matters being reviewed and updated as 
appropriate at each main meeting.
 – good working relationships exist between non-executive Directors 
and non-Board members of the senior management team.
 – members of the senior management team draw on the collective 
experience of the Board, including its non-executive Directors.
 – comprehensive reporting packs are provided to the Board, which are 
designed to be clear, accurate and analytical, whilst avoiding excess  
and unnecessary information.
 – reporting packs are normally distributed six days in advance of Board 
meetings, enabling them to be as up-to-date as possible whilst 
allowing sufficient time for their review and consideration in advance 
of the meeting.
 – clarification or amplification of reports is sought in advance of,  
or at the meeting as appropriate.
 – once goals have been set and actions agreed, the Board receives 
regular reports on their implementation.
 – comprehensive management accounts with commentary and 
analysis are distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
 – the Board reviews the Group’s risk register at each of its main 
meetings and challenges this where appropriate.
 – the Board visits the Group’s business locations both to review its 
operations and new build vessels and to meet with local management.
 – all Directors have open access to the Group’s key advisers as well  
as to Management and the Company Secretary.
 – Directors are also entitled to seek independent professional advice  
at the Group’s expense should they consider this appropriate.
may June a ugust October December
IPO debrief
Q1 Interim management 
statement
Remuneration 
Committee Report
Contract updates
Trading
Review of  
operational matters
City expectations for first 
year as a plc
Current trading activity
Competitive landscape
Business Update, including:
 – update on charters
 – new build programme
Approval of 2014  
interim results
Competitive landscape
Group strategic plan  
2015 to 2019
Review of indicative  
2015 budget
Share price
Discussion on  
macroeconomic conditions
Approval of Group strategic  
plan 2015 to 2019
Review and approval  
of 2015 budget
Review of Group  
financing strategy
Approval of 2015 Group KPIs
Review of remuneration policy
Consideration of new  
build programme
Discussion on  
macroeconomic conditions
 
Review and discussion of:
 – investor relations 
 – new build programme
 – market update
 – contractual update
 – minutes of previous meetings
 – reports on implementation of  
actions from previous meetings 
 – Operational matters
 
Review of reports on:
 – finance and accounting matters
 – health, safety and environment
 – personnel and support services 
 – risk management
 – trading and forecast update  
a t each 
main meeting
At specific meetings 46 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
Dialogue with shareholders
CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE
Continued
a ppointment and t enure
All non-executive Directors serve on the basis of letters of appointment 
which are available for inspection at the Company’s registered office.  
The letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment of 
non-executive Directors, who, on appointment, undertake that they will 
have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them. 
The non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, 
subject to earlier termination, including provision for early termination  
by either the Company or the non-executive Director on three months’ 
notice. In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association all 
Directors must retire by rotation and seek re-election by shareholders 
every three years; however, it is intended that the Directors will each 
retire and submit themselves for re-election by shareholders annually.
Director induction and t raining 
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at Board 
meetings and briefings are arranged on issues relating to corporate 
governance and other areas of importance. Arrangements were put  
in place for newly appointed Directors to undertake an induction 
programme designed to develop their knowledge and understanding  
of the Company. This included briefing sessions during regular Board 
meetings, visits to the Company’s fabrication yard, meetings with 
members of the wider management team and discussions on relevant 
business issues. Upon appointment Directors are advised of their legal 
and other duties and their obligations as Directors of a listed company 
and under the Companies Act 2006 and they receive training from the 
Company’s lawyers. 
Director election 
Following recommendations from the Nomination Committee, the 
Board considers that all Directors continue to be effective, committed  
to their roles and have sufficient time available to perform their duties. 
Accordingly, all Directors will seek election at the Company’s first Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”) as set out in the Notice of the Annual General 
Meeting (see page 116 for resolutions relating to election of Directors). 
Directors’ c onflicts of interest
Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have  
or may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless 
that conflict is first authorised by the Directors. This includes potential 
conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a position with another 
company. The Company’s Articles of Association allow the other 
Directors to authorise such potential conflicts, and there is in place  
a procedure to deal with any actual or potential conflict of interest.  
The Board deals with each actual or potential conflict of interest on  
its individual merit and takes into consideration all the circumstances. 
All potential conflicts approved by the Board are recorded in an Interests 
Register, which is reviewed by the Board at least quarterly to ensure that 
the procedure is operating at maximum effectiveness. 
Board evaluation and effectiveness 
The Board and its Committees were formed when the Company listed  
in March 2014 and in January 2015 an internal evaluation was conducted 
by the Chairman. The Chairman distributed a high-level questionnaire  
for completion by the Directors. The questionnaire was structured to 
provide Directors with an opportunity to express their views about:
 – strategy and implementation;
 – succession planning and talent development; 
 – Board dynamics and operation;
 – Chairman effectiveness;
 – performance of the Board and each of its Committees; and
 – Director self-assessment and training needs.
Following the internal evaluation process conducted in 2014, the Board 
and the Board Committees are satisfied that they are operating 
effectively and that each Director has performed well in respect of their 
individual roles on the Board.
Shareholder engagement a nnual General meeting
Responsibility for shareholder relations rest with the Chairman, Chief Executive 
Officer and Chief Financial Officer. They ensure that there is effective 
communication with shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy, 
and are responsible for ensuring that the Board understands the views of  
major shareholders.
As part of our investor relations programme a combination of presentations, 
Group calls and one-to-one meetings are arranged to discuss the Company’s 
interim and final results with stock market participants. In the intervening periods 
meetings are held with existing and prospective shareholders to update them  
on our latest performance or to introduce them to the Company. Periodically  
we arrange visits to the business to give analysts, brokers and major 
shareholders a better understanding of how we manage our business and  
to ensure we understand the views of our shareholders. These visits and 
meetings are principally undertaken by the Chief Executive Officer and the  
Chief Financial Officer.
The Board receives regular updates on the views of its shareholders from its 
brokers at its Board meetings. In addition, the Senior Independent Director is 
available to meet if they wish to raise issues separately from the arrangements  
as described above.
The presentations to analysts are posted on the Company’s website at  
www.gmsuae.com.
The Company’s first AGM will take place at 11.30am (UK time) on Wednesday 
6 May 2015 at Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ. All 
shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at 
the AGM. The notice of the AGM can be found on page 116 and on our website 
at www.gmsuae.com. The Notice of AGM sets out the business of the Meeting 
and an explanatory note on all resolutions. Separate resolutions are proposed 
in respect of each substantive issue.
The AGM is the Company’s principal forum for communication with private 
shareholders. In addition to the formal business, there will be a presentation 
by the Chief Executive Officer on the performance of the Group and its future 
development. The Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of each Board 
Committee, together with senior management, will be available to answer 
shareholders’ questions at the AGM. 47 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE
I am pleased to present the Audit and Risk Committee report for 2014.  
The Audit and Risk Committee was established in its current form as part  
of the governance framework adopted by the Company on its admission  
to the London Stock Exchange. The Committee is satisfied that the 
combined knowledge and experience of its members is such that the 
Committee discharges its responsibilities in an effective, informed and 
challenging manner. During the period under review I served as Chairman 
of the Audit and Risk Committee alongside two of my fellow non-executive 
Directors, both of whom are considered by the Board to be independent. 
The members of the Committee have been chosen to provide the wide 
range of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil these duties. 
The members of the Committee during the year were as follows:
Chairman and Senior independent 
Director, Simon Batey
Independent non-executive Directors
W. Richard Anderson
Mike Straughen
 
The Audit and Risk Committee discharges its responsibilities through  
a series of scheduled meetings during the year, the agenda of which is 
linked to events in the financial calendar of the Company. We met three 
times during the financial year and attendance at those meetings is set 
out on page 41. The Committee receives reports from external advisers 
and from the senior management team, as required, to enable it to 
discharge its duties. The Chief Financial Officer and senior members  
of the finance team attend each of these meetings at our request.  
In addition, the external Auditor attended two of these meetings and  
had the opportunity to meet privately with the Committee, in the 
absence of senior management. 
The external Auditor receives copies of all relevant Committee papers 
(including papers that were considered at the meeting when they were 
not in attendance) and minutes of all Committee meetings.
t he Responsibilities and Role  
of the a udit and Risk c ommittee 
The Committee’s responsibilities as detailed in its terms of reference include:
 – monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and 
formal announcements relating to the Group’s financial performance 
and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgments contained 
in them;
 – reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and 
disclosures in financial reports;
 – reviewing the Group’s internal financial controls and internal control 
and risk management systems;
 – monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
audit function;
 – overseeing the Group’s relationship with the external Auditor, including 
making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment  
or reappointment of the external Auditor, reviewing its terms of 
engagement and engagement for non-audit services, and monitoring 
the external Auditor’s independence, objectivity and effectiveness; and
 – reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that 
arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent 
investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial and  
other matters for appropriate follow-up action.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual  
Report and financial statements and the half-yearly reports remains  
with the Board. The Committee gives due consideration to laws and 
regulations, the provisions of the Code and the requirements of the 
Listing Rules, and makes its recommendations on these reports  
to the Board.
Simon Batey
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 48 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
Objectives Set for 2014
At our first meeting we decided that our primary objectives for  
2014 were:
 – review of financial reporting and related internal control risk;
 – monitoring accounting judgments and estimates prepared  
for any accounting changes;
 – considering the financial statements and disclosures  
to ensure they are fair, balanced and understandable and  
“tell the Company’s story”;
 – reviewing the Group’s risk management systems; and 
 – monitoring and reviewing the internal audit effectiveness. 
Developments During the Year
We reviewed and discussed:
 – the system of risk management in the Group and enhanced the 
measurement of risk levels by management, increasing uniformity 
across the Group;
 – the new reporting, regulatory and governance requirements for  
listed companies and where necessary updated or implemented  
new policies; and
 – the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function.
audit and Risk c ommittee calendar for 2014
a ugust October December
Review and recommendation of approval of 
2014 Interim Results. 
Report from external Auditor on 2014  
Interim Results.
Private meeting between non-executive  
Directors and external Auditor.
External Auditor’s fee proposal and policy  
on non-audit services.
Proposed specific objectives of the  
Audit and Risk Committee for 2014.
Approved 2014/15 Internal Audit Programme.
Review of 2014 External Audit Plan.
2014 Annual Report Process.
External Auditor, including:
policy on appointment of external Auditor.
Update on 2014 Annual Report process.
Management papers to support areas of  
judgment in the Annual Report.
Review of external Auditor’s  
Engagement Letter.
Reviews of financial reporting, including: Review and discussion of: Consideration of Internal Audit:
Any proposed changes to accounting policies. Whistleblowing and related policies.
Risk management systems and internal  
controls, including a discussion of the  
risk management process.
Minutes of previous meetings.
Reports on implementation of actions  
from previous meetings.
Status of 2014/15 Internal Audit Programme.
Significant issues 
The Audit and Risk Committee pays specific attention to matters it considers important based on their potential impact on the Group's results,  
or based on the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application. The Committee considered the following matters as 
significant issues in 2014: 
Significant issue How addressed
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
IAS 36 requires that a review for impairment be carried out if events or  
changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount of an asset  
may not be recoverable. 
The volatility of the oil prices in recent periods may significantly impact the 
value in use of the vessels.
Impairment assessments are judgmental and careful consideration of the 
assumptions used in the determination of the value in use is required.
The Committee considered the assumptions used in the computation of the 
value in use of the vessels. Consideration was given to both the feasibility of the 
long-term business plan and the appropriateness of the discount rate applicable 
to the Group, used in the valuation process.
Capitalisation of new build programme costs 
The Group has invested substantial capital in its vessel fleet, which is the key 
component of its business offering and its major asset.
As a part of its new build programme, the Group completed the build of a  
Large Class vessel during the period. Careful consideration had to be given  
as to which costs met the criteria for capitalisation.
Incremental costs as a result of the project were considered for capitalisation. 
The Committee reviewed the basis of Management's assumptions over the 
eligibility of the new build costs for capitalisation.
The Committee reviewed the costs that were capitalised to be satisfied that they 
complied with the definition of costs directly attributable to the construction of 
the asset as required by IFRS.
a t each 
main meeting
At specific meetings
REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE
Continued 49 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
external a udit
a ppointment and independence
Deloitte LLP was appointed on 14 March 2014 as external Auditor of the 
Company. The Committee is aware of the changes and potential changes 
to the requirements for external auditor selection, given recent reviews  
by the Competition and Markets Authority and the European Union. Whilst 
we do not currently consider it necessary to have a policy for rotation of  
the external Auditor in this our first year as a listed company, we plan to give 
consideration to placing future audits out to tender over the coming years.
Provision of n on-a udit Services 
The Committee believes that it may be appropriate for the Company  
to engage its external Auditor to provide non-audit services in limited 
circumstances. Given the knowledge of a company’s market, systems 
and operations which an external auditing firm gains through the audit 
process, together with effective working relationships developed with 
senior management, the Committee believes that appointing the 
Company’s external Auditor to provide non-audit services can represent 
an effective and cost-efficient process which is in the best interests  
of shareholders. However, to ensure the continued objectivity and 
independence of the external Auditor are not compromised, the 
Committee has established a non-audit services policy. 
The Committee requires specific approval for the provision of any 
non-audit services above the value of US$ 50,000 and, in the unlikely event  
that the non-audit services have resulted in a cumulative total of 70% of the 
overall audit fee in any financial year, then any further non-audit services 
carried out by the external Auditor would be regarded as exceptional and will 
require the Committee’s prior approval. The Committee receives quarterly 
reports of any non-audit services undertaken. The Committee must be 
satisfied that the external Auditor’s objectivity and independence would  
not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out 
those services.
During the year the total fees paid to Deloitte LLP were unusually high 
due to the level of work undertaken as reporting accountants as part of 
the Group re-organisation and listing, services which it is normal practice 
for the auditors to perform. However the Committee is satisfied that this 
exceptional level of fee will not continue. The total non-audit services 
provided by Deloitte LLP for the year ended 31 December 2014 were  
US$ 921,000 (2013: US$ 962,000) which comprised 79% (2013: 91%)  
of total audit and non audit fees. 
The Committee is satisfied that the quantum and nature of the non-audit 
services provided by Deloitte LLP during the year are such that the objectivity 
and independence of the external Auditor have not been compromised.
As part of the Committee’s assessment of the objectivity and independence 
of the external Auditor, the Committee held a private meeting with the 
external Auditor without management being present. In addition, I met 
privately with the external audit Engagement Partner on several occasions.
The effectiveness of the external Auditor was evaluated by feedback from 
the senior management team and the Committee by way of questionnaire. 
We examined a range of performance criteria including, but not limited to, 
robustness of the audit process, independence and objectivity, quality of 
delivery, quality of people and service, and value-added advice. We also had 
regard to the 2014 Audit Quality Inspections Report on Deloitte LLP audits 
carried out by the Financial Reporting Council. As a result of this work, the 
Committee has recommended to the Board that the reappointment of 
Deloitte LLP as the Company’s external Auditor be proposed to 
shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
internal a udit
The Committee receives at each meeting a report on internal controls 
from the Internal Auditors. These reports provide an update on progress 
against the internal audit plan, including the status of actions and 
management responses and highlighting key improvement themes  
and recommend areas of business focus. 
internal controls and Risk m anagement 
The Group’s systems of internal control and in particular our risk 
management process have been designed to support our strategic and 
business objectives as well as our internal control over financial reporting. 
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying and evaluating 
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group that has been in place 
for the period under review and up to the date of the Annual Report. The 
process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the 
T urnbull Review guidance on internal controls and requirements of the Code. 
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can  
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
The Group has a clear framework for identifying and managing risk, both  
at an operational and strategic level. Our risk identification and mitigation 
processes have been designed to be responsive to the constantly changing 
environment. The internal control process starts with identifying risks, 
compliance matters and other issues through routine reviews carried out by 
process owners and facilitated by regular Group wide risk assessments. For 
risks that are recorded in the Group risk register, the Group then assesses the 
implications and consequences and determines the likelihood of occurrence.
Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls
At least annually the Board, supported by this Committee’s activities, 
reviews the effectiveness of our internal control process, including 
financial reporting, to make sure it remains robust. The latest review 
covered the financial year to 31 December 2014 and the period to the 
approval of this Annual Report and financial statements. It included:
 – clearly defined responsibilities and delegated limits of authority, 
including definition of matters that require Board approval;
 – operation of an effective system of internal control at Group and 
subsidiary levels;
 – production of accurate, relevant and timely financial information  
by each subsidiary;
 – a comprehensive Group-wide system of financial reporting, 
budgeting and cash forecasting and control through which financial 
statements are prepared and submitted to the Board monthly;
 – safeguarding of the Group’s assets through physical controls and 
segregation of duties;
 – the close involvement of the executive Directors, including regular 
meetings with the senior management team to review operational 
aspects of the business.
ethical conduct
Our Code of Conduct encourages all employees to report any potential 
improprieties in financial reporting or other matters. The Group operates 
a confidential whistleblowing hotline and all reports received are 
communicated to this Committee. Where appropriate, our Internal  
Audit team may be asked to investigate issues and report to us on the 
outcome. Code of Conduct training was included as part of the Company 
induction process when the policy was launched earlier this year. 
The Company has also implemented an Anti-Bribery and Corruption 
Policy and is satisfied that appropriate policies and training is in place to 
deal with any instances of whistleblowing and to ensure that appropriate 
follow up action is taken. 
Simon Batey
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 
23 March 2015  50 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
REPORT OF THE REMUNERA TION COMMITTEE
Remuneration c ommittee c omposition
Chairman
W. Richard Anderson
Independent non-executive Director
Mike Straughen
Senior Independent Director
Simon Batey
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014.
In advance of the IPO earlier this year, a review of the structure of remuneration for senior executives was carried out to ensure the policy was 
appropriate for the Company following listing. Our remuneration arrangements have been designed in accordance with the principles set out in  
the UK Corporate Governance Code and current market and best practices for UK listed companies. They also take into account market practice  
and labour laws in the local UAE market . As part of this exercise, the Committee, with external assistance, developed a Long- Term Incentive Plan  
to be introduced following listing. The first award under this Plan was granted in May 2014 and will vest in May 2017, subject to the achievement  
of challenging performance conditions relating to EPS growth and the Company’s relative total shareholder return.
Our aim is to ensure that pay arrangements appropriately and responsibly incentivise executive directors and senior management to achieve the 
Group’s strategic objectives, which should in turn create value for the Company’s shareholders. To this end, the overall remuneration structure  
for executives therefore comprises: 
 – Base salary, benefits and allowances – set at a level appropriate to the sector and geographic markets in which we operate;
 – An annual bonus – based on measures of annual financial and strategic performance; and
 – A share-based Long Term Incentive Plan – based on growth in EPS and total shareholder return.
Further details of this structure are set out on the following pages.
The Company is subject to legislation applying to the governance and reporting of remuneration for UK-listed companies, which provides 
shareholders with a say on Company remuneration policy. This report will therefore be subject to two shareholder votes at the forthcoming AGM:
 – A binding vote on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report; this report (contained on pages 51 to 55) sets out the forward looking Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy that it is proposed will operate from the date of the AGM;
 – An advisory vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration; this report (contained on pages 55 to 60) provides details of the remuneration earned  
by Directors in the year ended 31 December 2014 and how we propose to operate our policy in 2015.
We welcome questions and feedback regarding our remuneration structures and commend both the Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report  
on Remuneration to shareholders for their support at the forthcoming AGM.
W. Richard Anderson
Remuneration Committee Chairman
W. Richard Anderson
Remuneration Committee Chairman 51 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Directors’ Remuneration Policy Report
This part of the report, which is not subject to audit, sets out the remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared in accordance with  
The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013. The policy has been developed taking 
into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and the views of our major shareholders and describes the policy to be 
applied from 2014 onwards. The Policy Report will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM and assuming the vote is passed, will take 
formal effect from that date. 
Policy overview
The Committee assists the Board in its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making recommendations to the Board on the 
Company’s policy on executive remuneration.
The Company’s policy is to provide remuneration to executives to reflect their contribution to the business, the performance of the Group, the 
complexity and geography of the Group’s operations and the need to attract, retain, and incentivise executives. The Committee seeks to provide 
remuneration packages that are simple, transparent and aligned with UK best and local UAE market practice, whilst providing an appropriate balance 
between fixed and variable pay that supports the delivery of the Group’s strategy.
Summary of the Directors' Remuneration Policy
The following table sets out the Directors’ remuneration policy.
element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation maximum opportunity Performance criteria
Base salary  – To attract, retain and 
motivate individuals of 
the necessary calibre 
to execute the Group’s 
strategy
 – Normally reviewed annually by the Committee 
or, if appropriate, in the event of a change in an 
individual’s position or responsibilities
 – The level of base salary reflects the 
experience and capabilities of the individual 
as well as the scope and scale of the role
 – Any increases to base pay will take into 
account individual performance as well as 
the pay and conditions in the workforce
 – There is no prescribed maximum 
annual increase
 – When determining the level of 
any change in compensation, the 
Committee takes into account:
 – Remuneration levels in 
comparable organisations  
in the UAE and the GCC
 – Remuneration levels in the 
international market
 – Increases for the workforce 
generally
 – Changes to an individual’s 
role, including any additional 
responsibilities
N/A
Annual bonus 
plan
 – To encourage and reward 
delivery of the Group’s 
annual financial and 
operational objectives
 – Performance measures and targets are 
reviewed annually by the Committee and 
are linked to the Group’s key strategic and 
financial objectives
 – The bonus will normally be paid wholly in 
cash; however the Committee has the 
discretion to defer a proportion of the 
bonus in GMS shares or cash 
 – Clawback (or malus in the event of any 
deferral) provisions apply in the event of 
a material misstatement of the Group’s 
financial results or an error in the calculation 
of performance targets. Clawback and/or 
malus can be applied for three years from 
the end of the financial year to which a 
payment relates
 – Normal maximum opportunity 
of 100% of salary (exceptional 
limit 150% of salary) 
 – The majority of the annual 
bonus will be based on Group 
financial performance
 – The Committee has discretion 
to vary bonus payments 
downwards or upwards if it 
considers the outcome would 
not otherwise be a fair and 
complete reflection of the 
performance achieved by the 
Group and/or the Executive 
Director. Performance below 
threshold results in zero 
payment. Payments increase 
from 0% to 100% of the 
maximum opportunity for 
levels of performance between 
threshold and maximum 
performance targets 
Long Term 
Incentive Plan 
(LTIP)
 – T o incentivise and reward the 
achievement of key financial 
performance objectives and 
the creation of long-term 
shareholder value
 – To encourage share 
ownership and provide 
further alignment  
with shareholders
 – Annual awards of nil-cost options or 
conditional shares with the level of vesting 
subject to the achievement of stretching 
performance conditions measured over  
a three-year period
 – Performance targets are reviewed annually 
by the Committee and are set at such a level 
to motivate management and incentivise 
outperformance
 – Dividends that accrue during the vesting 
period may be paid in cash or shares at the 
time of vesting, to the extent that shares vest
 – Clawback provisions apply in the event of a 
material misstatement of the Company’s 
financial results or an error in the calculation 
of performance targets. Clawback can be 
applied for three years from the end of the 
financial year in which an award vests
 – Normal maximum opportunity 
of 200% of base compensation 
(exceptional limit of 300%  
of salary)
 – Performance is assessed 
against metrics which will 
normally include a financial 
measure, such as EPS, and 
/ or a measure linked to the 
Company’s total shareholder 
return against an appropriate 
group of peers. Measures are 
captured independently
 – 30% of an award will vest 
for achieving threshold 
performance, increasing 
pro-rata to full vesting for 
achievement of maximum 
performance targets
End of service 
gratuity
 – To provide an end of service 
gratuity, as required under 
the UAE Labour Law
 – End of service gratuity contributions are 
accrued by the Company
 – The maximum payout to an 
employee is limited by UAE 
Labour Law to two years'  
base salary
N/A
Benefits – To provide competitive and 
cost-effective benefits to 
attract and retain high-
calibre individuals
 – Private medical insurance for the executive 
and close family, death in service insurance, 
disability insurance, accommodation and 
payment of children’s school fees
 – Actual value of benefits provided N/A 52 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation maximum opportunity Performance criteria
Allowances – Allowances set to cover 
essential living costs where 
this is in line with local 
market practice
 – Any increases to allowances will take into 
account local market conditions as well as 
the allowances provided to the workforce
 – Allowances relate to air travel and transport
N/A N/A
Share ownership 
guidelines 
 – To encourage alignment 
with shareholders 
 – Executive Directors are required to build 
and maintain a shareholding equivalent to 
at least 100% of base salary through the 
retention of vested share awards or through 
open market purchases
 – A new appointment will be expected to 
reach this guideline in three to five years 
post-appointment
 – Executive Directors are required to retain 
50% of the shares (net of tax) vesting under 
the incentive schemes until the guideline 
has been achieved
N/A N/A
n otes to table
a nnual bonus performance measures
The annual bonus reflects key financial performance indicators linked to the Group’s strategic goals. Financial targets are set at the start of the 
financial year with reference to internal budgets and taking account of market expectations. The balance is based on how well the individual 
performed against a range of stretching objectives relating to key strategic and operational objectives.
l ti P performance measures
The LTIP performance measures (which are currently EPS growth and TSR relative to companies in the FTSE 250 Index excluding financial services 
companies) reward long-term financial growth and significant long-term returns to shareholders. Targets are set on sliding scales that take account 
of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Group. Only modest rewards are available for achieving threshold performance 
with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of challenging strategic plans approved at the start of each year. 
Discretion
The Committee operates annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements for the Executive Director(s) in accordance with their respective rules, 
the Listing Rules and the HMRC rules where relevant. The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas 
relating to the operation and administration of the plans. These include the following: 
 – Who participates;
 – The timing of the grant of award and/or payment;
 – The size of an award (up to plan limits) and/or a payment;
 – The annual review of performance measures, targets and weightings for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year;
 – Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or restructuring;
 – Determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified categories) for incentive plan purposes;
 – Adjustments required in certain circumstances (e.g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends); and
 – The ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
a wards granted prior to approval of policy
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors’ Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered 
into with current or former Directors (such as the vesting or exercise of past share awards granted pre- or post-IPO but before the AGM at which this 
policy is approved by shareholders). 
Remuneration scenarios for the ce O 
The chart below shows an estimate of the potential future remuneration payable for the CEO in 2015 at different levels of performance. The chart 
highlights that the performance-related elements of the package comprise a significant portion of the CEO’s total remuneration at on-target and 
maximum performance. 
Minimum On- Target Maximum $0
$500
$1,000
$1,500
$2,000
$1,995
$1,159
$675
Chief Executive
US$’000
Fixed Pay Annual Bonus L TIP
23%
44%
19%
22%
100%
58%
34%
REPORT OF THE REMUNERA TION COMMITTEE
Continued 53 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
1. Duncan Anderson’s remuneration is paid in UAE Dirhams and shown above in US$ using an exchange rate of US$1/AED3.67.
2. Minimum remuneration represents base salary and allowance levels applying as at 1 January 2015. It also includes benefits and end of service gratuity.
3. The value of benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits (as disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 57) for the year ended  
31 December 2014.
4. The end of service gratuity is based on the provision accrued (as disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 57) for the year ended 31 December 2014  
in line with the UAE Labour Law limit.
5. Minimum performance assumes no award is earned under the annual bonus plan and no vesting is achieved under the LTIP; at on-target, half of the annual bonus  
is earned (i.e. 50% of salary) and 30% of maximum is achieved under the LTIP (i.e. 60% of salary); and at maximum full vesting under both plans. 
6. Share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded from the above analysis.
How remuneration of executive Directors differs from employees generally,  
and how their views are taken into account in setting remuneration policy 
When considering the structure and levels of Executive Director remuneration, the Committee reviews base compensation and annual bonus 
arrangements for the management team, to ensure that there is a coherent approach across the Group. The annual bonus plan operates on a similar 
basis across the senior management team. The key difference in the Executive Director policy is that remuneration is more heavily weighted towards 
variable pay than that of other employees. This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration 
received by the executive directors. 
The Committee does not formally consult with employees in respect of the design of the Executive Director remuneration policy, however the 
Human Resources Director is available to discuss issues relating to the wider employee population.
consideration of shareholder views
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors. The Committee considers the AGM to be an opportunity to meet 
and communicate with investors, giving shareholders the opportunity to raise any issues or concerns they may have. In addition, the Committee will 
seek to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should any changes be planned to the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy or if the Committee wishes to make material changes to how Policy will be implemented. 
Following the Company’s first AGM in 2015, details of votes cast for and against the resolutions to approve the Directors' Remuneration Policy  
and Annual Report on Remuneration will be included in the next Annual Report on Remuneration published following the AGM.
The Company is required to prepare, and seek shareholder approval for an updated Directors' Remuneration Policy at least once every three years.
Directors’ recruitment and promotions 
The policy on the recruitment or promotion of an Executive Director takes into account the need to attract, retain and motivate the best person for 
each position, while at the same time ensuring a close alignment between the interests of shareholders and management, as follows.
Base salary The base salary for a new appointment will be set taking into account the skills and experience of the individual, internal relativities and the 
market rate for the role as identified by any relevant benchmarking of companies of a comparable size and complexity. 
If it is considered appropriate to set the salary for a new Executive Director at a level which is below market (for example, to allow them to gain 
experience in the role) their salary may be increased to achieve the desired market positioning by way of a series of phased above inflation 
increases. Any increases will be subject to the individual’s continued development in the role.
End of service 
gratuity, benefits 
and allowances
End of service gratuity, benefits and allowances will be set in line with the policy above, reflective of typical market practice and the Labour  
Law for the UAE region. The Committee may also approve the payment of one-off relocation-related expenses and legal fees incurred by  
the individual.
In the event of an Executive Director being recruited to work outside the UAE region, additional benefits, pension provision and/or allowances 
may be provided in line with local market practice.
Annual bonus and 
LTIP
The Company’s incentive plans will be operated, as set out in the policy table above, albeit with any payment pro-rata for the period of 
employment and with the flexibility to use different performance measures and targets, depending on the timing and nature of the appointment.
Remuneration 
foregone
The Committee may offer cash and/or share-based elements to compensate an individual for remuneration and benefits that would be 
forfeited on leaving a former employer, when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Group (and therefore shareholders). 
Such payments would take account of remuneration relinquished and would mirror (as far as possible) the delivery mechanism, time horizons 
and performance requirement attached to that remuneration.
Where possible this will be facilitated through existing share plans as set out in the policy table above, but if not the Committee may use the 
provisions of 9.4.2 of the Listing Rules.
Internal 
appointments
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role will be allowed to pay out according to its 
original terms stipulated on grant or adjusted as considered desirable to reflect the new role. 54 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
Directors’ service agreements and payments for loss of office 
The Committee seeks to ensure that contractual terms of the executive Director’s service agreement reflect best practice. 
Notice period The CEO’s service agreement is terminable by either the Company or the executive on twelve months’ notice. In circumstances of termination 
on notice the Committee will determine an equitable compensation package, having regard to the particular circumstances of the case.  
The Committee has discretion to require notice to be worked, to make payment in lieu of notice or to place the Director on gardening leave. 
The Company may terminate the appointment summarily with immediate effect if the Director is guilty of gross misconduct in accordance 
with relevant provisions of the UAE labour law.
Payment in lieu  
of notice
In case of payment in lieu, base salary, allowances, benefits and end of service gratuity will be paid for the period of notice served or paid in lieu. 
If the Committee believes it would be in shareholders’ interests, payments would be made either as one lump sum or in equal monthly 
instalments and in the case of payment in lieu will be subject to be offset against earnings elsewhere.
Annual bonus An annual bonus may be payable in respect of the period of the bonus plan year worked by the director; there is no provision for an amount  
in lieu of bonus to be payable for any part of the notice period not worked. 
LTIP Outstanding share awards under the LTIP are subject to the rules which contain discretionary provisions setting out the treatment of awards 
where a participant leaves for designated reasons (i.e. participants who leave early on account of injury, disability or ill health, death, a sale of their 
employer or business in which they were employed, statutory redundancy, retirement or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee). 
In these circumstances a participant’s awards will not be forfeited on cessation of employment and instead will continue to vest on the normal 
vesting date or earlier at the discretion of the Committee, subject to the performance conditions attached to the relevant awards. The awards 
will, other than in exceptional circumstances, be scaled back pro-rata for the period of the incentive term worked by the director.
Other payments In addition to the above payments, the Committee may make any other payments determined by a court of law in respect of the termination 
of a director’s contract. 
Change of control In the event of a change of a control all unvested awards under the LTIP would vest, to the extent that any performance conditions attached  
to the relevant awards have been achieved. 
The date of the CEO’s Executive Service Agreement is 12 March 2014.
The service contract is available for inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s registered office, and available for inspection  
at the AGM. 
external appointments
The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive Directors in other companies and that these 
appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Group. It is policy that Board approval is required before any external 
appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director. The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services. The current 
Executive Director does not hold any such external appointment.
n on-executive Directors’ remuneration policy and terms of engagement
The following table sets out the components of the non-executive Directors' remuneration package.
element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation maximum opportunity Performance criteria
Non-executive  
Directors’ fee
 – Set to attract, retain and motivate 
talented individuals through the 
provision of market competitive fees
 – Reviewed periodically by the Board 
or, if appropriate, in the event of a 
change in an individual’s position 
or responsibilities
 – Fee levels set by reference to 
market rates, taking into account 
the individual’s experience, 
responsibility, time commitments
 – There is no prescribed maximum 
annual increase
 – The Board takes into account 
external market practice, pay 
increases within the Group, 
wider economic factors and any 
changes in responsibilities when 
determining fee increases
N/A
Non-executive  
Directors’ benefits
 – Travel to the Company’s 
registered office
 – Travel to the Company’s 
registered office may in some 
jurisdictions be recognised  
as a taxable benefit
 – Costs of travel, grossed-up  
where taxable
N/A
REPORT OF THE REMUNERA TION COMMITTEE
Continued 55 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Non-executive Directors are appointed by letter of appointment for an initial period of three years, which are terminable by three months’ notice on 
either side. However, it is the Company’s intention to comply with provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and accordingly all Directors 
will stand for annual re-election by shareholders at future AGMs until the Board determines otherwise. The dates of the letters of appointment of the 
Chairman and non-executive Directors are:
Simon Heale Chairman 27 February 2014
H. Richard Dallas Non-executive Director 27 February 2014
Dr Karim El Solh Non-executive Director 27 February 2014
Simon Batey Independent non-executive Director 27 February 2014
Mike Straughen Independent non-executive Director 27 February 2014
W. Richard Anderson Independent non-executive Director 27 February 2014
The letters of appointment are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Company’s registered office. For the appointment  
of a new Chairman or non-executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force  
at that time.
a nnual Report on Remuneration 
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 and 9.8.6R of the Listing Rules. The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 
2015 AGM. Sections of this report that are subject to audit, on pages 57 to 59 have been indicated.
Responsibilities of the c ommittee
The Remuneration Committee will assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities regarding all matters related to remuneration, including making 
recommendations to the Board on the Company’s policy on executive remuneration, including setting the over-arching principles, parameters and 
governance framework of the Group’s remuneration policy and determining the individual remuneration and benefits package of the Executive 
Director(s) and the Company Secretary. In addition, the Committee monitors the structure and level of remuneration for the senior management team 
and is aware of pay and conditions in the workforce generally. The Committee also ensures full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code  
in relation to remuneration.
members and activities of the committee
The members of the Committee during 2014 were W. Richard Anderson (chair), Simon Batey and Mike Straughen. All members were Independent 
non-executive Directors. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Human Resources Director are normally invited to attend for at  
least part of each meeting to allow the Committee to benefit from their contextual advice. The Group Chairman also normally attends meetings by 
invitation. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. These individuals are not present when their own remuneration is discussed. 
The number of formal meetings held and the attendance by each member is shown in the table below. The Committee also held informal discussions 
as required. 
n umber of meetings attended out of a potential maximum
W. Richard Anderson 3 out of 3
Simon Batey 3 out of 3
Mike Straughen 3 out of 3
external advice received
During the year, the Committee received independent advice on remuneration matters from Mercer Limited (“Mercer”).
Mercer is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to the Voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration 
consulting in the UK. The fees paid to Mercer for advice from the date of listing total US$ 63,056. Mercer also provided support to the Company and 
the Committee prior to and in preparation for listing. Mercer is a division of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (“MMC”). Another division of MMC 
provides broker services with regard to the Group medical insurance. However, notwithstanding this relationship, the Committee is satisfied that 
Mercer’s advice to the Committee is objective and independent, as they are two distinct autonomous business divisions within MMC.
Shareholder voting at a Gm
The 2014 Annual Report on Renumeration will be the first such report published by the Company. 56 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2015
Base salary
The CEO's base compensation was reviewed on listing and also at the end of 2014 to determine the appropriate salary for the coming year. As a point 
of comparison, increases to salary levels for the workforce generally during 2014 averaged 5%. Accordingly, base salary for 2015 will be as follows: 
Base salary 
from 1 January 
2015 
US$ ’000
Base  
salary from  
1 January 2014 
US$ ’000 % increase
Duncan Anderson
1
440 415 6%
1. Duncan Anderson’s remuneration is paid in UAE Dirhams and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$ 1/AED 3.67.
a llowances and benefits for 2015
The cash allowances for 2015 comprise payments to cover costs of air travel and transport and for 2015 will be as follows: 
a llowances 
from 1 January 
2015 
US$’000
a llowances 
from 1 January 
2014 
US$’000 % increase
Duncan Anderson
1
37 37 0%
1. Duncan Anderson’s remuneration is paid in UAE Dirhams and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$1/AED3.67.
Other benefits to be provided directly include accommodation, private medical insurance for the executive and close family, death in service 
insurance, disability insurance and payment of children’s school fees.
a nnual bonus for 2015 
For 2015 the annual bonus opportunity will be 100% of base salary. The annual bonus will be assessed against financial and personal objectives  
to provide a rounded assessment of the Group and individual’s performance, weighted as follows:
measure Weighting
Profit after tax 25%
EBITDA margin 25%
Total Reportable Incident Rate (TRIR) 10%
Strategic and operational objectives 40%
Total 100%
The Committee considers the targets to be commercially sensitive, but will provide details of performance against the financial targets 
retrospectively in next year’s Annual Report on Remuneration.
The bonus will be paid wholly in cash. Clawback provisions apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial results or an error  
in the calculation of performance targets. Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year to which a payment relates.
 
l ong-term incentive to be granted in 2015
The Committee intends to grant an LTIP award to the CEO in 2015 over shares with a value of 150% of base salary. The award will vest three years 
after grant, subject to performance measured over three financial years commencing with the year of grant. Vesting of 75% of the award will be  
based on the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of EPS and the remaining 25% will be determined by TSR relative to the FTSE 250 Index excluding 
financial services companies.
EPS and relative TSR are considered to be the most appropriate measures of long-term performance, as they incentivise and reward for improvement 
in the long-term financial performance of the Group, together with the creation of value for shareholders.
Clawback provisions apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial results or an error in the calculation of performance 
targets. Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year in which an award vests.
Performance condition
t hreshold target  
(30% vesting)
Stretch target 
(100% vesting) 
EPS CAGR 20% per annum 26.5% per annum
Relative TSR Median of index Upper quartile of index
end of service gratuity 
As required under the UAE Labour Law, the Company accrues for the end of service gratuity entitlement in respect of the CEO, whereby the gratuity 
is 21 days’ base salary (excluding fixed cash allowances) for each year of the first five years of employment and 30 days’ wages for each additional year 
of employment thereafter, to a limit of two years’ total wages.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERA TION COMMITTEE
Continued 57 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Fees for the chairman and non-executive Directors
The Chairman and non-executive Directors' remuneration is determined by the Board, based on the responsibility and time committed to the Group's 
affairs and appropriate market comparisons. Individual non-executive Directors do not take part in discussions regarding their own fees. The Chairman 
and non-executive Directors receive no other benefits and do not participate in short-term or long-term reward schemes. A summary of the current 
fees and those for 2015 are set out below; no increase in fee levels is proposed in 2015. Please note that fees are determined in Pound Sterling.
a nnual Fee 
2015 
£000
a nnual Fee 
2014 
£000 % increase
Chairman 175 175 0%
Non-executive Director base fee 50 50 0%
Additional fees:
Senior Independent Director 5 5 0%
Audit and Risk Committee Chair 5 5 0%
Remuneration Committee Chair 5 5 0%
 
Directors’ remuneration earned in 2014 (audited)
The table below summarises Directors’ remuneration received in 2014. 
Fixed element of pay Pay for performance
Base salary 
US$’000
a llowances and 
benefits
1 
US$’000
end of service 
gratuity
2 
US$’000
a nnual 
Bonus 
US$’000
l ong t erm 
incentives 
US$’000
Other
3 
US$’000
total 
Remuneration 
US$’000
Executive Director 
Duncan Anderson
4,5
2014 415 182 53 353 – – 1,003
2013 366 175 47 238 – – 826
Fees
US$’000
total 
Remuneration
US$’000
Chairman
6
Simon Heale
7,9
2014 292 292
2013 – –
Non-executive Directors
6
H. Richard Dallas
8
2014 76 76
2013 – –
Dr Karim El Solh
8
2014 76 76
2013 – –
Simon Batey
8,10
2014 92 92
2013 – –
Mike Straughen
8,10
2014 76 76
2013 –
W. Richard Anderson
8,10
2014 84 84
2013 –
Non-executive Director total 2014 696 696
2013 – –
1. Allowances include fixed cash allowances for air travel and transport. Other benefits include accommodation (US$ 82,947), private medical insurance for the 
executive and close family, death in service insurance, disability insurance and payment of children’s school fees. 
2. End of service gratuity is the provision accrued for the year. 
3. During the year, Duncan Anderson received a cash and equity award of US$ 11.8 million as settlement of a previous share appreciation rights scheme. This was funded 
by the shareholders in place prior to the IPO at no cost to the company.
4. Duncan Anderson’s remuneration is paid in UAE Dirhams and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$1/AED 3.67. 
5. Duncan Anderson was appointed as a Director of the Company on 24 January 2014.
6. The Chairman and non-executive Directors’ remuneration is paid in Pound Sterling and reported in US$ using an exchange rate of US$ 1.67/£1. 
7. Simon Heale was appointed as Chairman on 27 February 2014. 
8. H. Richard Dallas, Dr Karim El Solh, Simon Batey, Mike Straughen and W. Richard Anderson were appointed as non-executive Directors on 27 February 2014. 
9. Simon Heale received a pro-rata annual fee of £175,000 (per annum) from 1 January 2014 to the date of his appointment (27 February 2014) in consideration of 
advisory work performed prior to his formal appointment as Chairman.
10. The Independent non-executive Directors received a pro-rata equivalent of their basic annual fee of £50,000 per annum for the period from 1 February 2014 to the date 
of their appointment (27 February 2014) in consideration of advisory work performed prior to their formal appointments as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Christopher Foll was appointed as an Alternate Director on 27 February 2014; he receives no remuneration for this appointment. 58 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
a nnual bonus for 2014 (audited)
For 2014 the annual bonus opportunity was set at 100% of base salary. The annual bonus will be assessed against financial and personal objectives to 
provide a rounded assessment of the Group and individual’s performance. 
measure Weighting
Performance range 
(from zero to maximum 
pay-out) Result
% of salary paid 
in cash
Profit after tax 25% US$ 76m – US$ 81m US$ 81m 25
EBITDA margin 25% 64% – 69% 64% 10
Lost Time Injuries (LTI) 10% 2 – 1 0 10
Strategic and operational objectives 40% ** ** 40
Total 100% 85
** Objectives set related to key operational and strategic objectives, with targets for each aligned with delivery of the Company’s annual corporate objectives and 
long-term financial plan. Details of these measures are considered commercially sensitive and it is not intended that they will be disclosed.
The bonus will be paid wholly in cash. Clawback provisions apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Company’s financial results or an error 
in the calculation of performance targets. Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year to which a payment relates.
Share appreciation rights settlement (audited)
During the year 2014, the CEO’s vested share appreciation rights, from a previous share appreciation rights scheme, were settled as follows:
Settlement of vested Sa Rs
Cash payout US$ 5,857,657
Number of shares issued 2,614,622 shares (Market Value as on the grant date US$ 5,894,665)
1
1. Calculated as 2,614,622 shares at the IPO price of £1.35, converted at an exchange rate of £1:US$ 1.67. 
l ong-term incentive awards granted during the year and Directors’ interests in share plan awards (audited) 
The Committee granted an LTIP award to the CEO in May 2014 over shares with a value of 120% of base salary. Awards will vest, subject to the 
achievement of specific performance conditions and continued employment, in May 2017.
Date of grant
n umber of 
shares Face value
1
Face value as a 
percentage of 
salary
end of 
performance 
period
Performance 
conditions
Duncan Anderson 8 May 2014 184,327 US$ 497,863 120%
31 December
2016
See table 
below
1. Award face value (and value as a percentage of salary) is calculated using the closing share price on 8 May 2014, being 161.75p per share and assumes all performance 
conditions are met in full. The number of shares has been calculated using an exchange rate of £1: US$ 1.67. The minimum award available is nil.
Performance 
condition Weighting
t hreshold target 
(30% vesting)
Stretch target 
(100% vesting)
EPS CAGR 50% 15% per annum 21.5% per annum
Relative TSR 50% Median of index
1
Upper quartile of index
1
1. FTSE 250 excluding financial services companies.
Clawback provisions apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Group’s financial results or an error in the calculation of performance 
targets. Clawback can be applied for three years from the end of the financial year in which an award vests.
Awards outstanding under the Company’s LTIP comprise:
Grant date
n o. of shares  
at listing 
(14/03/14)
Granted  
during the year
Vested during 
the year
exercised 
during the year
l apsed during 
the year
n o. of shares 
31/12/14
end of 
performance 
period Vesting date
8 May 2014 – 184,327 – – – 184,327 31/12/16 8/5/17
– 184,327
 
REPORT OF THE REMUNERA TION COMMITTEE
Continued 59 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Directors’ interests in ordinary shares (audited)
Through participation in performance-linked share-based plans, there is strong encouragement for executive Directors to build and maintain  
a significant shareholding in the business.
As set out in the Directors' Remuneration Policy, the Committee requires any executive Director to build and maintain a shareholding in the Company 
equivalent to 100% of base salary. Until this threshold is achieved they are required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of any share 
award that vests. The Chairman and non-executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject to a formal 
shareholding guideline. A new appointment will be expected to reach this guideline in three to five years post-appointment.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons in the share capital of the Company at 31 December 2014 was as follows:
Beneficially 
owned at 
31 Dec 2014
Beneficially 
owned at 
19 march 2014
Shareholding 
requirement 
met?
Outstanding 
lti P awards
Duncan Anderson 2,614,622 2,614,622 Yes 184,327
Simon Heale 74,074 74,074 N/A –
H. Richard Dallas 18,518 18,518 N/A –
Dr Karim El Solh 296,296 296,296 N/A –
Simon Batey 37,037 37,037 N/A –
Mike Straughen 37,037 37,037 N/A –
W. Richard Anderson 153,453 153,453 N/A –
1. There were no changes to the interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2015 to 13 March 2015. 
2. Full details of the Directors’ shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Company’s Register of Directors’ Interests, which is open to inspection at the 
Company’s registered office during business hours. 
3. There are no other share, share option schemes or outstanding share awards other than LTIP awards.
4. 2,614,622 restricted shares awarded at IPO in settlement of outstanding share appreciation rights. These shares are fully vested and are subject to a lock-in until  
the second anniversary of the IPO.
5. 19 March 2014 – Admission to trading on London Stock Exchange.
Directors’ pension entitlement (audited)
The Company does not operate a pension scheme and accordingly no element of remuneration is pensionable. 
Payments to former directors (audited)
No payments were made to past executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2014.
Payments for loss of office (audited)
No payments were made in respect of loss of office during the year ended 31 December 2014.
Percentage change in remuneration levels 
The table below shows base salary, allowances and benefits, and annual bonus for the CEO in the 2014 financial year, compared to that for the  
average employees:
% change
Chief Executive Officer
Base salary 13%
Allowances and benefits 4%
Bonus 48%
All employees
Base salary 5%
Allowances and benefits 5%
Bonus 48%
Relative importance of the spend on pay 
The table below shows overall expenditure on pay in the whole Group in 2013 and 2014 financial years, compared to returns to shareholders  
through dividends:
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000 % change
Overall expenditure on pay 32,879 22,795 44 %
Dividends proposed 8,131 N/A
1
N/A
1. The Company was admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 19 March 2014 and returns to shareholders prior to admission have been excluded. 60 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
t otal Shareholder Return 
This graph below shows the value, by 31 December 2014, of £100 invested in Gulf Marine Services PLC on 14 March 2014 (being the date that shares were first admitted  
to conditional trading) compared with the value of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the same period. 
REPORT OF THE REMUNERA TION COMMITTEE
Continued
Friday, 14 March 14 Wednesday, 31 December 14 0
80
100
120
140
20
40
60
Gulf Marine Services PLC
FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts
Total Shareholder Return (Rebased)
Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters)
The total remuneration figures for the CEO during the 2014 financial year are shown in the table below. Consistent with the calculation methodology 
for the single figure for total remuneration, the total remuneration figure includes the total annual bonus award based on that year’s performance  
and the LTIP award based on the three-year performance period ending in the relevant year. The annual bonus payout and LTIP award vesting level  
as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for this year. 
Year ending 31 December
2014 2013 2012
Chief Executive Officer
Duncan 
Anderson
Duncan 
Anderson
Duncan 
Anderson
Total Remuneration (US$'000) 1,003 826 437
Annual bonus % 35% 29% 46%
LTIP vesting % – – –
a pproval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report
The Directors’ Remuneration Report, including both the Directors’ Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration, was approved by 
the Board on 23 March 2015 for presentation to shareholders at the AGM.
W. Richard Anderson
Remuneration Committee Chairman
23 March 2015 61 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report for 2014.  
The Nomination Committee was established in its current form as part  
of the governance framework adopted by the Company on its admission 
to the London Stock Exchange. The Code provides that independent 
non-executive Directors should comprise the majority of the Committee. 
The Committee members during the year were as follows:
Chairman
Simon Heale
Senior independent Director
Simon Batey
Non-executive Director
Karim El Solh
Independent non-executive Directors
W. Richard Anderson, Mike Straughen
t he responsibilities and role of the  
n omination c ommittee
The Nomination Committee’s responsibilities include:
 – regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board 
taking into consideration the skills, knowledge and diversity required 
of the Board compared to its current position;
 – reviewing and recommending succession plans for Directors and 
other senior executives;
 – identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates 
to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise; 
 – establishing, monitoring and reviewing the Directors’ induction and 
ongoing development programme; and
 – reviewing annually the composition of the Board. 
Objectives for 2014 and developments 
Given the recent appointment of the Directors of the Company and the 
rigorous selection process undertaken by the Company and assisted by 
Spencer Stuart, we did not consider it necessary to meet between listing 
and the year end. 
Since the year end, the Committee has met to assess the results of the 
Board evaluation process. In light of the findings, we have concluded  
that the performance of each of the Directors standing for re-election 
continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles, 
including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and 
any other duties. 
All of the Company’s Directors will stand for election at the 2015  
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) as it is the first AGM since their 
appointments. The biographical details of the current Directors can  
be found on pages 42 to 43. In accordance with the recommendation  
for FTSE 350 companies set out in the Code, all of the Directors of  
the Company will be subject to annual re-election at future AGMs.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors, 
which includes their expected time commitment, are available for 
inspection at the Company’s registered office.
All members of the Board are male.  The Group has one female member 
of the senior management team and two female managers. The Operating 
with Integrity section on pages 32 to 36 of the report explains the 
Group’s approach to diversity.
Simon Heale
Nomination Committee Chairman 
23 March 2015
REPORT OF THE NOMINA TION COMMITTEE
Simon Heale
Nomination Committee Chairman 62 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
The Directors of Gulf Marine Services PLC present their Annual Report 
and audited financial statements of the Company and the Group for the 
year ended 31 December 2014. 
This Directors’ Report, prepared in accordance with the requirements  
of the Companies Act 2006, the UK Listing Authority’s Listing Rules, and 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules, contains certain statutory, regulatory 
and other information. 
Strategic Report 
Details of the Group’s strategy and business model during the year and the 
information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic Report required 
by sections 414A to D of the UK Companies Act 2006 can be found in the 
Strategic Report section on pages 8 to 23 of this document, which forms 
part of this report by reference.
c orporate Governance
The Company’s Corporate Governance Statement is set out on pages 40 
to 61 and forms part of this report by reference.
Directors 
A list of the Directors who served during the period and their biographies 
can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 43. 
In addition, Andrew Robertson, a member of the senior management 
team, was appointed as Director as part of the pre-IPO process on 
21 January 2014 and resigned on 27 February 2014. Christopher Foll was 
appointed as an alternate Director for H. Richard Dallas and Dr. Karim El 
Solh on 27 February 2014. The Articles of Association of the Company 
permits any Director to appoint any person to be their alternate and each 
Director may at their discretion remove an alternate Director so appointed. 
Powers of Directors 
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our Articles 
of Association (the ‘Articles’), which are available on our website at  
www.gmsuae.com. The Articles may be amended by a special resolution 
of the members. The Directors may exercise all of the Company’s powers 
provided that the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that 
any such powers must be exercised by the members (shareholders).
a ppointment and replacement of Directors 
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are 
contained in our Articles. They provide that Directors may be appointed 
by ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors. 
Directors must retire and put themselves forward for election at their 
first Annual General Meeting ("AGM") following their appointment. Since 
the Company is holding its first AGM on 6 May 2015, every Director will  
be retiring and seeking election at this meeting. 
Directors wishing to continue to serve will seek re-election annually in 
accordance with provision B.7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Members may remove a Director by passing an ordinary resolution of 
which special notice has been given, in accordance with the Companies 
Act 2006. 
a mendments to the a rticles of a ssociation 
The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special resolution 
passed at a General Meeting of shareholders.
indemnification of Directors 
The Company has provided indemnification for Directors in accordance 
with the Company’s Articles and the Companies Act 2006. As far as is 
permitted by legislation, all Officers of the Company are indemnified out 
of the Company’s own funds against any liabilities and associated costs 
which they could incur in the course of their duties for the Company, 
other than any liability to the Company or an associated company.
c ompensation for loss of office
The Company does not have agreements with any Director that would 
provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a 
takeover, except that provisions of the Company’s share plans may cause 
options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Share capital and control 
Details of the Company’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2014 
can be found in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements,  
on page 91. The Company’s share capital comprises ordinary shares, 
which are listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
Ordinary shares 
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends (when declared 
by the Board or approved by members), receive copies of the Company’s 
Annual Report, attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, 
appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the holding,  
of ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain approval prior to  
any transfers. No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard  
to control of the company and there are no restrictions on voting  
rights. Major shareholders have the same voting rights per share as  
all other shareholders.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held  
by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements 
on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank equally with 
the other shares in issue and have no special rights. 
a uthority to purchase the company’s own shares
The Company did not acquire any of its own shares in the financial year  
to 31 December 2014 or in the period between the year end and the date 
of this report. 
The Company is due to have its first AGM on 6 May 2015 and the 
Directors will be seeking approval from shareholders, to authorise the 
Company to purchase up to 10% of its existing ordinary share capital. 
This authority would expire at the Company’s 2016 AGM; however, it is 
intended that this authority be renewed each year. For more information 
on this resolution refer to the Notice of AGM and explanatory notes on 
pages 116 to 121.  63 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Substantial shareholders
The Directors are aware of the following substantial interests in the  
shares of the Company:
Significant direct/indirect 
interest
a s at 31 December 2014 
n umber of shares
a s at 31 December 2014 
% Voting Rights
a s at 13 march 2015 
n umber of shares
a s at 13 march 2015 
% Voting Rights
Green Investment 
Commercial Investments 174,945,676 50.05 174,945,676 50.05
Horizon Energy 21,136,703 6.05 21,136,703 6.05
Al Ain Capital 21,136,703 6.05 21,136,703 6.05
Schroder Investment 
Management 16,054,272 4.59 15,929,877 4.56
Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank 10,654,958 3.05 10,401,958 2.98
Aberforth Partners 8,544,000 2.44 11,564,892 3.31
Significant agreements 
As at 31 December 2014 the Company was party to the following 
significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate, or have  
the potential to do so, on a change of control of the Company:
Relationship a greement
The Relationship Agreement dated 14 March 2014 amongst Green 
Investment Commercial Investments LLC (GICI), Ocean Investments 
Trading LLC (Ocean), Horizon Energy LLC (Horizon), Al Ain Capital LLC  
(Al Ain) and the Company provides that it shall terminate on there ceasing 
to be a “Principal Shareholder” holding at least 10% of the issued share 
capital of the Company or shares carrying at least 10% of the aggregate 
voting rights in the Company from time to time. In this context a “Principal 
Shareholder” is any of (a) GICI and Ocean together, (b) Horizon and (c)  
Al Ain. 
The relevant Principal Shareholder shall be entitled to appoint one 
Director to the Board, and for so long as a Principal Shareholder Group 
holds 15% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, 
the relevant Principal Shareholder shall be entitled to appoint two 
Directors to the Board. The appointees are H. Richard Dallas and  
Dr. Karim El Solh. The Company has further agreed that, subject to the 
Gulf Capital Shareholders (comprising Green Investment Commercial 
Investments LLC, and Ocean Investments Trading LLC, both beneficially 
owned by GC Equity Partners Fund II, L.P.), having the requisite aggregate 
shareholding to appoint a Director as described above, (i) Christopher Foll 
shall be given notice of, be invited to, and have the right to attend 
meetings of the Board as an observer, but shall not be entitled to vote, 
and (ii) H. Richard Dallas shall be given notice of, be invited to, and have 
the right to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee as an 
observer, but shall not be entitled to vote.
The Relationship Agreement has not been amended since adoption and 
is in compliance with the recently amended Listing Rules. 
initial Supplemental Purchase Undertaking
The initial supplemental purchase undertaking made on 5 June 2013 by 
Gulf Marine Middle East FZE (GMME), a member of the Group, to and for 
the benefit of Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB) provides that, in the 
event of a person or persons acting in concert acquiring control of the 
Company, ADIB shall be entitled to serve a notice on GMME exercising  
its option to sell to GMME assets currently leased by GMME from ADIB 
under related finance lease arrangements described in more detail on 
pages 139 and 140 of the Company’s prospectus dated 14 March 2014.  
If ADIB serves such a notice following a change of control of the 
Company, GMME is obliged to purchase the leased assets in their then 
current condition on an “as is where is” basis at a price determined by  
a detailed formula set out in the undertaking.
Director and Senior manager l ock-Up a rrangements
As noted on pages 197 and 198 of the Company’s prospectus dated 
14 March 2014, the Directors and senior management of the Company 
entered into broad lock up undertakings that, subject to certain 
exceptions, prevented those individuals from selling, transferring or 
otherwise disposing of their shareholdings in the Company for a period  
of 360 days from admission of the Company to listing. One of the  
main exceptions to these lock-up arrangements is the acceptance of  
a general offer made to all shareholders of the Company under the 
United Kingdom City Code on Takeovers and Mergers. Related to this, 
the lock-up arrangements also do not apply to the execution and delivery 
by a relevant Director or senior manager of an irrevocable undertaking  
or commitment to accept such an offer. 
Share incentive Schemes
All of the Company’s share-based employee incentive plans detailed  
in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 50 to 60 contain 
provisions relating to a change of control of the Company. Vesting of 
outstanding awards and options on a change of control would normally 
be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, who would take 
into account the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions at 
that time and the expired duration of the relevant performance period.
executive Service contracts 
The service contracts for the Company’s executive Directors and senior 
management include provisions applicable to a change of control in the 
Company. Further details of these service contracts are described in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report.
Operational contracts 
The Group is party to a limited number of operational arrangements that 
have the potential to be terminated or altered on a change of control of 
the Company, but these are not considered to be individually significant 
to the business of the Group as a whole. 64 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Governance
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 
Continued
Risk regarding the use of financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management objectives and policies including 
the use of financial instruments are set out in note 35 to the consolidated 
financial statements on pages 101 to 103. 
Post balance sheet events
The following events occurred after the balance sheet date:
(i) On 16 March 2015 the option to purchase the leased vessel Keloa  
was exercised for US$ 37.5 million. The transaction was funded  
by a US$ 37.5 million drawdown from the committed loan facility. 
(ii) In January 2014, the Group entered into an arrangement to lease  
a vessel (Pepper) commencing in 2015 for a five-year term with  
an option to purchase the vessel at the end of the lease term.  
This vessel commenced its inaugural client charter in March 2015  
and is now on lease.
l ikely future developments 
Information in respect of likely future developments in the business  
of the Company can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 23  
and forms part of this report by reference. 
Research and development
The Group does not undertake any research and development activities.
Political donations
No political donations were made in 2014.
t he existence of branches outside the UK
The Group has a branch in Qatar. 
employees and policies 
The Group operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat 
individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnic 
origin or disability or on any other basis. Applications for employment are 
fully considered on their merits, and employees are given appropriate 
training and equal opportunities for career development and promotion.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from 
disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately 
fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person. Where existing employees 
become disabled, it is the Group’s policy wherever practicable to provide 
continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to 
provide training and career development and promotion to disabled 
employees wherever appropriate.
During the year, the policy of providing employees with information about 
the Group and keeping them up to date on financial, economic and other 
factors which affect the Group has been continued through internal 
media methods. Employees have also been encouraged to present their 
suggestions and views on the Group’s performance. Regular meetings 
are held between local management and employees to allow a free flow 
of information and ideas.
Health and safety
Information on health and safety is provided on pages 13, 19 and 33 and 
forms part of this report by reference.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Information on the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the 
Operating with Integrity Report on pages 32 to 36 and forms part of this 
report by reference.
Dividends
The Board has adopted a dividend policy which will look to maximise 
shareholder value and reflect its strong earnings potential and cash  
flow characteristics, while allowing it to retain sufficient capital to  
fund ongoing operating requirements and to invest in the Company’s 
long-term growth plans. The Company intends, subject to available 
distributable profits and shareholder approval, to pay annual dividends 
based on a targeted payout ratio of 10% of the Company’s consolidated 
post-tax profit from its ongoing business. The Board may decide to 
revise this policy if deemed appropriate.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.06 pence (1.64 cents) per 
share in respect of the 2014 financial year. Shareholders will be asked to 
approve the dividend at the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2015, for 
payment on 12 May 2015 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on 
the register on 17 April 2015. 
Going concern 
The Group is expected to continue to generate positive operating cash 
flows on its own account for the foreseeable future and has in place a 
committed term loan facility of US$ 110.0 million, of which US$ 72.5 million 
remained undrawn as at 23 March 2015. The Group also has access to  
a committed working capital facility of US$ 40.0 million, of which only  
US$ 20.0 million has been drawn to date.
On the basis of their assessment of the Group’s financial position,  
and after reviewing its cash flow forecasts for a period of not less than  
12 months from the date of approval of the Annual Report, the Group’s 
Directors have a reasonable expectation that, taking into account 
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, the Group will  
be able to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. 
Thus they have adopted the going concern basis of accounting in  
preparing the consolidated financial statements. 
More information on the going concern status of the Group can be  
found in the going concern section of note 3 to the consolidated financial 
statements on page 78 along with details of the Group's objectives and 
policies for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, 
details of its financial instruments and its exposure to credit and liquidity  
risk in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 101 to 103.  
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out on  
pages 21 to 23. 
Statement on disclosure to the external a uditor
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant information, which 
would be needed by the Company’s external Auditor in connection with 
preparing its audit report (which appears on pages 68 to 71) of which  
the external Auditor is not aware; and each Director, in accordance with 
section 418(2) of the Companies Act 2006, has taken all reasonable steps 
that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any 
such information and to ensure that the external Auditor is aware of  
such information.
John Brown
Company Secretary
on behalf of the Board of Directors
23 March 2015 65 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
ST A TEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 
The Directors have prepared the Annual Report and the financial 
statements in accordance with their responsibilities under applicable  
law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare 
the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union 
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the 
parent company financial statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards and applicable law). The financial statements have 
been prepared, as required by law, to give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit of the Group  
for that period. 
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors 
confirm that to the best of their knowledge they have:
 – recorded and reflected all transactions in the financial statements; 
 – selected suitable accounting policies and then applied them consistently;
 – made judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable  
and prudent;
 – stated whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 
in the financial statements; and
 – prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they 
consider that it is inappropriate to presume that the company will not 
continue in business.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Directors 
confirm that to the best of their knowledge they have:
 – recorded and reflected all transactions in the financial statements; 
 – properly selected and applied accounting policies;
 – presented information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;  
provided additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 
requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand 
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions  
on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and
 – made an assessment of the Group and Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern.
In accordance with the Directors’ responsibilities, the Group maintains 
adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any 
time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets 
of the Company and the Group and have taken reasonable steps for the 
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that to the best of their knowledge:
 – the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant 
financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, 
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the 
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; 
 – the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the 
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and 
uncertainties that they face; and
 – the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, 
balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary 
for shareholders to assess the company’s performance, business 
model and strategy.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office  
as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. 
This statement, together with the accompanying reports and financial 
statements, was approved by the Board on 23 March 2015 and is signed 
on its behalf by:
Duncan Anderson John Brown
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
23 March 2015 23 March 2015 66 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
FINANCIAL 
ST A TEMENTS
Independent Auditor’s Report 68
Group Consolidated Financial Statements 72
Company Financial Statements 106 67
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4 68
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT  
TO THE MEMBERS OF GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC
Opinion on financial 
statements of Gulf Marine 
Services plc
In our opinion:
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent Company’s 
affairs as at 31 December 2014 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;
 – the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union;
 – the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated 
statement of financial position, the Parent Company balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes  
of equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the Parent Company cash flow statement, the related 
consolidated notes 1 to 39 and related Parent Company notes 1 to 15. The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by 
the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent 
Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors’ statement contained within the Directors’ report 
on page 62 that the Group is a going concern. We confirm that:
 – we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the 
financial statements is appropriate; and
 – we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to 
the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of 
material misstatement
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit 
strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk
Impairment of the  
Group’s vessels
The Group’s vessels are its sole 
revenue generating assets, with 
a carrying value of $516.7 million 
at 31 December 2014 which 
represents 70% of the Group’s 
total assets at that date. Their 
recoverable amount is based on 
an assessment of the higher of 
fair value (less cost to sell) and 
value in use. Estimates of fair 
value less costs to sell take into 
consideration vessel valuations 
from an independent ship broker, 
whilst value in use is calculated 
as the net present value of 
estimated future cash flows, in 
each case on a vessel by vessel 
basis. In the current year, there is 
a risk that recoverable amounts 
could be adversely impacted by 
the recent significant decline  
in global oil & gas prices, due 
to the resultant impact on the 
Group’s customer base in the  
oil & gas industry.
Further detail of the Group’s 
vessels is provided in note 9. 
Management has assessed recoverable amount based on the estimated value in use of each vessel, which in 
all cases was higher than fair value less costs to sell, and concluded that no impairments have arisen. We have 
obtained management’s value in use calculations and compared the carrying value of each vessel to its value in 
use. The key assumptions utilised in these calculations include, on a vessel by vessel basis:
 – forecast utilisation;
 – forecast day rates;
 – inflation; and
 – discount rate.
We have assessed these assumptions by reference to publicly available information, our knowledge of the Group 
and industry and the Group’s most recent budget. This included:
 – understanding the process by which management has derived its value in use estimates;
 – comparing forecast utilisation and day rates to those achieved in prior periods;
 – comparing forecast day rates to signed contracts for contracted periods, and challenging the basis adopted 
for day rates elsewhere in the calculations;
 – using our internal valuation specialists to perform an independent recalculation of the discount rate;
 – performing sensitivity tests, using more conservative assumptions for future day rates and discount rate to 
take into consideration the current market conditions described opposite;
 – testing the design and implementation of management’s controls to address the risk of impairment of the 
Group’s vessels; and
 – testing the clerical accuracy of the calculations.
We have concluded that management’s estimates of value in use were reasonable and are therefore satisfied 
that no impairments have arisen. 69
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Capitalisation of vessel costs
The Group has a significant 
new-build programme underway 
comprising the construction 
of the Enterprise and the three 
new S-class vessels, in respect 
of which costs of $136.6 million 
have been capitalised in the 
year. There is a risk that costs 
are not appropriately capitalised 
in accordance with the relevant 
accounting standards, including 
the requirement to only capitalise 
overheads and finance charges 
which are directly attributable  
to the construction activities.
We have tested expenditure incurred during the year on the new-build programme on a sample basis to assess 
whether the related costs qualify for capitalisation under the relevant standards. This has included:
 – tracing direct third party costs to supporting documentation; 
 – testing the appropriate allocation of costs such as overheads and finance charges between amounts 
capitalised and amounts expensed, through understanding the basis and rationale for the split and verifying 
this through review of supporting evidence; and
 – testing the design and implementation of management controls to address the risk of inappropriate 
capitalisation of costs.
Our testing did not identify any material misstatements.
Revenue recognition
Each of the Group’s vessels 
earns revenues on the basis 
of a specific contract with the 
relevant counterparty. Each 
contract will typically specify 
a day rate, which can vary 
significantly by vessel and  
by counterparty, as well as  
a standby rate for when the 
vessel is available for use but  
not operational.
Accordingly, in order for revenue 
to be recorded appropriately,  
for each vessel the company 
needs to:
 – accurately record the number 
of days both on hire and on 
standby; and
 – apply the correct contractual 
rates to the number of days  
in each of these categories.
Due to the significant variability 
in contract terms by vessel 
and by counterparty, we have 
identified the complete and 
accurate recording of revenue  
as a key audit risk.
Further details of revenue arising 
in the year are provided in note 25.
We have obtained a detailed schedule analysing the revenue earned by month and by vessel, which specifies 
both the number of days on hire/on standby and the relevant contractual rate, and agreed this to the general 
ledger. On a sample basis we have :
 – agreed the days on hire/standby to a report from the Group’s operations department, to confirmation of days 
worked signed by the customer, as well as to invoice (which state the number of days to which it relates);
 – performed an analysis on the number of days on hire/standby, obtaining supporting explanation for any gaps 
and reconciling this to our knowledge of each vessel’s operational performance during the year;
 – agreed the day rate to the underlying contract; and
 – recalculated the revenue figure and agreed this to both invoice and either subsequent cash received or the year 
end debtors schedule.
We have also tested the design and implementation of management controls to address the risk of inappropriate 
revenue recognition.
Our testing did not identify any material misstatements.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee discussed on 
page 48.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express 
an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures. Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described 
above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters. 70
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Continued
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable 
that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use 
materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We considered the appropriate level of materiality for the Group as a listed entity to be US$4.0 million, which  
was 5% of pre-tax profit, and 1% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess  
of US$80,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative 
grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the 
overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope  
of our audit
This is our first year as auditors of the Group following the listing of the Group on the London Stock Exchange. 
Our audit planning identified the Group’s business to be a single component, and therefore all of the operations 
of the Group were subject to a full scope audit. During the course of the audit, senior members of the UK audit 
team, including the Senior Statutory Auditor, supervised the members of the audit team who are based in the 
United Arab Emirates, and visited the United Arab Emirates operations during the interim and completion stages 
of the audit.
Opinion on other matters 
prescribed by the Companies 
Act 2006
In our opinion:
 – the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with 
the Companies Act 2006; and
 – the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the 
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Adequacy of explanations 
received and accounting 
records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
 – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit 
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
 – the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ 
remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited is not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance 
Statement
Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating 
to the company’s compliance with ten provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to 
report arising from our review.
Our duty to read other 
information in the  
Annual Report
Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, 
information in the annual report is:
 – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or
 – apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired 
in the course of performing our audit; or
 – otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge 
acquired during the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and 
understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to 
the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed. We confirm that we have not identified any 
such inconsistencies or misleading statements. 71
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Respective responsibilities  
of directors and auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility  
is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors. We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 (UK and Ireland). 
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood 
and applied. Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and 
independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the 
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members 
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the 
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the 
financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused 
by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s 
and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to 
identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the 
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 
we consider the implications for our report.
David Paterson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
London
23 March 2015 72
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
CONSOLIDA TED ST A TEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 December 2014
n otes
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
 
Revenue 25 196,554 184,264
Cost of sales (70,094) (65,506)
Gross profit 126,460 118,758
General and administrative expenses 7 (25,417) (14,778)
Finance income 27 843 693
Finance expense 26 (21,354) (29,495)
Other income/(loss) 245 (1,247)
Foreign exchange loss, net (408) (637)
Profit for the year before taxation 80,369 73,294
Taxation charge for the year 22 (4,744) (3,861)
Profit for the year 28 75,625 69,433
 
Other comprehensive income – Items that will be reclassified to profit and loss
Exchange differences on translating foreign operations (430) 568
Total comprehensive income for the year 75,195 70,001
 
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company 75,065 68,201
Non-controlling interests 560 1,232
75,625 69,433
 
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company 74,635 68,769
Non-controlling interests 560 1,232
75,195 70,001
 
Earnings per share 
Basic (cents per share) 8 22.14 22.73
Diluted (cents per share) 8 22.04 22.73
All results are derived from continuing operations in each year. 73
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
CONSOLIDA TED ST A TEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
as at 31 December 2014
n otes
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 614,524 490,354
Intangibles 10 750 1,125
Dry docking expenditure 11 4,177 778
Fixed asset prepayments 750 2,827
Total non-current assets 620,201 495,084
 
Current assets
Loans to related parties 29 – 445
Derivative financial instrument 35 – 541
Trade and other receivables 12 49,948 43,249
Cash and cash equivalents 13 59,532 46,897
Total current assets 109,480 91,132
Total assets 729,681 586,216
 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves
Share capital 14 57,929 273
Share premium 14 93,247 –
Statutory reserve – 136
Restricted reserve 18 272 136
Group restructuring reserve 15 (49,437) –
Share option reserve 16 563 –
Capital contribution 17 9,177 78,527
Translation reserve 180 610
Retained earnings 246,631 103,228
Attributable to the Owners of the Company 358,562 182,910
Non-controlling interests 610 1,328
Total equity 359,172 184,238
 
Non-current liabilities
Bank borrowings 20 225,741 254,269
Obligations under finance leases 33 42,473 83,086
Loans from related parties 21 – 19,504
Provision for employees’ end of service benefits 23 2,468 1,910
Deferred tax liability 5 5
Total non-current liabilities 270,687 358,774
 
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 30,120 22,033
Current tax liability 4,809 3,682
Bank borrowings 20 23,415 11,010
Obligations under finance leases 33 41,478 5,697
Due to related parties 29 – 782
Total current liabilities 99,822 43,204
Total liabilities 370,509 401,978
Total equity and liabilities 729,681 586,216
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 23 March 2015. They were signed on its behalf by:
Duncan Anderson   John Brown
Chief Executive Officer  Chief Financial Officer 
23 March 2015   23 March 2015
  74
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
CONSOLIDA TED ST A TEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the year ended 31 December 2014
Share 
capital 
US$’000
Share 
premium 
US$’000
Statutory 
reserve 
US$’000
Restricted 
reserve 
US$’000
Group 
restructuring 
reserve 
US$’000
Share 
option 
reserve 
US$’000
Capital 
contribution 
US$’000
Translation 
reserve 
US$’000
Retained 
earnings 
US$’000
Attributable 
to the owners  
of the 
Company 
US$’000
Non-
controlling 
interests 
US$’000
Total 
equity 
US$’000
Balance at  
1 January 2013 273 – 136 136 – – 70,750 42 115,027 186,364 598 186,962
Transfer  
of share 
appreciation 
rights payable 
(note 36) – – – – – – 7,777 – – 7,777 – 7,777
Total 
comprehensive 
income for  
the year – – – – – – – 568 68,201 68,769 1,232 70,001
Dividends paid 
during the year 
(note 38) – – – – – – – – (80,000) (80,000) (502) (80,502)
Balance at  
1 January 2014 273 – 136 136 – – 78,527 610 103,228 182,910 1,328 184,238
 
Total 
comprehensive 
income – – – – – – – (430) 75,065  74,635 560 75,195
Share 
appreciation 
rights charge 
(note 36) – – – – – – 1,400 – – 1,400 – 1,400
Share options 
rights charge 
(note 37) – – – – – 563 – – – 563 – 563
Transfer  
of capital 
contribution  
to retained 
earnings – – – – – – (70,750) – 70,750 – – –
Transfer to 
restricted 
reserve – – (136) 136 – – – – – – – –
Group 
restructuring 
reserve (273) – – – 273 – – – – – – –
Issue of  
share capital 497,100 – – – (497,100) – – – – – – –
Capital 
reduction (447,390) – – – 447,390 – – – – – – –
Issue of share 
capital – IPO 8,219 102,702 – – – – – – – 110,921 – 110,921
Share 
issue cost – (9,455) – – – – – – – (9,455) – (9,455)
Dividends  
paid during the 
year (note 38) – – – – – – – – (2,412) (2,412) (1,278) (3,690)
Balance at  
31 December 
2014 57,929  93,247 – 272 (49,437) 563 9,177 180 246,631 358,562 610 359,172
Please refer to note 19 for a description of each reserve. 75
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
CONSOLIDA TED ST A TEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended 31 December 2014
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Net cash generated from operating activities (note 30) 120,353 113,343
 
Investing activities
Payments for property, plant and equipment (136,563) (48,502)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 25 847
Payment for capital advances (750) (2,827)
Dry docking expenditure incurred (4,656) (855)
Movement in pledged deposits 1,679 (1,602)
Movement in guarantee deposits (164) 309
Interest received 843 135
Net cash used in investing activities (139,586) (52,495)
 
Financing activities
Bank borrowings received – 280,000
Proceeds from share issue – IPO 110,921 –
Share issue cost paid (9,455) (9,391)
Repayment of bank borrowings (13,000) (164,844)
Repayment of loans from related parties (19,504) (10,410)
Repayment of short term loans to shareholders (782) –
Interest paid (22,814) (26,552)
Payment on obligations under finance lease (4,832) (4,352)
Dividends paid (3,455) (80,502)
Decrease in loans to related parties 445 133
Payment of issue cost on borrowings (5,656) –
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities 31,868 (15,918)
 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 12,635 44,930
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 46,897 1,967
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (note 13) 59,532 46,897
 
Non-cash transactions
Transfer of capital contribution to retained earnings (note 14) 70,750 –
Group restructuring reserve recognised (note 15) (49,437) –
Transfer of share appreciation rights obligation to shareholders (note 36) – 7,777 76
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS
for year ended 31 December 2014
1. g eneral information
Gulf Marine Services PLC (“GMS” or “the Company”) is a Company which was registered in England and Wales on 24 January 2014. The Company is  
a public limited company with operations mainly in the Middle East and North Africa, and Europe. The address of the registered office of the Company  
is 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London EC3A 7NH. The registered number of the Company is 08860816.
The principal activities of GMS and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group”) are investing in, establishing and managing commercial, and 
industrial projects as well as chartering and operating a fleet of specially designed and built vessels.
The Company completed its Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange on 19 March 2014. The Company and its subsidiaries are engaged in providing 
self-propelled, self-elevating accommodation vessels which provide the stable platform for delivery of a wide range of services throughout the total lifecycle 
of offshore oil, gas and renewable energy activities and which are capable of operations in the Middle East, South East Asia, West Africa and Europe.
2. a doption of new and revised international Financial r eporting Standards (iFr Ss)
The accounting policies and methods of computation adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are consistent with 
those followed in the preparation of the Group’s annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, except for the adoption of new 
standards and interpretations effective as of 1 January 2014 and the principles of merger accounting including the pooling of interests method for 
business combinations under common control which has been used in accounting for the Group restructuring (note 3).
New and revised IFRSs applied with no material effect on the consolidated financial statements
The following new and revised IFRSs have been adopted in these consolidated financial statements. The application of these new and revised IFRSs has not 
had any material impact on the amounts reported for the current and prior years but may affect the accounting for future transactions or arrangements.
n ew and revised iFr Ss Summary of requirements
Amendments to IAS 32 Financial 
Instruments: Presentation
The amendments provide guidance on the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities.
Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment of 
Assets relating to recoverable amount 
disclosures for non-financial assets
The amendments restrict the requirements to disclose the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU 
to the period in which an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed. They also expand and 
clarify the disclosure requirements applicable when an asset or CGU’s recoverable amount has been 
determined on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, 
Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of 
Hedge Accounting
The amendments allow the continuation of hedge accounting when a derivative is novated to a clearing 
counterparty and certain conditions are met.
Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated 
Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure  
of Interests in Other Entities and IAS 27 
Separate Financial Statements – Guidance  
on Investment Entities
On 31 October 2012, the IASB published a standard on investment entities, which amends IFRS 10, IFRS 
12, and IAS 27 and introduces the concept of an investment entity in IFRSs. The objective of this project 
is to develop an exemption from the requirement to consolidate subsidiaries for eligible investment 
entities (such as mutual funds, unit trusts, and similar entities), instead requiring the use of the fair value 
to measure those investments.
New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective
At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, the following new and revised IFRSs were in issue but not yet effective:
n ew and revised iFr Ss
Effective for annual periods
beginning on or after
IFRIC 21 – Levies 17 June 2014
Annual improvements 2010-2012 covering amendments to IFRS 2, IFRS 3, IFRS 8, IFRS 13, IAS 16, IAS 24 and IAS 38 1 July 2014
Annual improvements 2011-2013 covering amendments to IFRS 1, IFRS 3, IFRS 13 and IAS 40 1 July 2014
Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits relating to defined benefit plans and employee contributions 1 July 2014
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (as revised in 2010) Not earlier than 1 January 2018
Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial Instrument to introduce a new expected loss impairment model and limited 
changes to the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets 1 January 2018
IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2017
Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation 1 January 2016
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants 1 January 2016
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures relating to transition to IFRS 9 (or otherwise when 
IFRS 9 is first applied) When IFRS 9 is first applied
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments When IFRS 9 is first applied
Management anticipates that the adoption of these IFRSs in future periods will have no material impact on the consolidated financial statements  
of the Group in the period of initial application, with the exception of IFRS 15 for which the Management is currently in the process of assessing the 
impact of adoption. 77
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
3. Significant accounting policies
The Group’s significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been 
consistently applied to each of the years presented.
Statement of compliance
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘‘IFRSs’’) as adopted by 
the European Union (‘‘EU’’) and therefore the financial information presented complies with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation. IFRS includes the 
standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘‘IASB’’) including International Accounting Standards 
(‘‘IAS’’) and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘‘IFRIC’’).
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and share-based 
payments that are measured at revalued amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value 
of the consideration given in exchange for assets. 
For financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value 
measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows:
 
 – Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date; 
 – Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and 
 – Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below. 
Basis of consolidation
The financial statements incorporate the financial statements of GMS and entities controlled by GMS (its subsidiaries). Management have assessed 
the control which GMS has over its subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements which provides that an investor controls 
an investee when the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the investee.
Details of GMS subsidiaries at 31 December 2014 and 2013 are as follows:
proportion of o wnership interest
n ame place of r egistration 2014 2013 t ype of a ctivity
Gulf Marine Services WLL Abu Dhabi 100% 100% Marine Contractors
Offshore Holding Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Holding Company
Offshore Logistics Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Naashi” 
Offshore Accommodation Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of “Khawla 181”
Offshore Jack-up Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kamikaze”
Offshore Craft Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “GMS Endeavour”
Offshore Structure Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kikuyu”
Offshore Maritime Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of “Helios” 
Offshore Tugboat Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of “Atlas” 
Offshore Boat Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kawawa” 
Offshore Kudeta Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Kudeta” 
GMS Endurance Invt SA Panama 100% 100% Owner of Barge “Endurance”
Mena Marine Limited Cayman Islands 100% 100% General investment and trading
GMS GP Management Limited 
(i)
Cayman Islands – 100% General investment and trading
Gulf Marine Services (UK) Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Operator of offshore barges
Gulf Marine Services Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 60% 60% Operator of offshore barges
Gulf Marine Services (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100% 100% Operator of offshore barges
GMS Enterprise Investment SA Panama 100% – Owner of Barge “Enterprise”
GMS Sharqi Investment SA Panama 100% – Owner of Barge “Sharqi”
GMS Scirocco Investment SA Panama 100% – Owner of Barge “Scirocco”
GMS Shamal Investment SA Panama 100% – Owner of Barge “Shamal”
(i) GMS GP Management Limited was dissolved during the year. 78
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Basis of consolidation continued
Group restructuring
On 24 January 2014, the Company was incorporated as the new holding company for the Group. On 5 February 2014, the Company legally acquired 
GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC (the previous Parent Company of the Group), including the underlying subsidiaries. The transaction was 
effected by way of issuing shares in the Company to the existing shareholders of GMS Global Commercial Investments in exchange for their shares 
already held in GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC. This transaction falls outside the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations, therefore the 
pooling of interests (merger accounting) method was applied and the consolidated financial information of the Group is presented as a continuation 
of the existing Group. The following accounting treatment was applied:
 – the consolidated assets and liabilities of the previous parent, GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC, were recognised and measured at the 
pre-restructuring carrying amounts, without restatement to fair value;
 – the results for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the period from 1 January 2014 to the date of restructuring are those of GMS Global 
Commercial Investments LLC;
 – comparative numbers presented in the consolidated financial statements are those of GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC as at 
31 December 2013; and
 – the difference between historical carrying amounts of net assets transferred and consideration paid has been recognised as a Group 
restructuring reserve (note 15).
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the 
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies in line with those used by other members  
of the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. The interests of non-controlling shareholders  
may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net 
assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-
controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. 
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Changes in the Group’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying  
amounts of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. 
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received  
is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Group. Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the 
acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, 
liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are 
recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Fair value is determined as the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability transferred, 
between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction.
The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 (2008) are recognised  
at their fair value at the acquisition date.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair value  
of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and 
liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the 
subsidiary are accounted for (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings) in the same manner as would be required  
if the relevant assets or liabilities were disposed of. The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost  
is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or,  
when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
g oing concern
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis. The use of this basis of accounting takes into consideration the Group’s 
current and forecast financial position, including the capital commitments described in note 32. Further information on the use of going concern has 
been disclosed in the Directors’ Report on pages 62 to 64. 79
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
r evenue recognition
Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Group’s 
activities. Revenue is recognised only when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the Group and the 
amount of revenue can be measured reliably and is stated net of sales taxes if applicable (such as VAT) and discounts. If advances are received from 
customers for future contractual services, the revenue is deferred until the services are provided.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are rendered, including where they are based on contractual daily rates for the chartering  
of vessels in respect of multi-year service contracts. Income from vessels hired on time and voyage charters and from the hire of equipment  
or personnel is accounted for on a time apportionment basis in line with agreed contract terms.
Contract mobilisation/demobilisation revenue
Charter contracts generally provide for payment on a daily rate basis, and revenues are recognised as the work progresses with the passage of time. 
In addition, lump-sum payments are occasionally received at the outset or at the end of a contract for equipment moves or modifications. Lump-sum 
fees received for equipment moves (and related costs) and fees received for contract-specific equipment modifications or upgrades are initially 
deferred and amortised on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. The costs of contractual equipment modifications or upgrades and  
the costs of the initial move of newly acquired rigs are capitalised and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s fixed asset capitalisation policy.  
The costs of moving equipment while not under contract are expensed as incurred.
Revenue is recognised for certain reimbursable costs. Each reimbursable item and amount is stipulated in the Group’s contract with the customer, 
and such items and amounts are variable from contract to contract. Reimbursable costs are recognised on the gross basis, as both revenues and 
expenses, because the Group is the primary obligor in the arrangement, has discretion in supplier selection, is involved in determining product or 
service specifications and assumes full credit risk related to the reimbursable costs.
Revenue from messing and accommodation services
Revenue from these services is recognised as the services are rendered, including where they are based on contractual daily rates for providing 
accommodation and messing services which may include catering and cleaning services.
Interest income
Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income can be measured reliably. 
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that 
exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Maintenance income
Maintenance income relates to maintenance work which is carried out on vessels during times that the vessels are on hire. This is done periodically 
throughout the year and is charged to customers in accordance with agreed contractual daily rates. Maintenance revenue is recognised when the 
work takes place.
Sundry income
Sundry income relates to handling charges which are applied to costs which are paid by the Group and then recharged to the customer. The revenue  
is recognised when the costs are recharged to customers with the handling charge applied.
l easing
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic basis is more 
representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating 
leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability. The aggregate benefit of 
incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more representative  
of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.  
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present 
value of the minimum lease payments calculated using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in 
the consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on  
the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly to profit or loss, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets,  
in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Group’s general policy on borrowing costs (see page 81). 80
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
3. Significant accounting policies continued
property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses (if any). The cost of property, 
plant and equipment is their purchase cost together with any incidental expenses of acquisition. Subsequent expenditure incurred on vessels is 
capitalised where the expenditure gives rise to future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the  
existing assets.
Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment less their residual values over their useful lives, using the 
straight-line method. The residual values of vessels and related equipment are determined taking into consideration the expected scrap value of the 
vessel, which is calculated based on the weight and the market rate of steel at the time of asset purchase. If the price per unit of steel at the balance 
sheet date varies significantly from that on date of purchase, the residual value is reassessed to reflect changes in market value. The estimated useful 
lives used for this purpose are:
Vessels 25 – 35 years
Land, buildings and improvements 5 – 20 years 
Vessel spares, fittings and other equipment 3 – 10 years 
Office equipment and fittings 3 – 5 years 
Motor vehicles 3 years 
Taking into consideration independent professional advice, management considers the principal estimated useful lives of vessels for the purpose  
of calculating depreciation to be 25 to 35 years from the date of construction. However the useful economic life of one vessel, Naashi, was extended 
by 10 years to 45 years as a result of a major upgrade done on the vessel in 2010.
The estimated useful life depends on the type and nature of the vessel.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at each year end, with the effect of any changes in estimate 
accounted for on a prospective basis.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between  
the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income.
The depreciation charge for the period is allocated between cost of sales and administrative expenses, depending on the usage of the respective assets.
Standby equipment
The cost of purchased second hand engines and related refurbishment expenses which are classified as standby equipment are capitalised and 
depreciated from the date that the engine has been made ready for use and installed on the vessel.
Second hand refurbished engines are depreciated over the shorter of the useful economic life of the refurbished second hand standby equipment  
or the life of the vessel on which such equipment is installed.
Repair expenses relating to used engines belonging to the Group are charged to administrative expenses when incurred.
Drydocking
The costs incurred for periodical drydocking or major overhauls of the vessels are identified as a separate inherent component of the vessels and are 
depreciated on a straight-line basis over the period to the next anticipated dry-dock being approximately 60 months.
For acquired or newly built vessels, a notional dry dock cost is allocated from the vessel’s cost based on experience of similar vessels, and (if material) 
depreciated on a straight-line basis to the next anticipated drydocking. If a drydocking occurs prior to its anticipated date, any remaining capitalised 
drydocking expenditure is expensed.
c apital work-in-progress
Properties and vessels in the course of construction for production, supply or administrative purposes, are carried at cost, less any recognised 
impairment loss. Cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs capitalised in accordance with the Group’s accounting 
policy. Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
intangible assets
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment 
losses. Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives The estimated useful lives used for this purpose are:
Property leases 7 years
Customer relationships 10 years
The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being 
accounted for on a prospective basis. 81
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at the 
acquisition date (which is regarded as their cost).
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and 
accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately. The amortisation expense on intangibles is 
included as a part of general and administrative expenses.
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal. Gains or losses arising  
from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset,  
are recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
impairment of tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill
At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order 
to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group 
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. When a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation  
can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of 
cash-generating units for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.
Intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are 
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks 
specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset  
(or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or a cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its 
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment 
loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take  
a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are 
substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will 
be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting 
period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to 
settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the receivable is recognised 
as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Employees’ end of service benefits
In accordance with the applicable Labour Laws of UAE, the Group is required to pay end of service benefits to all qualifying employees upon cessation 
of employment. The only obligation of the Group with respect to end of service benefits is to make the specified lump-sum payments to employees 
which become payable when they leave the Group for reasons other than gross misconduct. The amount payable is calculated as a multiple of a 
pre-defined fraction of basic salary based on the number of full years of service.
To meet the requirement of UAE labour laws, a provision is made for the full amount of end of service benefits payable to qualifying employees up  
to the end of the reporting period. The provision relating to end of service benefits is disclosed as a non-current liability. The provision has not been 
subject to a full actuarial valuation or discounted as the impact would not be material.
The actual payment is made in the year of cessation of employment of a qualifying employee. The payment for end of service benefit is made  
as a lump sum along with the full and final settlement of the employee.
The total expense recognised in profit or loss of loss of US$ 0.7 million (2013: US$ 0.5 million) represents end of service benefit payments made  
to employees in accordance with UAE Labour Laws. 82
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Foreign currencies
The individual financial statements of each Group company are prepared in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates 
(its functional currency). For the purpose of these financial statements US Dollars (US$) is the functional currency of the Group and the presentation 
currency of the Group.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign 
currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated 
in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for exchange differences on monetary items receivable 
from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur, which form part of the net investment in a foreign 
operation, and which are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve and recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial information, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s subsidiaries are expressed in US Dollars 
using exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for  
the period, unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions are 
used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (attributed to non-controlling 
interests as appropriate).
On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of control over  
a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that includes a foreign operation, or loss of significant 
influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation), all of the accumulated exchange differences in respect of that operation attributable  
to the Group are reclassified to profit or loss. Any exchange differences that have previously been attributed to non-controlling interests are 
derecognised, but they are not reclassified to profit or loss.
taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Current tax
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from ‘profit before tax’ as reported in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income because of items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never 
taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end  
of the reporting period.
Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities in the financial statements and  
the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary 
differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits 
will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised  
if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities  
in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint 
ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 
reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax  
laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated 
statement of comprehensive income, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred 
tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when 
they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 83
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
l ong term incentive plans
The fair value of an equity instrument is determined at the grant date based on market prices if available, taking into account the terms and conditions 
upon which those equity instruments were granted. If market prices are not available for share awards, the fair value of the equity instruments is 
estimated using a valuation technique to derive an estimate of what the price of those equity instruments would have been at the relevant 
measurement date in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties.
Equity-settled share based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the instruments, using a binomial model together with Monte 
Carlo simulations as at the grant date, and is expensed over the vesting period. The value of the expense is dependent upon certain key assumptions 
including the expected future volatility of the Group’s share price at the date of grant. The fair value measurement reflects all market based vesting 
conditions. Service and non-market performance conditions are taken into account in determining the number of rights that are expected to vest. 
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised 
estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves. 
Financial assets
The Group has the following financial assets: cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and advances to 
suppliers) and amounts due from related parties. These financial assets are classified as ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on the 
nature and purpose of the financial asset and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and balances held with banks with original maturities of three months or less.
Trade and other receivables and amounts due from related parties
Trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments and advances to suppliers) and amounts due from related parties that have fixed or determinable 
payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using 
the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term 
receivables or when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period. Financial assets are considered to be impaired when 
there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future 
cash flows of the investment have been affected.
Objective evidence of impairment could include:
 – significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or
 – default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or
 – it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed 
for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Group’s past experience of 
collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period, and observable changes in 
national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts 
due according to the original terms of the receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the 
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The provision is determined by reference to previous 
experience of recoverability for receivables in each market in which the Group operates.
Impairment of financial assets
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount 
and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, 
where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off 
against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account. Changes in the 
carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the 
impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the 
investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial 
asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially  
all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and  
an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial 
asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received. 84
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
3. Significant accounting policies continued
Financial liabilities and equity instruments
Classification as debt or equity
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments 
issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss ‘FVTPL ’ or ‘other financial liabilities’.
Derivatives that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities and are held at FVTPL. Derivatives held  
at FVTPL are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the 
end of each reporting period with the resulting gain or loss recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Trade and other payables, bank borrowings, loan from related parties, due to related parties and other liabilities are classified as ‘other financial 
liabilities’. Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are 
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis,  
except for short-term payables or when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant 
period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, 
or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk.
Derivatives that are not designated and effective as hedging instruments are classified as financial liabilities or financial assets and are held at FVTPL. 
Derivatives held at FVTPL are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to 
their fair value at the end of each reporting period with the resulting gain or loss recognised in profit or loss immediately. All derivatives are carried  
at their fair values as assets where the fair values are positive and as liabilities where the fair values are negative. A derivative is presented as a 
non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised  
or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Fair values of the derivatives are carried out by independent valuers by reference to quoted market prices, discounted cash flow models and recognised 
pricing models as appropriate. They represent Level 2 financial instruments under the IFRS hierarchy. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial 
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in profit or loss as they arise. Derivative financial instruments that do not qualify 
for hedge accounting are classified as held for trading derivatives.
4. c ritical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the Directors are required to make judgments, estimates and 
assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated 
assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which 
the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and 
future periods.
The following are the critical judgments and key sources of estimation which management has made in the process of applying the Group’s 
accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:
critical judgments and key sources of estimation in applying accounting policies
Useful lives and residual values of vessels
Management reviews the residual values and estimated useful lives of its vessels at the end of each annual reporting period in accordance  
with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. The residual values of vessels and related equipment are determined taking into consideration the 
expected scrap value of the vessels, which is calculated based on the weight and the market rate of steel at the time of asset purchase. If the 
price per unit of steel at the balance sheet date varies significantly from that at the date of purchase the residual value is reassessed to reflect 
changes in market value.
The estimated useful lives of vessels of between 25-35 years are management’s best estimate, with the useful life of any given vessel dependent on 
factors such as the operating environment it is expected to work in (including water depth and prevailing weather conditions) and the condition of the 
vessel both at acquisition and at each balance sheet date. 85
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
Management evaluate the carrying amounts of the Group’s vessels and vessels under construction to determine whether there is any indication that 
those vessels have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of vessels is estimated in order to determine the 
extent of the impairment loss (if any).
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. As part of the process of assessing fair values less costs to sell  
of the vessel, management obtain vessel valuations from leading, independent and internationally recognised ship brokers on an annual basis or when 
there is an indication that the value of the vessel may be impaired. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their 
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset  
for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted. The projection of cash flows related to vessels is complex and requires the use  
of various estimates including future day rates, vessel utilisation and discount rates.
5. Segment reporting
Management have identified that the Directors and the senior management team are the chief operating decision makers in accordance with the 
requirements of IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’. Segment performance is assessed based upon adjusted gross profit, which represents gross profit 
before depreciation and amortisation and loss on write off of assets. The reportable segments have been identified by management based on the 
size and type of asset in operation.
The operating and reportable segments of the Group are (i) Small vessels, which include all K-class vessels, (ii) Large vessels, which include all E-class 
vessels, and (iii) Other vessels, which include two small legacy vessels and one accommodation barge (Khawla) which do not form part of the Small or 
Large vessels segments.
The K-class vessels segment comprises the Naashi, Kamikaze, Kikuyu, Kawawa, Kudeta, Keloa and Kinoa vessels. The E-class vessels segment 
comprises of the Endeavour, Endurance and Enterprise vessels. Both of these operating segments earn revenue related to the hiring of vessels and 
related services including charter hire income, messing and accommodation services, personnel hire and hire of equipment. The accounting policies 
of the operating segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in note 3.
r evenue Adjusted gross profit 
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
Small vessels 104,424 94,448 75,623 65,533
Large vessels 79,351 77,701 60,493 63,548
Other 12,779 12,115 7,574 7,033
Total 196,554 184,264 143,690 136,114
 
Less:
Loss on scrapping of property, plant and equipment – (1,507)
Depreciation charged to cost of sales (15,973) (15,085)
Amortisation charged to cost of sales (1,257) (764)
Gross profit 126,460 118,758
General and Administrative expenses (25,417) (14,778)
Finance income 843 693
Finance expense (21,354) (29,495)
Other income 245 –
Loss on sale of asset – (1,247)
Foreign exchange (408) (637)
Profit before taxation 80,369 73,294
The total revenue from reportable segments which comprises the Small and Large vessels is US$ 183.77 million (2013: US$ 172.15 million).  
The Other segment does not constitute a reportable segment per IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Segment assets and liabilities, including depreciation, amortisation and additions to non-current assets, are not reported to the chief operating 
decision makers on a segmental basis and are therefore not disclosed.
Segment revenue reported above represents revenue generated from external customers. There were no inter-segment sales in the periods.
information about major customers
Certain customers individually accounted for more than 10% of the Group’s revenue. During the year, 3 customers (2013: 3) accounted for more than 
10% of the Group’s revenues. The related revenue figures for these major customers, the identity of which may vary by year, were US$ 53.66 million 
(2013: US$ 47.84 million), US$ 42.19 million (2013: US$ 40.80 million) and US$ 21.25 million (2013: US$ 21.13 million). The revenue from these 
customers is attributable to the Large vessel and Small vessel reportable segments. 86
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
5. Segment reporting continued
g eographical segments
Revenue by geographical segment is based on the geographical location of the customer as shown below.
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
United Arab Emirates 87,417 62,795
Rest of Middle East and Africa 38,491 43,768
Total - Middle East and Africa 125,908 106,563
United Kingdom  70,646 77,701
Worldwide Total 196,554 184,264
6. presentation of adjusted results
The following table provides a reconciliation between the Group’s adjusted and statutory financial results:
Year ended 31 December 2014 Year ended 31 December 2013
Adjusted
results
US$’000
Adjusting
items
US$’000
Statutory
total
US$’000
a djusted
results
US$’000
a djusting
items
US$’000
 Statutory
total
US$’000
Revenue 196,554 – 196,554 184,264 – 184,264
Cost of sales –
– Operating expenses (52,864) – (52,864) (48,150) – (48,150)
– Depreciation and amortisation (17,230) – (17,230) (17,356) – (17,356)
Gross profit 126,460 – 126,460 118,758 – 118,758
General and administrative
– Depreciation (887) – (887) (901) – (901)
– IPO-related costs* – (5,686) (5,686) – (2,149) (2,149)
– Management fee** – – – – (320) (320)
– Other administrative costs (18,844) – (18,844) (11,408) – (11,408)
Operating profit 106,729 (5,686) 101,043 106,449 (2,469) 103,980
Finance income 843 – 843 693 – 693
Finance expense (21,354) – (21,354) (29,495) – (29,495)
Other income/(loss) 245 – 245 31 – 31
Loss on sale of asset – – – (1,278) – (1,278)
Foreign exchange loss, net (408) – (408) (637) – (637)
Profit before taxation 86,055 (5,686) 80,369 75,763 (2,469) 73,294
Tax (4,744) – (4,744) (3,861) – (3,861)
Net profit 81,311 (5,686) 75,625 71,902 (2,469) 69,433
 
Profit attributable to 
Owners of the Company 80,751 (5,686) 75,065 70,670 (2,469) 68,201
Non-controlling interest 560 – 560 1,232 – 1,232
Earnings per share (cents) 23.81 (1.67) 22.14 23.56 (0.83) 22.73
Supplementary non-statutory information
Operating profit 106,729 (5,686) 101,043 106,449 (2,469) 103,980
Add: Depreciation and amortisation charges 18,117 – 18,117 18,257 – 18,257
EBITDA 124,846 (5,686) 119,160 124,706 (2,469) 122,237
* IPO-related costs, by their nature, are not considered part of the Group’s underlying business. Further details are given in note 7.
** Management fee represents the fees paid to the controlling shareholders, Gulf Capital PJSC, in 2013. These management fees are no longer payable. This was not 
presented as an adjusting item in June 2014 Interim Results. 87
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
7. g eneral and administrative expenses
Transaction costs incurred during the period in relation to the completion of the Company’s Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange 
totalled US$ 15.2 million. US$ 5.7 million has been charged to general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income, and US$ 9.5 million, attributable to the issue of new equity, has been deducted from the share premium account. The IPO costs of  
US$ 5.7 million include US$ 1.4 million relating to the remaining 15% of the pre-IPO SARs scheme, further details of which are provided in note 36.
8. earnings per share
31 December
2014
31 December
2013
Earnings for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share being profit for the  
period attributable to owners of the parent (US$’000) 75,065 68,201
Earnings for the purpose of adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share (US$’000) (see note 6) 80,751 70,670
Weighted average number of shares (‘000) 339,079 300,000
Weighted average diluted number of shares in issue (‘000) 340,523 300,000
Basic earnings per share (cents) 22.14 22.73
Diluted earnings per share (cents) 22.04 22.73
Adjusted earnings per share (cents) 23.81 23.56
Adjusted diluted earnings per share (cents) 23.71 23.56
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the period (as disclosed in the income 
statement) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated on the same basis but uses the earnings for the purpose of basic earnings per share (shown above) 
adjusted by adding back IPO-related costs which have been charged to the income statement in the period (US$ 5.7 million). The adjusted earnings 
per share is presented as the Directors consider it provides an additional indication of the underlying performance of the Group.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the period by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, adjusted for the weighted average effect of share options outstanding during the period.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated on the same basis but uses adjusted profit (note 6) attributable to equity shareholders of 
the Company.
The following table shows a reconciliation between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares:
 2014
(000’s)
2013
(000’s)
Weighted average basic number of shares in issue 339,079 300,000
Effect of share options under LTIP schemes 1,444 –
Weighted average diluted number of shares in issue 340,523 300,000
The impact of the share appreciation rights, disclosed in note 36, on dilutive earnings per share is not included in the calculation above as the number 
of shares that could be exercised is dependent on certain future events.
In accordance with the principles of merger accounting, the weighted average number of shares assumes that the 300 million shares issued as part 
of the Group restructuring (see note 3) were in place throughout the comparative period. 88
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
9. property, plant and equipment
Total
vessels
US$’000
Capital
work-in-
progress 
US$’000
Land, 
 building  
and  
improvement
US$’000
Vessel 
– spares,  
fittings and 
other 
equipment
US$’000
Office  
equipment  
and fittings
US$’000
Motor  
vehicles
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2013 508,652 9,050 6,144 9,826 3,131 468 537,271
Additions 224 52,992 20 – 143 93 53,472
Transfers 10,603 (11,332) 197 532 – – –
Disposals – – – (2,269) (9) (120) (2,398)
Assets written off (1,959) – – – – – (1,959)
Balance at 1 January 2014 517,520 50,710 6,361 8,089 3,265 441 586,386
Additions 1,675  136,607 – 2,260 143 33  140,718 
Transfers 96,023  (98,606) 1,039 505 1,039 –  – 
Disposals (50) – – (268) – (76) (394)
Balance at 31 December 2014 615,168  88,711  7,400  10,586  4,447  398  726,710 
Total
vessels
US$’000
Capital
work-in-
progress 
US$’000
Land, 
 building  
and  
improvement
US$’000
Vessel 
– spares,  
fittings and 
other 
equipment
US$’000
Office  
equipment  
and fittings
US$’000
Motor  
vehicles
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Accumulated depreciation
Balance at 1 January 2013 70,228 – 3,925 4,308 2,534 271 81,266
Eliminated on disposal of assets – – – (163) (7) (102) (272)
Eliminated on assets written off (452) – – – – – (452)
Depreciation expense 13,685 – 300 1,131 275 99 15,490
Balance at 1 January 2014 83,461 – 4,225 5,276 2,802 268 96,032
Eliminated on disposal of assets (4) –  – (268) –  (59) (331)
Depreciation expense  15,057  –  199  815  325  89  16,485 
Balance at 31 December 2014 98,514 – 4,424 5,823 3,127 298 112,186
Carrying value
Balance at 31 December 2014 516,654 88,711 2,976 4,763 1,320 100 614,524
Balance at 31 December 2013 434,059 50,710 2,136 2,813 463 173 490,354
The carrying amount of vessels held under finance leases is US$ 91.4 million (2013: US$ 94.2 million).
Depreciation amounting to US$ 15.97 million (2013: US$ 15.08 million) has been allocated to cost of sales. The balance of the depreciation for  
the year is charged to administrative expenses.
Included in additions to the vessels under construction is US$ 3.4 million (2013: US$ 1.06 million) in respect of capitalised borrowing costs.  
The capitalisation rate used to determine this figure was 5.65% (2013: 5.96%), based on specific borrowing rates.
Certain vessels, with a total net book value of US$ 337.5 million (2013: US$ 345.9 million), have been mortgaged as security for the loans extended  
by the Group’s bankers (note 20). 89
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
10. intangible assets
Property
leases
US$’000
Customer 
relationships
US$’000
Total
US$’000
Cost 846 7,337 8,183
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
Balance at 1 January 2013 725 5,837 6,562
Amortisation expense 121 375 496
Balance at 1 January 2014 846 6,212 7,058
Amortisation expense – 375 375
Balance at 31 December 2014 846 6,587 7,433
Carrying value 
at 31 December 2014 – 750 750
at 31 December 2013 – 1,125 1,125
The intangible assets were acquired as part of the acquisition of Gulf Marine Services WLL and Offshore Holding Investment Group (OHI) in 2007. 
Amortisation of intangibles amounting to US$ 0.4 million (2013: US$ 0.5 million) has been allocated to general and administrative expenses.
11. Dry docking expenditure
The movement in dry docking expenditure is summarised as follows:
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
At 1 January 778 687 
Expenditure incurred during the year 4,656 855 
Amortised during the year (1,257) (764)
At 31 December 4,177 778 
Amortisation for the year has been charged to operating costs.
12. t rade and other receivables
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
Trade receivables 36,754 22,915
Accrued income 5,099 14,465
Prepayments and deposits* 6,923 5,215
Advances to suppliers 644 422
Other receivables 185 162
Due from related parties (see note 29) 343 70
49,948 43,249
* Prepayments and deposits include guarantee deposits and pledged deposits of US$ 0.82 million (2013: US$ 2.34 million). Guarantee deposits are paid by the Group 
for employee work visas under UAE labour laws. These deposits become refundable to the Group upon the cancellation of an employee’s work visa. Work visas are 
not granted indefinitely in the UAE and as such these deposits which are currently held by the government in the UAE are refundable to the Group. These work visa 
deposits amounted to US$ 0.48 million (2013: US$ 0.32 million). Pledged deposits represent an amount set aside as a guarantee for a loan repayment amounting to 
US$ 0.34 million (2013: US$ 2.02 million). The Group has no right to access or utilise the proceeds set aside as pledged deposits, other than for repayment of the 
underlying loan.
Trade receivables, amounting to US$ 26.2 million (2013: US$ 21.6 million) have been assigned as security against the loans extended by the Group’s 
bankers (note 20).
Trade receivables disclosed above are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost. Trade and other receivables 
are all current and the Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value due to  
the very short time between inception and maturity (based on Level 2 fair value measurements as defined by the fair value hierarchy according to  
IFRS 13).
The average credit period given is 60 days (2013: 60 days). The normal credit period granted to customers is 30 days. Before accepting any new 
customer the Group assesses the potential credit quality of the customer. The Group has policies in place to ensure that credit sales are rendered  
to customers with an appropriate credit history. 90
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
12. t rade and other receivables continued
The Group reviews the ageing of trade receivables regularly and the need for allowances against doubtful debts is considered for trade receivables 
over 60 days based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference to past default experience of the counterparty and an analysis  
of the counterparty’s current financial position.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over any of its trade receivables nor does it have a legal right of offset against 
any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
The movement in the allowance for doubtful receivables during the year was as follows:
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
At 1 January 105 –
Provision during the year 1,278 105
Write-off – –
At 31 December 1,383 105 
Included in the Group’s trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of US$ 7.59 million (2013: US$ 15.59 million) which are past due 
at the reporting date but for which the Group has not provided as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still 
considered recoverable. The average age of these receivables is 71 days (2013: 73 days).
In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date 
credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. Trade receivables are considered past due once they have passed their contracted due date.
Several customers account for a significant portion of the total trade receivables balance (see revenue by segment information in note 5); however, 
credit risk is considered to be limited due to historical performance and ongoing assessments of customer credit and liquidity positions.
a geing of past due but not impaired
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
Past due for 30 to 60 days 4,132  8,988 
Past due for 60 to 90 days 1,456  3,261 
Past due for 90 to 120 days 179  497 
Past due for more than 120 days 1,828  3,205 
7,595 15,591 
The amounts past due for more than 120 days at the end of 2014 primarily relate to retention amounts withheld by Saudi Arabian customers 
amounting to US$ 1.80 million.
13. c ash and cash equivalents
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
Interest-bearing
 Held in UAE banks 36,702 –
 Held in banks outside UAE – –
Non-interest-bearing 
 Held in UAE banks 5,325 48,311
 Held in banks outside UAE 18,325 921
Total cash at bank and in hand 60,352 49,232
 
Presented as:
Restricted cash included in trade and other receivables (note 12) 820 2,335
Cash and cash equivalents 59,532 46,897
Total 60,352 49,232
The carrying value of these cash assets is approximately equal to their fair value due to the liquid nature of the asset. These represent Level 1 fair 
value measurements as defined by the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13. 91
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
14. Share capital
The Company was incorporated on 24 January 2014 with a share capital of 300 million shares at a par value of £1 each. Subsequently on 5 February 
2014, as part of the Group restructuring, the Company undertook a capital reduction by solvency statement, in accordance with s643  
of the Companies Act 2006. The nominal value of the authorised and issued ordinary shares was reduced from £1 to 10p.
On 19 March 2014, the Company successfully completed its initial public offering (IPO) on the London Stock Exchange. A total of 49,527,804 shares 
with a par value of 10 pence per share were issued at a price of 135 pence (US$ 2.24) per share.
The movement in issued share capital and share premium is provided below.
The share capital of Gulf Marine Services PLC as at 31 December 2014 was as follows:
n umber 
of ordinary
shares
 (thousands)
o rdinary 
shares
 US$’000
total
US$’000
Authorised share capital 349,528 57,929 57,929
Issued and fully paid 349,528 57,929 57,929
The share capital of GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC as at 31 December 2013 was as follows:
n umber 
of ordinary
shares
 (thousands)
o rdinary 
shares
 US$’000
total
US$’000
Issued and fully paid 1 273 273
Issued share capital and share premium movement for the year ended 31 December 2014:
Notes
Number  
of ordinary 
shares
(thousands)
Ordinary 
shares
US$’000
Share 
premium
US$’000
Total 
US$’000
At 1 January 2014 1 273 – 273
Group restructuring
– Restructuring (1) (273) – (273)
– Issue of new shares 300,000 497,100 – 497,100
– Capital reduction – (447,390) – (447,390)
Issue of new shares – IPO 49,528 8,219 102,702 110,921
Share issue costs 7 – – (9,455) (9,455)
At 31 December 2014 349,528 57,929 93,247 151,176
15. g roup restructuring reserve
The Group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests (merger accounting) method used for Group restructuring. 
Under this method, the Group is treated as a continuation of GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC (the predecessor Parent Company) and  
its subsidiaries. At the date the Company became the new Parent Company of the Group via a share-for-share exchange, the difference between  
the share capital of GMS Global Commercial Investments LLC and the Company, amounting to US$ 49.44 million, was recorded in the books  
of Gulf Marine Services PLC as a Group restructuring reserve. This reserve is non-distributable.
16. Share option reserve
Share option reserve of US$ 0.56 million (2013: US$ nil) relates to awards granted to employees under the long-term incentive plan (note 37).  
The charge is included in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 92
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
17. c apital contribution
As part of the Group restructuring (note 3) the pre-IPO shareholders resolved to transfer a capital contribution balance of US$ 70.75 million  
to retained earnings.
The movement in capital contribution reserve is as follows:
2014 
US$’000
Balance as on 1 January 2014
Capital contribution from a shareholder (i) 70,750
Share appreciation rights (ii) 7,777
78,527
Movement during the period
Transfer to Retained Earnings (70,750)
Provision for Share appreciation rights (ii) 1,400
At 31 December 2014 9,177
(i)  The capital contribution balance represents the net assets transferred by Bridge Capital LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Gulf Capital PJSC, to the Company 
for no consideration. This transfer took place on 17 July 2007. Effective 30 June 2014, the shareholders passed a resolution to transfer US$ 70.8 million to 
retained earnings.
(ii)  During 2013 US$ 7.8 million was transferred from share appreciation rights payable to capital contribution as, effective 1 January 2013, the shareholders have 
assumed the obligation to settle the share appreciation rights. This balance is not available for distribution. An additional charge in respect of this scheme of 
US$ 1.4 million was made in 2014. See note 36 for further details.
18. r estricted reserve
Restricted reserve represents the statutory reserve of certain subsidiaries. As required by the UAE Commercial Companies Law, 10% of profit for the 
year is transferred to the statutory reserve until the reserve equals 50% of the share capital. This reserve is not available for distribution. No amounts 
were transferred to this reserve during any of the periods shown.
19. r eserves
The Group’s consolidated statement of changes in equity is disclosed as a part of the primary statements on pages 72 to 75. Below is a description  
of the nature and purpose of the individual reserves:
 – Share capital represents the nominal value of shares issued (note 14).
 – Share premium account includes the amounts paid over nominal value in respect of share issued, net of related costs (note 14).
 – Restricted reserves include certain reserves maintained by subsidiaries in compliance with the relevant Companies Law applicable (note 18).
 – Capital Contributions represent certain contributions made by shareholder for nil consideration (note 17).
 – Group restructuring reserve represents reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests (merger accounting) method used  
for Group restructuring (note 15).
 – The Company’s Share option reserve represents the cumulative share-based payment charged to reserves (note 16).
 – Foreign currency translation reserves represents differences on foreign currency net investments arising from the retranslation of the net 
investments in overseas subsidiaries.
 – Retained profits include the accumulated realised and certain unrealised gains and losses made by the Company and the Group. 93
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
20. Bank borrowings
Secured borrowings at amortised cost:
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Working capital facility 20,000 20,000
Term loans 240,500 253,500
260,500 273,500
Less: Unamortised issue costs (11,344) (8,219)
249,156 265,279
Bank borrowings are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position as follows:
2014 
US$’000
2013  
US$’000
Non-current portion 225,741 254,269
Current portion 23,415 11,010
249,156 265,279
In February 2014, the bank facility which was entered into in 2013 with Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (see below) was restructured resulting in amendments 
to some of the key terms of the loan as follows:
 – The loan repayment period was extended by one (1) year to six (6) years, being repayable in 2019;
 – The loan margin rate was reduced to 4.1% (December 2013: 5.2%) per annum plus LIBOR;
 – The term loan facility to fund capital expenditure was increased from US$ 80 million to US$ 110 million. The entire loan facility remained undrawn 
during the year and is available for draw down until June 2016; 
 – The working capital facility was increased to US$ 40 million (December 2013: US$ 20 million). During the year ended 31 December 2014 
US$ 20 million was utilised with US$ 20 million remaining undrawn during the year.
The facility remains secured by mortgages over certain Group vessels, with a net book value at year end of US$ 337.5 million.
Outstanding amount
Unused 
facility 
US$’000 Security Interest rate Maturity
Current 
US$’000
Non-current 
US$’000
Total 
US$’000
31 December 2014:
Term loan – Syndicated Ijara Facility 26,000 214,500 240,500 – Secured 4.1% per annum plus LIBOR September 2019
Working capital facility – 20,000 20,000 20,000 Secured 4.1% per annum plus LIBOR September 2019
Term loan – – – 110,000 Secured 4.1% per annum plus LIBOR September 2019
Unamortised issue costs (2,585) (8,759) (11,344) –
23,415 225,741 249,156 130,000
31 December 2013:
Term loan – Syndicated Ijara Facility 13,000 240,499 253,499 – Secured 5.2% per annum plus LIBOR September 2018
Working capital facility 20,000 20,000 – Secured 5.2% per annum plus LIBOR September 2018
Term loan – – – 80,000 Secured 5.2% per annum plus LIBOR September 2018
Unamortised issue costs (1,990) (6,230) (8,220) –
11,010 254,269 265,279 80,000
In 2013, a subsidiary of the Group had entered into a Shari’a-compliant syndicated financing arrangement, which is asset-backed, with a consortium  
of banks, led by Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank. The legal form of the arrangement is a traditional Islamic Ijara structure (effectively a sale and leaseback 
transaction), the facility has, however, been treated as a bank loan as legal ownership of the related assets remains with the Group and the associated 
property, plant and equipment have therefore been retained within these financial statements to reflect the substance of the transaction. 94
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
21. l oans from related parties
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Loans from other related parties
Loan (1) Gulf Capital PJSC – 645
Loan (2) Bridge Capital – 13,703
– 14,348
Loans from shareholders
Loan (3) Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC – 1,125
Loan (4) Al Ain Capital LLC – 2,056
Loan (5) Horizon Energy LLC – 1,975
– 5,156
Total loans from related parties – 19,504
During the year, the Group repaid loans from shareholders and other related parties totalling US$ 19.5 million using proceeds from the IPO. 
These payments settled the loans payable to Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC, Al Ain Capital LLC, and Horizon Energy LLC.
22. t axation
Tax is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The overall effective rate is the aggregate of 
taxes paid in jurisdictions where income is subject to tax (being principally Qatar, the United Kingdom, Tunisia and Saudi Arabia), divided by the 
Group’s profit.
 2014 
US$’000
 2013 
US$’000
Profit from continuing operations before tax 80,369  73,294
Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 21.5% (2013 : 23.25%) 17,279 17,041
Effect of lower tax rates in overseas jurisdiction (12,535) (13,180)
Total tax charge 4,744 3,861
Split between:
Adjustment in respect of prior years 386 –
Current tax 4,358 3,890 
Deferred tax – (29) 
Tax charge per financial statements 4,744 3,861
Effective tax rate on continuing operations 6% 5%
During the year tax on profits and withholding taxes of the Group from operations were 10% in Qatar (2013: 10%) and 21.5% in the United Kingdom 
(2013: 23.25%). The Group incurred 5% withholding taxes on revenue (2013: 5%) and 2.5% Zakat tax on profit from operations in Saudi Arabia.  
The withholding tax included in the current tax charge amounted to US$ 1.3 million (2013: US$ 1.6 million).
The Group expects the overall effective tax rate in the future to vary according to local tax law changes in jurisdictions which incur taxes, as well  
as any changes to the share of the Group profits which arise in tax-paying jurisdictions. 
At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused tax losses of $5.07 million available for offset against future profits. No deferred tax asset has  
been recognised in respect of this as it is not considered probable that there will be future taxable profits available. Tax losses may be carried  
forward indefinitely.
23. Provision for employees’ end of service benefits
The movement in the provision employees’ for end of service benefits during the year was as follows:
2014  
US$’000
2013  
US$’000
At the beginning of the year 1,910 1,636
Provided during the year 701 525 
Paid during the year (143) (251)
At the end of the year 2,468 1,910  95
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
24. t rade and other payables
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Trade payables 13,109 8,354
Accrued expenses 14,984 10,309
VAT and other taxes payable 1,636 1,733
Other payables  391 1,624
Due to a related party (see note 29)  – 13
30,120 22,033
The average credit period on purchases is 90 days (2013: 90). The Group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables  
are paid within the credit timeframe. No interest is payable on the outstanding balances.
Trade and other payables are all current and the Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables is approximately equal to 
their fair value due to the short time between inception and maturity. These represent Level 2 fair value measurements as defined by the fair value 
hierarchy according to IFRS 13.
25. r evenue
The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenue for the year.
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Charter hire 182,566 168,140
Mobilisation and demobilisation 1,274 4,478
Messing and accommodation 12,247 10,381
Maintenance 332 670
Sundry and equipment hire income 135 595
 196,554 184,264
Further descriptions on the above types of revenue have been provided in note 3.
26. Finance expenses
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Interest on bank borrowings  12,252  14,072 
Interest on finance leases 10,280  10,836 
Interest on loans from related parties (note 21) 382  2,150 
Write-off of unamortised issue costs – 2,154 
Amortisation of issue costs 1,816  1,340 
Fair value loss on derivative financial instrument 61 –
Finance expense 24,791 30,552
Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets (3,437) (1,057)
21,354 29,495
27. Finance income
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Gain on revaluation of financial derivative – 541 
Interest received 843 152 
843 693 96
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
28. Profit for the year
The profit for the year is stated after charging:
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Total staff costs (see below) 34,313 23,406
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment  16,485 15,490
Amortisation of dry docking expenditure 1,257 764
Amortisation of intangibles 375 496
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment  (38) 1,279
Operating leases rentals  374 132
Auditor’s remuneration 1,166  1,074 
The average number of full time equivalent employees (including executive directors) by geographic area was:
2014 
Number
2013 
n umber
Middle East and Northern Africa 499 325
Rest of the world 74 69
573 394
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Wages and salaries 32,879 22,795
Employment taxes  170 86
End of service benefit  701 525
Share based payments 563 –
34,313 23,406
The analysis of the auditor’s remuneration is as follows:
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Group audit fees 245 112
Total audit fees 245 112
Other assurance services including interim review fees 153 –
Corporate finance services 640 892
Other services 128 70 
Total non-audit fees 921 962
Total fees 1,166 1,074
Corporate finance services represent services provided as reporting accountants to the Company’s listing on the London Stock Exchange and form 
part of the listing costs described in note 7.
For further information in the Group’s policy in respect of the Auditor’s remuneration see page 49 of the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee. 97
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
29. r elated party transactions
Related parties comprise the Group’s major shareholders, Directors and entities related to them, companies under common ownership and/or 
common management and control, their partners and key management personnel. Pricing policies and terms of the transactions with related parties 
are approved by the Group’s Board.
Balances and transactions between Gulf Marine Services PLC and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation 
and are not disclosed in this note.
t rading transactions
Details of long-term loans from related parties are provided in note 21. In addition, the following balances were outstanding at the end of the  
reporting period:
Notes
2014
US$’000 
2013
US$’000
Amounts owed by related parties (see note 12):
Partner in relation to Saudi operations 273 –
Shareholders 70 70
343 70
Amounts owed to related parties:
Short-term loans from shareholders – 792
Partner in relation to Saudi operations – 3
Amounts due to Gulf Capital (included in accrued expenses 24 – 168
Interest due to First Gulf Bank (included in accrued expenses 24 – 81
– 1,044
Term loans due to First Gulf Bank (included in borrowings note 20) – 18,525
Bank balances deposited with First Gulf Bank 51 986
Loans to related parties:
Loans to key management personnel – 445
Amounts owed to related parties includes short-term trading balances classified within trade and other payables (see note 24) as well as an amount of Nil  
(2013: US$ 0.78 million) due to the pre-IPO shareholders in relation to the purchase of the share appreciation rights on behalf of key management personnel.
The Group had provided several of its key management personnel with short-term loans at rates comparable to the average commercial rate of 
interest. The loans to key management personnel were repaid during the year.
During the period, as part of the IPO, the Directors of the Company acquired 616,415 shares in the company at the IPO price of 135 pence (US$ 2.24) 
per share for a total amount of US$ 1.38 million. There has been no change to the number of shares held by Directors as at 31 December 2014.
Certain members of key management personnel received share awards during 2014 with an associated fair value of US$ 19.48 million, under the 
terms of the Group’s share appreciation rights (“SARs”) scheme set up prior to the IPO. On 1 January 2013, the obligation under the scheme, of which 
85% had vested at 31 December 2013, were assumed by the pre-IPO shareholders of the Company and were settled by them during the current 
period as cash of US$ 9.74 million and via the award of 4,348,475 shares at the IPO strike price of 135p per share. There is an additional 15% SAR award 
which will become due at the earlier of a substantial exit of the pre-IPO shareholders and an agreed lock up period, and is dependent on achieving  
an expected market rate of return. During the year a full provision of US$ 1.4 million was made in respect of the remaining 15% of unvested SAR.
Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows:
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
Interest expense on loans from related parties 382 2,150
Interest income on loans to related parties (loans to management) (3) (17)
Management fees charged by Gulf Capital – 320
Interest expense on loans from First Gulf Bank – 1,245 98
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
29. r elated party transactions continued
r elated parties
The Group’s principal subsidiaries are outlined in note 3. The related parties comprising of the Group’s major shareholders are outlined below.
Major shareholders Ownership interest 
Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC 50.05%
Al Ain Capital LLC (formerly Al Bateen Investment Company LLC) 6.05%
Horizon Energy LLC 6.05%
Partner in relation to Saudi operations Relationship
Suhayl A.M. Al Shoaibi & Sons Holding Co. Ltd Minority shareholder in GMS Saudi Arabia Ltd. 
Other related parties Relationship
Gulf Capital PJSC (Gulf Capital) 100% shareholding in Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC.
Advises funds that hold shares in the Group. 
GC Equity Partners Fund II, LP (‘‘GC Equity Partners II’’) An institutional fund sponsored and managed by Gulf Capital. The ultimate 
controlling party of Gulf Capital. 
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank 8.16% Shareholding in Gulf Capital.
compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management during the year were as follows:
2014
US$’000 
2013
US$’000
Short-term benefits 3,073 1,625
End of service benefits 128 46
Share-based payments (LTIPs)
1
323 –
Dividends paid 4 –
3,528 1,671
1.  In addition to the LTIP charge, there was a non-recurring charge in 2014 in relation to the SARS scheme, of which US$ 1.4 million related to key management personnel.
Compensation of key management personnel represents the charge to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of the 
remuneration of the executive Directors and certain members of the senior management team. 99
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
30. Net cash flow from operating activities
2014 
US$’000
2013 
US$’000
Operating activities
Profit for the year before taxation 80,369 73,294
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16,485 15,490
Amortisation of intangibles 375 496
Amortisation of dry docking expenditure 1,257 764
End of service benefit charge 701 525
End of service benefits paid (143) (251)
Provision for doubtful debts 1,278 105
Fair value loss/(gain) on derivative financial instrument 61 (541)
Loss on scrapping of property, plant and equipment – 1,507
(Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 38 1,278
Share appreciation rights expense 1,400 –
Share options rights charge 562
Interest income (843) (152)
Interest expense 19,475 26,001
Write-off of unamortised issue costs – 2,154
Payments of share appreciation rights – (580)
Other income (284) –
Amortisation of issue costs 1,816 1,340 
 
Cash flow from operating activities before movement in working capital 122,547 121,430
Increase in trade and other receivables (6,665) (4,342)
Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 8,087 (22)
 
Cash generated from operations 123,969 117,066
Taxation paid (3,616) (3,723)
Net cash generated from operating activities 120,353 113,343
31. c ontingent liabilities
At 31 December 2014, the bankers of Gulf Marine Services WLL, one of the subsidiaries of the Group, had issued bid bonds, performance bonds  
and labour guarantees amounting to US$ 0.82 million (2013: US$ 2.34 million) all of which were counter-indemnified by Offshore Holding Investment 
SA, another subsidiary of the Group.
32. commitments
c apital commitment
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
Contractual capital commitments 52,793 34,863
Capital commitments comprise mainly of capital expenditure, which has been contractually agreed with suppliers for future periods for new build 
vessels or the refurbishment of existing vessels.
l ease commitment
In January 2014, a subsidiary of the Group entered into an arrangement with a third party to lease a vessel commencing in 2015 for a five-year term 
with a purchase option to acquire the vessel. The amount of the lease commitment during the term is US$ 45.2 million. 100
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
33. Obligations under finance leases
The Group leased certain vessels (Keloa 4306 and Kinoa 4307) under finance leases which were initially recorded at fair value at the inception of the 
lease for US$ 50 million each. The lease term is five years.
The Group’s future minimum lease payments under financing leases are as follows:
minimum lease payments
present value of minimum 
lease payments
2014 2013 2014 2013
Within one year 49,228 17,751 41,478 5,697
In the second to fifth year 50,326 97,012 42,473 83,086
99,554 114,763 83,951 88,783
Less: future finance charges (15,603) (25,980) – –
83,951 88,783 83,951 88,783
The Group has the option to purchase the barges at expiry of the lease period. The fair value of the Group’s lease obligations is approximately equal  
to their carrying amount. The fair value of the financial lease obligations were determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based 
on a discounted cash flow analysis, using appropriate market interest rates. These represent level 2 value measurements as defined by the fair value 
hierarchy according to IFRS 13.
34. o bligations under operating leases
Operating lease rental payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain properties.
2014
US$’000 
2013
US$’000
Lease payments under operating leases recognised as expense during the year 374 132
374 132
At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, 
which fall due as follows:
2014
US$’000 
2013
US$’000
Within one year 374 374
In the second to fifth year 374 748
748 1,122
Operating leases are negotiated for an average term of three and five years for our UAE and UK offices, respectively and accordingly, rental costs are 
fixed for an average term of three and five years retrospectively. 101
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
35. Financial instruments
Categories of financial instruments
2014
US$’000 
2013
US$’000
Financial assets:
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents at amortised cost 59,532 46,897
Trade receivables and other debtors at amortised cost 43,201 39,948
Derivative financial instrument at fair value – 541
Loans to related parties carried at amortised cost – 445 
 102,733 87,831
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
Financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost:
– Trade and other payables 28,484 20,301
– Bank borrowings (non–current) 225,741 254,269
– Obligations under a finance lease (non-current) 42,473 83,086
– Loan from related parties (non-current) – 19,504
– Bank borrowings (current) 23,415 11,010
– Due to related parties (current) – 782
– Obligations under a finance lease (current) 41,478 5,697
Financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost: 361,591 394,649
c apital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure its ability to continue as a going concern while maximising the return on equity. The Group does not have  
a formalised optimal target capital structure or target ratios in connection with its capital risk management objectives. The Group’s overall strategy  
in this regard remains unchanged throughout the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2013.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the basis on 
which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 3  
to the financial statements.
Financial risk management objectives
The Group is exposed to the following risks related to financial instruments - credit risk, liquidity risk, cash flow, interest rate risk and foreign currency 
risk. The management actively monitors and manages these financial risks relating to the Group.
c redit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group, and arises principally 
from the Group’s trade and other receivables and bank balances. The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties 
which have been determined based on credit checks and other financial analysis, such that significant revenue is generated by dealing with high  
profile well known customers, for whom the credit risk is assessed to be low. The Group attempts to control credit risk by monitoring credit exposures, 
limiting transactions with specific non-related counterparties, and continually assessing the creditworthiness of such non-related counterparties. 
Cash balances held with banks are assessed to have low credit risk of default since these banks are highly regulated by the central banks of the 
respective countries.
Concentration of credit risk arises when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same geographic 
region, or have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in 
economic, political or other conditions. Concentration of credit risk indicates the relative sensitivity of the Group’s performance to developments 
affecting a particular industry or geographic location. During the year, vessels were chartered to four Middle East and three international oil 
companies. At 31 December 2014, these seven companies accounted for 87% (2013: 85%) of the outstanding trade receivables. The credit risk  
on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international agencies.
The amount that best represents maximum credit risk exposure on financial assets at the end of the reporting period, in the event of counterparties 
failing to perform their obligations, generally approximates their carrying value. Trade and other receivables and balances with banks are not secured 
by any collateral. 102
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014
35. Financial instruments continued
Foreign currency risk management
The majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated in UAE Dirhams, Euros and US Dollars. As the UAE Dirham and the Saudi Riyal are pegged to 
the US Dollar, balances in UAE Dirhams and Saudi Riyals are not considered to represent significant currency risk. Transactions in other foreign currencies 
entered into by the Group are short-term in nature and therefore management considers that the currency risk associated with these transactions  
is limited and consequently this risk is typically not hedged, other than in relation to significant foreign currency capital expenditure programmes.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s significant foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date are as follows:
l iabilities
31 December
a ssets
31 December
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
2014
US$’000
2013
US$’000
UAE Dirham 2,925 1,233 24,801 3,388
Saudi Riyal 28 56 5,864 540
Pound Sterling 1,060 511 9,021 4,399
Euro 4,015 3,124 4,182 –
Singapore Dollar 20 486 – –
Norwegian Krone 26 – – –
Others 39 3 – –
8,113 5,413 43,868 8,327
At 31 December 2014, if the exchange rate of the currencies other than the UAE Dirham and Saudi Riyal had increased/decreased by 10% against the 
US Dollar, with all other variables held constant. The Group’s profit for the period would have been lower/higher by US$ 0.8 million (2013: lower/higher 
by US$ 0.1 million) mainly as a result of foreign exchange loss or gain on translation of Euro and Pound Sterling denominated balances.
interest rate risk management
The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on its bank borrowings which are subject to floating interest rates.
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for non-derivative instruments at the end of the 
reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period 
was outstanding for the whole year. A 50 basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management 
personnel and represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates.
If interest rates had been 50 basis points higher/lower and all other variables were held constant, the Group’s profit for the year ended 31 December 
2014 would decrease/increase by US$ 1.2 million (2013: decrease/increase US$: 0.9 million). This is mainly attributable to the Group’s exposure to 
interest rates on its variable rate borrowings.
l iquidity risk management
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Board of Directors, which has built an appropriate liquidity risk management 
framework for the management of the Group’s short, medium and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements. The Group manages 
liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of 
financial assets and liabilities. 103
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities. The contractual maturities of the Groups financial liabilities have 
been determined on the basis of the remaining period at the end of the reporting period to the contractual maturity date. The maturity profile is 
monitored by management to ensure adequate liquidity is maintained. The maturity profile of the assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting 
period based on contractual repayment arrangements was as follows:
interest
rate
1 to 3 
months
US$’000
4 to 12 
months
US$’000
2 to 5 years
US$’000
a fter 5 years
US$’000
31 December 2014
Non-interest bearing financial assets 65,211 820 – –
Interest bearing financial assets 4% 36,702 – – –
101,913 820 – –
Non-interest bearing financial liabilities 28,484 – – –
Interest bearing financial liabilities 4.1-12% 39,515 25,378 268,214 –
67,999 25,378 268,214 – 
31 December 2013
Non-interest bearing financial assets 86,455 390 – –
Interest bearing financial assets 4% – 445 – –
86,455 835 – –
Non-interest bearing financial liabilities 20,120 963 – –
Interest bearing financial liabilities 5.5-9% 9,542 21,210 377,016 –
29,662 22,173 377,016 –
Management believe that the difference between fair value and carrying value is negligible.
36. Share appreciation rights
Share appreciation rights were granted to key management employees pre the IPO which vest in instalments over a fixed service period and the 
achievement of performance conditions by the Group and are payable upon an exit event, which is defined as an employee being a good-leaver,  
an initial public offering or a sale of the business to a third party. Half of the share appreciation rights have a fixed service period and do not require  
the employee to be employed when an exit event occurs; the balance requires the employee to be employed at the time that the exit event occurs.  
Cash settlement of the share appreciation rights is made at the time of the exit event.
The shareholders entered into an agreement with, effective from 1 January 2013, whereby the shareholders agreed to assume the share appreciation 
rights obligation due to key management employees under the scheme. This represented a modification of the scheme, effective from the date  
of agreement, such that from this date it represented an equity-settled compensation arrangement for the Group and a capital contribution of 
US$ 7.8 million from the shareholders. There will be no remaining charge to the Group in future periods in relation to the 85% of the scheme which 
has vested.
During the year 2014, a full provision for SARs payable of US$ 1.4 million was made in respect of the remaining 15% of unvested share appreciation 
rights which will vest if certain conditions on exit are met.
No further share appreciation rights have been granted in 2014. 104
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
37. l ong-term incentive plans
During the year, the Group put in place Long- Term Incentive Plans (LTIPs), performance shares and share options are granted to senior management, 
managers and senior offshore officers. The details of the senior management LTIP are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 51 
to 60. The release of these shares is conditional upon continued employment, certain market vesting conditions and in the case of senior management 
LTIP awards performance against three-year target EPS compound annual growth rates. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair 
value at the date of grant. The fair value determined, using the Binomial Probability Model together with Monte Carlo simulations, at the grant date of 
equity-settled share-based payments, is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that 
will ultimately vest. The fair value of each award is determined by taking into account the market performance condition, the term of the award, the 
share price at grant date, the expected price volatility of the underlying share and the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award.
Non-market vesting conditions, which for the Group mainly relate to the continual employment of the employee during the vesting period, and in  
the case of the senior management LTIP awards the achievement of EPS growth targets, are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity 
instruments expected to vest at each balance sheet date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the vesting period is based on 
the number of options that eventually vest. Any market vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the options granted.
To the extent that share options are granted to employees of the Group’s subsidiaries without charge, the share option charge is capitalised as part  
of the cost of investment in subsidiaries.
The number of share awards made by the Group during the year is given in the table below together with their weighted average fair value (‘WAFV’) 
and weighted average grant price (‘WAGP’). The exercise price of the share awards is nil (2013: nil). No share awards vested in the year.
2014 2013
Scheme
Wa FV
US$
Wagp  
US$
expiry
date
Number of 
options 
vested 
Number of 
options 
unvested 
Total 
outstanding
n umber of 
options 
vested 
n umber of 
options 
unvested 
total 
outstanding
2014 LTIPs – Senior Management 3.29 2.71 May 2017 – 825,252 825,252 – – –
2014 LTIPs – Managers and Senior 
Officers 3.16 2.59 June 2017 – 796,637 796,637 – – –
Outlined below is a summary of the assumptions which have been used to determine the fair value of the
share awards:
ltip ltip
Grant date 8 May 2014 30 June 2014
Share price £1.6175 £1.5500
Exercise price £0.00 £0.00
Expected volatility 46.7% 46.7% 
Risk-free rate 1.8836% 1.9945%
Expected dividend yield 1.0% 1.0% 
Vesting period 3 years 3 years
Award life 3 years 3 years
Sub-optimal co-efficient 1.7 1.7
Market performance condition 25.68% 25.89%
The expected Gulf Marine Services plc share price volatility was determined taking into account the average of the volatility of two comparable 
companies at each of the grant dates.
 
The risk free return was determined from similarly dated zero coupon UK government bonds at the time the share awards were granted, using 
historical information taken from the Bank of England’s records.
The charge arising from share-based payments is disclosed in note 16.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDA TED FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for year ended 31 December 2014 105
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
38. Dividends
During the year 2014, the Directors declared an interim dividend of 0.41 pence (0.69 cents) per ordinary share, which was paid on 27 October 2014  
to shareholders on the register on 26 September 2014. The interim dividend has been recognised in equity attributable to the owners of the parent  
as an appropriation of retained earnings.
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 of 1.06 pence (1.64 cents) per ordinary share is to be proposed at the AGM.  
These financial statements do not reflect this final dividend.
During the year 2013, the Directors declared and paid a dividend of US$ 80 million.
39. events after the reporting period
The following events occurred after the reporting period:
(i) On 16 March 2015 the option to purchase the leased vessel Keloa was exercised for US$ 37.5 million. The transaction was funded by a US$ 37.5 
million drawdown from the committed loan facility. 
(ii) In January 2014, the Group entered into an arrangement to lease a vessel (Pepper) commencing in 2015 for a 5 year term with an option  
to purchase the vessel at the end of the lease term. This vessel commenced its inaugural client charter in March 2015 and is now on lease. 106
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
as at 31 December 2014
n otes
As at  
31 December 
2014
US$’000
Fixed assets
Investments 4 517,546
Current assets
Debtors 5 57,750
Cash at bank and in hand 16,619
74,369
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 6 (276)
Net current assets 74,093
Total assets less current liabilities 591,639
Net assets 591,639
Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital 8 57,929
Share premium account 8 93,247
Share option reserve 7 563
Profit and loss account 9 439,900
Shareholders’ funds 10 591,639
The financial statements of Gulf Marine Services PLC (registered number 08860816) were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for 
issue on 23 March 2015.
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
On behalf of the Board of Directors
23 March 2015 107
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
COMPANY CASH FLOW ST A TEMENT
for the period from date of incorporation to 31 December 2014
n otes
2014
US$’000
Net cash outflow from operating activities 12 (5,078)
Acquisitions and disposals 13 (19,883)
Cash outflow before management of liquid resources and financing (24,961)
Financing 13 41,580
Increase in cash in the period 16,619
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements. 108
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 
for the period from date of incorporation to 31 December 2014
1. c orporate information
These separate financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Gulf Marine Services PLC (“the Company”) 
on 23 March 2015.
The Company was registered in England and Wales on 24 January 2014 (“date of incorporation”) as a private limited company. On 7 February 2014,  
the Company re-registered as a public limited company. The address of the registered office of the Company is 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London 
EC3A 7NH. The registered number of the Company is 08860816.
The Company is the Parent Company of the Gulf Marine Service Group comprising of Gulf Marine Services PLC and its underlying subsidiaries.  
The consolidated financial statements are publicly available. The Company completed its Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange on  
19 March 2014.
2. a ccounting policies
c urrency
The functional and presentational currency of the Company is United States Dollars.
g oing concern
The Company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and position, are set out in the Directors’ Report 
and Strategic Report.
The Company participates in the Group’s centralised treasury arrangements and so shares banking arrangements with its underlying subsidiaries.
After making enquiries and on the basis of their assessment of the Group’s financial position, the Company’s Directors have a reasonable expectation 
that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus they have adopted the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Basis of accounting
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. They have been prepared under the 
historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law. As permitted by section 408 of the 
Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company is not presented as part of these financial statements. The loss for the period  
of the Company amounted to US$ 5.1 million.
The Company had no recognised gains and losses other than the loss for the period. Consequently no statement of total recognised gains and losses 
is presented.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have all been applied consistently throughout the period.
investments
Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are initially recognised at Director’s valuation and are subsequently measured at cost less 
provision for impairment.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (‘‘FVTPL ’’) or ‘‘other financial liabilities’’.
Trade and other payables, bank borrowings, loans from related parties and other liabilities are classified as ‘‘other financial liabilities’’. Other financial 
liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis, except for short-term payables or 
when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant 
period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, 
or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Company’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire. 109
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity 
instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial Assets
All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms 
require delivery of the asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned. They are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, 
except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through the profit and loss account, which are initially measured at fair value.
Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets ‘at fair value through profit or loss’ (FVTPL), ‘held-to-maturity’ 
investments, ‘available-for-sale’ (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans and receivables’. The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the 
financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Loans and receivables
Loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as ‘loans and receivables’. 
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by 
applying the effective interest rate method, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence 
that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the 
investment have been affected.
Cash at bank and in hand
Cash at bank and in hand comprises cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand form an integral part of the 
Company’s cash management and are included as a component of cash at bank and in hand for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Taxation
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or 
events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. Deferred 
tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. Timing differences are differences between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the 
financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessment periods different from those in which they are recognised in 
the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only to the extent that, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be 
regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can 
be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, 
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by balance sheet date.
Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities 
denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the contracted rate or the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains  
or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
3. Dividends on equity shares
2014 
US$’000
Dividend declared and paid during the year
Interim dividend for 2014: 0.41 pence (0.69 cents) per ordinary share 2,412
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 of 1.06 pence (1.64 cents) per ordinary share is to be proposed at the AGM. These 
financial statements do not reflect this final dividend. 110
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for the period from date of incorporation to 31 December 2014
4. Fixed asset investments
2014 
US$’000
At 24 January 2014 –
Acquisition of subsidiaries 516,983
Share options issued to employees of subsidiary entities 563
517,546
The Company has investments in the following subsidiaries which principally affected the profits or net assets of the Group.
n ame
place of 
r egistration
Percentage 
Ownership at 
31 December 2014 t ype of a ctivity
GMS Jersey Holdco 1 Limited + Jersey 100% Holding Company
GMS Jersey Holdco 2 Limited Jersey 100% Holding Company
Gulf Marine Middle East FZE Sharjah 100% Marine Contractors
Gulf Marine Services WLL Abu Dhabi 100% Marine Contractors
Offshore Holding Invt SA Panama 100% Holding Company
Offshore Logistics Invt SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “Naashi” 
Offshore Accommodation Invt. SA Panama 100% Owner of “Khawla 181”
Offshore Jack-up Invt SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “Kamikaze”
Offshore Craft Invt SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “GMS Endeavour”
Offshore Structure Invt SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “Kikuyu”
Offshore Maritime Invt SA Panama 100% Owner of “Helios” 
Offshore Tugboat Invt SA Panama 100% Owner of “Atlas” 
Offshore Boat Invt SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “Kawawa” 
Offshore Kudeta Invt SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “Kudeta” 
GMS Endurance Invt SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “Endurance”
Mena Marine Limited Cayman Islands 100% General investment and trading
Gulf Marine Services (UK) Limited United Kingdom 100% Operator of offshore barges
Gulf Marine Services Saudi Arabia Limited Saudi Arabia 60% Operator of offshore barges
Gulf Marine Services (Asia) Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100% Operator of offshore barges
GMS Enterprise Invt SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “Enterprise”
GMS Sharqi Investment SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “Sharqi”
GMS Scirocco Investment SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “Scirocco”
GMS Shamal Investment SA Panama 100% Owner of Barge “Shamal”
+ Held directly by Gulf Marine Services PLC.
During the period, the Company acquired the Group by acquiring the entire issued share capital of GMS Jersey Holdco 1 Limited in exchange for the 
issue and allotment to the following Shareholders of an aggregate of 299,999,900 new ordinary shares of 1 GBP each (US$ 1.67) in the Company in the 
same proportions as their holdings in GMS Jersey Holdco 1 Limited as at that date:
 – Green Investment Commercial Investments LLC (79%);
 – Ocean Investments Trading LLC (1%);
 – Horizon Energy LLC (10%); and
 – Al Ain Capital LLC (10%).
Furthermore, subsequent to the IPO, the Company subscribed to additional shares (1000 ordinary shares of 1 GBP each (US$ 1.67)) at a premium in 
GMS Jersey Holdco 1 for a value of US$ 19.89 million.
The purchase price of investments were determined based on the underlying market value of assets owned by the Group, as determined by the 
Directors’ valuation and based on reports from an independent valuation expert. 111
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
5. Debtors amounts falling due within one year
2014
US$’000
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 57,710
Other receivables 40
57,750
Debtors amounts falling due within one year are all current and the Directors consider that the carrying amount of debtors is approximately equal to 
their fair value due to the very short time between inception and maturity.
6. c reditors amounts falling due within one year
2014
US$’000
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 167
Other creditors 109
276
Creditors are all current and the Directors consider that the carrying amount of creditors is approximately equal to their fair value due to the short 
time between inception and maturity.
7. Share option reserve
The share option reserve for the period of US$ 0.56 million relates to awards granted to employees of a subsidiary undertaking under a long-term 
incentive plan, details of which are provided in note 37 of the consolidated financial statements. 
8. c alled-up share capital
The share capital as at 31 December 2014 was as follows:
2014
 US$’000
Allotted, called-up and fully paid 349,527,804 shares of 10 pence each 57,929
The Company was incorporated on 24 January 2014 with share capital of 300 million shares at a par value of £1 each. Subsequently on 5 February 
2014, the Company undertook a capital reduction by solvency statement, in accordance with s643 of the Companies Act 2006. The nominal value  
of the authorised and issued ordinary shares was reduced from £1 to 10 pence and the amount by which the Company’s share capital reduced 
(US$ 447.39 million) was credited to the distributable reserves of the Company and is treated for the purposes of Part 23 of Companies Act 2006  
as realised profit.
On 19 March 2014, the Company successfully completed its IPO on the London Stock Exchange. A total of 49,527,804 shares with a par value  
of 10 pence per share were issued at a price of 135 pence (US$ 2.24) per share.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
The movement in issued share capital and share premium for the for the period ended 31 December 2014 was as follows:
n umber  
of shares
o rdinary shares
US$’000
Share 
premium
US$’000
total 
US$’000
Issue of new shares upon incorporation 300,000,000 497,100 – 497,100
Capital reduction – (447,390) – (447,390)
Issue of new shares – IPO 49,527,804 8,219 102,702 110,921
Share issue costs (note 6 of the consolidated financial statements) – – (9,455) (9,455)
At 31 December 2014 349,527,804 57,929 93,247 151,176
9. Profit and loss account
2014
US$’000
Balance at 24 January 2014 –
Distributable Reserves subsequent to capital reduction by solvency statement 447,390
Loss for the period (5,078)
Interim Dividend declared (2,412)
Balance at 31 December 2014 439,900 112
Financial Statements
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
10. r econciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds
2014
US$’000
Issue of new shares upon incorporation 497,100
Issue of new shares through IPO 8,219
Share Option Reserve (note 7) 563
Premium on issue of new shares through IPO (net of expenses) 93,247
Loss for the period (5,078)
Interim dividend distributed (2,412)
Balance at 31 December 2014 591,639
11. r elated party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosing related party transactions with other wholly owned Group companies as 
afforded by paragraph 3(c) of Financial Reporting Standard 8 (Revised). The Company and all companies with whom related party transactions  
took place in the period are wholly owned Group companies, the consolidated financial statements of which are publicly available.
Remuneration of key management personnel during the period comprised short-term benefits of US$ 743,646.
12. Reconciliation of operating loss to cash outflow from operating activities
2014
US$’000
Operating loss  (5,092)
Adjustment for
Investment income 14
Cash outflow from operating activities (5,078)
13. Analysis of cash flows
a cquisitions and disposals
2014
US$’000
Investment in subsidiary (19,883)
Net cash outflow (19,883)
During the period the Company acquired the Group in exchange for the issuance of 299,999,900 new ordinary shares of 1 GBP each (US$ 1.67) in the 
Company. No cash was exchanged during the course of this transaction. Refer to note 4.
Financing
2014
 US$’000
Proceeds from issue of new ordinary shares 110,921
Transaction costs from issue of ordinary shares (9,455)
Adjustment for changes in working capital:
Increase in intercompany receivables (57,710)
Increase in intercompany payables 167
Increase in other receivables (40)
Increase in other payables 109
Dividends paid (2,412)
Net cash inflow 41,580
14. r econciliation of net debt
2014 
US$’000
Increase in net cash in the period 16,619
Net cash on incorporation –
Net cash at 31 December 2014 16,619
NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL ST A TEMENTS Continued
for the period from date of incorporation to 31 December 2014 113
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
15. Financial instruments
c apital risk management
The Company manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and short-term deposits and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued 
capital, reserves and loss for the period as disclosed in notes 7 to 9.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Significant accounting policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted (including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the bases for 
recognition of income and expenses) for each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in the accounting policies 
to the financial statements.
Categories of financial instruments
2014  
US$’000
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand 16,619
Loans and receivables 57,710
Financial liabilities
Creditors 276
All financial liabilities are repayable upon demand.
Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Company is exposed to the following risks related to financial instruments - credit risk, cash flow and liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and 
interest rate risk. The management actively monitors and manages these financial risks relating to the Company.
c redit risk management
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counter party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company, and arises 
principally from the Company’s trade and other receivables. The Company has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties,  
for whom the credit risk is assessed to be low. The Company attempts to control credit risk by monitoring credit exposures, limiting transactions  
with specific non-related counter-parties, and continually assessing the creditworthiness of such non-related counter-parties. Balances with banks 
are assessed to have low credit risk of default since these banks are highly regulated by the central banks of the respective countries.
The amount that best represents maximum credit risk exposure on financial assets at the end of the reporting period, in the event counter parties 
failing to perform their obligations generally approximates their carrying value. Trade and other receivables are not secured by any collateral.
The Company’s principal financial assets are bank balances, and intercompany and other receivables. The Company’s main credit risk is primarily 
attributable to its key intercompany receivables. The Company has no other significant concentration of credit risk. An allowance for impairment is 
made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence for a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
Cash flow and liquidity risk
The Company is not exposed to any significant cash flow or liquidity risk. The Company currently has sufficient cash to fund its activities. However,  
in the event that additional liquidity is required for ongoing operations and future developments, the Company has access to additional funding from 
other Group entities which it controls.
Foreign currency risk management
The majority of the Company’s transactions are in either UAE Dirhams or US Dollars. Transactions in other foreign currencies entered into by the 
Company are short term in nature and therefore management considers that the currency risk associated with these transactions is limited and 
consequently this risk is not hedged.
interest rate risk management
The Company’s financial assets and financial liabilities are interest-free; accordingly the Company is not subject to any interest rate risk.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The Company’s management considers that the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities approximates their carrying amounts. 114 GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
ADDITIONAL 
INFORMA TION
Notice of AGM 116
Glossary 122
Corporate Information 124 115
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4 116
Additional Information
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTICE OF AGM
Notice is hereby given that the first Annual General Meeting of Gulf Marine Services PLC (the “Company”) will be held on Wednesday 6 May 2015  
at 11.30am (UK time) at Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ to transact the business set out in the resolutions below. 
Resolutions 1 to 14 (inclusive) will be proposed as ordinary resolutions; this means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of 
the votes cast must be in favour. Resolutions 15 to 17 (inclusive) will be proposed as special resolutions; this means that for each of those resolutions 
to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour.
Voting on all resolutions will be by way of a poll.
o rdinary r esolutions
r eport and a ccounts
1. To receive the Company’s annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2014 together with the Directors’ reports and the auditor’s 
report on those accounts. 
Final Dividend
2. To declare a final dividend of 1.06 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2014, to all ordinary shareholders on the register of 
members on 17 April 2015.
Directors’ r emuneration r eport
3. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Report (excluding the Directors’ Remuneration Policy) set out on pages 51 to 60 of the Company’s Annual 
Report and accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2014. 
Directors’ r emuneration policy
4. To approve the Directors’ Remuneration Policy set out on pages 51 to 60 of the Company’s Annual Report and accounts for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2014, such Policy to take effect immediately following conclusion of the meeting.
election of Directors
5. To elect Simon Heale as a director.
6. To elect Duncan Anderson as a director.
7. To elect Simon Batey as a director.
8. To elect Richard Dallas as a director.
9. To elect Richard Anderson as a director. 
10. To elect Dr Karim El Solh as a director.
11. To elect Mike Straughen as a director.
r eappointment of a uditor
12. To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general 
meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
a uditor’s r emuneration
13. To authorise the Audit and Risk Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditor on behalf of the Board of directors.
a uthority to allot ordinary shares
14. To authorise the directors generally and unconditionally, in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”), to exercise all the 
powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares of the Company: 
(a) up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of £11,650,927; and 
(b) comprising equity securities (as defined in section 560(1) of the Act) of the Company up to a further nominal amount of £11,650,927 in 
connection with an offer by way of a rights issue. 
 These authorities shall apply in substitution for all previous authorities pursuant to section 551 of the Act and expire on the date of the next 
Annual General Meeting or on 30 June 2016, whichever is the earlier, but in each case the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or 
agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities under 
any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.  
 
For the purposes of this resolution, “rights issue” means an offer to: 
i. ordinary shareholders in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their existing holdings; and
ii. people who are holders of other equity securities if this is required by the rights of those securities or as the directors otherwise consider necessary,  
 
to subscribe further securities, subject in both cases to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or 
expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, 
any territory. 117
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Special r esolutions
a uthority to disapply pre-emption rights
15. Subject to the passing of resolution 14, to empower the directors generally in accordance with section 570 of the Act to allot equity securities  
(as defined in section 560(1) of the Act) for cash: 
(a) pursuant to the authority given by paragraph (a) of resolution 14 or where the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue 
of section 560(3) of the Act in each case:
i. in connection with a pre-emptive offer; and
ii. otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer, up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,747,639; and 
(b) pursuant to the authority given by paragraph (b) of resolution 14 in connection with a rights issue, 
 
as if section 561(1) of the Act did not apply to any such allotment. 
 
This power shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on 30 June 2016, whichever is the earlier, save that the 
Company may, before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and 
the directors may allot equity securities under any such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired. 
 
For the purposes of this resolution:
i. “rights issue” has the same meaning as in resolution 14;
ii. “pre-emptive offer” means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors to (a) holders (other than 
the Company) on the register on a record date fixed by the directors of ordinary shares in proportion to their respective holdings and (b) 
other persons so entitled by virtue of the rights attaching to any other equity securities held by them, but subject in both cases to such 
exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, 
record dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory;
iii. references to an allotment of equity securities shall include a sale of treasury shares; and
iv. the nominal amount of any securities shall be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for, or convert any securities into, shares of the 
Company, the nominal amount of such shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
purchase of own shares
16. To authorise the Company generally and unconditionally for the purpose of section 701 of the Act to make market purchases (within the meaning 
of section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company, provided that:
(a) the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 34,952,780;
(b) the minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is 10 pence;
(c) the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of:
i. 105% of the average closing price of an ordinary share, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 
days prior to the day on which the purchase is made; and 
ii. an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an 
ordinary share as stipulated by Article 5(1) of Commission Regulation (EC)No. 2273/2003 (relating to buy-back programmes and stabilisation 
of financial instruments). 
 This authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on 30 June 2016, whichever is the earlier, but, in each 
case, save that the company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will or may be executed wholly or 
partly after the expiry of such authority. 
n otice of general meetings, other than annual general meetings
17, THAT a general meeting, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days’ notice.
By order of the Board
John Brown 
c ompany Secretary
23 March 2015
Gulf Marine Services PLC 
1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London EC3A 7NH 118
Additional Information
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
eXplanation oF re Sol Ution S: 
r esolution 1 – t o receive the r eport and a ccounts
The directors are required to present the accounts, Directors’ reports and auditor’s report to the meeting. These are contained in the Company’s 
2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Resolution 2 – T o declare a final dividend 
The board of directors of the Company (the “Board”) proposes a final dividend of 1.06 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2014. If 
approved, the recommended final dividend will be paid on 12 May 2015 to all ordinary shareholders on the register of members at 6.00 pm on 17 April 
2015. The shares will be marked ex-dividend on 16 April 2015.
r esolution 3 – t o approve the Directors’ r emuneration r eport 
This resolution deals with the remuneration paid to the directors during the year under review. Shareholders are invited to vote on the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report, which appears on pages 51 to 60 in the 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements (excluding the Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy). Resolution 3 is an advisory vote.
r esolution 4 – t o approve the Directors’ r emuneration policy
Shareholders are invited to vote on the Directors’ Remuneration Policy, which appears on pages 51 to 60 in the 2014 Annual Report and Financial 
Statements, and which, if approved by shareholders, will take effect immediately after the conclusion of the AGM on 6 May 2015. Resolution 4  
is a binding vote.
r esolutions 5 to 11 – election of Directors
This, being the Company’s first Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), all directors of the Company will seek election by shareholders. In subsequent  
years, all directors wishing to continue their appointment will seek re-election at the AGM in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
No independent non-executive director seeking election at the AGM has any existing or previous relationship with the Company, nor with any 
controlling shareholder of the Company or any associate of a controlling shareholder of the Company within the meaning of Listing Rule 13.8.17R(1). 
In considering the independence of the non-executive directors, the Board has taken into account guidance from the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. The Board considers Simon Batey, Richard Anderson and Mike Straughen to be independent non-executive directors in accordance with 
provision B.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
In accordance with changes made to the Listing Rules in May 2014, Richard Dallas and Dr Karim El Solh are classed as representatives of a “controlling 
shareholder” of Gulf Marine Services PLC and not considered to be independent non-executive directors. The Company entered into a Relationship 
Agreement with its “controlling shareholders” effective 14 March 2014 in accordance with Listing Rule 9.2.2AR(2)(a), which serves to ensure that the 
controlling shareholders and their representatives (including Richard Dallas and Dr Karim El Solh) comply with the independence provisions outlined  
in Listing Rule 6.1.4DR. 
The new Listing Rules require that Independent Non-Executive Directors be elected by a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders in addition 
to a majority of votes cast by all shareholders in the Company. Therefore, the resolutions for the election of the Independent Non-Executive Directors 
(resolutions 7, 9 and 11) will be taken on a poll and the votes cast by independent shareholders and all shareholders will be calculated separately. Such 
resolutions will be passed only if a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders are in favour, in addition to a majority of votes cast by all 
shareholders being in favour.
Full biographies of all the directors are set out in the Company’s 2014 Annual Report and are also available for viewing on the Company’s website 
(http://www.gmsuae.com). Following a formal Board evaluation process and recommendation from the Nomination Committee, the Board is satisfied 
that each of the directors continues to be effective and demonstrates a commitment to the role and that each of the directors continues to be able 
to dedicate sufficient time to their duties. The directors believe that the Board continues to include an appropriate balance of skills and provides 
effective leadership for the Company. 
Resolution 12 – T o reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts  
are laid before the c ompany
At each meeting at which the Company’s accounts are presented to its members, the Company is required to appoint an auditor to serve until the 
next such meeting. The Board, on the recommendation of its Audit and Risk Committee, recommends the reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
r esolution 13 – t o authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of Deloitte llp
This resolution gives authority to the Audit and Risk Committee to determine the auditor’s remuneration.
r esolution 14 – t o authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares
The authority in paragraph (a) of this resolution, if passed, would provide the directors with a general authority to allot new shares and grant rights to 
subscribe for, or convert other securities into, shares up to a nominal amount of £11,650,927, which is equal to approximately 33% of the issued share 
capital of the Company as at 23 March 2015, being the last practicable date before the publication of this Notice. 
Paragraph (b) under resolution 14 will grant the directors additional authority to allot 116,509,268 new shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or 
convert other securities into, shares in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal amount of, which is equal to approximately 33% of the 
issued share capital of the Company as at 23 March 2015. 
NOTICE OF AGM 
Continued 119
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
When taken together, the authorities proposed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this resolution extend (before any reduction) to approximately two thirds  
of the current issued share capital of the Company as at 23 March 2015, being the last practicable date before the publication of this Notice. 
The resolution would give the Board of directors the maximum flexibility permitted by investor guidelines to respond to market developments, 
however, there are no current plans to allot shares except in connection with the Company’s employee share schemes. 
This authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2016 and the conclusion of the Company’s next AGM. It is the intention of the directors to seek the 
annual renewal of each aforementioned authority.
r esolution 15 – t o authorise the directors to disapply pre-emption rights
This resolution would, if passed, allow the directors to allot shares or sell treasury shares for cash (other than in connection with an employee share 
scheme), without having to offer such shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their own holdings (known as pre-emption rights).
The purpose of paragraph (a) of resolution 15 is to authorise the directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph (a) of 
resolution 15, or sell treasury shares, for cash (I) in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue or (II) otherwise up to a nominal value of 
£1,747,639, equivalent to approximately 5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 23 March 2015, in each case without the 
shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The purpose of paragraph (b) of resolution 15 is to authorise the directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph (b)  
of resolution 15, or sell treasury shares, for cash in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders  
in proportion to their existing holdings. This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
It is the directors’ intention not to allot shares on a non pre-emptive basis (other than pursuant to a rights issue or pre-emptive offer) in excess of an 
amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued share capital of the Company over a three year rolling period, without prior consultation with shareholders.
This authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2016 or the conclusion of the Company’s next AGM. It is the intention of the directors to seek to 
renew this authority every year.
r esolution 16 – t o authorise the c ompany to make market purchases of its own shares
This resolution would, if passed, authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 34,952,780 of its own ordinary shares, representing just 
under 10% of the Company’s issued share capital as at 23 March 2015. The resolution specifies the minimum and maximum prices at which the 
ordinary shares may be bought under this authority. 
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Company’s next AGM. It is the intention of the directors to seek to renew this authority every year.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority granted by this resolution, but the authority provides the flexibility to allow them 
to do so in future. The directors would not exercise the authority unless they believed that the expected effect would promote the success of the 
Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole. Any shares purchased would be effected by a purchase in the market and may either be 
cancelled or held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or used to meet the Company’s obligations under its employee share 
schemes. The Company currently has no shares held in treasury.
As at 23 March 2015, the total number of options to subscribe for shares in the Company was 1,621,889 (approximately 0.5% of the Company’s issued 
share capital and approximately 0.4% of the Company’s issued share capital if the full authority proposed by resolution 16 was used and the shares 
purchased were cancelled).
r esolution 17 – n otice of general meetings, other than annual general meetings
Under the Act, the notice period required for all general meetings of the Company is 21 days. An AGM is required by law to be held on at least 21 clear 
days’ notice but shareholders can approve a shorter notice period for other general meetings.
This resolution would, if passed, allow the Company flexibility to call general meetings, other than annual general meetings, on not less than 14 clear days’ 
notice. The approval will be effective until the Company’s next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Board confirms that, in its opinion, all of the resolutions are in the best interests of the shareholders of the Company as a whole and 
unanimously recommends that shareholders vote in favour of them. 120
Additional Information
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
important note S
The following notes explain your general rights as a shareholder and your right to attend and vote at this AGM or to appoint someone else to vote  
on your behalf.
1. To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM (and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast), 
shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6.00pm on 1 May 2015 (or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.00pm 
on the date which is 48 hours, excluding non-working days, before the time of the adjourned meeting). Changes to the Register of Members after 
the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting. There are no other procedures 
or requirements for entitled shareholders to comply with in order to attend and vote at the AGM. In alignment with best practice for Listed 
Companies, it is the current intention that each of the resolutions to be put to the AGM will be voted on by way of a poll and not by show of hands. 
The Company believes that a poll is more representative of shareholders’ voting intentions because shareholder votes are counted according to  
the number of ordinary shares held and all votes tendered are taken into account. 
2. The doors will open at 10.30 am and you may wish to arrive by 11.00 am to enable you to register and take your seat in good time. Light refreshments 
will be provided at the meeting. If you have any special needs or require wheelchair access to the offices of Linklaters LLP please contact Molly Stewart  
by e-mail on gms@bellpottinger.com or telephone +44 203 772 2500 in advance of the meeting. Mobile phones may not be used in the meeting hall, 
and cameras and recording equipment are not allowed in the meeting hall.
3. Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or part of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM. A shareholder 
may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different ordinary 
share or ordinary shares held by that shareholder. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company. A form of proxy which may be used to make 
such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice. If you do not have a form of proxy and believe that you should have one, or if 
you require additional forms, please contact our Registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2030 (or from outside the UK: +44 121 415 7047). Calls to this number 
cost 8p per minute plus network extras. Lines are open Monday – Friday, 8.30am – 5.30pm (excluding UK public holidays).
4. In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most 
senior holder will be accepted. Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Company’s Register of 
Members in respect of the joint holding (the first named being the most senior).
5. Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 (the “Act”) to enjoy information 
rights (a “Nominated Person”) may, under an agreement between him/her and the shareholder by whom he/she was nominated, have a right to be 
appointed (or to have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the AGM. If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not 
wish to exercise it, he/she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
6. The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 3, 4 and 8 do not apply to Nominated Persons.  
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
7. A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution. If no voting 
indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion. Your proxy will vote (or abstain from voting) as he or she thinks fit 
in relation to any other matter which is put before the AGM.
8. To be valid, any form of proxy or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or (during normal business hours only) by hand at the 
Company’s registrar Equiniti (the “Registrar”), at the address shown on the form of proxy or in the case of shares held through CREST, via the CREST 
system, (see note 11 below). For proxy appointments to be valid, they must be received by no later than 11.30am on Friday, 1 May 2015. If you return 
more than one proxy appointment that received last by the Registrar before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence. You are 
advised to read the terms and conditions of use carefully. Electronic communication facilities are open to all shareholders and those who use them 
will not be disadvantaged.
9. The return of a completed form of proxy or any CREST Proxy Instruction (as described in note 11 below) will not prevent a shareholder attending 
the AGM and voting in person if he/she wishes to do so.
10. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM (and any 
adjournment of the AGM) by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual (available from www.euroclear.com). CREST Personal Members 
or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor 
or voting service provider(s), who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
11. In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a ‘CREST Proxy Instruction’) 
must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s specifications and must contain the information required for 
such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual. The message must be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers’ agent (ID RA19) by 
11:30am on 1 May 2015. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by 
the CREST application host) from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. 
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
NOTICE OF AGM 
Continued 121
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
12. CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does 
not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation 
to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST 
personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider(s), to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service 
provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular 
time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, 
to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings. The Company may treat as invalid  
a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
13. Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a 
member provided that no more than one corporate representative exercises powers relation to the same shares.
14. As at 23 March 2015 (being the last practicable business day prior to the publication of this Notice), the Company’s ordinary issued share capital 
consists of 349,527,804 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each. No shares are held in treasury. Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company 
as at 23 March 2015 are 349,527,804.
15. Under section 527 of the Act, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to 
publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: (i) the audit of the Company’s accounts (including the auditor’s report and the 
conduct of the audit) that are to be laid before the AGM; or (ii) any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office 
since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act. The Company may not 
require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act. Where the 
Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Company’s auditor not 
later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website. The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any 
statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
16. Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions. The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the 
business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if (a) to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting 
or involve the disclosure of confidential information, (b) the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or (c) 
it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
17. The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company on any business day 
from 23 March 2015 until the time of the AGM and may also be inspected at the AGM venue (Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ), 
from 10.30 am on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the AGM:
 – copies of the directors’ letters of appointment or service contracts;
 – a copy of the articles of association of the Company; and
 – a copy of the directors’ deeds of indemnity.
18. You may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice or any related documents (including the Form of Proxy) to communicate with 
the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the Company’s website at  
http://www.gmsuae.com. 122
Additional Information
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
GLOSSARY
ABS American Bureau of Shipping.
ADIPEC Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference .
ADMA-OPCO Abu Dhabi Marine Operating Company, a subsidiary of ADNOC.
ADNOC Abu Dhabi National Oil Company.
AED United Arab Emirates Dirham. The currency in United Arab Emirates.
AHTS vessel Anchor Handling Tug Support vessel.
Available days Calculated from a base of 365 days from which any unpaid days spent on mobilisation and demobilisation, 
planned refurbishment or upgrade work and, in the case of a newly constructed SESV, delivery time are 
subtracted. Maintenance days included in our contracts are counted as available days.
Average Daily Operating Costs Average daily costs incurred to operate a vessel. Calculated as cost of sales less non-cash items, depreciation, 
amortisation and impairments divided by 365.
Brownfield project A project involving the upgrade or modification of existing operations.
Capex-led Activities Defined in the oil and gas sector to include greenfield projects, engineering, procurement and construction 
activities, installation and decommissioning and, with respect to EOR activities, water injection and gas 
injection. Typically funded out of our clients’ capital expenditure budgets.
Dayrate Income received by the Company in respect of each day a vessel is chartered to a client.
DP2 Dynamic positioning system with full redundancy meaning that should one component fail there is a backup 
component that takes over.
Dynamic positioning A computerised positioning system which maintains the vessel position by using its own propellers  
and thrusters.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation. 
EOR Enhanced Oil Recovery. Consists of the injection of foreign components (e.g. chemicals) to recover a larger 
proportion of the remaining oil at the final stages of the field life .
EPC Engineering, Procurement and Construction.
GCC Gulf Cooperation Council, the political and economic alliance of six Middle Eastern countries comprising  
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman.
Greenfield project Project involving a completely new area of work.
Hotel Services Income received by the Company for the provision of accommodation and meals provided to client personnel 
charged on a per person per day basis.
HSE Health, Safety and Environment.
HSSEQ Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Quality.
HVAC Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning System
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
IJUBOA International Jack Up Barge Owners’ Association.
IOC International Oil Company.
ISM International Safety Management Code.
ISO International Organisation for Standardisation.
Jack-up barge Self-elevating support vessels equipped with legs that are lowered to the ocean floor.
LTIs Lost Time Injuries. 
Lump sum Income received by the company at the beginning of a new charter party agreement relating to the costs and 
time taken to prepare the vessel.
MENA Middle-East and North Africa.
NOC National Oil Company.
Opex-led Activities Operating expenditure-led activities. Defined in the oil and gas sector to include fabric maintenance, well 
intervention, brownfield upgrade and modification projects and retrofit or upgrade activities with respect to 
EOR activities. Typically funded out of our clients’ operating budgets.
POB Persons on board.
SESV Self-Elevated Support Vessel designed to cater to a range of offshore assets and equipment such as drilling 
products and to support inspection, maintenance, repair, diving and construction activities.
Topside Operations  
and Maintenance 
Consists of the maintenance, modification and operation of platforms during the production phase of the 
offshore field lifecycle.
Utilisation rate Actual number of days a vessel is on hire divided by the number of available days in a year.
Well intervention Consists of services (coiled tubine, pumping, workover, subsea landing string and other services) to maintain 
production levels in the primary and secondary phases of oil production. 123
INTRODUCTION Strategic r eport PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE Financial Statement S ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
NOTES 124
Additional Information
GULF  MARINE  SERVICES  PLC Annual  Report  201 4
Joint c orporate Broker
Bank of America Merrill Lynch 
2 King Edward Street 
London EC1A 1HQ
Joint c orporate Broker
Barclays 
5 The North Colonnade 
Canary Wharf 
London E14 4BB
l egal a dvisers
Linklaters LLP 
One Silk Street 
London EC2Y 8HQ
a uditors
Deloitte LLP 
2 New Street Square 
London EC4A 3BZ
public r elations a dvisers
Bell Pottinger 
Holborn Gate 
330 High Holborn 
London WC1V 7QD
r egistrar
Equiniti 
Aspect House 
Spencer Road 
Lancing  
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Registered Office  
Gulf Marine Services PLC 
1st Floor 
40 Dukes Place 
London EC3A 7NH 
Head Office  
Gulf Marine Services
P.O. Box 46046
Abu Dhabi, UAE
Ph: +971 (2) 5028888
Fax: +971 (2) 5553421
Email: IR@gmsuae.com 
Board of Directors
Simon Heale
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
Simon Batey
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Richard Anderson
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mike Straughen
Independent Non-Executive Director
Richard Dallas
Non-Executive Director 
Dr Karim El Solh
Non-Executive Director
CORPORA TE INFORMA TION This publication was printed with vegetable 
oil-based inks by an FSC-recognised printer 
that holds an ISO 14001 certification. Gulf Marine Services
P.O. Box 46046
Abu Dhabi, UAE
Ph: +971 (2) 5028888
Fax: +971 (2) 5553421
Email: IR@gmsuae.com
www.gmsuae.com
