 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Delivering on strategy About Us
Gulfsands Petroleum plc is an independent  
oil and gas exploration and production 
company, incorporated in the United 
Kingdom, whose shares are traded on the 
Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”) of the 
London Stock Exchange (symbol: GPX).
The Group’s major focus is on the Middle East 
and North Africa where it has oil exploration and 
development projects in the Syrian Arab Republic 
(under continuing suspension due to sanctions), and oil 
and gas exploration projects in Morocco and Tunisia. 
Gulfsands is also Operator of two exploration licences 
in Colombia and produces oil and gas from a portfolio 
of properties in the US, offshore Gulf of Mexico.
Visit us online
www.gulfsands.com Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  1
Our 2013 Highlights
Contents
Introduction
1 Our 2013 Highlights
2 At a Glance
4 Chairman’s Statement 
Strategic Report
6 Chief Executive’s Review
8 Our Business Model
10 Strategic Priorities and 
Monitoring Performance
12 Principal Risks 
and Uncertainties
Operations review
14 Syria
16 Morocco
20 Colombia
22 Tunisia
24 US
25 Reserves Report
28 Corporate Social   
Responsibility
30 Financial Review
Governance
34 Board Of Directors
36 Directors’ Report
38 Directors’ Corporate 
Governance Report
39 Directors’ 
Remuneration Report
42 Audit Committee Report
Financial Statements
45 Group Contents
46 Independent  
Auditor’s Report 
48 Consolidated 
Income Statement  
49 Consolidated Balance Sheet
50 Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
51 Consolidated Cash 
Flow Statement
52 Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements
75 Company Contents
76 Company Balance Sheet
77 Company Statement of  
Changes in Equity
78 Company Cash 
Flow Statement
79 Notes to the Company 
Financial Statements
86 Five Year Summary
87 Glossary of Terms
88 Corporate Information
 > Assumed operatorship in Morocco, 
Tunisia and Colombia.
 > Conducted 2D and 3D seismic 
programmes and commenced drilling  
in Morocco.
 > Significant reduction in general and 
administrative expenses. 
 > Audited Group working interest 2P 
reserves of 75.8 mmboe and unrisked, 
best estimate working interest 
prospective resources increased to 
526 mmboe as at 31 December 2013.
 > Total bank and cash resources  
of $53 million at year end inclusive  
of $34 million of cash and cash 
equivalents and $19 million in  
restricted cash.
 > Syrian assets remain shut‑in and 
secure during continuation of sanctions.  2 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
At a Glance
 
Project overview
These projects include the development of significant 
oil and gas discoveries in the Syrian Arab Republic 
(activities currently suspended in compliance with 
EU sanctions), and oil and gas exploration projects 
in Tunisia, Morocco and Colombia. Gulfsands also 
produces oil and gas from a portfolio of properties 
in the US, offshore Gulf of Mexico.
Gulfsands’ ambition is to become an important, 
independent exploration and production company 
in the countries and regions in which we operate and 
preferred operator and partner of government and 
private sector oil and gas companies sharing our 
vision. Gulfsands’ Management is presently focused 
on acquiring and developing significant interests in 
high-impact projects in the Middle East, North Africa 
and Colombia.
Gulfsands has significant hydrocarbon projects 
in the Middle East and North Africa region and 
the Republic of Colombia. 
Key statistics
5
Countries of operation
6
Exploration licences
526
mmboe 
Prospective Resources
Gulf
of
Mexico
Texas
Louisiana
Houston
New Orleans
US
Production
Gulfsands holds a number of 
producing interests in a portfolio 
of shallow water licences in the 
Gulf of Mexico.
 
Discover more: page 24
www.gulfsands.com/s/USAMaps.asp
Llanos-50
Block
Putumayo-14
Block
Bogotá
Colombia
Panama
Ecuador
Peru
Brazil
Venezuela
Pasto
Quibdó Sogamoso
El Carmen 
de Bolivar
Colombia
Exploration
Gulfsands is Operator and 
majority interest holder of two 
prospective blocks in prolific 
producing regions of Colombia.
 
Discover more: page 20
www.gulfsands.com/s/ColombiaMaps.asp Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  3
 
Derk
Kara tchok
R umeilan
Souedie h
Naour
Khurbet
Yo useﬁeh
Khurbe t Eas t
0 3 0 Km s
Ullayan
Lelac
Maasho k
Zuraba
Shamo u
Kahtaniyeh
Oudeh
Matlout
Al Ba rdeh
Al Ho
Abu H aydar
Sheik h Manaour
Al Boua b
Sheik h Sulema n
Tel Bara k
Badran
Ba b Al Hadid
Tu rk ey
Syri a
Iraq
Bloc k 26
Gulfsands
In detail
 Gulfsands Licence Production Licence SPC Oil elds
Syria
Block 26
Iraq
Jordan
Turkey
Damascus
Deir Az Zour
Al Qamishli
Al Hasakah
Ar Raqqah
Block 26 
Syria
Block 26
Gulfsands is the Operator of the 
Block 26 Production Sharing 
Contract with a 50% working 
interest. The contract is currently 
in force majeure as a result of the 
EU sanctions against Syria.
 
Discover more: page 14
www.gulfsands.com/s/SyriaMaps.asp
Chorbane 
Block
Algeria
Tunisia
Sfax
Tunis
Tripoli
Palermo
Libya
Malta
Sicily
(Italy)
Kms 0 100
Tunisia
Exploration
Gulfsands is Operator and 100% 
interest holder in the Chorbane 
oil and gas exploration licence, 
onshore Tunisia.
 
Discover more: page 22
www.gulfsands.com/s/TunisiaMaps.asp
Morocco
Algeria
Rabat
Casablanca Fes
Atlantic 
Ocean
Mediterranean
Sea
Spain
Rharb
Centre
Rharb
Sud
FES
Morocco
Exploration
Gulfsands is Operator and 
majority interest holder of a 
significant portfolio of oil and gas 
exploration licences onshore 
Morocco.
 
Discover more: page 16
www.gulfsands.com/s/MoroccoMaps.asp 4 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s Statement
Your Board remains confident in 
the opportunities before us and 
in the Company’s ability to bring 
those opportunities to fruition. 
Andrew West
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
The past year, insofar as the Company has been concerned, 
has been one of steady but considerable progress and 
consolidation rather than one of dramatic events. Notwithstanding 
the absence of early exploration success in Morocco, progress 
with re-building a viable business and a credible vehicle for long 
term value creation has been tangible and enhanced our reputation 
as efficient operators.
I would like to highlight several principal areas of achievement.
First, following the restructuring of our Tunisian interests, the 
Company now has operatorship of all its exploration licences. 
Control of our own destiny in this regard was the key to our 
success in Syria and will be equally crucial to repeating that 
success elsewhere.
Secondly, we have extensively restructured our senior management 
team and our staffing, resulting in both a more effective 
organisation to meet the challenges of capturing and developing 
new business opportunities and a significantly reduced cost base.
Thirdly, we have moved swiftly and effectively to commence 
operations in Morocco and Colombia and, in the latter case, 
to farm down our interest. The credibility and goodwill this 
has bought us with, in particular, the authorities in Morocco 
is incalculable and will be of great benefit as we move into a 
more serious exploration phase.
These themes are discussed in greater detail in the Chief 
Executive’s Review and the Operations Review.
 > Achieved operatorship of all 
our exploration licences.
 > Restructuring of senior 
management and staff now 
complete, resulting in a more 
effective organisation.
 > Operations commenced in 
Morocco and Colombia.
Progress in 2013 Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  5
Although we continue to husband our cash we have not yet 
generated cash flow from these new business initiatives. 
Your Board is acutely aware of the imperative to do so and of the 
need to ensure the continuing availability of adequate financial 
resources until the point at which the Company is once again 
self-sustaining. This is an important reason for having structured 
our affairs and interests as we have. Although the institutional 
appetite for investment in E&P companies at the corporate level 
remains tepid at best, from ongoing discussions with potential 
investors, debt providers and industry partners, it is evident that 
we have a range of options open to us to fund our operations at 
the asset or field level. You may be assured that your Board is 
evaluating and pursuing those opportunities with vigour. Further 
assessment of the Company’s going concern status is made in 
note 1.3a of the Financial Statements.
There is little of substance to be said about the situation in Syria 
beyond what you read daily in the media. A tragic situation 
shows, all too sadly, very little discernible sign of near-term 
improvement. The Company remains in strict compliance with all 
relevant sanctions while at the same time taking all possible steps 
to preserve the value of our Syrian assets, including retaining a 
modest level of staffing in country. We continue to believe that the 
Company will in due course return to active operations in Syria but 
we do not pretend to have any special insights into timing.
Your Board remains confident in the opportunities before us and 
in the Company’s ability to bring those opportunities to fruition. 
The task of rebuilding is neither an easy nor a swift one but we 
never anticipated that it would be. The important thing is to build 
the foundations thoroughly, as we are doing, and to maintain 
our focus.
As ever, I would like to express my personal gratitude and that 
of the Board to all our shareholders, employees and commercial 
partners, the staunchness of whose support is the bedrock upon 
which we build.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew West
Chairman
3 April 2014 6 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s Review
2013 represented the beginning of a 
new era in the Company’s history as 
we became a recognised Operator 
in two more countries in the MENA 
region and established our credentials 
as a recognised Operator in 
Colombia, made significant changes 
to the shape of our business and 
meaningfully reduced our overheads 
and general costs of operating.
Mahdi Sajjad
Chief Executive Officer
Our objective over the past two years has been to secure new 
opportunities to grow our Company and create shareholder 
wealth in countries outside of Syria where the continuing unrest 
and economic sanctions mean that our oil and gas production 
capability remains idle and unavailable to generate revenues for 
the benefit of our stakeholders.
Overall, we are pleased with the progress we made during 2013 
to establish a presence in each of these countries and to begin 
operations that we believe provide our Group with the potential 
to create projects of significant value and generate revenues with 
which to build substantial business units that provide necessary 
diversity in our portfolio. That we have managed to deliver 
significant progress while continuing to carefully husband our 
financial resources is of itself a considerable achievement and one 
for which everyone in our organisation can deservedly be proud.
Morocco
Following the late January completion of the acquisition of the 
Cabre Maroc portfolio of onshore permits in northern Morocco, 
we moved swiftly to commence two seismic programmes, 
a 3D seismic programme on the Rharb permits (100% interest 
pre-ONHYM participation) to assist in the planning and execution 
of a nine well, exploration programme and a 2D seismic 
programme to identify drillable prospects on a planned three 
well exploration programme on the Fes permit (66.7% interest 
pre-ONHYM participation).
These two seismic programmes began in late June 2013, 
with the 220 km² 3D seismic programme on the Rharb permits, 
being completed in October while the approximately 650 km 2D 
seismic programme on the Fes permit was concluded in February 
of this year.
With the benefit of being able to deploy to Morocco a number 
of our experienced employees from the technical team who 
contributed to great success in Syria, we were able to quickly 
evaluate a range of options to permit the commencement of 
exploration drilling on the Rharb Centre licence and this resulted 
in the importation to Morocco of a drill rig operated by COFOR, 
the drilling subsidiary of the Vinci group, one of France’s biggest 
companies and a group already well established in Morocco.
Each of the first three exploration wells drilled on the Rharb 
Centre permit, in the first part of what is planned to be a nine well 
programme, intersected gas bearing reservoirs but unfortunately 
these were not considered to be of sufficient magnitude as to 
be commercial with the consequence that each of the wells was 
plugged and abandoned. As we now have access to the higher 
quality 3D seismic data acquired in our contemporaneous data 
capture programme, we are hopeful that the subsequent wells to 
be drilled in this programme utilising this 3D data, will meet with 
greater success when drilling commences in the next month.
The initial 650 km portion of a 2D seismic programme that will 
eventually involve the capture of 1,000 km of data over the Fes 
licence area is now being processed by Spectrum and following 
interpretation later this year we expect to be in a position to start 
drilling the first well in a three exploration well programme on the 
Fes permit area.
Colombia
Following award of the PUT 14 and LLA 50 blocks in the Ronda 
2012 bid round, the Group has established itself in Bogota, 
Colombia with a team of experienced local professionals 
supplemented by assistance provided by our local partner 
Luna Energy.
Late in the fourth quarter of the year we finalised joint venture farm 
out arrangements with Luna Energy on both of our blocks resulting 
in our Group retaining a 55% working interest partially carried by 
Luna Energy (45%) in each of these joint ventures.
Work is now underway to complete the environmental, community 
and security assessments that are a necessary preliminary to the 
commencement of exploration activities on each of our blocks 
with the end of this year targeted for the commencement of 
a programme of approximately 100 km of 2D seismic on the 
PUT 14 block with a similarly sized programme anticipated to 
be undertaken on the LLA 50 block during the first half of 2015. Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  7
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Tunisia
During 2013 we concluded arrangements with our former partners, 
which remain subject to final regulatory approval, to withdraw from 
our non-operated 40% interest in the Kerkouane licence offshore 
Tunisia and the adjacent Pantellaria permit in Italian waters while at 
the same time we increased our interest in the Chorbane onshore 
licence to 100% and assumed operatorship.
Planning is currently underway for a 2D seismic programme of 
approximately 105 km to be carried out over two areas in the north 
east corner of this block nearby to existing producing oil fields 
on an adjacent licence. We plan to commence this programme 
once local licensing and other regulatory approvals are obtained 
with the intention of using the data obtained in the programme 
to locate at least one exploration well which is anticipated to be 
drilled next year.
Syria 
While the situation in Syria remains unresolved and sanctions 
prevent our returning to active operatorship of the Khurbet East 
and Yousefieh oil fields held by the Block 26 joint venture in north 
east Syria (Gulfsands 50% and Operator with Sinochem 50%), 
we are fortunate to be able to confirm that our facilities remain 
intact with the two oil fields having remained closed in for almost 
the entire year save for some very small, intermittent production to 
provide energy to the local community. Security for our fields and 
facilities is provided by a combination of central government military 
personnel and trained volunteers from the local community and 
together these groups have ensured that these valuable assets 
remain safe and secure and in a condition to allow us to return the 
fields to full operation as soon as sanctions permit us to do so.
With our partner Sinochem’s unwavering support, we have been 
able to help our staff to remain safe and their families provided with 
financial support to help them through this difficult time. Our much 
reduced but fiercely loyal and dedicated staff in Damascus has 
enabled us to maintain a continuous local presence in Syria and for 
that I am and our Board and shareholders are enormously grateful.
Reshaping our business
During the past twelve months our Management has continued 
to evaluate and capture, where sensible to do so, a number of 
new business opportunities that have enabled us to diversify our 
portfolio of projects and, we believe, provide the Group with a 
bright future.
The pursuit of these opportunities has required the reshaping of 
our organisation and that has brought with it a number of changes 
to our management team including my appointment to the role 
of CEO, Alan Cutler’s appointment as Director – Finance and 
Administration and the addition of a number of highly motivated 
finance, administration and technical people who have either joined 
the organisation or been promoted from within. I am especially 
pleased to report that we have managed to effect all of these 
changes while at the same time making significant progress with 
our efforts to further reduce our overheads and general operating 
costs, a process that will continue during the remainder of this year.
We are acutely conscious of the need to manage carefully the 
financial resources we have available to help us in building upon 
these new business initiatives so we will continue to explore the 
approaches we regularly receive from energy sector participants 
and investors that might be utilised to finance our business 
development ambitions at the least possible cost to our existing 
stakeholders. Further assessment of the Company’s going concern 
status is made in note 1.3a of the Financial Statements.
Finally, I would like to express my sincere appreciation for the 
tremendous effort made by our employees and members of the 
Board to position the Company to develop the new business units 
and projects that we now have underway in Morocco, Tunisia 
and Colombia. 8 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Our Business Model
Our mission is to create superior value for our stakeholders by 
building a pre‑eminent independent exploration and production 
company to become a preferred operator and partner in the 
countries and regions which offer the best opportunities to exploit 
our core areas of expertise and our competitive advantages, 
currently the MENA region and Colombia.
 > Highly experienced, proven and 
entrepreneurially‑minded senior management 
and leadership.
 > Strong technical skill sets among our 
operational team.
 > Proven onshore operating ability – we 
seek to be an operator wherever possible 
so as to control our destiny and optimise 
value creation.
 > Low cost culture and strong 
financial discipline.
 > Structural, organisational and 
transactional agility.
 > Emphasis on building strong local 
organisations and skill sets.
 > Depth and breadth of political and commercial 
contacts and strong partnerships within our 
chosen markets.
 > Absolute commitment to excellence in HSE, 
compliance and governance.
 > Commitment to integrity in stakeholder 
relations and to good corporate citizenship 
wherever we operate.
Core areas of expertise and competitive advantages Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  9
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
conduct
Business 
Value
creation
Stakeholder
value
Financial
discipline
Operational
performance
•	 Deployment of regional knowledge, relationships with 
regulators and commercial partners to source exploration, 
appraisal and development opportunities capable of 
delivering sustainable and profitable production on a 
fast track basis.
•	 Disciplined approach to the evaluation and acquisition 
of exploration and development projects to be explored, 
utilising both our corporate and local technical expertise 
and the application of advanced technologies. 
•	 Optimisation of transactional and financial experience and 
expertise to enhance both the acquisition and funding of 
suitable E&P opportunities and to recognise or release the 
value we create.
•	 Focus upon growth in reserves, resources and sustainable 
production as key drivers of value creation.
•	 Strive to be recognised for the quality of our government 
and industry relationships and as a partner of choice in the 
countries and regions in which we operate.
•	 Establish relationships with partners who are themselves 
recognised for the quality of their business acumen 
and experience and ability to add material value to our 
joint ventures. 
•	 Respect and protect the environment and the health and 
safety of our employees and of the members of the local 
communities in which we operate.
•	 Earn the respect of all parties we do business with and 
create long-term wealth and prosperity for the communities 
where we operate.
•	 Respect international and local legislation and regulations.
•	 Strong technical competence in key operational disciplines. 
•	 Excellence in our HSE metrics.
•	 Target operating costs in the lowest quartile of sector 
comparable costs without compromising safety or 
environmental responsibilities.
•	 Constructive engagement and close collaboration with 
commercial and governmental partners.
•	 Focus on high-quality training of our employees and 
contractors and the sharing of knowledge and experience 
across all our operations.
•	 Careful husbanding of our cash resources and emphasis 
on cost control.
•	 Target access to cash flow from production at earliest 
opportunity with the intention of minimising the financial 
leverage in the business and the requirement to have 
shareholders finance the Group’s activities.
•	 Sophistication in securing the finance necessary to fund 
our activities at the lowest possible cost and best value 
for shareholders while maintaining the strongest possible 
balance sheet.
Value creation
Business conduct
Operational performance
Financial discipline
Building blocks for  
stakeholder value creation 10 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The following tables set out our current strategic priorities 
and how we measure our progress towards their realisation. 
Strategic Priorities and Monitoring Performance
Strategic imperatives Progress in the year Planned actions
Protection of Syrian 
interests and value
•	 Preserved all contractual rights and managed 
business relationships in a manner consistent with 
all relevant sanctions and force majeure status.
•	 Continued adherence to licence terms within 
terms of sanctions.
•	 Maintain readiness to return to conduct of 
operations as soon as circumstances permit.
Creation of a 
diversified sustainable 
portfolio of quality 
assets
•	 Completed acquisition in Morocco.
•	 Entered Colombia.
•	 Rationalised interests in Tunisia.
•	 Build assets and presence in countries 
of operation.
•	 Evaluate current assets and new opportunities.
•	 Ensure commitments and funding are balanced.
Evaluate assets 
comprehensively  
but expeditiously
•	 Morocco: conducted 3D seismic on Rharb 
Centre permit.
•	 Morocco: commenced 2D seismic on Fes permit.
•	 Morocco: drilled three initial wells on 
Rharb centre permit.
•	 Colombia: established joint ventures and prepared 
to commence exploration activities.
•	 Morocco: complete evaluation of Rharb Centre 
gas prospects through drilling based on 3D 
seismic data.
•	 Morocco: interpret Fes 2D seismic for 
drilling potential.
•	 Tunisia: conduct 2D seismic programme to assist 
in evaluating drilling opportunity on Chorbane 
permit.
•	 Colombia: complete preliminary processes 
to commence exploration with 2D seismic 
programmes on both blocks.
Maintain safety, the 
environment and 
community relations 
as operational priority
•	 Established good community relations 
in Morocco.
•	 HSE incidents were higher than expected due to 
use of new contractor personnel operating in new 
areas.
•	 Commenced community, security and 
environmental assessment processes and 
operations planning in Colombia.
•	 Continued support of our current CSR projects.
•	 Maintain HSE at the forefront of operational 
objectives and continue high standards of 
compliance with HSE systems, processes and 
training.
•	 Develop / maintain relationships with communities 
in which we work.
•	 Identify new CSR opportunities in Morocco, 
Colombia and Tunisia.
Maintain a strong  
balance sheet
•	 Net expenditures in period as planned but no 
Rharb gas revenues.
•	 Carefully manage available financial resources.
•	 Focus on additional reductions in cost base.
•	 Procure new financing and equity sharing 
arrangements on best available terms.
•	 Finance asset evaluation programmes 
appropriately.
•	 Generate Rharb gas revenue and / or other near 
term development opportunities. Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  11
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
KPI Performance Commentary and target
Proved and probable 
working interest 
reserves (mmboe)
•	 Audited, Proved and Probable 
reserves stated on a working interest 
basis (page 25 for further details).
•	 Note Syrian reserves are exploitable 
under contracts currently in force 
majeure.
Reserves represent the key asset of the Group.
The goal of Management is to increase reserves 
on a year on year basis, converting Contingent 
Resources into reserves through successful 
exploration and appraisal.
Contingent and 
Prospective 
Resources (mmboe)
•	 Audited 2C, Contingent Resources 
and best estimate Prospective 
Resources both stated on a 
unrisked working interest basis 
(pages 26 and 27 for further details).
The primary movements in the year consisted 
of: the acquisition of the Cabre Maroc portfolio 
of assets and subsequent technical work which 
added 482 mmboe best estimates Prospective 
Resources in 2013; and the technical work 
performed on the Chorbane permit which 
added a further 44 mmboe in the year. 
Management are focused on capturing further 
Contingent and Prospective Resources and 
efficient conversion of such resources into 
reserves.
Capital expenditure  
($ million)
•	 Accrued expenditure on exploration 
for and appraisal and development 
of oil and gas assets. Expenditures 
include fair values of acquired assets 
and capitalised internal costs on 
operated assets (pages 56 and 58 
for further details).
Focused, quality expenditure on exploration, 
appraisal and reserve development activity 
is key to the success of the Group but 
must remain within the financial capacity 
of the Group.
Safety – lost time 
incidents
•	 The number of incidents during 
the year which resulted in loss of 
working time (page 17 for further 
details).
Commencement of simultaneous seismic 
survey and drilling operations in Morocco in 
2013 with crews fresh to Gulfsands, proved a 
HSE risk management challenge however only 
one lost time incident resulted.
Total cash and bank 
resources ($ million)
•	 Total cash and bank resources 
include cash and cash equivalents 
and restricted cash balances 
(page 61 for further details).
Ensuring the Group has sufficient cash 
resources to fulfil its contractual obligations is 
key for the Group.
Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) provide a means of measuring 
our progress in delivering our strategic objectives. In light of the 
continuation of sanctions with respect to Syria, the Group has 
re‑assessed its previous KPIs and identified five key performance 
indicators in respect of the current corporate strategy.
75.8
75.9
76.3
2013
2012
2011
12.3
31.5
29.0
2013
2012
2011
526.0
0
0
2013
2012
2011
48.5
6.5
43.0
2013
2012
2011
1
0
0
2013
2012
2011
53.0
98.8
128.2
2013
2012
2011
Contingent Resources
Prospective Resources 12 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The Group’s comprehensive approach to risk management aims to 
identify key risks as early as possible and to reduce or eliminate those 
risks to the greatest extent practicable. 
The Board assesses each significant risk in terms of: 
•	 the likelihood of occurrence;
•	 the magnitude of the potential impact on our operations, 
employees, performance, assets and shareholder expectations; 
and
•	 the means and extent to which risks can be mitigated.
The last comprehensive annual risk review took place in 
September 2013. This review was updated at both of the 
subsequent Audit Committee meetings. The Board groups its risks 
into four categories: operational, strategic, financial and external 
risks. The principal risks and uncertainties as considered by the 
Board are set out below. These do not comprise all the risks and 
uncertainties faced by the Group.
Financing work commitments
Description 
Execution of the Group exploration targets requires a significant 
investment in order to mature the exploration portfolio and meet 
minimum work obligations.
Impact 
Our business model could become constrained by financing and 
work commitments may require restructuring. Further discussion 
of this matter is contained in the going concern note 1.3a.
Mitigation 
Work programmes are being carefully controlled so as not to 
over commit the Group.
Asset management options and external sources of finance 
are evaluated.
Change year on year 
The Morocco exploration activities have commenced during 
2013 with both drilling and seismic expenditure but without any 
commercial success to date. Management has applied cost 
control and continues to review the portfolio management and 
strategic financing options.
Exploration success and delivery of production in Morocco
Description 
Failure to achieve exploration success and delivery of production in 
Morocco as part of the 2013/14 drilling campaign.
Impact 
Failure will impact investor confidence in the Group’s ability 
to deliver on its strategy and will delay revenues and the 
self-sustainability of the Group.
Mitigation 
Exploration is an inherently risky business, where the risk of failure 
on any one well is usually greater than the chance of success. Risk 
is mitigated by careful geological and petrophysical analysis prior 
to drilling.
A full EMV analysis, modelling chance of success and possible 
range of outcomes, is conducted prior to acquisition of any 
exploration portfolio and prior to the commencement of 
individual operations.
Change year on year 
The Group drilled non-commercial wells on the Rharb Centre 
permit in 2013 which were based on 2D swath seismic data. Data 
now available from a 3D seismic survey will increase the chance of 
success in drilling on the same permit in 2014.
Drilling on our Fes permit will follow thorough evaluation of all 
geological and geophysical data including that derived from the 
2D seismic survey acquired in 2013/14.  Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  13
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Geopolitical instabilities in operational areas
Description 
The Group operates in areas in which it may suffer the effects of 
political instability and civil disturbances disrupting its operations. 
Currently the Group’s interests in Syria are under force majeure 
consequent to EU sanctions being imposed. 
Impact 
Such instabilities can seriously impact upon the ability of the Group 
to carry out its operations leading to loss of time and value. 
In Syria the value of the Group’s interests are at risk due to: the 
continuing sanctions, the loss of ability to develop the portfolio of 
interests and the loss of physical control over its assets.
Mitigation 
The Group carries out a thorough risk assessment of any 
proposed new country entry.
The Group is not affiliated to any government, political party, 
religion, ethnic grouping or similar organisation, but maintains good 
relationships with communities and important local stakeholders. 
The Board accesses business intelligence and engages 
consultants to assist with risk management processes in this area.
Change year on year 
The Group continued to monitor the operational areas and work 
with local communities and stakeholders to ensure its position is 
protected and advanced. 
Health, safety, environment and security
Description 
The Group’s reputation and its value is critically dependent on:
•	 the protection of the health and safety of its staff, its contractors 
and members of the community in which it operates; and
•	 the protection of the environment in which it operates. 
Impact 
Failure in respect of these matters could severely impact on the 
Group’s ability to work and obtain further business in the area of 
operation as well as putting it at risk of legal and financial liabilities.
Mitigation 
The Group maintains best practice policies and procedures in 
these areas and manages its business and its contractors in 
accordance therewith.
Change year on year 
During the seismic and drilling operations in Morocco the Group 
suffered a small number of reportable incidents including one 
lost time incident as reported on page 17. The Group takes all 
incidents very seriously and has worked with the contractors 
concerned to improve work practices.
Loss of key staff
Description 
The Company relies heavily upon key executives and managers for 
continuity and advancement of its business.
Impact 
Possibility of loss of management continuity and impairment of the 
business model.
Mitigation 
Succession planning where possible and group communication 
networks to ensure knowledge is shared. 
Change year on year 
Progress on succession planning continues. 14 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Operations Review
Syria
Gulfsands is the Operator of the Block 26 Production Sharing 
Contract (“PSC”) and holds a 50% working interest in the PSC  
along with Sinochem. The Group is not presently involved in any 
production or exploration activities on Block 26 as force majeure  
has been declared in respect of the contract following the 
introduction of EU sanctions against Syria. 
The Group has ensured that it remains compliant with all applicable 
sanctions in relation to Syria and intends to return to production 
and exploration activities as soon as permitted. 
Block 26 covers an area of 5,414 km² in north east Syria and the 
PSC grants rights to explore, develop and produce hydrocarbons 
from all depths outside the pre-existing fields within the area 
and from the deeper stratigraphic levels below the pre-existing 
discovered fields. The final exploration period of the PSC was 
set to expire in August 2012 when force majeure was declared 
in December 2011. It is anticipated that an extension in the 
exploration period can be negotiated with the Syrian authorities 
to at least replace that period of time which was lost when force 
majeure was declared.
Under the Group’s operatorship, two oil fields of Cretaceous age 
have been discovered and developed within the PSC area, Khurbet 
East and Yousefieh. In addition, two further oil and gas discoveries 
of Triassic age have been identified beneath the Cretaceous oil 
producing reservoir in the Khurbet East field and within the Butmah 
and Kurrachine Dolomite formations. Development approvals for 
these discoveries were granted in 2011 and 2008 respectively.
Approval for the development of the Khurbet East Triassic age 
Butmah oil and gas field was granted in December 2011 but 
as a consequence of compliance with applicable sanctions, 
the Group is presently unable to progress any activity in respect 
of this development. However, oil from the Triassic Formations in 
Khurbet East has already been sampled and found to be lighter 
than that produced from the Cretaceous Formation, with an API 
gravity of 34–35°, and it contains a higher gas content. In addition, 
small amounts of condensate have been recovered from the 
gas cap in the Butmah Formation. The construction of sour gas 
sweetening and export facilities at Khurbet East is planned, subject 
to the lifting of sanctions, to enable commercial production of 
hydrocarbons both from the Butmah and also from the Triassic 
Kurrachine Dolomite Formations. Until force majeure was declared, 
it was expected that the development and production period 
for operations on the Khurbet East Triassic Butmah Formation 
would expire in December 2036 although production could, 
at the Contractor’s option, be extended for a further ten years. 
Once applicable sanctions permit, it is expected that the force 
majeure will be withdrawn and these periods of entitlement to 
undertake development and production activities will be extended 
by a further period reflective of the period of force majeure.
The development and operation of these fields is being undertaken 
by Dijla Petroleum Corporation (“DPC”), a joint operating company 
formed between Gulfsands, Sinochem and the General Petroleum 
Corporation (“GPC”) for this purpose, to which staff of both 
Gulfsands and GPC have previously been seconded. Since the 
introduction of EU sanctions on 1 December 2011 that identified 
GPC as a designated entity and the subsequent declaration of 
force majeure under the PSC, Gulfsands has had no involvement 
with the operations of DPC, and Gulfsands staff seconded to DPC 
have been withdrawn, leaving DPC under the management of 
GPC secondees. Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  15
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Sanction compliance
Gulfsands has at all relevant times taken legal advice with respect 
to its obligations under the sanctions then in place and has liaised 
regularly with relevant regulators and generally acted cautiously to 
ensure it remains compliant with all relevant sanctions. 
The listing of GPC as a designated entity on 1 December 2011 
triggered a review of the Group’s relationship with GPC and with 
DPC and following this review and with effect from 1 December 
2011, Gulfsands has:
•	 ceased to provide assistance to DPC in the form of seconded 
staff or indeed have any involvement with the day to day 
operations of DPC;
•	 recused itself from decisions taken by the DPC board;
•	 not submitted invoices for the Joint Venture’s entitlement share 
of oil production;
•	 exercised strict control over the payment of outstanding supplier 
invoices to ensure that (a) no payments were made to persons 
or entities who are included on the list of those subject to the 
asset freeze, (b) no payment is made for goods or services 
subject to restrictive measures except after the giving of required 
notification to the Competent Authority and (c) no payment was 
made which would constitute a transfer of economic resources 
to GPC or DPC;
•	 ceased (with effect from 18 January 2012, being the date 
of adoption of EU Regulation 36 / 2012) to enter into new 
contracts for the procurement of oil and gas related goods or 
services into Syria, or for associated technical assistance; and
•	 also ceased all exploration, as well as production, activity in Syria. 
The Group has relocated its offices into modest offices in the 
centre of Damascus to allow it to retain a place of business in 
the country to meet its obligations under the PSC. Unfortunately, 
the protracted nature of the suspension of operations in Syria has 
also necessitated the review of staffing levels in the country and it is 
with great regret that the Group has had to release a proportion of 
its workforce. 
The Board is determined to ensure that the Group’s activities 
remain compliant with all relevant sanctions and Management will 
continue to liaise closely with the relevant regulatory authorities to 
ensure this objective is achieved while continuing to keep GPC fully 
informed of the breadth and scope of restrictions on our activities 
as a result of continuing compliance with applicable sanctions.
Sheik h Manaou
Al Boua b
Sheik h Sulema n
Syri a
In detail
 Gulfsands Licence
Syria
Block 26
Iraq
Jordan
Turkey
Damascus
Deir Az Zour
Al Qamishli
Al Hasakah
Ar Raqqah
Block 26 
 > Maintained an office presence 
in Damascus.
 > Block 26 facilities remain safe 
and secure.
 > Retained technical capabilities 
through staff redeployment.
 > Continued compliance with 
applicable sanctions.
Position in 2013 16 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Operations Review continued
Morocco
Gulfsands is the Operator of a highly prospective 
portfolio of oil and gas exploration permits covering an 
area of approximately 4,315 km
2
 in northern Morocco.
Gulfsands acquired its interests in the Rharb Centre, Rharb 
Sud and Fes permits through the acquisition of Cabre Maroc 
Limited (“Cabre Maroc”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Caithness 
Petroleum Limited, on 16 January 2013. The total consideration 
for this transaction involved cash payments totalling approximately 
$17.3 million by way of adjusted purchase consideration and in 
addition, the satisfaction of $1.7 million of existing liabilities of Cabre 
Maroc. In August 2013, Cabre Maroc’s name was changed to 
Gulfsands Petroleum Morocco Limited.
The acquisition delivered to Gulfsands a large, contiguous and 
highly prospective acreage with proven petroleum systems and 
multiple exploration leads already identified. The acreage is located 
in an area where legacy light oil fields have been discovered and 
produced since the first half of the twentieth century and where 
light oil seeps appear to be prevalent adjacent to the Fes permit. 
Modern exploration techniques have been previously used in 
the area but only to a limited extent. The Group believes that 
there is significant oil and gas exploration potential related to the 
fold and thrust belt structures identified in the Rharb Sud and 
Fes permits. Production of light oil from legacy fields has been 
predominantly from Jurassic horizons in shallow structures at 
depths of approximately 800-1,200 metres, and the Group believes 
that the essentially untested deeper fold and thrust belt structures 
in these permits have greater potential than the shallow developed 
structures. There also exist further potential target horizons in the 
shallower Miocene and Tertiary. 
In addition to a focus on light oil exploration, there is considered 
to be a meaningful near-term value creation opportunity contained 
within the proven conventional and shallow depth gas play in the 
Miocene horizons within the Rharb Centre permit. 
Gulfsands and ONHYM (the Moroccan oil and gas regulator) are 
co-venturers in respect of the Rharb Centre and Rharb Sud permits 
(Gulfsands has a 75% working interest post ONHYM participation); 
whilst Gulfsands and Caithness Petroleum Limited are co-venturers 
with ONHYM in respect of the Fes permit (Gulfsands has a 50% 
working interest post ONHYM participation). ONHYM are carried 
through the exploration phase of each of the Rharb and Fes 
Petroleum Agreements. Under the terms of the acquisition of Cabre 
Maroc, Gulfsands agreed to carry Caithness in respect of its share 
of the first $27 million of expenditure on the Fes permit. Gulfsands 
is the Operator of all these exploration joint ventures.  Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  17
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Operations
During 2013 the Group established a small office in Rabat with 
operational staff, transferred from our Syrian operations, who 
rapidly established the Group’s standards of HSE performance in 
Morocco, suffering a single lost time incident during the course of 
313,000 man‑hours of activity.
Fes permits
The exploration phase of the Fes Petroleum Contract expires in 
September 2015 but can be extended for an additional two years 
in the event of a discovery. The Contract terms include a work 
commitment of 1,000 km of 2D seismic, 100 km
2
 of 3D seismic 
and the drilling of three exploration wells. In respect of this work 
commitment the Group has provided financial guarantees as set 
out in note 3.2 to the Financial Statements.
An initial 650 km 2D seismic programme on the Fes permit was 
completed on budget in February 2014 by Prospectiuni SA of 
Romania, although completion of the programme was delayed due 
to adverse weather and ground conditions. The programme was 
designed to assist in the identification of additional exploration leads 
on the Fes permit and to more accurately define existing leads 
identified using the results of an earlier gravity survey programme 
and legacy 2D seismic data.
As the Fes area is known to be structurally complex, prior to the 
Group’s receipt of this seismic data, it will undergo a number of 
additional and more sophisticated processing techniques than 
would usually be the case, including depth migration processing. 
Notwithstanding the additional time and cost involved in applying 
these sophisticated processing techniques, it is anticipated that the 
resulting data set thereby will be significantly enhanced and assist 
with the interpretation of the data captured during this programme 
in order to develop the leads into drillable prospects. 
It is anticipated that the first exploration drilling target for light oil will 
be identified during the third quarter of 2014 with drilling of the first 
exploration well planned to commence as early as the end of the 
year. Two further light oil exploration wells are planned to follow in 
2015. Accordingly the Group has commenced a process to identify 
and select a suitable rig for drilling on the Fes licence later this year. 
Prospective Resources of 478 million barrels of oil equivalent (net 
unrisked, best estimate) have been booked by the Group at year 
end 2013 for the Fes permit. These estimates were based on 
previously identified prospectivity within Jurassic horizons that 
are known to produce oil in the area. These bookings have been 
subject to a competent person third party audit by Senergy (GB) 
Limited (“Senergy”). 
Morocco
Algeria
Rabat
Casablanca
Fes
Atlantic 
Ocean
Mediterranean
Sea
Spain
Rharb
Centre
Rharb
Sud
FES
 > Drilled three exploration wells on 
Rharb Centre permit.
 > Completed 220 km
2
 3D 
seismic acquisition for Rharb 
Centre permit.
 > Commenced 650 km 2D seismic 
programme for Fes permit.
Progress in 2013 18 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Rharb permits
The exploration phase of the Rharb Petroleum Agreement, covering 
the Rharb Centre and Rharb Sud permits, containing a minimum 
work obligation of nine shallow exploration wells expires in July 
2014 but can be extended for an additional two years in the event 
of a discovery during the current drilling programme. In respect of 
this work commitment the Group has provided financial guarantees 
as set out in note 3.2 to the Financial Statements. Commercial 
discoveries each become subject to long term exploitation 
concession agreements.
Whilst a relatively large volume of legacy 2D and swath seismic 
data were available on the Rharb Centre permit, the Group believes 
that 3D seismic data is a critical tool for maximising the chances 
of drilling commercially attractive prospects in the Rharb Centre 
permit area. A 3D seismic survey covering an area of approximately 
220 km
2
 was therefore carried out by Prospectiuni SA over the 
south-western portion of the Rharb Centre permit area to assist 
in the further delineation of potential drilling targets for the second 
phase of the drilling campaign. The seismic acquisition programme 
was completed under budget after only a slight delay caused by 
local weather conditions. Processing and interpretation of the 
acquired data was completed in March 2014 identifying a number 
of quality prospects for drilling in the second phase of the campaign 
commencing in the second quarter of 2014.
Operations Review continued
Morocco continued
The Group continues to evaluate further 
opportunities to invest in Morocco’s 
expanding onshore oil and gas sector.
Morocco
Algeria
Rabat
Casablanca
Fes
Atlantic 
Ocean
Mediterranean
Sea
Rharb
Centre
Rharb
Sud
FES Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  19
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
The Rharb drilling programme is currently focusing on a series of 
shallow gas anomalies identified in the Rharb Centre permit as 
Miocene-aged fans and channel sands at depths of 1,000-1,650 
metres, in a similar geologic setting to discoveries on adjacent 
permit areas which are now in commercial production using the 
substantial gas capture and distribution infrastructure in the area. 
Gulfsands has contracted with COFOR SAS, an international drilling 
contractor and subsidiary of France’s Vinci group of companies, to 
provide an onshore drilling unit suitable for the drilling of exploration 
wells in the Rharb Centre permit area. 
During the year three wells were drilled, commencing in October 
2013. Each of these wells intersected gas-bearing horizons as 
identified from pre-drilling seismic interpretation, but they contained 
less than the required thickness of net gas pay considered 
necessary to support a declaration of commerciality and so were 
plugged and abandoned. The location for the drilling of each 
of these wells was based upon legacy 2D and swath seismic 
data. It is anticipated that the acquisition and processing of 3D 
seismic data on the Rharb permit should result in the discovery of 
commercial gas accumulations during 2014.
Drilling operations for the three first phase wells took, on average, 
20 days and cost, on average $2.1 million to drill, fully plug and 
abandon each well and restore the drill-site to its original condition.
The combined cost to date of acquiring and processing seismic 
data on the Rharb Centre and Fes permits is $14.2 million.
Prospective Resources of 21.2 billion cubic feet (net unrisked, 
best estimate) have been booked by the Group at year end 2013 
for the Rharb Centre permit based on identified prospectivity 
within Upper Miocene horizons that are known to produce gas 
in the area. In addition Contingent Resources of 2.0 billion cubic 
feet (net unrisked, “2C” or “P50”) have been booked based on 
separate and unrelated discovered gas accumulations at Beni Fdal 
and Douar Nouaoura that have previously both produced gas to 
surface. These bookings have been subject to a competent person 
third party audit by Senergy.
Forward plans
The second phase of the Rharb drilling campaign is due to 
commence in the second quarter 2014 following full interpretation 
of the 3D seismic data acquired in 2013. The Group continues to 
evaluate further opportunities to invest in Morocco’s expanding 
onshore oil and gas sector. 20 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Operations Review continued
Colombia
In 2013, Gulfsands was awarded Exploration and 
Production Contracts (“E&P Contracts”) over two blocks 
covering approximately 977 km
2
 in Colombia as a result 
of successful bids made in the Ronda 2012 Exploration 
Licensing bid round, which concluded in late 2012.
The E&P Contract for each block extends for up to seven years 
from the date of signature of the contract with an initial evaluation 
period of up to one year followed by two consecutive three year 
exploration periods the second of which is optional. Gulfsands 
was successful in acquiring both blocks on fiscal terms that 
involved minimal “X-factor” royalties and low work obligations of 
approximately 100 km of 2D seismic survey data and one well 
on each block over the first of the three-year periods. In respect 
of these work commitments the Group has provided financial 
guarantees as set out in note 3.2 to the Financial Statements. 
The Putumayo block 14 (“PUT 14”) in the Caguan Putumayo Basin 
covers an area of 463.6 km
2
 and lies on Colombia’s border with 
Ecuador. It is reported that at least 35 fields containing more than 
365 million barrels of oil now have been discovered in this basin, 
whilst additional world class discoveries and producing fields 
located in the Oriente Basin in Ecuador lie directly to the south and 
are on trend towards Colombia’s Putumayo permitted acreage. 
Exploration prospectivity within the Caguan Putumayo Basin 
is considerable, with discoveries of light, medium and heavy 
crudes being located in several different target horizons within the 
Cretaceous. Deeper potential also exists that is largely untested. 
A significant number of oil fields are now under production in 
the Colombian part of this basin in the vicinity of PUT 14 block. 
The strongly productive Cohembi and Platanillo oil fields are 
located to the west of the block, and are producing from geological 
structures considered analogues to structures that can be identified 
within the PUT 14 block from existing legacy 2D seismic data. 
The Llanos block 50 (“LLA 50”) is in the mature north Llanos basin, 
where 100 km to the north-west, Occidental discovered the giant 
Canon Limon field with reported reserves of more than one billion 
barrels. At 513.7 km
2
 in size, the block is larger than most blocks 
in the basin.
Following the block awards, Gulfsands entered into farm-out 
agreements with Luna Energy Inc (“Luna”), a respected local oil 
field services, resources and transport logistics group, under which 
the Group retains a 55% working interest in each contract and 
acts as Operator of both joint ventures. Luna holds a 45% working 
interest but is carrying Gulfsands in respect of 10% of expenditures 
on the minimum exploration programme for each contract area up 
to a maximum value net to Gulfsands of $3 million. 
Operations
The Group has established a fully operational office in Bogota 
which is managed by highly experienced local personnel and 
together with personnel made available by our local partner, Luna, 
the joint venture has commenced the process of consultation with 
the local and indigenous communities both in the regions and in the 
block areas, and also with environmental agencies and government 
security agencies preliminary to the submission of detailed plans for 
exploration on both blocks. Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  21
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Initial exploration work on both blocks commenced in the 
fourth quarter of 2013, at which time the initial evaluation period 
concluded and the Group entered into the first exploration period 
under both Contracts. 
The joint venture partners have moved quickly to undertake the 
significant number of formalities and preliminary activities required 
to be completed prior to the commencement of 2D seismic 
acquisition programmes to be undertaken on both blocks. 
Discussions with operators in the Putumayo and Llanos areas and 
seismic contractors active in these areas have commenced with 
a view to coordinating and sharing logistics for the 2D seismic 
programmes being planned on both blocks. 
Forward plans
It is anticipated that the Group should be ready to commence a 
programme of 2D seismic data acquisition on the PUT 14 block 
later this year with a similar programme on the LLA 50 block in early 
2015. Following processing, interpretation and analysis of the new 
seismic data, it is anticipated that an exploration well will be drilled 
on both blocks, in late 2015 and early 2016 respectively. The Group 
continues to evaluate further opportunities to invest in Colombia’s 
very active onshore oil and gas sector.
Llanos-50
Block
Putumayo-14
Block
Bogotá
Colombia
Panama
Ecuador
Peru
Brazil
Venezuela
Pasto
Quibdó Sogamoso
El Carmen 
de Bolivar
 > Awarded block PUT 14 in the 
Caguan Putumayo basin.
 > Awarded block LLA50 in the 
north Llanos basin.
 > Established fully operational 
office in Bogota.
 > Entered into farm out agreement 
with Luna.
Progress in 2013 22 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Following completion of a geological and prospectivity review 
in 2013, Gulfsands decided not to continue its interest in the 
Kerkouane and Pantellaria permits. In parallel with extensive 
consultation with the Tunisian authorities, Gulfsands negotiated 
with ADX Energy Limited, an Australia-based independent E&P 
company (“ADX”) both a withdrawal from its interests in the 
Kerkouane and Pantellaria permits and the acquisition of ADX’s 
30% interest in the onshore Chorbane permit to take the Group’s 
working interest in the Chorbane permit to 100%.
Under the agreement with ADX (the “Agreement”), Gulfsands has 
been either released from or indemnified by ADX with respect to all 
historic and future obligations associated with its former interests 
in the Kerkouane and Pantellaria permits and related joint ventures. 
No consideration is payable with respect to the withdrawal from 
these interests. 
The Agreement requires Gulfsands to similarly release from or 
indemnify ADX with respect to all historic and future obligations 
associated with its former interests in the Chorbane permit and, 
additionally, requires Gulfsands to pay $1.75 million to ADX for 
the 30% interest acquired. $0.25 million of this amount was paid 
shortly after the year end with the balance payable following 
satisfaction by ADX of certain conditions. Whilst the transactions 
have been reached in conjunction with the Tunisian authorities, 
and are binding as between the two parties, they remain subject 
to receipt of the final regulatory approvals.
As a result of these transactions, and once the final regulatory 
approvals are received, the Group no longer has any acreage 
holdings in Italy and has withdrawn operationally from that country.
Operations 
The Chorbane permit is located mainly onshore in central Tunisia. 
The permit is in close proximity to a number of producing oil fields 
and associated oil and gas infrastructure. The current exploration 
period is due to expire in July 2015, with the minimum work 
programme carrying a commitment to drill one exploration well.
Following the Group having assumed operatorship it has moved 
quickly to review existing seismic and well log data on the permit. 
Evaluation work has identified the potential presence of a number 
of exploration plays, prospects and leads. 
Operations Review continued
At the end of 2013, Gulfsands withdrew from its interests in the 
Kerkouane exploration permit offshore Tunisia and the Pantellaria 
exploration permit offshore Southern Italy and increased its interest 
to 100% in the operated Chorbane exploration permit onshore Tunisia 
of approximately 1,942 km
2
.
Tunisia Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  23
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
In the Sidi Agareb area on the eastern side of the Chorbane 
permit, exploration targets include late Cretaceous to Tertiary aged 
carbonate reservoirs that are proven productive for both oil and 
gas in this part of the Pelagian basin; the Sidi Agareb prospect lies 
approximately 10 km to the south west of the Sidi El Itayem oil field, 
which is on course to ultimately produce approximately 50 million 
barrels of oil from these horizons, with oil recovery boosted by 
an active natural water drive mechanism. On the western side of 
the permit, prospectivity is identified in the deeper Jurassic Nara 
intervals from which wet gas has been recovered in exploration 
wells on the contiguous Chaal permit to the west. In the south 
east part of the permit, there may exist an extension of a trend of 
off-permit oil fields producing from Cretaceous Bireno formation. 
Prospective Resources of 27 million barrels (net unrisked, best 
estimate) have been booked on a consolidated basis by the Group 
at year end 2013 for the Sidi Agareb area prospect. The booking 
has been subject to a competent person third party audit 
by Senergy. 
Prospective Resources of 103 billion cubic feet (net unrisked, best 
estimate) have been booked by the Group at year end 2013 for 
the Jurassic Nara horizon based on identified prospectivity within 
horizons that are known to produce gas in the neighbouring Chaal 
permit. The booking has been subject to a competent person third 
party audit by Senergy.
Forward plans
The Group is preparing for a tender of a 106 km 2D seismic 
programme over two separate areas of the permit identified as 
prospective for the location of the next exploration well. The Group 
is currently in discussion with the Tunisian authorities concerning 
the final acquisition parameters for this seismic survey prior 
to undertaking the tender process of contractor selection and 
completing local permitting approvals. It is anticipated that this 
tender process should be completed during the second quarter of 
2014 with seismic acquisition to commence following completion 
of the permitting process. The data captured in this survey will be 
used to finalise a drilling location within the Chorbane permit for an 
exploration well to be drilled in early 2015.
Chorbane 
Block
Algeria
Tunisia
Sfax
Tunis
Tripoli
Palermo
Libya
Malta
Sicily
(Italy)
 > Increased interest in Chorbane 
permit to 100% and assumed 
operatorship.
 > Withdrew from interests 
in the Kerkouane and 
Pantellaria permits.
Progress in 2013 24 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Operations Review continued
Gulfsands owns a small portfolio of non‑operated oil and gas assets 
in the Gulf of Mexico, in the shallow “shelf” region offshore Louisiana. 
These comprise working interests in six producing fields and certain 
other leases that are no longer commercially producing as well as 
overriding royalties in other properties.
US
The assets are relatively mature however, development of booked 
reserves continues where appropriate to preserve the remaining 
value of the assets to the Group. Proved and Probable reserves 
at year end 2013 amounted to 1.4 mmboe on a working interest 
basis (1.1 mmboe on a net revenue interest basis), comprised of 
77% oil and 23% gas. 
Operations
Production on a working interest basis, including Natural Gas 
Liquids (“NGLs”), averaged 226 boepd in 2013, compared with 311 
boepd in 2012. The composition of this production was 53% oil, 
43% gas and 4% NGLs. After tax and royalties, net revenue interest 
production in 2013 averaged 175 boepd (2012: 239 boepd) 
generating revenues of $4.4 million (2012: $5.6 million).
The decrease in the average daily rates of the baseline production 
during 2013 compared to 2012 was due to:
•	 the temporary shut-in of production at EI 32 while repairs to a 
third-party owned pipeline were undertaken;
•	 repairs at the SS 248 “D” platform, which also required 
production to be temporarily shut-in;
•	 intermittent equipment failures at the WC 310 platform; and 
•	 natural field production decline. 
During the year, the Group participated in development operations 
on four wells to access booked reserves. Mid-year 2013, 
operations were undertaken to recomplete the SS 249 D-5 and 
the SS 247 F-18 wells resulting in an incremental increase to PDP 
reserves of 40.2 mboe. Initially, daily production rates increased 
up to 140 boepd however, at year-end the contribution was 
significantly reduced as the SS 249 D-5 well experienced pressure 
decline, possibly due to limited reservoir volume. Compression 
is required to optimise production rates and, as a result, the well 
is currently shut-in awaiting compressor repairs on the SS 248 D 
platform, anticipated in April 2014. 
As of 31 December 2013, operations had also been undertaken 
for the recompletion of the EI 32 #33 well and the sidetrack of 
the EI 32 #30 well which should lead to incremental increases 
to PDP reserves of 75.3 mboe and reserve additions to PDNP 
of 37.7 mboe. Daily average production rates to the Group 
are expected to increase by 130 boepd as a result of this field 
development. 
Substantial decommissioning activities were undertaken in 2013 
on the WC 533 “A” platform and wells in the EI 32, SS 271 and 
VR 225 / 226 fields. 
Sale of interests
Despite efforts to divest the remaining portfolio early in the year, 
the Group did not attract bids that sufficiently value the assets to 
be sold. The Group continues to consider its options with respect 
to the US interests but does not consider these interests part of its 
core business.
Gulf
of
Mexico
Texas
Louisiana
Houston
New Orleans Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  25
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Reserves and Resources
The Group’ s reserves, Contingent Resources and Prospective 
Resources, at 31 December 2013, are based on estimates made by 
Management and reviewed by independent petroleum engineers. 
In both 2013 and 2012 for the Syrian, Tunisian and Moroccan assets 
the review was performed by Senergy (GB) Limited (“Senergy”), and 
for the US by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc (“NSAI”). 
Reserves
The reserves are categorised into Proved, Probable and Possible 
reserves in accordance with the 2007 Petroleum Resources 
Management classification system (“PRMS”) of the Society of 
Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”). Definitions for Proved, Probable and 
Possible reserves are contained in the Glossary.
Working interest reserves in Syria represent the proportion, 
attributable to the Group’s 50% participating interest, of forecast 
future hydrocarbon production during the economic life of the 
Block 26 PSC, including the share of that production attributable to 
General Petroleum Corporation (“GPC”). In assessing the reserves 
it has been assumed that:
(a)  the force majeure condition is lifted with effect from 1 January 
2015 and Gulfsands resumes its role as Operator;
(b) all Gulfsands’ rights under the PSC are preserved and no 
change is made to the economic terms thereof; and 
(c) the option is exercised to extend the development period 
of each field for a further ten years after its initial 25 year 
development period has expired. 
It should be noted that there remain significant uncertainties with 
respect to the timing of the Group’s re-entry into Syria and the 
conditions encountered upon its return.
Summary of Reserves
Working interest basis
Syria US Group total
Oil
 (1) 
Gas Oil
 (1)
Gas Oil
 (1) 
Gas Oil & Gas
 (2)
mmbbl bcf mmbbl bcf mmbbl bcf mmboe
As at 31 December 2013
Proved 38.3 12.2 0.8 1.3 39.1 13.5 41.4
Probable 30.6 20.8 0.2 0.7 30.8 21.5 34.4
Proved and Probable 68.9 33.0 1.0 2.0 69.9 35.0 75.8
Possible 42.9 35.6 0.1 0.2 43.0 35.8 48.9
Proved, Probable and Possible 111.8 68.6 1.1 2.2 112.9 70.8 124.7
Movements in Proved and Probable reserves during year
At 31 December 2012 68.8 33.0 1.0 2.6 69.9 35.7 75.9
Discoveries and additions 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Revisions 0.1 0.0 0.0 (0.5) 0.1 (0.5) 0.0
Less estimated production 0.0 0.0 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1)
At 31 December 2013 68.9 33.0 1.0 2.0 69.9 35.0 75.8
(1) “Oil” includes condensate and NGLs.
(2) Gas is converted to mmboe at the conversion factor 1 bcf = 0.1667 mmboe.
NB Certain figures may not add up due to roundings.
Entitlement basis
Syria US Group total
Oil
 (1) 
Gas Oil
 (1)
Gas Oil
 (1) 
Gas Oil & Gas
 (2)
mmbbl bcf mmbbl bcf mmbbl bcf mmboe
As at 31 December 2013
Proved 16.7 6.6 0.7 1.0 17.4 7.7 18.7
Probable 13.0 10.8 0.2 0.5 13.2 11.4 14.8
Proved and Probable 29.7 17.5 0.9 1.6 30.6 19.0 33.8
Possible 14.3 16.4 0.0 0.1 14.3 16.5 17.1
Proved, Probable and Possible 44.0 33.9 0.9 1.7 45.0 35.6 50.9
Movements in Proved and Probable reserves during year
At 31 December 2012 30.2 17.5 0.9 2.0 31.0 19.5 34.3
Discoveries and additions 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
Revisions (0.5) 0.0 0.0 (0.3) (0.5) (0.3) (0.5)
Less estimated production 0.0 0.0 (0.0) (0.2) (0.0) (0.2) (0.1)
At 31 December 2013 29.7 17.5 0.9 1.6 30.6 19.0 33.8
(1) “Oil” includes condensate and NGLs.
(2) Gas is converted to mmboe at the conversion factor 1 bcf = 0.1667 mmboe.
NB Certain figures may not add up due to roundings.
Reserves Report 26 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Reserves Report continued
Working interest reserves in the US represent the proportion, 
attributable to the Group’ s participating interests, of forecast future 
hydrocarbon production during the economic life of the properties 
in question, before deduction of state production taxes and 
overriding royalty interests. Working interest reserves have been 
derived from the net revenue interest reserves data contained in the 
NSAI report, by grossing up for the percentage production tax and 
royalty “burden” applicable to each property. The reserves-weighted 
average burden at 31 December 2013 was 18% (2012: 19%).
Entitlement reserves in Syria represent the Group’s estimated 
share of working interest reserves after deducting the share of 
forecast future production attributable to GPC. This proportion is 
impacted by assumptions as to future development expenditure 
and future oil prices. For the calculation as at 31 December 2013 
the average price of Brent crude was assumed to be $105 / bbl  
in 2014, $100 / bbl in 2015, $95 / bbl in 2016 and constant  
$90 / bbl thereafter. It has been assumed that the oil sold from 
the Syrian production is sold at a 12% discount to Brent. The gas 
prices are linked, through the PSC, to oil prices.
Entitlement reserves in the US represent the Group’s estimated net 
revenue interest reserves after deduction of the equivalent share of 
hydrocarbon production attributable to state production taxes and 
overriding royalty interests.
Contingent Resources
Contingent Resources are those quantities of petroleum estimated, 
as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from known 
accumulations by the application of development projects, but 
are not currently considered to be commercially recoverable due 
to one or more contingencies. Contingent Resources are further 
categorised by the SPE into 1C, 2C and 3C according to the level 
of uncertainty associated with the estimates: these categories 
correspond broadly to the Proved, Proved and Probable, and 
Proved, Probable and Possible categorisations for reserves. 
In accordance with the 2007 SPE PRMS, a guideline risk factor 
should be stated associated with the resources quoted for each 
category; the risk factor indicates the likelihood that the Group 
will ultimately commercially develop the resource. The risk factor 
considers all technical and non-technical factors that are impacting 
or are likely to impact on the likelihood of development, and is 
termed the “Chance of Development”. 
The Al Khairat oil discovery in Syria Block 26 is assessed to have 
a Chance of Development of 30% or 60% (2012: 50%). A future 
development of this oil discovery is now considered to be a 
certainty, based on the highly-positive results obtained during 
the drilling, logging and testing of the discovery well, favourable 
estimations of field size based on 3D seismic data and offset well 
data, and strongly favourable current and forward commercial 
conditions for development. 
However, owing to EU sanctions, Commercial Approval to develop 
has yet to be sought from the authorities. The contractual status 
of the Al Khairat discovery post sanctions therefore is subject to 
uncertainty. The authorities have stated in writing their expectation 
that the Group will ultimately develop the field, hence the Chance of 
Development is now set at 60% (2012: 50%). 
Development of Moroccan Contingent gas resources is dependent 
on further successful drilling in the area of these discoveries to 
enhance the commercial viability of these fields. 
The Chance of Development for the Beni Fdal gas discovery is 
assessed at 20%. The discovery is proximal to an existing gas 
export pipeline, and 3D seismic data exists across the area that 
would aid identification of further drilling locations. 
The Chance of Development for the Douar Nouaoura gas discovery 
is assessed to be lower, at 10%. This discovery requires the 
installation of a ~20 km tie-in line for gas production to connect to 
the nearest existing gas pipeline network. Also, further drilling in this 
area would most likely need to be supported by the acquisition of 
3D seismic data, which is not currently planned. 
Summary of Contingent Resources
Unrisked working interest basis
As at 31 December 2013  
Constituent 1C 2C 3C
Risk factor 
(Chance of  
development)
Syria Block 26 
(Working interest 50%)
 Al Khairat discovery Oil, mmbbl 2.9 12.0 45.7 30%
Morocco Rharb Centre permit 
(Working interest 75%)
 Beni Fdal discovery Sales Gas, bcf 0.3 0.7 1.9 20%
 Douar Nouaoura discovery Sales Gas, bcf 0.4 1.3 4.3 10%
Total, mmboe
 (2)
0.1 0.3 1.0
Risked working interest basis
Syria Block 26 mmboe 0.9 3.6 13.7
Morocco Rharb Centre mmboe
 (2)
0.0 0.0 0.1
Total mmboe
 (2)
0.9 3.6 13.8
(2) Gas is converted to mmboe at the conversion factor 1 bcf = 0.1667 mmboe.
NB Certain figures may not add up due to roundings.  Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  27
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Prospective Resources
Prospective Resources are those quantities of petroleum 
estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from 
undiscovered accumulations. They are further categorised by the 
2007 SPE PRMS into Low, Best and High estimates. The quoted 
Low, Best and High estimates are the 90% probability (“P90”), 50% 
probability (“P50”) and 10% probability (“P10”) values respectively 
derived from probabilistic estimates generated using a ”Monte 
Carlo” statistical approach; SPE PRMS recommends these values 
for use in corporate reporting. 
Resources from separate prospects / leads located in a given 
permit area or play type are commonly arithmetically summed 
together; this summation approach is recommended under PRMS 
guidelines. The approach does not take account of prospect / lead 
dependencies, hence it typically results in conservative low case 
and optimistic high case totals.
In accordance with the 2007 SPE PRMS, a guideline risk 
assessment should be provided associated with the Prospective 
Resources quoted for Low, Best and High estimate categories.  
The risk assessment here is the Chance of Discovery; the additional 
risk assessment relating to the Chance of Development is not 
normally quantified at this level of resource classification. 
A large number of leads and prospects have been identified on 
the Group’s Moroccan acreage. Seismic data has been acquired 
in 2013 on Rharb Centre and Fes permits and interpretation work 
is currently in progress to define a number of drillable targets for 
drilling during 2014-15. 
In the Rharb Centre permit the play consists of gas in thin Miocene 
sandstones, and resources have been estimated for 18 separate 
leads and prospects based on either legacy 2D seismic data or 3D 
seismic data acquired during 2013. The Chance of Discovery is 
assessed to be in a medium to high range across these leads and 
prospect, typically between 30% and 50%.
In the Fes permit the primary play consists of oil or gas in Jurassic 
carbonates, and resources have been estimated for nine separate 
leads based on a combination of legacy 2D swath seismic data 
and full tensor gravity data acquired from an airborne survey. 
Exploration work in this permit is of a more frontier nature than in 
the Rharb Centre permit; the Chance of Discovery is assessed to 
be in a low to medium range across these leads, and will require 
further analysis to quantify it.
Prospective resources have been evaluated for prospects identified 
on the Group’s Tunisia onshore Chorbane permit. The Sidi Agareb 
(SAG) prospect is considered prospective for oil in several horizons 
contained with the Eocene to Upper Cretaceous carbonates, whilst 
the Lafaya Deep and Sidi Daher Deep prospects are considered 
prospective for gas in Jurassic muddy carbonates. The Chance of 
Discovery has been assessed for these prospects to lie in a range 
between 9% and 25%. 
Summary of Prospective Resources
Unrisked working interest basis
As at 31 December 2013  
Constituent Low Best High
Risk factor 
(Chance of  
discovery)
Morocco Rharb Centre permit 
(Working interest 75%)
 Upper Miocene leads / prospects Sales Gas, bcf 7 21 46 Medium‑High
Morocco Fes permit 
(Working interest 50%)
 Jurassic leads Oil and Sales Gas, mmboe
 (2)
21 478 2,250 Low‑Medium
Morocco total  mmboe
 (2)
22 482 2,258
Tunisia Chorbane permit  
(Working interest 100%)
 Sidi Agareb prospect 
 Eocene / Upper Cretaceous Oil, mmbbl 8 27 63 9%‑25%
 Lafaya Deep & Sidi Daher prospects 
 Jurassic leads Sales Gas, bcf 21 103 398 11%
Tunisia total  mmboe
 (2)
12 44 129
(2) Gas is converted to mmboe at the conversion factor 1 bcf = 0.1667 mmboe.
NB Certain figures may not add up due to roundings. 28 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Accordingly, while we are still in the planning stage of our CSR 
strategy for each of these countries, we are focusing our efforts 
on assisting various national and local organisations to develop 
and implement education, health and employment programmes 
that address issues affecting women and children and the 
disadvantaged members of society. 
While our planning of these CSR activities might have only 
commenced during 2013, despite the well publicised security 
difficulties in Syria, we nevertheless managed to continue our work 
with a number of the local Syrian organisations with which we have 
worked in the past.
We have again been supported in these efforts by our Block 26 
partners, Sinochem and together with the tireless assistance of 
our loyal staff located in Damascus and Beirut, and the many 
Damascus based volunteers who continue to support these 
important organisations, we have found sometimes innovative 
ways to continue most of the important programmes that we have 
supported in prior years.
Notwithstanding the obvious constraints on our ability to fund 
deserving CSR activities, we nevertheless managed to provide 
modest support for a number of worthy projects in Damascus 
and the north east region of Syria where our Khurbet East and 
Yousefieh projects remain suspended and under the watchful care 
of our staff and members of the local Kurdish community.
With the co-operation of several pharmaceutical suppliers in 
Europe and Lebanon, we were again able to secure critical supplies 
of oncology pharmaceutical supplies to enable the continued 
treatment of the young cancer patients at the Al Buruni Hospital 
in Damascus, the BASMA sponsored paediatric oncology unit, 
which remains Syria’s only facility providing critical oncology care 
to young patients. 
Corporate Social Responsibility
With the Group having taken on the operatorship of projects in 
Morocco, Colombia and Tunisia during 2013, our experience with 
the successful development and implementation of Corporate and 
Social Responsibility (“CSR”) initiatives in Syria has provided us with 
a useful blueprint for the development of similar programmes for the 
communities in these countries. Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  29
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
As local security issues disrupted active field work at the Tell Mozan 
project near Qamishli, the largest city within Block 26, our financial 
support for this project of national and international historical 
significance was utilised to enable a number of Syrian academics 
and students working on the project but now temporarily based in 
Europe and the US, to continue their important work on developing 
the authoritative academic record of the discoveries made at this 
project in recent years. 
While many important archaeology projects and antiquity 
collections at museums across Syria are reported to have suffered 
terrible ransacking and structural damage, remarkably, the Tell 
Mozan project and in particular the Urkesh Palace within this 
archaeology site which is believed to have been the original home 
of the Hurrian Kings of Syria and built in circa 2250BC, has been 
protected from damage by weather and remains safe and secure 
due to the dedicated efforts of a large group of local volunteers 
coordinated by Professor Giorgio Buccellati of the International 
Institute for Mesopotamian Area Studies (IIAMS). 
Further details about this important work and the Gulfsands Urkesh 
Exploration Fund can be viewed at www.urkesh.org. 
Initial results following the commencement of work by Dr Jane 
Moon and her colleagues from Manchester University working 
on the Tell Khaiber archaeology project near to the ancient city of 
Ur, near Nasiriyah, in Thi Qar province, southern Iraq have been 
quite astonishing with a large number of discoveries of historic 
significance. Further details on Gulfsands’ support for this project of 
archaeological significance can be viewed at www.urarchaeology.org.
The Board of Directors considers these deserving projects provide 
an important point of reference for our organisation and reflect our 
respect for the communities and governments of the countries in 
which we operate. Accordingly, we expect to further build on our 
present record during the coming year. 30 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Gulfsands made significant progress during 2013 in reducing its 
operating cost base resulting in a substantially lower operating 
cash outflow of $7.9 million (2012: $14.2 million). This reduction 
reflects a concerted and continuing campaign to reduce 
general administrative expenses whilst maintaining the Group’s 
operational capacity. The Group is now Operator in Morocco, 
Tunisia and Colombia, as well as in respect of its Syrian interests, 
allowing recovery of, and capitalisation of, elements of its 
operational overhead.
During the year, Gulfsands completed its acquisition of Cabre 
Maroc Limited. The results of Cabre Maroc Limited have been 
included from 16 January 2013, being the date on which the Group 
gained control of the entity. 
The Group continues to value its investment in its Syrian interest 
at $102 million. See note 4.2 of the Financial Statements.
Total cash and bank resources
 (2)
 totalled $52.9 million at 
31 December 2013 (31 December 2012: $98.8 million) inclusive 
of $33.8 million (31 December 2012: $91.0 million) of cash and 
cash equivalents and $19.1 million of restricted cash balances 
(31 December 2012: $7.8 million).
 > Substantially lower operating 
cash flow of $7.9 million.
 > Total bank and cash 
resources of $52.9 million 
at 31 December 2013.
 > Accrued capital expenditure 
in 2013 of $49.2 million.
Progress in 2013
Gulfsands made significant progress during 2013 in reducing its 
operating cost base resulting in a substantially lower operating 
cash outflow of $7.9 million (2012: $14.2 million). Costs and 
management of cash resources continue to be a primary focus.
Financial Review
Selected operational and financial data
  Year ended  Year ended 
 31 December 2013 31 December 2012
Production: net revenue interest (“NRI”) (boepd) 175  239
 $’ 000 $’ 000
Revenue  4,367 5,622
Gross profit / (loss) 182 (1,320)
Total administrative expenses (10,924) (18,375)
Exploration costs written off (12,301) (7,082)
Operating loss (26,331) (26,811)
Net cash used in operating activities  (7,887) (14,178)
E&E cash expenditure including acquisition
 (1)
 (34,405) (7,830)
Decommissioning cash expenditure (2,151) (1,919)
Total cash and bank resources
 (2)
  52,962 98,819
(1) Comprises cash expenditure on E&E assets and cash expenditure on the acquisition of business combinations.
(2) Comprises cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash balances. Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  31
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Operating performance
Average daily NRI production from Gulfsands’ interests in 
the US Gulf of Mexico decreased in 2013 to 175 boepd 
(2012: 239 boepd). This was a result of: a temporary shut in at 
EI 32 while repairs to third party owned pipelines were undertaken, 
repairs at SS 248 “D” platform, intermittent equipment failures 
at the WC 310 platform and natural field production decline. 
Average prices realised in the period for oil were $102.18 per 
barrel (2012: $102.10 per barrel) and $3.79 per mcf of gas 
(2012: $3.20 per mcf of gas). This increase in both gas and 
oil price helped offset the decline in production resulting in a 
$1.2 million decrease in revenues for the year to $4.4 million 
(2012: $5.6 million). Daily average NRI production potential could 
reach 220 boepd in 2014 with all wells back up and running.
US operations provided a gross profit for the year of $0.2 million 
(2012: gross loss $1.3 million). This improvement on 2012 was 
largely due to the fact that $1.1 million costs in excess of provisions 
were incurred in 2012 on decommissioned assets. There have 
been no similar costs incurred this year. 
Total administrative expenses decreased significantly to 
$10.9 million (2012 $18.4 million). This decrease results in part 
from the sustained focus on cost reduction across the Group which 
has meant that even though the Group has acquired new local 
operational offices in the year in Morocco, Tunisia, Lebanon and 
Colombia total costs have still decreased significantly. The cost 
reduction programme has encompassed all areas of general 
and administrative costs. In addition to this programme, during 
2013 the Group substantially changed its business, diversifying 
its exploration opportunities and focusing on operatorship of its 
interests, taking on operatorship of the Tunisian Chorbane permit 
and its Moroccan and Colombian interests. As a result it has been 
able to both recover overhead from partners and capitalise costs 
relating to operational offices. 
Exploration write offs in the year totalled $12.3 million 
(2012: $7.1 million). These consisted of write offs of Tunisian and 
Moroccan expenditures. $3.2 million was written off in respect 
of expenditures attributed to the Kerkouane permit in Tunisia 
after withdrawal from the permit as part of an agreement with 
ADX in December 2013. This was offset by a release of the 
decommissioning provision previously held for the Kerkouane 
assets of $1.0 million as all historic and future obligations 
associated with the Kerkouane interest have been assumed by 
ADX. $10.1 million was written off during 2013 in relation to the 
expenditures and acquisition fair value attributed to the three 
wells drilled on the Rharb Centre permit in Morocco. The drilling 
programme commenced in October 2013. All of these wells were 
determined non-commercial and so were plugged and abandoned. 
Due to a theft at the Qamishli warehouse in Syria in the year a loss 
of $0.7 million of inventory has been recognised. Management 
have not provided for the potential insurance recovery as the 
claims process has not yet been concluded and Management 
are not virtually certain of its recovery. Management have decided 
to fully provide against the remaining Syrian inventory balance of 
$2.2 million as at 31 December 2013 (2012: $nil) as Gulfsands 
currently do not have full control over and access to the warehouse 
in which the inventory is held due to the imposition of EU sanctions. 
The Group reported a loss before tax for the year of $26.8 million 
(2012: $27.0 million). 
Balance sheet 
Gulfsands has added to its exploration portfolio during the year with 
new exploration permits in Morocco as a result of the acquisition 
of Cabre Maroc Limited and the award of two E&P contracts in 
Colombia. Capital expenditures on exploration and evaluation 
assets have, therefore, increased substantially in the year and 
totalled $46.1 million (2012: $5.0 million) on an accrued basis. 
This included $19.3 million of fair value attributed to the Group’s 
Moroccan interests at acquisition and $2.3 million in respect of 
Gulfsands progressive acquisition of partners’ interests in the 
Chorbane permit in Tunisia.
The most significant capital expenditures in the year were the 
drilling and seismic costs in the Rharb Centre and Fes permits 
in Morocco. Drilling related costs of $5.9 million were incurred 
in respect of the three well drilling programme in Rharb Centre 
which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2013. The 3D seismic 
acquisition for Rharb was completed in 2013 with processing 
continuing into 2014. Seismic related costs for Rharb in 2013 
totalled $4.9 million. The 2D seismic acquisition for the Fes area 
commenced in 2013 and continued into 2014. The 2013 seismic 
related costs for Fes totalled $5.5 million. As noted above, as a 
result of a change in the Group’s business with the acquisition of 
new operatorships in Morocco, Tunisia and Colombia, $5.3 million 
of costs associated with offices which are operational in nature 
have been capitalised and attributed to related exploration assets. 
The Group’s producing oil and gas assets were held at a net book 
value of $12.4 million (2012: $13.2 million). Movements consisted 
of $2.5 million of capital expenditure, offset by $1.3 million 
depletion charge and $1.9 million reduction in decommissioning 
cost estimates, as discussed in more detail below. The capital 
expenditures represented the Group’s participation in development 
operations on four wells in the Gulf of Mexico US to access 
booked reserves. 
Decommissioning provisions have decreased to $13.2 million 
(2012: $17.7 million) principally as a result of decommissioning 
expenditures of $2.2 million on US properties in 2013, a change in 
decommissioning estimates of $1.9 million on the US properties still 
to be decommissioned and a release of the $1.0 million provision 
held for the Kerkouane assets after withdrawing from the permit at 
the end of 2013. 
The fair value of the Group’s net investment in DPC remains 
unchanged at $102.0 million: the Board having concluded that 
there have been no significant changes in the period to the key 
judgements and estimates that underpin that valuation, as further 
explained in note 4.2 of the Financial Statements. 
Whilst trade and other receivables and trade and other 
payables have both reduced consequent to the review of Syrian 
balances, payables still increased due to the increased activity in 
Morocco with Moroccan payable balances of $12.6 million as at 
31 December 2013.  32 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Financial Review continued
Cash flow
Operating cash outflow was substantially reduced in the year to 
$7.9 million (2012: $14.2 million) largely as a consequence of cost 
reductions.
Net cash used in investing activities increased to $49.2 million 
(2012: $19.1 million) mainly reflecting the $17.1 million paid in 
respect of the Cabre Maroc acquisition in 2013, $5.0 million of 
additional letters of credit posted with the Moroccan authorities in 
respect of interests acquired, $3.2 million of letters of credit posted 
with the Colombian authorities in respect of interests awarded and 
$17.3 million of exploration and evaluation expenditure.
The total decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the year 
was $57.2 million (2012: $33.3 million).
Business combination
On 16 January 2013 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital 
of Cabre Maroc Limited and its results have been included from this 
date. Provisional amounts for the identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed were recognised at the date of acquisition and 
published in the 2013 Interim report. In line with IFRS 3 Business 
Combinations, adjustments to these provisional amounts have 
been made within the twelve month ‘measurement period’ as 
new information was obtained about facts and circumstances that 
were in existence at the acquisition date. Further information on 
the fair values reported are provided in note 4.3 of the Financial 
Statements. 
Financial position
The Group had total cash and bank resources of $52.9 million 
(31 December 2012: $98.8 million) inclusive of cash and 
cash equivalents at 31 December 2013 of $33.8 million 
(31 December 2012: $91.0 million) of which approximately 
$27.3 million was held in Money Market Funds with EU financial 
institutions, and a further $2.7 million was held in accounts with 
banks in the UK and US.
Restricted cash balances at 31 December 2013 totalled 
$19.1 million (31 December 2012: $7.8 million) representing 
funds securitised as collateral in respect of future work obligations 
– principally in respect of the Group’s Moroccan interests. These 
funds will be released to the Group as work programmes are 
completed with $2.5 million funded by, and to be repaid to, 
Caithness Petroleum, the former parent of Cabre Maroc Limited. 
Going concern
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the going 
concern basis which has been approved by the Board. The basis 
on which the Board has reached this decision is as follows: 
The Group maintains rolling cash flow forecasts for the forward 
three year period which are reviewed regularly by the Board of 
Directors. These cash flows reflect the Group’s net share of all 
exploration contract work obligations, as summarised in note 6.5, 
and the contract term over which the applicable commitment for 
each capital project is required to be performed.
The Group’s processes require that each project is routinely 
reviewed to confirm that it continues to meet the Group’s criteria 
for further investment; a process that considers the exploration 
contract term, the prospective value of the project, as well as 
the required financial investment to determine the schedule on 
which any particular project can or should be performed and the 
appropriate financial and commercial resources (“resources”) for 
completion of the project – whether from current resources or 
new sources.
Gulfsands has added to its exploration portfolio during the 
year with new exploration permits in Morocco as a result of the 
acquisition of Cabre Maroc Limited and the award of two E&P 
contracts in Colombia.  Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  33
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Following a review of all available information, the Board has 
concluded that the Company and the Group have sufficient 
resources to cover their minimum expenditure requirements, 
including licence commitments, over the forthcoming year 
and indeed that there is further potential to reduce the Group’s 
cost base. 
The Board recognises that for additional projects, being 
expenditures on projects and other activities beyond the Group’s 
minimum expenditure requirements, additional resources or 
restructuring of commitments will be required. Based upon its 
experience and discussions with potential investors, debt providers 
and industry partners, the Board is confident that the Group will 
be able to access appropriate resources for approved additional 
projects or as otherwise required on a timely basis.
Sources of additional resources may include asset farm-out or 
similar risk-sharing arrangements, further direct investment in 
the Company itself or corporate arrangements that may bring 
resources into the Company and / or the Group in the form 
of debt or equity or any combination thereof. The Board is 
currently pursuing discussions on all of these alternatives in order 
to maximise its options and the value attributable to existing 
shareholders. 
However, as required by FRC guidance, the Directors have been 
required to conclude that at this time, there is material uncertainty 
that such additional resources can be procured. Failure to procure 
appropriate resources would require the Group to restructure its 
work and expenditure commitments and might cast significant 
doubt upon the Company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern and that the Company and the Group may therefore 
be unable to realise their assets and discharge their liabilities in the 
normal course of business. Such scenario could impact upon the 
carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets, as 
disclosed in note 2.3, and on the recoverability of certain restricted 
cash amounts, as disclosed in note 3.2, held in escrow to support 
guarantees of performance of minimum work obligations. 
Following completion of its review at the meeting of the Board 
of Directors on 1 April 2014, and taking into account the 
uncertainties described above, the Board has concluded that, 
with total consolidated cash and bank resources at the date of 
this report of approximately $40.0 million, inclusive of $21.0 million 
of consolidated cash and cash equivalents, and taking into 
account new financial resources that the Board might reasonably 
expect to become available to the Company and the Group, the 
Company and the Group have sufficient resources to continue 
in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period not 
less than twelve months from the date of approval of this Annual 
Report. Accordingly, the Directors consider it appropriate to 
continue to adopt the “going concern basis” in preparing these 
Financial Statements.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 
3 April 2014.
Mahdi Sajjad
Chief Executive Officer
3 April 2014
This Strategic Report has been prepared solely to provide additional 
information to shareholders to assess the Company’s strategies and 
the potential for those strategies to succeed.
The Strategic Report contains certain forward-looking statements. 
These statements are made by the Directors in good faith based on 
the information available to them up to the time of their approval of this 
report and such statements should be treated with caution due to the 
inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, 
underlying any such forward-looking information. 
The Directors, in preparing this Strategic Report, have been guided 
by the requirements of section 414c of the Companies Act 2006. The 
report has been prepared for the Group as a whole and therefore gives 
emphasis to those matters which are significant to the Group as a whole.
Cautionary statement 34 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Board of Directors
Andrew West 
Non‑Executive Chairman
Andrew West a British subject and resident, became Chairman of Gulfsands in July 2006. 
An investment banker specialising in mergers and acquisitions by career, Andrew has worked 
for Smith Barney (1981-85), Lehman Brothers (1985-90), Guinness Mahon (1990-97) and from 
1997-99 was Managing Director of Strand Partners, a privately-owned investment banking 
firm specialising inter alia in energy and natural resources. For the past twelve years he has run 
his own consultancy practice. Andrew is currently a Non-Executive Director of or adviser to 
numerous companies, both public and private, and has had considerable experience as both 
a financial adviser and a Non-Executive Director in the oil and gas sector.
Mahdi Sajjad 
Chief Executive Officer and President
Educated in the UK, Mahdi Sajjad worked from 1981-88 with a consortium of British companies 
marketing products and engineering services in the Middle East and Africa. In 1988, he joined 
International Development Corporation in Dubai as a Senior Executive and later as Managing 
Director whilst also serving during the same period through to 1995 as a Director of Oil & 
Minerals Development Corporation. Mahdi has also established, as a founder shareholder and 
financier, a number of companies with interests in the Middle East in different industry sectors 
but with particular emphasis on the energy and mining sectors. Mahdi joined Gulfsands in 1998 
and became President of Gulfsands in April 2005 and Chief Executive Officer in April 2013.
Ken Judge 
Commercial Director
Ken Judge is a corporate lawyer with extensive business management and corporate 
development experience having held numerous public company directorships in a number of 
sectors including technology, mining and oil and gas with companies established in Australia, 
the UK, US, Brazil, Argentina, Canada and the Philippines. Ken has also been engaged in the 
establishment or corporate development of oil and gas, mining and technology companies 
in the UK, Middle East, US, Australia, Europe, Canada, Latin America and South East Asia. 
Ken has undergraduate and post-graduate degrees in Commerce, Jurisprudence and Laws 
from the University of Western Australia and was awarded an Order of Australia Medal in 1984. 
Ken became a Director of Gulfsands in October 2006.
Alan Cutler 
Director – Finance and Administration
Alan Cutler is British citizen and a Chartered Accountant. He holds a Business Studies degree 
and was admitted to the ICAEW in 1985. He has subsequently gained over 28 years of 
experience in the upstream oil and gas business, including senior finance positions at LASMO plc 
in London, Pakistan and Libya, and also at Intrepid Energy, Sterling Energy and most recently as 
Finance Director at Setanta Energy, a West Africa-focused subsidiary of Aker ASA. Alan joined 
Gulfsands in June 2013 and became a Director in September 2013. Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  35
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Joe Darby 
Senior Independent Non‑Executive Director
Joe Darby has over 40 years of experience in the energy sector, including eight years with 
Shell Petroleum before becoming Managing Director of Thomson North Sea Ltd. Joe has held 
a number of senior roles, including Chief Executive with LASMO plc. Joe is a Non-Executive 
Director of Alkane Energy plc and Premier Oil, and has held non-executive roles at Nordaq 
Energy plc, British Nuclear Fuels plc, Mowlem plc and Centurion Energy Inc. Joe was 
Chairman of Mowlem plc (2005-06) and Faroe Petroleum plc (2003-07). Joe became a 
Non-Executive Director of Gulfsands in November 2012 and is the Group’s senior independent 
Non-Executive Director.
David Cowan 
Non‑Executive Director
A partner with McMillan LLP David Cowan practices primarily in the area of corporate and 
securities law. He represents numerous publicly traded companies and has worked with the 
British Columbia provincial government. David is a past Chairman of both the Securities and 
Natural Resources subsections of the British Columbia branch of the Canadian Bar Association, 
and the National Natural Resources subsection of the Canadian Bar Association. David has 
served as a member of the Securities Policy Advisory Committee to the British Columbia 
Securities Commission and is a frequent lecturer for the Continuing Legal Education Society 
of British Columbia. David’s Middle East region experience includes ventures in Syria, Iraq and 
Algeria. David holds an LLB from the University of British Columbia (1979). David became a 
Director of Gulfsands in February 2006.
Michel Faure 
Non‑Executive Director
Michel Faure joined the Royal Dutch Shell Group in 1977, an engagement continuing for over 
30 years until his recent retirement. While with Shell, Michel held numerous senior positions 
in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, including engagements such as Country Chairman 
and Chief Executive of Shell’s affiliates in Tunisia, Morocco and until 2011, Saudi Arabia. 
These responsibilities give him a broad perspective and depth of experience in managing 
petroleum operations and government relationships in diverse cultural environments. Michel 
has been a board member of a wide range of National Industry Associations and International 
Chambers of Businesses / Commerce. Michel has Masters degrees in Chemical Engineering 
(France) and Business Administration (US) and is now a consultant to industry on energy 
strategy and business development. Michel became a Director of Gulfsands in May 2013. 36 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Directors present their Annual Report together with the audited 
Financial Statements of Gulfsands Petroleum plc and its subsidiary 
undertakings (the “Group” or the “Company” or “Gulfsands”) for 
the year ended 31 December 2013. The Corporate Governance 
Statement, Audit Committee Report and Directors’ Remuneration 
Report set out on pages 38 to 44 also form part of this report.
At the date of this report there have been no significant events 
since the balance sheet date, however an indication of likely future 
developments in the business of the Group are included in the 
Strategic Report on pages 6 to 33.
Dividends
The Directors do not recommend payment of a dividend in respect 
of 2013 (2012: nil). 
Capital structure
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with 
details of the movements in the Company’s issued share capital 
during the year are set out in note 6.1 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The Company has one class of ordinary shares which 
carry no right to fixed income. Each share carries the right to one 
vote at general meetings of the Company except for those held as 
treasury shares by the Company. 
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on 
the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general 
provisions of the Articles of Associate and prevailing legislation. 
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of 
the Company’s shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer 
of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 6.1 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
No person has any special rights of control over the Company’s 
share capital and all issued shares except treasury shares 
are fully paid.
Substantial shareholders
The Company has been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting interests 
in its ordinary shares as at 3 April 2014 of 3% shareholders and above: 
      Number of % of shares  
Name      shares in issue
Waterford Finance & Investment Limited     23,184,739 19.01%
Abdul Rahman Mohdabdullah Kayed     11,500,000  9.43%
Schroder Investment Management     10,633,269 8.72%
Nordman Continental S.A.
(1)
      8,685,268  7.12%
Soyuzneftegas Capital Limited      8,369,298  6.86%
Al-Mashrek Global Invest Ltd
 (2) 
     7,000,000  5.74%
Seren Capital Management Limited
 (4)
     6,692,619 5.49%
Hugh Sloan      5,000,000  4.10%
Codelouf Ltd      4,731,689 3.88%
Norges Bank Investment Management     4,190,115 3.43%
Cream Capital Limited
 (4)
      2,000,000 1.64%
Shares held in Treasury by the Company
 (3)
     4,103,355 3.36%
(1) Nordman Continental S.A. is owned by discretionary trusts of which Mr Sajjad’s children are potential beneficiaries.
(2) Voting rights currently suspended.
(3) Not eligible for voting rights.
(4) Companies associated with Richard Griffith.
Directors’ Report Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  37
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Directors and their interests
The Directors who served during the year and their interests in the Company’s shares were as follows: 
 At 31 December 2013  At 31 December 2012
     
    Number of Number  Number  Number 
    ordinary of share of ordinary of share 
    shares options shares options
A West    140,144 — 122,664 1,000,000
M Sajjad
 (1)
    8,732,268 750,000 8,732,268 1,750,000
K Judge
 (2)
    2,616,750 450,000 2,616,750 1,050,000
A Cutler
 (3)
    — — — —
R Malcolm
 (4)
    — — 150,000 2,100,000
D Cowan    491,750 — 491,750 —
J Darby
 (5)
    — — — —
M Faure
 (6)
    — — — —
(1)  The interest for Mr Sajjad disclosed above includes shares held by Nordman Continental S.A., a company owned by a trust of which Mr Sajjad’s children are  
potential beneficiaries.
(2) The interest for Mr Judge disclosed above includes shares held by Hamilton Capital Partners Limited, an associated company of Mr Judge.
(3) Appointed 13 September 2013.
(4) Resigned 10 April 2013.
(5) Appointed 26 November 2012.
(6) Appointed 15 May 2013.
Directors’ interests in transactions
Details of transactions with Directors for the year ended 
31 December 2013 are set out in note 6.3 to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance 
cover, the level of which is reviewed on a regular basis.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Financial 
Statements in accordance with applicable laws and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the 
European Union.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial 
Statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view 
of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit 
or loss of the Group for that year. In preparing those financial 
statements, the Directors are required to:
•	 properly select and apply accounting policies;
•	 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner 
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information;
•	 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to 
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 
and conditions on the Group’s financial position and financial 
performance; and
•	 make an assessment of the Company’s and the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm that the Financial Statements comply with 
the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable 
them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the 
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding 
the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 
of the corporate and financial information included on the 
Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 
the preparation and the dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of disclosure to the auditor
So far as the Directors, at the time of approval of their report, 
are aware:
•	 there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditor is unaware; and
•	 each Director has taken steps that they ought to have taken to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 
establish that the auditor is aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 
with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and that the 
Directors be authorised to fix their remuneration will be put to 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board
Mahdi Sajjad
Chief Executive Officer 
3 April 2014 38 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Gulfsands Petroleum plc is committed to meeting high standards of 
corporate governance. The Directors are committed to maintaining 
throughout the Group the highest standards of business conduct 
and ethics and is committed to prompt and comprehensive 
corporate reporting and disclosure. Although Gulfsands is not 
required to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
(“the Code”), it is the policy of the Board to manage the Company’s 
affairs in accordance with the underlying principles in so far as it is 
appropriate given the circumstances of the Group. The Board has 
chosen to provide selected disclosures in this report that it believes 
are necessary and valuable to the readers. 
The Board of Directors holds scheduled Board Meetings 
approximately six times per year plus such other ad hoc meetings 
as are deemed necessary to deal with urgent business matters.
The Company has established subcommittees of the Board, 
comprising an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee, 
each of which has its own written terms of reference. A copy of 
these terms of reference is available on the Company’s website. 
A detailed schedule of matters reserved for the Board is in place.
The Gulfsands’ Board
Gulfsands’ business is international in scope and carries political, 
commercial and technical risks. Accordingly, particular attention is 
paid to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it 
has wide experience of the sector and regulatory environments in 
which the Group operates and has appropriate financial and risk 
management skills to lead the Group. In each Board appointment, 
the Board considers that objectivity and integrity are prerequisites 
for appointment, as are the skills, experience, ability and diversity 
that will assist the Board in its key functions and decision-making.
The composition of the Board
The Board of Directors currently comprises the Non-Executive 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, two further Executive 
Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. The Company’s 
Executive and Non-Executive Directors come from a variety of 
backgrounds and bring different ideas and perspectives to the 
table that ensure that the Board has the right experience to meet 
business needs. The Company places high importance on having 
an appropriate Board composition with the four Independent 
Non-Executive Directors ensuring that the strategies proposed 
by the Executive Directors are fully considered and appropriately 
challenged. A brief description of each of the Directors’ background 
and experience can be found on pages 34 and 35.
The role of the Board
The Board’s role is to provide leadership of the Group within 
a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables 
risk to be actively monitored and managed. The Board sets the 
Group’s strategic aims and objectives, ensures necessary financial 
and human resources are in place for the Group to meet these 
objectives, reviews management performance and sets the 
Company’s values and standards. The Board’s primary focus is the 
interest of our shareholders and it endeavours to focus on strategic 
issues which will create shareholder value both now and in the 
future. The Board ensures that its obligations to its shareholders 
and others are fully understood and met. All Directors act in what 
they consider to be the best interests of the Group, consistent with 
their statutory duties and obligations to shareholders. 
In order to communicate corporate governance to employees 
across the Group the Board has established a Code of Business 
Conduct and Ethics available on the Company’s website which is 
supported by detailed internal policies and procedures. 
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee Report on pages 42 to 44 includes a 
discussion of the role, structure and composition of the Audit 
Committee, which acts on behalf of the full Board.
Remuneration Committee
The Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 41 includes 
a discussion of the role, structure and composition of the 
Remuneration Committee, which acts on behalf of the full Board.
Directors’ Corporate Governance Report 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  39
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
As noted in the Corporate Governance Report, the Board 
delegates certain of its duties, responsibilities and powers to the 
Remuneration Committee, so that these can receive suitably 
focused attention. However, it acts on behalf of the full Board, and 
the matters reviewed and managed by the Committee remain the 
responsibility of the Board of Directors taken as a whole.
This report has been prepared having regard to sections 473(3) and 
1290 of the Companies Act 2006. The report has been divided into 
separate sections for audited and unaudited information. 
The report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee 
and has been approved by the Board for submission to 
shareholders. 
Unaudited information
Role of the Remuneration Committee
The activities of the Remuneration Committee are governed by 
terms of reference which cover its mandate, its composition, 
the independence and expertise of the members, frequency 
of meetings, and its responsibilities which include: determining 
and developing the remuneration policy and determining the 
remuneration packages of the Executive Board. The terms of 
reference were reviewed in March 2014 and are available on the 
Company’s website.
The authority of the Remuneration Committee derives from 
the Delegation of Board Authority which was last reviewed in 
December 2013. The Remuneration Committee is the Committee 
of the Board responsible for ensuring that the Company’s 
overall reward philosophy is consistent with achievement of the 
Company’s strategic objectives and with the Company’s values.
It is responsible for considering and making recommendations 
to the Board in respect of the remuneration policy for the 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Executive 
Directors. The Committee also has oversight of the remuneration 
arrangements for the direct reports to the Executive Directors, 
the remuneration policy for which is set by the CEO.
Note the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors shall be a matter 
for the Chairman in consultation with the CEO (such fees to be 
determined by the Board itself (Non-Executives not participating in 
the decision).
Composition of the Remuneration Committee
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is David Cowan 
and the other participating members of the Committee are Andrew 
West, Michel Faure and Joe Darby. A brief description of their 
background and experience can be found on pages 34 and 35. 
The varied backgrounds of the Committee’s members, and their 
collective skills, experience and knowledge of the Company, allows 
them to fulfil the Committee’s remit and to oversee the Company’s 
remuneration policy. The Remuneration Committee has the 
power to engage such external advisers as it deems necessary 
to discharge its responsibilities. 
Number of Remuneration Committee 
meetings and attendance
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year and 
during 2013 all members of the Committee attended all meetings. 
Remuneration policy
The policy of the Group is to remunerate Directors and employees 
by a combination of salary, annual bonus and share-based 
awards. Bands are established for Directors and the various 
different seniority levels of employee which define the range of 
potential bonus and share-based awards relative to the Director’s 
or employee’s salary. The level of award within the applicable band 
is determined by a combination of the Group’s performance and 
an assessment of the individual’s performance during the previous 
year, together with an assessment of the relative importance 
of the employee to the Group. Formal assessments are made 
annually of each employee’s performance and goals are set for the 
coming year.
The policy, which was reviewed in 2011 by Hewitt New Bridge 
Street, the Company’s remuneration consultants, is aimed at 
providing Company Directors with variable remuneration, including 
on-target bonuses and share-based awards, of approximately 50% 
of their aggregate remuneration. A detailed benchmarking exercise 
was undertaken by the same consultants in 2013 to compare 
remuneration of both Directors and other staff with their equivalent 
peers in other independent oil and gas companies.
The annual bonus scheme provides bonuses up to 100% of base 
salary for Directors. In the past, awards were entirely discretionary 
based upon performance during the year. Bonus payments were 
made in 2013 in respect of performance in 2012 to two Directors 
as shown in the table on page 40. No bonus payments are to be 
made to Directors in respect of 2013 in view of the disappointing 
share price performance.
There are two share-based plans in operation, a Share Option 
Plan and a Restricted Share Plan. In the past, the Share Option 
Plan was reserved for Directors and senior management while 
other employees received awards under the Restricted Share 
Plan. However, there is no reason why both schemes cannot be 
used for all members of staff. All awards since 2009 had vesting 
periods of two years; the majority of awards prior to 2009 had no 
specified vesting period. In general, past awards have not specified 
performance conditions. No share awards were made to Directors 
in either 2012 or 2013 in view of the imposition of sanctions on 
Syria which has led to a sharp fall in the Company’s share price. 
As a result of the latter, a considerable number of options which 
were awarded to Directors in prior years lapsed in 2013.
For 2014, it is proposed to offer annual bonuses to Directors up to 
100% of base salary subject to achieving challenging operational 
and financial performance criteria. It is also intended to make 
share based awards to Directors which will provide an incentive 
to develop the business on a broader front to complement 
our business in Syria which we hope to return to in the future. 
With respect to both bonuses and share-based awards the 
remuneration policy allows the flexibility to make exceptional 
awards for exceptional performance at the discretion of the 
Remuneration Committee.
The Company provides life assurance cover and medical insurance 
cover for substantially all staff. There is no Company pension 
scheme and the Company does not make any contribution to 
individual employee pension schemes. 
Directors’ Remuneration Report 
for the year ended 31 December 2013 40 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Directors’ Remuneration Report continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Audited information
Remuneration of Directors
The remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 was as follows:
 Annual remuneration ($’000)
 Salary and fees  Bonuses  Benefits in kind Total
       
  2013  2012  2013  2012  2013 2012  2013  2012
A West
 (1)
  235 238 —  —  — — 235 238
M Sajjad  636 622 152  —  24 21 812 643
K Judge
 (2)
  504 350 320  —  — — 824 350
A Cutler
 (3)
  97 — — —  5 — 102 —
R Malcolm
 (4)
  992 555 — —  4 2 996 557
A Rose
 (5)
  — 254 — —  — 1 — 255
D Cowan
 (1)
  78 80 — — — — 78 80
J Darby
 (1,6)
  94 10 — — — — 94 10
M Faure
 (1,7)
  37 — — — — — 37 —
   2,673 2,109 472 — 33 24 3,178 2,133
(1) Non-Executive Director.
(2) Paid to Hamilton Capital Partners Limited, a company with which Mr Judge is associated. Consulting fees payable were increased in 2013 to reflect the increased time 
committed to the Company’s international activities and the scope and complexity of those activities. 
(3) Appointed 13 September 2013.
(4) Resigned 10 April 2013. Salaries and fees in 2013 included $837,815 compensation for loss of office. 
(5) Resigned 30 April 2012. Salaries and fees in 2012 included $109,000 compensation for loss of office.
(6) Appointed 26 November 2012.
(7) Appointed 15 May 2013.
In addition to the remuneration shown the Group incurred share-based payment charges of $180,950 (2012: $975,000) in respect of the 
above named Directors relating to options granted in prior years. Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  41
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Share options
The interests of the Directors in options over the Company’s shares are set out in the table below:
 Number of options      
  At    At Exercise Date from 
 1 January   Lapsed / 31 December price which 
 2013 Exercised relinquished 2013 (£) exercisable Expiry date
A West 1,000,000  —  (1,000,000)  —   1.88  13/05/2008 12/05/2013
M Sajjad
 (1)
 1,000,000  —  (1,000,000)  —   1.88  13/05/2008 12/05/2013
  250,000  —  — 250,000   3.20  04/05/2011 03/05/2015
  250,000  —  — 250,000   3.20  04/05/2012 03/05/2015
  125,000  —  —  125,000   2.35  03/06/2012 02/06/2016
 125,000 —  —  125,000 2.35 03/06/2013 02/06/2016
K Judge 600,000  — (600,000)  —   1.88  13/05/2008 12/05/2013
  150,000  —  —  150,000   3.20  04/05/2011 03/05/2015
  150,000  —  —  150,000   3.20  04/05/2012 03/05/2015
  75,000  —  —  75,000   2.35  03/06/2012 02/06/2016
 75,000 —  —  75,000 2.35 03/06/2013 02/06/2016
R Malcolm 600,000  —  (600,000)  —   1.86  15/10/2008 14/10/2013
  375,000  —  (375,000)  —   1.86  15/10/2009 14/10/2013
  375,000  —  (375,000)  —   1.86  15/10/2010 14/10/2013
  250,000  —  (250,000)  —   3.20  04/05/2011 03/05/2015
  250,000  —  (250,000)  —   3.20  04/05/2012 03/05/2015
  125,000  —  (125,000)  —   2.35  03/06/2012 02/06/2016
 125,000 —  (125,000) — 2.35 03/06/2013 02/06/2016
D Cowan 400,000  —  (400,000) —   1.88  13/05/2008 12/05/2013
(1) Share option details shown above include options granted to Nordman Continental S.A., a company owned by discretionary trusts of which Mr Sajjad’s children are 
potential beneficiaries.
All other Directors held no share options at 31 December 2012 or 2013.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 April 2014.
David Cowan
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
3 April 2014 42 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
The Committee, which reports to and advises the Board, 
comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company. 
It is the Board’s view that the membership meets the requirement 
for recent and relevant financial experience. 
During 2013, three meetings were held which were also attended 
by the Director – Finance and Administration and by other Directors 
and members of staff who had input relevant to the meeting 
agendas. 
As far as reporting was concerned, attention focused mainly 
upon the value of the Company’s assets in Syria, the accounting 
treatment for the acquisition of Cabre Maroc, the carrying values 
for tangible and intangible assets, and the ‘going concern’ basis 
for reporting. In addition, the Committee reviewed the Company’s 
internal control and risk management processes, and the key risks 
to which the Company is exposed. The terms of reference of the 
Committee were reviewed and updated, and the relationship with, 
and performance of, the external auditor was evaluated.
After consultation with the external auditor following the full year 
audit, the Committee advised the Board that in its view the Annual 
Report and Financial Statements for 2013 are a true and fair 
reflection of the Company’s and the Group’s performance and 
position at year end, and provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to understand the Company and make their own 
assessments. 
As noted in the Corporate Governance Report, the Board 
delegates certain of its duties, responsibilities and powers to the 
Audit Committee, so that these can receive suitably focused 
attention. However, it acts on behalf of the full Board, and the 
matters reviewed and managed by the Committee remain the 
responsibility of the Board of Directors taken as a whole.
Composition of the Audit Committee
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Joe Darby and the other 
participating members of the Committee are Andrew West, Michel 
Faure and David Cowan. A brief description of their background 
and experience can be found on pages 34 and 35. The varied 
backgrounds of the Committee’s members, and their collective 
skills, experience and knowledge of the Company, allows them to 
fulfil the Committee’s remit and to oversee the Company’s auditor.
The Audit Committee invites Executive Directors, and other relevant 
staff as it wishes, to attend Audit Committee meetings although 
none attend as of right. For the annual results the independent 
external auditor is invited to attend the meeting and discuss the 
conclusions arising from their audit and their assessment of the 
Group’s internal controls. 
The Audit Committee has the power to engage such external 
advisers as it deems necessary to discharge its responsibilities. 
Role of the Audit Committee
The activities of the Audit Committee are governed by terms 
of reference which cover its mandate, its composition, the 
independence and expertise of the members, frequency of 
meetings, and its responsibilities which include oversight of the 
external audit function, risk management, internal controls, financial 
reporting, and the provision by the auditor of non-audit services. 
The terms of reference were last updated in March 2014 and can 
be found on the Company’s website. 
The authority of the Audit Committee derives from the Delegation 
of Board Authority which was last reviewed in December 2013. 
As further set out in the terms of reference, the primary duties of 
the Audit Committee are: 
•	 to review and consider the integrity of the Company’s Financial 
Statements and regulatory announcements;
•	 to keep under review the effectiveness of the Company’s 
internal controls;
•	 to provide the Board with an independent assessment of the 
Group’s accounting affairs and financial position;
•	 to regularly review the Company’s risk management processes 
and the risks to which the Company is exposed;
•	 to oversee the relationship with the external auditor;
•	 to review the Company’s whistle-blowing processes; and
•	 to report to the Board on how the Audit Committee has 
discharged its responsibilities.
Audit Committee Report Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013  43
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Activities of the Audit Committee during the year 
The work of the Audit Committee in the financial year 2013 principally fell under three main areas and is summarised below:
Accounting and financial reporting Internal controls and risk External auditors
•	 Reviewed the interim year and annual 
Financial Statements and the significant 
financial reporting judgements.
•	 Considered the liquidity risk and basis 
for preparing the Company and the 
Group interim and annual accounts on 
a going concern basis and reviewed the 
related disclosures in the Annual Report 
and Accounts.
•	 Reviewed an accounting matters 
update, including consideration of 
relevant accounting standards and 
underlying assumptions.
•	 Reviewed disclosures in the Annual 
Report and Accounts in relation to 
internal controls, risk management, 
principal risks and uncertainties and the 
work of the Audit Committee.
•	 Approved the Group accounting 
policies.
•	 Considered reports from the external 
auditors on their assessment of the 
control environment.
•	 Considered reports addressing the 
effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control environment.
•	 Reviewed periodic management 
accounts and cash and going concern 
forecasts prepared by Management.
•	 Considered and approved the structure, 
scope of cover and renewal terms of the 
Group’s insurance programme.
•	 Reviewed reports generated from the 
Group’s risk management process and 
considered the key risks facing the 
Group and strategies for mitigation.
•	 Reviewed the Board Delegation of 
Authorities document.
•	 Considered and approved the audit 
approach and scope of the audit work 
to be undertaken by the external auditor 
and the fees for the same.
•	 Reviewed the auditor’s reports on 
audit findings.
•	 Considered and approved letters 
of representation issued to the 
external auditor.
•	 Considered the independence of the 
auditor and their effectiveness taking 
into account:
•	 non-audit work undertaken by the 
external auditor and compliance with 
the policy; and
•	 the Committee’s own assessment.
Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee
Fair value of investment in Dijla Petroleum company 
(see note 4.2 to the Financial Statements) 
Following loss of joint control over DPC in 2011, the Company 
has valued its investment in that entity at fair value. This value 
represents a significant element of the Group’s net assets and 
is subject to significant uncertainty. The Committee reviewed 
the valuation model, the assumptions under-pinning the model 
including the risking assumptions and the resulting valuation in 
the context of previous valuations and current circumstances. 
The Committee concluded that, in all the circumstances, 
it remained appropriate to retain a valuation of $102 million for 
the investment whilst EU Sanctions are ongoing. The Committee 
has also concluded that disclosures within this Report are fair 
and appropriate.
 
Accounting for and disclosure of the acquisition  
of Cabre Maroc Limited
(see note 4.3 to the Financial Statements)
On 16 January 2013, the Group completed the acquisition 
of Cabre Maroc Limited which, with cash consideration of 
$17.3 million, is a material acquisition for the Group. Under IFRS 
rules the accounting for the acquisition is required to be finalised in 
the 2013 Annual Report. Key areas of consideration were the fair 
values of current assets and liabilities acquired, the requirement 
for well decommissioning provisions, deferred taxation rules and 
the attribution of the fair values of oil and gas interests between 
exploration permits and prospects. Reviewing the conclusions 
of Management, the Committee has concluded that the 
acquisition accounting process has been performed thoroughly 
and the conclusions drawn regarding the key valuation areas are 
appropriate based upon available information and the reasonable 
application of that information. The Committee has also concluded 
that disclosures within this Report are fair and appropriate. 44 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee
The carrying value of tangible and  
intangible oil and gas assets 
(see notes 2.1 and 2.3 to the Financial Statements)
At 31 December 2013, the Group is carrying its tangible oil and 
gas assets in the Balance Sheet at $12.4 million and its intangible 
exploration assets at $37.1 million. Both figures are significant in 
the context of the Group’s net assets. The Committee reviewed 
the reserves audit reports prepared by NSAI on the Gulf of Mexico 
assets and the Senergy audit report on the remainder of the 
Group’s oil and gas interests, and Management’s summaries and 
analysis of its interests and concluded that the carrying value of 
its oil and gas interests are covered by the potential value of the 
resources in the permits. The Committee has therefore concluded 
that the carrying value of its oil and gas assets, which are stated 
at cost less depletion and impairment, is fair and reasonable.
The going concern basis of reporting 
(see note 1.3a to the Financial Statements)
The Committee has regularly reviewed financial forecasts for the 
Group for the forward three-year period. At 31 December 2013, the 
Group was holding $33.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and 
$19.1 million of restricted cash. The Committee reviewed the level 
of these resources in the context of its work and expenditure plans 
over the foreseeable future. Whilst the Committee, as required 
by FRC guidance, concluded that there is material uncertainty as 
to the Group’s access to the financial and commercial resources 
necessary to fund its additional work programmes, the Committee 
concluded that the going concern basis is appropriate in reporting 
and in the preparation of the Financial Statements.
2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements
The Audit Committee reviewed the 2013 Annual Report and 
Financial Statements with Management and the external auditor to 
enable it to conclude that the Financial Statements as presented 
are true and fair and include all disclosures required by IFRS and 
applicable legislation. 
Internal audit
The Audit Committee have reviewed whether the Group has a 
requirement for an internal audit function and has concluded at 
this time that it is not appropriate. Ad hoc internal audit reviews 
may be commissioned from third parties from time to time and 
the requirement for a dedicated internal audit function will be kept 
under consideration.
Audit Committee Report continued Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual report 2013  45
Consolidated Financial Statements  
and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Section 1 Basis of Preparation
Consolidated Primary Statements
Section 2 Oil and Gas Assets
Section 3 Working Capital
Section 4 Other Assets and Liabilities 
Section 5 Results for the Year
Section 6 Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
This section contains the Group’s significant accounting policies that relate to 
the Financial Statements as a whole. Significant accounting policies specific 
to one note have been included in that note. Accounting policies determined 
non‑significant are not included in these Financial Statements. There have been 
no changes to the Group’s accounting policies that are not disclosed in the 
Financial Statements. 
This section contains the Group’s primary Financial Statements and the 
independent auditor’s report. 
This section focuses on the oil and gas assets which form the core of 
our business, including details of exploration costs incurred in the year, 
those written off or impaired.
This section focuses on the working capital position of the Group 
supporting our business.
This section details the Group’s investments. 
This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group, with 
disclosures including segmental information, components of the operating loss, 
taxation and earnings per share.
The disclosures in this section focus on the issued share capital, the share 
schemes in operation and other mandatory disclosures.
1.1  Authorisation of Financial 
Statements and statement 
of compliance with IFRSs
1.2  Adoption of International 
Financial Reporting 
Standards
1.3  Significant 
accounting policies
1.4  Critical accounting 
judgements and 
key sources of 
estimation uncertainty
p46 Independent 
Auditor’s Report
p48 Consolidated 
Income Statement
p49  Consolidated 
Balance Sheet
p50  Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity
P51  Consolidated Cash Flow 
Statement
 2.1  Property, plant and 
equipment
2.2  Property, plant and 
equipment other than oil 
and gas assets
2.3  Intangible assets
2.4  Intangible assets other 
than oil and gas assets 
– computer software
2.5  Decommissioning 
3.1  Trade and other 
receivables
3.2  Cash and cash equivalents
3.3  Trade and other payables
3.4  Inventory
4.1  Investments
4.2  Available‑for‑sale 
financial assets
4.3  Business combinations
5.1 Total revenue and 
segmental analysis
5.2  Operating loss
5.3  Share‑based payments
5.4  Auditor’s remuneration
5.5  Staff costs
5.6  Directors’ emoluments
5.7  Net interest receivable
5.8  Taxation
5.9  Loss per share
6.1  Share capital
6.2  Financial instruments, 
derivatives and capital 
management
6.3  Related party transactions 
and key management
6.4  Obligations under 
operating leases 
6.5  Commitments
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets / Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 46 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the members of Gulfsands Petroleum plc
We have audited the financial statements of Gulfsands 
Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which 
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated and 
Company Balance Sheet the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the 
related notes 1 to 6 of the Consolidated Financial Statements and 
note 1 to 6 of the Company Financial Statements. The financial 
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is 
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and as applied in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, 
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might 
state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the 
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 
or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement, 
the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent 
company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an 
opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK 
and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the 
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material 
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 
to Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and 
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the 
reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the 
Directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. 
In addition, we read all the financial and non‑financial information 
in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the 
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the 
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements
In our opinion the financial statements:
•	 give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and 
Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Group’s 
loss for the year then ended;
•	 the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006;
•	 the Company Financial Statements have been properly 
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 
Companies Act 2006; and
•	 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 
Companies Act 2006.
Emphasis of matter – Fair value of the Group’s  
producing operations in Syria
In forming our conclusion on the consolidated financial statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2013, which is not modified, we 
have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in note 4.2 
to the financial statements concerning the valuation of the Group’s 
suspended producing operations in Syria, which are recorded at 
the Directors’ best estimate of their fair value following the loss of 
joint control in December 2011. As highlighted in note 4.2, there 
is significant uncertainty as to the duration of the EU sanctions 
imposed in December 2011 and the eventual outcome of events in 
Syria and hence whether the carrying value of $102.0 million is an 
appropriate estimate of the fair value of its suspended producing 
operations in that country.
Emphasis of matter – Going concern
In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not 
modified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures 
made by the Directors in note 1.3a to the consolidated financial 
statements and within the Financial Review of the Strategic Report 
concerning the Group and the Company’s ability to continue as 
a going concern. Whilst at 31 December 2013, the Group held 
cash and cash equivalents of $33.8 million and its current assets 
exceeded its current liabilities by $21.8 million, the Group requires 
additional funding or management of its commitments in order for it 
to realise its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course 
of business. The Board is currently pursuing leads on a number of 
alternative funding sources but at this time there is no certainty that 
such additional funding will be received. These conditions, along 
with the other matters explained in note 1.3a to the consolidated 
financial statements and within the Financial Review of the Strategic 
Report, indicate the existence of a material uncertainty which may 
cast significant doubt about the Company’s and the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not 
include the adjustments that would result if the Company was 
unable to continue as a going concern. Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Primary Statements
Opinion on other matter  
prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and 
the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters 
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, 
in our opinion:
•	 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
•	 the parent company financial statements are not in agreement 
with the accounting records and returns; or
•	 certain disclosures of Directors’ Remuneration specified by law 
are not made; or
•	 we have not received all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit.
Other matters
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to 
be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that would have applied 
were the Company a quoted company.
Graham Hollis ACA (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP 
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 
London, United Kingdom
3 April 2014 48 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Consolidated Income Statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2013
      2013 2012 
     Notes $’000 $’000
Revenue     5.1  4,367 5,622 
Cost of sales   
Depletion     2.1  (1,267) (1,430)
Impairment     2.1  (58) (568)
Other cost of sales      (2,860) (4,944)
Total cost of sales      (4,185) (6,942)
Gross profit / (loss)      182 (1,320)
General administrative expenses      (10,408) (16,624)
Share‑based payments     5.3  (516) (1,751)
Total administrative expenses      (10,924) (18,375)
Exploration costs written off     2.3  (12,301) (7,082)
Syrian inventory provision / write off    3.4 (2,905) —
Other Syrian adjustments       (383) (34)
Operating loss     5.2  (26,331) (26,811)
Foreign exchange gains / (losses)      89 (26)
Bank fees and charges      (104) (92)
Discount expense on decommissioning provision    2.5  (500) (476)
Net interest income     5.7  89 375
Loss before taxation from continuing activities    (26,757) (27,030)
Taxation      5.8  — — 
Loss for the year – attributable to owners of the Parent Company   (26,757) (27,030)
Loss per share from continuing operations (cents):   
Basic     5.9  (22.70) (22.94)
Diluted     5.9  (22.70) (22.94)
There are no items of comprehensive income outside of the Income Statement. 
The results relate entirely to continuing operations. Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheet
as at 31 December 2013
      2013 2012 
     Notes $’000 $’000
Assets   
Non‑current assets   
Property, plant and equipment     2.1  12,893 13,872 
Intangible assets     2.3  37,558 6,207 
Long‑term financial assets     3.2  19,138 7,837 
Investments     4.2  102,000 102,000 
      171,589 129,916 
Current assets   
Inventory      3.4 2,247 2,905 
Trade and other receivables     3.1 3,542 8,560
Cash and cash equivalents     3.2  33,824 90,982 
      39,613 102,447 
Total assets      211,202 232,363 
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables     3.3  15,245 11,779 
Provision for decommissioning     2.5  2,573 2,352 
      17,818 14,131 
Non‑current liabilities   
Trade and other payables     3.3 6,155 —
Provision for decommissioning     2.5  10,578 15,309 
      16,733 15,309
Total liabilities      34,551 29,440 
Net assets      176,651 202,923 
Equity   
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders   
Share capital     6.1  13,131 13,131 
Share premium      105,926 105,926 
Merger reserve      11,709 11,709 
Treasury shares     6.1 (11,502) (11,619) 
Retained profit      57,387 83,776 
Total equity      176,651 202,923
These Financial Statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 April 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Alan Cutler 
Director – Finance and Administration  
Primary Statements 50 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2013
  Share  Share Merger Treasury Retained Total 
  capital premium reserve shares profit equity 
  $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
At 1 January 2012  13,131  105,926  11,709  (11,902)  109,323  228,187
Options exercised  —  —  —  283  (149)  134 
Purchase of own shares  —  —  —  —  (119) (119)
Share‑based payment charge  — —  —  —  1,751  1,751 
Loss for 2012  —  —  —  —  (27,030)  (27,030) 
At 31 December 2012  13,131  105,926  11,709  (11,619)  83,776  202,923
Options exercised  — — — 117 (148) (31)
Share‑based payment charge   –   –   –   –  516 516
Loss for 2013   –   –   –   –  (26,757) (26,757)
At 31 December 2013  13,131 105,926 11,709 (11,502) 57,387 176,651
The Group has represented its Statement of Changes in Equity to include the share‑based payments reserve as part of retained profit and 
to separate treasury shares from retained profit, both as permitted by IFRS.
The merger reserve arose on the acquisition of Gulfsands Petroleum Ltd and its subsidiaries by the Company by way of share‑for‑share 
exchange in April 2005, in conjunction with the flotation of the Company on the Alternative Investment Market of the London 
Stock Exchange. Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2013
      2013 2012 
     Notes $’000 $’000
Cash flows from operating activities   
Operating loss from continuing operations     (26,331) (26,811)
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation    2.1 & 2.3 2,144 2,430 
Impairment charge     2.1  58 568
Exploration costs written off     2.3  12,301 7,082 
Other Syrian adjustments       383 34 
Decommissioning costs in excess of provision      — 1,104 
Share‑based payment charge     5.3 516 1,751 
Syrian inventory provision / write off    3.4 2,905 —
Increase in receivables      (286) (152) 
Increase / (decrease) in payables      349 (441)
Interest received      89 375
Foreign exchange gains / (losses)      89 (26)
Bank fees      (104) (92) 
Net cash used in operating activities     (7,887) (14,178) 
Investing activities   
Acquisition of subsidiary undertaking    4.3 (17,103) —
Exploration and evaluation expenditure     (17,302) (7,830)
Oil and gas properties expenditure     (1,245) (312)
Increase in inventory      (2,247) (1,086) 
Other capital expenditures      (642) (1,019)
Change in restricted cash balances     (8,550) (3,872) 
Decommissioning costs paid     2.5 (2,151) (1,919)
Movements in balance due to or from oil and gas partnerships    — (3,057)
Net cash used in investing activities     (49,240) (19,095)
Financing activities   
Cash proceeds from issue of shares     — 145 
Purchase of own shares      — (119)
Other payments in connection with options exercised    (31) (11) 
Net cash (used in) / provided by financing activities    (31) 15
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents     (57,158) (33,258) 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year     90,982 124,240 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year    3.2 33,824 90,982 
Primary Statements 52 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure Basis of Preparation Primary Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation
1.1 Authorisation of Financial Statements and statement of compliance with IFRS
Gulfsands Petroleum plc is a public limited company listed on the Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”) of the London Stock Exchange 
and incorporated in the United Kingdom. The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) are that of oil and gas 
production, exploration and development.
The Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 
3 April 2014 and the Balance Sheets were signed on the Board’s behalf by Alan Cutler.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) 
as adopted by the EU. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out in note 1.3 below.
1.2 Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
The Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 and for the comparative year ended 31 December 2012 
have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and IFRIC (IFRS Interpretations 
Committee) interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
1.3 Significant accounting policies
a) Basis of preparation and accounting standards
The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 
the EU and, except for share‑based payments and the valuation of available‑for‑sale investments, under the historical cost convention. 
Going concern
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which has been approved by the Board. The basis on which 
the Board has reached this decision is as follows: 
The Group maintains rolling cash flow forecasts for the forward three year period which are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors. 
These cash flows reflect the Group’s net share of all exploration contract work obligations, as summarised in note 6.5, and the contract 
term over which the applicable commitment for each capital project is required to be performed.
The Group’s processes require that each project is routinely reviewed to confirm that it continues to meet the Group’s criteria for further 
investment; a process that considers the exploration contract term, the prospective value of the project, as well as the required financial 
investment to determine the schedule on which any particular project can or should be performed and the appropriate financial and 
commercial resources (“resources”) for completion of the project – whether from current resources or new sources.
Following a review of all available information, the Board has concluded that the Company and the Group have sufficient resources to 
cover their minimum expenditure requirements, including licence commitments, over the forthcoming year and indeed that there is further 
potential to reduce the Group’s cost base. 
The Board recognises that for additional projects, being expenditures on projects and other activities beyond the Group’s minimum 
expenditure requirements, additional resources or restructuring of commitments will be required. Based upon its experience and 
discussions with potential investors, debt providers and industry partners, the Board is confident that the Group will be able to access 
appropriate resources for approved additional projects or as otherwise required on a timely basis.
Sources of additional resources may include asset farm‑out or similar risk‑sharing arrangements, further direct investment in the Company 
itself or corporate arrangements that may bring resources into the Company and / or the Group in the form of debt or equity or any 
combination thereof. The Board is currently pursuing discussions on all of these alternatives in order to maximise its options and the value 
attributable to existing shareholders. 
However, as required by FRC guidance, the Directors have been required to conclude that at this time, there is material uncertainty that 
such additional resources can be procured. Failure to procure appropriate resources would require the Group to restructure its work and 
expenditure commitments and might cast significant doubt upon the Company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern 
and that the Company and the Group may therefore be unable to realise their assets and discharge their liabilities in the normal course of 
business. Such scenario could impact upon the carrying value of intangible exploration and evaluation assets as disclosed in note 2.3 and 
on the recoverability of certain restricted cash amounts, as disclosed in note 3.2, held in escrow to support guarantees of performance of 
minimum work obligations. 
Following completion of its review at the meeting of the Board of Directors on 1 April 2014, and taking into account the uncertainties 
described above, the Board has concluded that, with total consolidated cash and bank resources at the date of this report of 
approximately $40.0 million, inclusive of $21.0 million of consolidated cash and cash equivalents, and taking into account new financial 
resources that the Board might reasonably expect to become available to the Company and the Group, the Company and the Group 
have sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, a period not less than twelve months from the 
date of approval of this Annual Report. Accordingly, the Directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the “going concern basis” 
in preparing these Financial Statements.
These Financial Statements consolidate the accounts of Gulfsands Petroleum plc and all its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 
31 December each year.  Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Basis of Preparation Primary Statements
b) New standards, amendments and interpretations issued and effective during the financial year 
The following relevant new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year 
beginning 1 January 2013, but had no significant impact on the Group:
Standard Key requirements 
Effective date as 
adopted by the EU
Amendment to IAS 1, ‘Presentation 
of financial statements’ – 
presentation of other items regarding 
other comprehensive income 
The main change resulting from these amendments is a requirement for 
entities to group items presented in ‘other comprehensive income’ (OCI) 
on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss 
subsequently (reclassification adjustments). The amendments do not 
address which items are presented in OCI.
1 July 2012
Amendment to IAS 1, ‘Financial 
statement presentation regarding 
comparatives’
The amendment clarifies the difference between voluntary additional 
comparative information and the minimum required comparative 
information. 
1 January 2013
Amendment to IAS 16, ‘Property, 
plant and equipment’
The amendment clarifies that spare parts and servicing equipment are 
classified as property, plant and equipment rather than inventory when 
they meet the definition of property, plant and equipment.
1 January 2013
Amendment to IAS 34, ‘Interim 
financial reporting’
The amendment clarifies the disclosure requirements for segment 
assets and liabilities in interim financial statements to bring it in line with 
the requirements of IFRS 8.
1 January 2013
Amendment to IFRS 7, ‘Financial 
Instruments: Offsetting Financial 
Assets and Financial Liabilities’
The amendments require entities to disclose information about the rights 
of offset and related arrangements for financial instruments under an 
enforceable master netting agreement or similar agreement.
1 January 2013
IFRS 13, Fair value measurement The standard’ s objective is to define fair value on the basis of an 
‘exit price’ notion and uses a ‘fair value hierarchy’, which results in a 
market‑based, rather than entity‑specific, measurement.
1 January 2013
c) Standards issued but not yet effective
The following relevant new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not effective for the 
financial year beginning on 1 January 2013, as adopted by the European Union, and have not been early adopted:
Standard Key requirements 
Effective date as 
adopted by the EU
IFRS 10, ‘Consolidated financial 
statements’ and corresponding 
amendment to IAS 27, ‘Consolidated 
and separate financial statements’ 
IFRS 10 replaces guidance in IAS 27 regarding the principles for the 
presentation and preparation of consolidated financial statements 
when an entity controls one or more other entities. It builds on existing 
principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor 
in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial 
statements of the parent company. The standard provides additional 
guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult 
to assess.
1 January 2014
IFRS 11, ‘Joint Arrangements’ IFRS 11 is a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing 
on the rights and obligations of the arrangement rather than its legal 
form. There are two types of joint arrangement: joint operations and 
joint ventures. Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer 
allowed. 
1 January 2014
Amendment to IAS 28, ‘Associates 
and joint ventures’ 
IAS 28 includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as 
associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
1 January 2014
IFRS 12, ‘Disclosure of interests in 
other entities’
Provides disclosure requirements for IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IAS 28 
(Associates) and introduces disclosure requirements for unconsolidated 
structured entities. 
1 January 2014
Amendment to IAS 32, Offsetting 
Financial Assets and Financial 
Liabilities
The amendments clarify existing application issues relating to the 
offsetting requirements of financial assets and liabilities. 
1 January 2014
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material effect on the reported income 
or net assets of the Group or Company.  54 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure Primary Statements Basis of Preparation
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation continued
1.3 Significant accounting policies continued
d) Basis of consolidation
Intra‑group sales, profits and balances are eliminated fully on consolidation.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from, or to, the date when control passed. Acquisitions are 
accounted for under the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is 
calculated as the sum of the acquisition‑date fair values of assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former 
owners of the acquiree and the equity interest issued by the Group in exchange for the control of the acquiree. Acquisition related costs 
are recognised in the Income Statement as incurred. At the acquisition date the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are 
recognised at their fair value. 
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of subsidiary undertakings when the Company has the power to exercise, 
or actually exercises, dominant influence or control over the undertaking. 
The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development and production through joint operations. A joint operation is whereby the 
parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. 
As a Joint Operator the Group recognises its assets, including its share of any assets incurred jointly; its liabilities, including its share of any 
liabilities incurred jointly; its revenue from the sale of its share of the output of the joint operation; its share of revenue from the sale of the 
output by the joint operation; and its expenses including its share of any expenses jointly incurred. 
When the Group loses control or joint control of a subsidiary or joint operation, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference 
between (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous 
carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), less liabilities of the subsidiary or joint operation and any non‑controlling interests. 
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary or joint operation are accounted for in the 
same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities are disposed of. The fair value of any investment retained in the 
former subsidiary or joint operation at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent 
accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the costs on initial recognition 
of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
e) Foreign and reporting currency
These Financial Statements are presented in US Dollars. The majority of all costs associated with foreign operations are denominated 
in US Dollars and not the local currency of the operations. Therefore the presentational and functional currency of the Company, and 
the functional currency of all subsidiaries, is the US Dollar. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions, if any, are recognised 
in the Income Statement for the year. The effective exchange rate to the Pound Sterling at 31 December 2013 was £1: $1.66 
(2012: £1: US $1.61).
Foreign currency transactions of individual companies within the Group are translated to the functional and reporting currency of 
US Dollars at the rates prevailing when the transactions occurred. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies 
are translated at the rate of exchange at the Balance Sheet date. All differences are taken to the Income Statement.
1.4 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about 
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions 
are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision 
affects both current and future periods. 
The following sets out the critical judgements that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies 
and the key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: 
•	 Going concern – for further details see note 1.3a.
•	 Reserves estimation – for further details see note 2.1.
•	 Recoverability of the Group’s oil and gas development and production assets – for further details see note 2.1.
•	 Depletion and impairment of oil and gas development and production assets – for further details see note 2.1.
•	 Recoverability of intangible oil and gas exploration and evaluations assets – for further details see note 2.3.
•	 Decommissioning provisions – for further details see note 2.5.
•	 Fair value of the Group’s investment in DPC – for further details see note 4.2.
•	 Fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition – for further details see note 4.3.
•	 Deferred taxation – for further details see note 5.8. Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Oil and Gas Assets Basis of Preparation
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets
2.1 Property, plant and equipment
Key accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions:
Reserves estimation
The Group’s definition of reserves is in accordance and consistent with the 2007 Petroleum Resources Management System, as prepared 
by the Oil and Gas Reserves Committee of the Society of Petroleum Engineers (“SPE”) and reviewed and jointly sponsored by the World 
Petroleum Council (“WPC”), the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers. 
The estimation of Proved (“1P”), Proved plus Probable (“2P”) and Proved plus Probable plus Possible (“3P”) commercially recoverable 
reserves are performed utilising relevant geological, geophysical and engineering data and with reference to the use of the probabilistic 
methodology as approved by SPE / WPC. The reserves are verified by a certified independent expert annually.
Proved plus Probable entitlement reserves are utilised as the basis for the Group’s calculations of depletion and impairment as these 
represent the Group’s estimate of the most likely commercially recoverable reserves as per the approved probabilistic methodology.
Recoverability of the Group’s oil and gas development and production assets
The net book value of oil and gas assets held at 31 December 2013 relate to assets in the Gulf of Mexico US. Management believe there 
to be no indicators of impairment beyond those taken into consideration in arriving at the impairment charge for the year. Although the 
Group is looking to divest of these assets they are not held as assets held for sale at the year end as Management do not consider the 
sale of these assets to be highly probable in the twelve months from the Balance Sheet date. 
Depletion and impairment of oil and gas development and production assets 
Oil and gas development and production assets held in property, plant and equipment are depleted on a unit of production basis 
calculated by reference to 2P reserves. 
Future forecast capital expenditure associated with developing Proved and Probable reserves is included in the cost base for the 
purposes of calculating depletion charges. 2P reserves are determined using estimates of oil and gas in place, recovery factors and 
future oil and gas prices. A long‑term oil price of $90 / bbl (2012: $90 / bbl) and a long‑term gas price in the Gulf of Mexico of $4.00 / mcf 
(2012: $4.00 / mcf) have been used in determining the 2P reserves. The carrying amount of oil and gas assets therefore depends upon a 
number of estimates at year end. The level of 2P reserves is also a key determinant in assessing whether the carrying value of any of the 
Group’s oil and gas assets has been impaired. 
Tangible oil and gas assets are grouped into a cash generating unit or groups of units for purposes of impairment testing and for 
depreciating the development and production assets. A cash generating unit is the smallest unit that does not have inter‑related revenues 
and may be a well, field, area, block, region or other defined area as appropriate. Inter‑relationships can be measured by oil and gas 
production agreements, geological analysis, or other documentation showing such relationships. The only limitation in the size of a cash 
generating unit is that it cannot be larger than an operating segment of the Group.
The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources and where additional guidance is 
needed IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets noting that several items in the latter two standards are 
exempted for assets at the exploration and evaluation stage due to the application of IFRS 6. Set out below is our interpretation of the 
principles set out in IFRS 6 and other IFRSs.
Recognition and measurement
Development and production assets are accumulated on a cash generating unit basis and represent the cost of developing the 2P 
reserves discovered and bringing them into production, together with the exploration and evaluation (“E&E”) asset expenditures incurred 
in finding 2P reserves, transferred from intangible E&E assets.
The cost of development and production assets also includes the cost of acquisitions and purchases of such assets, directly attributable 
overheads, and the cost of recognising provisions for future restoration and decommissioning, see note 2.5 for further details.
Depletion of producing assets
Expenditure within each cash generating unit is depleted by a unit of production method using the ratio of oil and gas production in the 
year compared to the estimated quantity of 2P reserves at the beginning of the year. Costs used in the unit of production calculation 
comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the estimated future field development costs for proved and probable reserves. 
Changes in estimates of commercial reserves or future development costs are dealt with prospectively. 
Primary Statements 56 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Basis of Preparation Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure Oil and Gas Assets Primary Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets continued
2.1 Property, plant and equipment continued
Impairment
An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate that 
the carrying value of a development or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount. The aggregate carrying value is compared 
against the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows 
expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves. 
     Oil and gas  Other fixed 
     properties  assets Total 
     $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:   
At 1 January 2012     41,267  1,796  43,063 
Additions     1,461  601 2,062
Disposals     (7,929) — (7,929)
At 31 December 2012     34,799 2,397 37,196
Additions     2,467 217 2,684
Changes to decommissioning estimates    (1,859) — (1,859)
At 31 December 2013     35,407 2,614 38,021
Accumulated depreciation and depletion:   
At 1 January 2012     (21,743) (1,270) (23,013)
Charge for 2012     (1,430) (421) (1,851)
Disposals     5,822  —  5,822 
At 31 December 2012     (17,351) (1,691) (19,042)
Charge for 2013     (1,267) (479) (1,746)
At 31 December 2013     (18,618) (2,170) (20,788)
Accumulated impairment:   
At 1 January 2012     (5,821) —  (5,821)
Impairment charge for 2012     (568) —  (568)
Disposals     2,107  —  2,107 
At 31 December 2012     (4,282) —  (4,282)
Impairment charge for 2013     (58) — (58)
At 31 December 2013     (4,340) — (4,340)
Net book value at 31 December 2013    12,449 444 12,893
Net book value at 31 December 2012    13,166  706 13,872
Impairment charges relate to provisions against certain of the Group’s carrying values of its US producing assets, following a review of 
reserves at the year end. 
Impairment for the assets in the Gulf of Mexico has been assessed, based on a value in use calculation, and using a pre‑tax discount rate 
of 6% (2012: 6%), a long‑term Brent crude oil price of $90 / bbl (2012: $90 / bbl) and a long‑term gas price of $4.0 / mcf (2012: $4.0 / 
mcf). In determining the appropriate discount rate to be used consideration is given to the risk directly incorporated in the underlying cash 
flow forecasts. 
At the end of 2013 an independent third party review of decommissioning estimate was undertaken by TSB offshore, Inc. As a result of 
this report the estimates used to calculate the decommissioning provision were revised reducing the cost of the decommissioning asset 
by $1.9 million. See note 2.5 for further details. Basis of Preparation Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Oil and Gas Assets
2.2 Property, plant and equipment other than oil and gas assets
Property, plant and equipment other than oil and gas assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for 
impairment. Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of assets on a straight‑line basis over their 
useful lives of between two and five years. Freehold land is not depreciated.
2.3 Intangible assets
Key accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions:
Recoverability of intangible oil and gas exploration and evaluation assets 
The carrying values of E&E after impairments and write offs are assessed for impairment which involves judgement as to the (i) likely 
commerciality of the assets, and (ii) future revenues and costs pertaining and (iii) the discount rate to be applied for the purpose of deriving 
a recoverable value. Additional judgements apply to the Group’s E&E assets affected by sanctions in Syria, see note 4.2 for further details.
The Board reviewed the carrying value of its E&E assets as at 31 December 2013 and concluded that there are no indicators that the 
carrying value is impaired.
In December 2013 the Group entered into an agreement with ADX to acquire the remaining interest in the Chorbane permit for 
$1.75 million and withdraw from its interests in the Kerkouane permit. Both parties signed this agreement in December 2013 however final 
approval is still required from the DGE. The Board has determined that the date of acquisition to be the date the agreement was signed as 
this is when the risks and rewards were substantially transferred and the DGE approval is considered to be a procedural matter only, and 
has been recorded in these Financial Statements from that date. 
The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources, set out below is our interpretation of 
the principles set out in IFRS 6.
Recognition and measurement
The Group follows the successful efforts method of accounting whereby costs for unsuccessful exploration activities are expensed. 
All licence acquisition, exploration and evaluation costs are initially capitalised as intangible fixed assets in cost centres by field or 
exploration area, as appropriate, pending determination of commerciality of the relevant property. Directly attributable administration 
costs are capitalised insofar as they relate to specific exploration activities. Pre‑licence costs and general exploration costs not directly 
attributable to any particular licence or prospect are expensed as incurred.
E&E assets relating to each exploration licence / prospect are not amortised but are carried forward until the existence or otherwise 
of commercial reserves has been determined. If commercial reserves have been discovered, the related E&E assets are assessed 
for impairment on a cash generating unit basis as set out below and any impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement. 
The carrying value of the E&E assets, after any impairment loss, is then reclassified as development and production assets in property, 
plant and equipment. Costs of unsuccessful exploration efforts are expensed at the time that a determination is made that the exploration 
has failed to locate commercially recoverable hydrocarbons.
Impairment
As the Group does not hold any intangibles with an indefinite useful life, non‑current assets are assessed for impairment on a 
cash generating unit basis when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable amount. 
Such triggering events in respect of E&E assets include the point at which determination is made as to whether commercial reserves exist. 
Where there has been an indication of a possible impairment, management assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the cash 
generating unit by comparison with the estimated discounted future net cash flows based on management’s expectation of the future 
production, hydrocarbon prices and costs. Any identified impairment is charged to the Income Statement.
Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the 
Income Statement, net of any depreciation that would have been charged since the impairment.
Primary Statements 58 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Basis of Preparation Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure Oil and Gas Assets Primary Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets continued
2.3 Intangible assets continued
 Exploration and evaluation assets  
      Computer 
  Morocco Colombia Syria Tunisia software Total 
  $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Cost:      
At 1 January 2012  — — 9,997  6,869  2,135  19,001 
Additions  — — 17  5,026 402 5,445
Exploration expenditure  
written back / (written off)  — — 17 (7,099) —  (7,082)
At 31 December 2012  — — 10,031 4,796 2,537 17,364
Additions  41,783 243 474 3,553 421 46,474
Other write offs  — — — (1,000) (475) (1,475)
Exploration expenditure written off (10,147) — — (2,154) — (12,301)
At 31 December 2013  31,636 243 10,505 5,195 2,483 50,062
Accumulated amortisation:      
At 1 January 2012  — — —  —  (547) (547)
Charge for 2012  — — —  —  (579) (579)
At 31 December 2012  — — —  —  (1,126) (1,126)
Charge for 2013  — — — — (398) (398)
At 31 December 2013  — — — — (1,524) (1,524)
Accumulated impairment:      
At 1 January 2012  — — (9,997) —  —  (9,997)
Impairment provision for 2012  — — (34) — — (34)
At 31 December 2012  — — (10,031) —  —  (10,031)
Impairment provision for 2013  — — (474) — (475) (949)
At 31 December 2013   — — (10,505) — (475) (10,980)
Net book value at 31 December 2013 31,636 243 — 5,195 484 37,558
Net book value at 31 December 2012 — — —  4,796 1,411 6,207
Morocco
In 2013 the Group acquired interests in the Rharb Centre, Rharb Sud and Fes permits through the acquisition of Cabre Maroc Limited. 
Included within additions for the year is $19.3 million fair value of E&E assets acquired as part of this business combination. 
In respect of the Rharb Petroleum contract, three wells were drilled in the first phase of drilling; AKR‑1 and OZI‑1 were completed prior 
to the year end and BFD‑2 completed shortly after the year end. All of these wells were considered non ‑ commercial so were plugged 
and abandoned. As a result, $10.1 million of costs have been written off in the year. At 31 December 2013 the Moroccan E&E assets 
represents the fair value attributed at acquisition to the Fes, Rharb Sud and Rharb Centre permits after a write off of part of the fair value 
attributed at acquisition to the Rharb Centre permit, and acquiring and processing seismic data on the Rharb Centre and Fes permits. Basis of Preparation Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Oil and Gas Assets Primary Statements
Syria
The accumulated costs of E&E assets in Syria represent the Group’s share of the drilling costs of the Al Khairat, Twaiba and Wardieh wells 
and certain 3D seismic surveys. The Al Khairat well was successfully tested but commercial development approval is yet to be granted by 
the Syrian Arab Republic. The Twaiba and Wardieh wells are still under evaluation. 
Following the imposition of EU sanctions against the oil industry in Syria, an impairment test was conducted and the carrying value of all 
E&E assets in Syria has been impaired to nil as it is presently unclear whether the Group will be able to apply for commercial development 
approval in the manner contemplated by the Production Sharing Contract. 
Tunisia
In 2013 the Group wrote off a total of $3.2 million of costs in respect of the Kerkouane permit on withdrawal from the permit at the 
end of 2013. This was offset by a release of the decommissioning provision previously held for the Kerkouane assets of $1.0 million. 
At 31 December 2013 the Tunisian E&E assets represent expenditures on the Chorbane permit including seismic acquisition and related 
costs plus amounts paid during 2013 to increase participation in the licence. See the key judgements and estimates section on page 57. 
Colombia
In 2013 the Group was awarded E&P contracts over two blocks in Colombia; PUT 14 and LLA 50. At 31 December 2013 the E&E assets 
of $0.2 million (2012: $nil) represent costs related to these blocks incurred in the year.
2.4 Intangible assets other than oil and gas assets – computer software 
Intangible assets other than oil and gas assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment. 
Amortisation is charged so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of assets on a straight‑line basis over their useful lives 
of between two and five years. Amortisation is included with depreciation and classified as cost of sales or administrative expenses as 
appropriate. No intangible assets have indefinite lives.
2.5 Decommissioning 
Key accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions:
The Group has decommissioning obligations in respect of its producing interests in the Gulf of Mexico. The full extent to which the 
provision is required depends on the legal requirements at the time of decommissioning, the costs and timing of any decommissioning 
works and the discount rate applied to such costs. The Group received a report from external specialist decommissioning experts 
regarding the cost of future works in the Gulf of Mexico at the end of 2013. The timing of the decommissioning works is inherently 
uncertain and depends upon the determination of the end of commercial production. The Group has utilised the expected useful lives in 
the year‑end reserves report for the Group’s Gulf of Mexico assets to estimate the timing of associated decommissioning liabilities. 
A risk free interest rate of 3% (2012: 3%) has been used to discount the expected costs of decommissioning based upon a ten year US 
treasury bond. A decrease in the discount rate utilised to 2% per annum would increase the total value of the decommissioning provision 
by $0.9 million. An increase in the discount rate to 4% would decrease the decommissioning provision by $0.8 million. The impact on the 
income statement for 2013 is immaterial. A future cost inflation rate of 2.5% per annum has been used, based on an historical average. 
An increase in this estimate to 4% per annum would increase the decommissioning provision by $1.4 million. At 31 December 2013, 
the oil and gas properties had estimated abandonment dates between 2014 and 2027.
Actual decommissioning costs will ultimately depend upon future market prices for the decommissioning work required, which will reflect 
market conditions at the relevant time. Furthermore, the timing of decommissioning is likely to depend on when the fields cease to 
produce at economically viable rates. This in turn will depend upon future oil and gas prices, which are inherently uncertain. The actual 
amounts paid for decommissioning may ultimately vary significantly from the provision at 31 December 2013 requiring potentially material 
adjustments to the carrying value of the obligations. 
Where a material liability for the removal of production facilities and site restoration at the end of the productive life of a field exists, 
a provision for decommissioning is recognised. The amount recognised is the present value of estimated future expenditure determined 
in accordance with local conditions and requirements. A fixed asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created (included 
in development and production assets) and depleted on a unit of production basis. Changes in estimates are recognised prospectively, 
with corresponding adjustments to the provision and the associated fixed asset.  60 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Basis of Preparation Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure Oil and gas assets Primary Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 2 – Oil and Gas Assets continued
2.5 Decommissioning continued
The movement in the provision for decommissioning was as follows:
       $’000
At 1 January 2012       16,883 
Changes in estimates       1,117 
Costs in excess of provision       1,104 
Decommissioning expenses       (1,919)
Discount expense       476 
At 31 December 2012       17,661 
Current portion       2,352 
Non‑current portion       15,309
At 1 January 2013       17,661 
Changes in estimates       (1,859)
Decommissioning expenses       (2,151)
Discount expense       500
Disposal        (1,000)
At 31 December 2013       13,151
Current portion       2,573
Non‑current portion       10,578
At the end of 2013 the Group withdrew from its interest in the Kerkouane permit as part of a settlement with ADX Energy Limited.  
As part of the settlement all existing and future liabilities in relation to the Kerkouane permit are assumed by ADX. Therefore the $1.0 million 
decommissioning provision previously provided for in respect of this the permit has been released.
At the end of 2013 an independent engineer’s report of the future costs of decommissioning the US assets was commissioned which 
reported decommissioning estimates lower than carried and resulted in an adjustment to the decommissioning provision of $1.9 million 
in 2013. 
Section 3 – Working Capital
3.1 Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amounts less any provision made for impairment of receivables. A provision for impairment 
of trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the 
original terms of the debt.
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Trade receivables      272 58
Other receivables      710 125 
Prepayments and accrued income     1,188 3,212
Amounts due from oil and gas partnerships     1,372 5,165 
      3,542 8,560 
At 31 December 2013 and 2012 the Group was owed $25.3 million by the government of the Syrian Arab Republic relating to oil delivered 
during the period August to November 2011. The total amount invoiced was $31.2 million and to date an amount of $5.9 million has 
been paid. The government of the Syrian Arab Republic has acknowledged the debt. This asset was fully provided against in 2011 due 
to uncertainties of recovery.  Basis of Preparation Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Working Capital Oil and gas assets Primary Statements
3.2 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand by banks and other short‑term investments with 
original maturities of three months or less. Balances held in bank accounts subject to escrow agreements as collateral for performance 
bonds issued are excluded from cash and cash equivalents and are shown as long‑term financial assets.
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Cash at bank and in hand      33,824 90,982 
Restricted cash balances      19,138 7,837 
Total cash and bank resources      52,962 98,819 
Included in long‑term financial assets     (19,138) (7,837) 
Total cash and cash equivalents      33,824 90,982 
The restricted cash balances at 31 December 2013 include:
•	 $2.9 million (2012: $2.7 million) held in escrow to cover decommissioning expenditures under the requirements of the regulatory 
authorities that manage the oil and gas and other mineral resources in the Gulf of Mexico.
•	 $10.0 million (2012: $5.0 million) held in escrow to guarantee minimum work obligations on the Rharb and Fes permits in Morocco.
•	 An additional $2.5 million (2012: $nil) held in escrow to guarantee minimum work obligations on the Rharb and Fes permits which was 
acquired as part of the acquisition of Cabre Maroc Limited (see note 4.3) which is due back to the previous parent company on its 
release under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement (see note 3.3).
•	 $3.2 million (2012: $nil) held in escrow to guarantee minimum work obligations on the Putumayo block 14 and Llanos block 50. 
3.3 Trade and other payables
Trade payables are not interest‑bearing and are stated at their nominal values.
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Current liabilities  
Trade payables      3,059 1,026 
Accruals and other payables      12,186 10,753 
      15,245 11,779
Non‑current liabilities  
Trade payables      1,887 —
Accruals and other payables      4,268 —
      6,155 —
Included within non‑current liabilities is $2.5 million which will be payable following the release of a long ‑ term bond, for further details see note 3.2.
Included within non‑curr ent liabilities is $3.7 million owed to parties subject to asset freezing regulations under the EU sanctions regime. These 
amounts relate to goods and services acquired before those entities were designated as sanctioned parties. The Group is not in a position to 
make payments for these goods or services until such time as sanctions are lifted against the named parties. These liabilities have therefore 
been reclassified to non‑current liabilities in the current year as payment of these balances is not expected to be permissible within the next year.
3.4 Inventory
Inventories comprise materials and equipment, which are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes all costs 
incurred in bringing the materials and equipment to its present condition and location.
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Drilling inventory      4,451 2,905
Provisions      (2,204) —
      2,247 2,905
During 2013 $0.7 million of inventory held for Syrian operations was written off due to a theft at the warehouse. An insurance claim for the 
full value was submitted during the year however due to complications as a result of EU sanctions it is not appropriate to recognise the 
claim as an asset as it is not virtually certain that a settlement would be paid.
At 31 December 2013 a further provision of $2.2 million (2012: $nil) has been made against the value of the remaining Syrian stock. 
Management believe this is appropriate in light of the theft in the year and the lack of full control over and access to the warehouse that 
Management have at this present time due to the situation in Syria.  62 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure Primary Statements Other Assets / Liabilities
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 4 – Other Assets and Liabilities 
4.1 Investments
The Company’s investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown below. All investments are in ordinary shares and are directly or 
indirectly owned by the Company as stated below:
  Proportion of voting shares 
Name of Company  at 31 December 2013 Nature of business Country of incorporation
Directly held by the Company:     
Gulfsands Petroleum Ltd  100% Holding company Cayman Islands
Indirectly held by the Company:
Gulfsands Petroleum Holdings  100% Holding company Cayman Islands
Gulfsands Petroleum Levant Ltd  100% Oil and gas exploration Cayman Islands
Gulfsands Petroleum Iraq Ltd   100% Oil and gas exploration Cayman Islands
Gulfsands Petroleum Tunisia Ltd  100% Oil and gas exploration Cayman Islands
Gulfsands Petroleum Morocco Ltd 100% Oil and gas exploration Cayman Islands
Gulfsands Petroleum Morocco Ltd 100% Oil and gas exploration Cyprus
Gulfsands Petroleum (MENA) Ltd  100% Oil and gas exploration Cayman Islands
Gulfsands Petroleum Sud America Ltd 100% Oil and gas exploration Cayman Islands
Gulfsands Petroleum USA, Inc.   100% Oil and gas exploration US
Darcy Energy LLC   100% Oil and gas exploration US
On 1 August 2013 Cabre Maroc Limited (registered in Cyprus) changed its name to Gulfsands Petroleum Morocco Ltd.
4.2 Available‑for‑sale financial assets
Key accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions:
Fair value of the Group’s investment in Dijla Petroleum Company (“DPC”)
The Group’s investment in DPC, the entity established in Syria, pursuant to the PSC, to administer the Group’s Syrian oil and gas 
development and production assets (and which is considered to also include the related rights to production under the PSC), is recorded 
as an available‑for‑sale investment at an estimate of fair value taking into account the current exceptional circumstances in Syria and the 
consequential difficulty of predicting the timing of future activities in Syria. Due to the unknown duration of EU sanctions in force against 
Syria and uncertainty over the eventual outcome of events in the country, the calculation of fair value is highly subjective and subject to 
material change in future periods, as described further below.
Available‑for‑sale financial assets are stated at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other 
comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve with the exception of impairment losses which are 
recognised directly in profit or loss. Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss 
previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
The Group is party to a PSC for the exploitation of hydrocarbon production in Block 26 in Syria. Pursuant to the PSC the Group 
operates its Syrian oil and gas production assets through a joint venture administered by DPC in which the Group has a 25% equity 
interest. The Group lost joint control of DPC on 1 December 2011 following the publication of European Union Council Decision 
2011 / 782 / CFSP . For the purposes of EU sanctions, DPC is considered to be controlled by General Petroleum Corporation. Since 
the Group has neither joint control nor significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity, it carries its 
investment in DPC and the associated rights under the Block 26 PSC as an available‑for‑sale financial asset. The fair value attributed to 
DPC at 31 December 2013 is $102 million (31 December 2012: $102 million).
The basis of calculation of the fair value of the investment in DPC continues to be the estimated future cash flows that could be generated 
in respect of the Group’s entitlement reserves in Block 26, using a long‑term Brent oil price assumption of $90 / bbl, discounted at a 
rate of 15% per annum. The resulting net present value is further reduced to reflect the Board’s view of the specific risks associated 
with investments in the Syrian oil and gas sector at the current time. Such risks include potential delay in resumption of oil production 
and in receipt of revenues from Block 26, potential additional costs associated with recommencement of operations and the potential 
inability to resume operations in Block 26. The impact of this risking methodology has been to reduce the valuation of the asset by 80%. 
The valuation represents a level 3 measurement basis as defined by IFRS 7. Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Other Assets / Liabilities Primary Statements
There is a high degree of subjectivity inherent in the valuation due to the unknown duration of the sanctions and the eventual outcome of 
events in Syria. Accordingly it may change materially in future periods depending on a wide range of factors. The following table sets out 
the impact that changes in the key variables would have on the carrying value of the asset:
       Change in 
       carrying value 
      Change of investment 
      % $’000
Increase in forecast capital expenditure     5% (1,902)
Decrease in long‑term commodity prices     5% (11,610)
Increase in forecast operating expenditure     5% (1,113)
Change in discount rate to 10%      5% 31,907
Change in discount rate to 20%      5%  (21,916) 
Change in the Syrian oil and gas sector risk to 90%    10%  (51,000)
The Directors have reviewed the carrying value of this available‑for‑sale financial asset at 31 December 2013 and are of the opinion that 
the valuation, although subject to significant uncertainty, is appropriate. The valuation methodology reflects the difficulty of predicting the 
timing of future activities in Syria, taking into consideration the current exceptional circumstances in the country and is not necessarily 
reflective of the value of the Group’s investments in its Syrian operations over the long term.
4.3 Business combinations
Key accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions:
Fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on acquisition
On acquisition of Cabre Maroc Limited the Group recognised the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value. 
The Directors have considered any new information which has come to light during the year in respect of conditions and circumstances 
that existed at the acquisition date and have recognised all assets and liabilities of which it has become aware. The Directors have taken 
into account advice of the Moroccan authorities with respect to legacy well decommissioning responsibilities and as a result have not 
recognised a provision for the decommissioning of these wells.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business 
combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition‑date fair value of assets transferred by the Group, 
liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interest issued by the Group in exchange for control of 
the acquiree. Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, 
except that:
•	 deferred tax assets or liabilities and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in 
accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively; and 
•	 assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non‑current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, 
the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted 
during the measurement period (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date), or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, 
to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have 
affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Cabre Maroc Limited was completed on 16 January 2013 and the results from 
operations of Cabre Maroc are included in the Group results from that date. 
Cabre Maroc is a Cyprus‑registered company with oil and gas exploration and production operations in Morocco. Cabre Maroc changed 
its name to Gulfsands Petroleum Morocco Limited on 1 August 2013. Further details of its activities are included in the Operations Review 
in this Report. The purchase of Cabre Maroc delivers to Gulfsands a large, contiguous and highly prospective acreage in an area with 
proven petroleum systems, revenues from near‑term production and multiple drilling targets. 64 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure Primary Statements Other Assets / Liabilities
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 4 – Other Assets and Liabilities continued
4.3 Business combinations continued
On completion of the accounting for the business combination, the final amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed are set out in the table below:
         $’000
Financial assets       2,654
Intangible exploration and evaluation assets      19,280
Financial liabilities        (4,661)
Total identifiable assets       17,273
Total consideration       17,273
Satisfied by:  
Cash       17,273
Total consideration transferred      17,273
Net cash outflow arising on acquisition:  
Cash consideration       17,273
Less: cash consideration paid in 2012      (100)
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired      (70)
       17,103
The fair value of intangibles exploration and evaluation assets acquired consists of the fair value attributed to the Rharb Centre, Rharb 
Sud and Fes permits acquired. No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of the accounting for the business combination, 
see note 5.8. 
The contribution of Cabre Maroc to the Group’s loss for the period since the date of acquisition was $10.4 million and capital expenditures 
in that period totaled $22.5 million. 
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
5.1 Total revenue and segmental analysis
Revenue recognition
Sales revenue represents amounts invoiced exclusive of sales‑related taxes and royalties for the Group’s share of hydrocarbon sales in the 
year. Hydrocarbon sales are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed. No allowance is made for the Group’s share of 
future revenues from costs incurred to date that have yet to be allowed for cost recovery purposes.
The total revenue of the Group, as defined by IAS 18, for 2013 was $4.5 million (2012: $6.0 million) comprising sales of hydrocarbons and 
incidental income of $4.4 million (2012: $5.6 million) and interest income of $0.1 million (2012: $0.4 million).
For Management purposes, at 31 December 2013 the Group operated in four geographical areas, Morocco, Tunisia, Colombia and the 
US with suspended operations in Syria as discussed in note 4.2. All segments are involved with production and exploration of oil and gas. 
Other, represents corporate and head office costs. Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Results for the Year Primary Statements
The Group’s revenue, result and certain asset and liability information for the year are analysed by reportable segment as follows:
Year ended 31 December 2013
 Syria Morocco Tunisia US Colombia Other Total 
 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Sale revenues — — — 4,367 — — 4,367
Operating loss (4,471) (10,165) (2,434) (820) (11) (8,430) (26,331)
Financing cost       (426)
Net loss       (26,757)
       
G&A expenditure (1,573) (18) (280) (1,000) (11) (7,526) (10,408)
       
Total assets 104,128 39,924 5,673 16,348 489 44,640 211,202
Total liabilities (3,766) (12,562) (1,835) (14,836) (347) (1,205) (34,551)
Capital expenditure:       
  Exploration  
 and evaluation 474 41,783 3,553 — 243 — 46,053
 Oil and gas properties — — — 2,467 — — 2,467
Exploration costs written off — (10,147) (2,154) — — — (12,301)
Impairment of oil  
and gas assets — — — (58) — — (58)
Impairment of Syrian  
exploration activities (474) — — — — — (474)
Inventory written off (701) — — — — — (701)
Inventory provision (2,204) — — — — — (2,204)
Year ended 31 December 2012
 Syria Morocco Tunisia US Colombia Other Total 
 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Sale revenues — — — 5,622 — — 5,622
Operating loss (4,812) — (7,471) (1,758) — (12,770) (26,811)
Financing cost       (219)
Net loss       (27,030)
       
G&A expenditure (3,078) — — (1,717) — (11,829) (16,624)
       
Total assets 108,005 — 5,497 17,406 — 101,455 232,363
Total liabilities (8,753) — (2,095) (17,259) — (1,333) (29,440)
Capital expenditure:       
 Exploration  
 and evaluation 17 — 5,026 — — — 5,043
 Oil and gas properties — — — 1,461 — — 1,461
Exploration costs written off 17 — (7,099) — — — (7,082)
Impairment of oil  
and gas assets — — — (568) — — (568)
Impairment of Syrian  
exploration activities (34) — — — — — (34)
Inventory written off — — — — — — —
Inventory provision — — — — — — — 66 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Capital Structure Primary Statements Results for the Year
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 5 – Results for the Year continued
5.2 Operating loss
The Group’s operating loss including its suspended Syrian activities is stated after charging / (crediting):
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Share‑ based payment charges (note 5.3)     516 1,751 
Depletion of oil and gas properties (note 2.1)     1,267 1,430 
Depreciation and amortisation of other assets (notes 2.1 and 2.3)    877 1,000 
Impairment of development and production assets (note 2.1)    58 568 
Exploration expenditure written off (note 2.3)     12,301 7,082 
Other Syrian adjustments       383 34 
Syrian inventory impairment / written off (note 3.4)     2,905 —
Staff costs excluding share‑based payments (note 5.5)    8,844 11,154 
Operating lease rentals:   
 Buildings       1,044 1,473
 Vehicles and equipment       10 219
Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight‑line basis over the lease term.
5.3 Share‑based payments 
The Company has made equity‑settled share‑based payments to certain employees and Directors by way of issues of share options. 
The fair value of these payments is calculated at grant date by the Company using the Black‑Scholes option pricing model excluding the 
effect of non market‑based vesting conditions. The expense is recognised on a straight‑line basis over the period from the date of award 
to the date of vesting, based on the Company’s best estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest. At each Balance Sheet 
date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market‑based vesting 
conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense 
reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the share‑based payments reserve.
The Group operates two share‑based remuneration plans issuing options and restricted shares. Options are issued to Directors and 
certain senior management personnel. Restricted shares are available to other staff.
Options are issued with an exercise price equivalent to the underlying share price averaged over a period immediately prior to the date of 
grant, or such other higher exercise price as the Remuneration Committee may determine. Restricted shares are issued with an exercise 
price equivalent to the par value of the shares. Both options and restricted shares will usually have a deferred vesting period and a 
maximum validity period of five years. 
The share‑based payment charge for the period is based upon the requirements of IFRS 2 regarding share‑based payments. 
For this purpose, the weighted average estimated fair value of the share options and restricted shares granted was calculated using 
a Black‑Scholes option pricing model. The expected average life of options and restricted shares was assumed to be four years. 
No dividends were factored into the model. Volatility has been estimated based on the historical volatility of the underlying shares.
No options or restricted shares were issued in 2013 (2012: fair value of options and restricted shares issued $0.8 million). 
The estimated fair value of options and restricted shares with a deferred vesting period is charged to the Income Statement over the 
vesting period of the options concerned. The estimated fair value of options and restricted shares exercisable immediately is expensed 
at the time of issuance of the award. Further details are provided in note 6.1. Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Results for the Year Primary Statements
5.4 Auditor’s remuneration
Details of the auditor’s remuneration is set out in the table below:
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of:  
Company’s accounts      176 240 
Company’s subsidiaries      46 29
Total audit fees      222 269 
Audit related assurance services      47 56 
Taxation compliance services      49 44 
Other taxation advisory services      18 21
Other services      — 61
Total non‑audit fees      114 182 
5.5 Staff costs 
The aggregate payroll costs of staff and Directors were as follows: 
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Wages and salaries      8,083 10,080
Social security costs      616 868 
Share‑based payment charges      516 1,751 
Other benefits in kind      145 206 
      9,360 12,905 
Included in wages and salaries above is an amount of $1.0 million in respect of termination payments to staff paid during 2013 
(2012: $1.5 million).
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group, including Directors was as follows:
      2013 2012
Operational and technical      20 28 
Administrative      37 39 
      57 67
5.6 Directors’ emoluments
Details of the remuneration of Directors are included in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on page 40. No employees other than 
Directors are determined to be key management personnel.
5.7 Net interest receivable
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective rate applicable.
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Short‑term bank deposit interest      89 375  68 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Capital Structure Results for the Year Primary Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 5 – Results for the Year continued
5.8 Taxation 
Key accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions:
Deferred taxation
As part of the acquisition of Cabre Maroc the Board has considered whether a deferred tax liability in respect of temporary timing 
differences arising on the fair value attributed to E&E assets on acquisition should be recognised. As the majority of any future revenues 
which could arise from these assets are expected to fall within a ten‑ year tax holiday under the provisions of the Moroccan Hydrocarbon 
Code no provision has been recognised and no gross up has been applied to the E&E asset value recognised.
No deferred tax assets have been provided in respect of losses carried forward in UK and US and other temporary timing differences as 
the Board does not consider it probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be made to offset the deductions represented by those 
deferred tax assets. 
Current tax, including UK Corporation Tax and overseas tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates 
and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are 
measured using the enacted, or substantively enacted, tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to 
reverse. The recoverability of deferred tax assets is evaluated annually and an impairment provision is made if it is more likely than not that 
the deferred tax asset will not give rise to future benefits in the Group’s tax returns.
Deferred tax assets are not provided where the Group does not consider it probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be made to 
offset the deductions represented by those deferred tax assets. In performing this calculation the Group considers deferred tax balances 
relating to each tax authority separately. 
Where current or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for 
the business combination.
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Current Corporation Tax:  
UK Corporation Tax      — —
Overseas Corporation Tax      —  — 
Total credit      — —
The Group’s effective tax rate differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK domestic corporation tax rate applicable to 
profits of the consolidated companies as follows: 
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Total loss before tax      (26,757) (27,030)
Tax calculated at domestic rate of 23.25% (2012: 24.5%)    (6,221) (6,622)
Effects of:  
Expenses not deductible for taxation purposes     1 2
Share‑based payments      120 398
Tax losses for which no deferred taxation asset was recognised    1,228 799
Expiry of tax losses      1,286 1,497
Effect of prior period adjustment      415 1,581
Impact of local tax rates      3,591 2,332
Other tax adjustments      (420) 13
      — —
The Group’s tax liabilities in Tunisia and Syria are settled on its behalf by the national oil companies out of the latter’s share of royalties and 
profit oil and, as such, are not reflected in the Group’s tax charge for the year. 
In Morocco under section 42 of law no. 21‑90 related to the Hydrocarbon Code, the Group benefits from a ten ‑ year exemption from 
Moroccan corporate income tax in respect of each exploitation concession, commencing on the date on which regular production begins 
from that exploitation concession.  Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Results for the Year Primary Statements
Deferred tax
The tax effect of amounts for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised is as follows:
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
DD&A and impairment in excess of tax allowances     2,040 3,329
Other short‑term temporary differences     21,655 14,185
Tax losses carried forward      20,943 19,566
Unprovided deferred tax asset       (44,638) (37,080)
Deferred tax asset / (liability) at 31 December     — — 
$2.8 million (2012: $2.6 million) of the Group’s unutilised tax losses expire between 2014 and 2016.
5.9 Loss per share
The basic and diluted loss per share have been calculated using the loss for the year ended 31 December 2013 of $26.8 million 
(2012: $27.0 million). The basic loss per share was calculated using a weighted average number of shares in issue less treasury shares 
held, of 117,855,702 (2012: 117,844,680). The weighted average number of ordinary shares, allowing for the exercise of share options, 
for the purposes of calculating the diluted loss per share was 118,192,648 (2012: 118,202,604). 
Where there is a loss, the impact of share options is anti‑dilutive and hence, basic and diluted loss per share are the same.
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company, being any instruments with a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all 
its liabilities, are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Repurchase of the Company’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit 
or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments. 
6.1 Share capital
Group and Company
      2013 2012 
      Number Number
Authorised:  
Ordinary shares of 5.714 pence each     175,000,000  175,000,000 
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Allotted, called up and fully paid:  
121,989,500 (2012: 121,989,500) ordinary shares of 5.714 pence each   13,131  13,131
The movements in share capital and share options were:
       Weighted 
       average price 
    Number of  Number of Number of of options 
    ordinary shares share options restricted shares £
At 31 December 2012    121,989,500  7,436,000  446,139   2.18 
Restricted shares settled cashless   — — (79,990) —
Restricted shares cash‑settled    — — (2,500) —
Share options and restricted shares lapsing unexercised  — (5,800,000) — 2.03
At 31 December 2013    121,989,500 1,636,000 363,649 2.72
All restricted shares have an exercise price of 5.714 pence per restricted share.
Pursuant to a share buyback programme in 2011 the Company holds 4,103,355 shares in Treasury at 31 December 2013 
(2012: 4,144,820). During 2013, 41,465 shares were issued from Treasury to satisfy the exercise of restricted shares. 70 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure Primary Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures continued
6.1 Share capital continued
The detail of the share options and restricted shares outstanding at 31 December 2013 are as follows:
     Weighted 
    Year options average   Number of 
    or restricted  exercise price Number of restricted 
Exercise period    shares vest of options (£)  options  shares
9 February 2009 – 10 June 2014    2009 £1.87 125,000  —
16 February 2010 – 10 June 2014   2010 £1.88 62,500 —
16 February 2011 – 15 February 2014   2011 £1.86 62,500  —
4 May 2011 – 3 May 2015    2011 £3.20 427,500 —
4 May 2012 – 3 May 2015    2012 £3.20 427,500  —
3 June 2012 – 2 June 2016    2012 £2.35 265,500  —
3 June 2013 – 2 June 2016    2013 £2.35 265,500  —
4 May 2011 – 3 November 2015    2011 — — 50,668 
4 May 2012 – 3 November 2015    2012 — — 50,667 
3 June 2012 – 2 June 2016    2012 — — 15,661 
3 June 2013 – 2 June 2016    2013 — — 15,659 
4 April 2012 – 29 October 2017    2013 — — 109,997
4 April 2012 – 29 October 2017    2014 — — 109,997
4 April 2012 – 29 October 2017    2015 — — 11,000 
     £2.72 1,636,000 363,649
Options are exercisable at prices from £1.86 to £3.20 per share and had a weighted estimated remaining contractual life of 1.5 years at 
31 December 2013. The weighted remaining contractual life of the restricted shares is approximately 3.2 years.
Of the total outstanding options at 31 December 2013, the options granted to the Directors numbered 1,200,000 (2012: 6,300,000) and 
those granted to other staff numbered 436,000 (2012: 1,061,000). In 2012 the remaining 75,000 were granted to ex‑employees and 
ex‑Directors or consultants who were at 31 December 2012 involved with or had performed work for the Group. All restricted shares 
outstanding were granted to non‑Directors employed by the Group.
The average share price during 2013 was £0.78 (2012: £1.21). The highest share price during the year was £1.16 and the lowest price 
was £0.47 (2012: £1.87 and £0.87). 
6.2 Financial instruments, derivatives and capital management
Risk assessment
The Group’s oil and gas activities are subject to a range of financial risks, as described below, which can significantly impact 
its performance.
Liquidity risk
At the end of the year the Group had cash and cash equivalents of $33.8 million, and further bank balances of $19.1 million held in escrow 
to cover expected decommissioning liabilities and to guarantee minimum work obligations.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced frequently. These are reviewed regularly by management 
and the Board. Note 1.3a sets out how the Group monitor its cash and cash equivalents in light of its financing requirements. 
Currency risk
The Group has currency exposure arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company 
and all its subsidiaries, US Dollars. These transactions relate to certain costs of its oil and gas exploration and production operations which 
are denominated in local currencies or in Euro, and its head office costs which are denominated in Pounds Sterling. 
In Syria and Tunisia where the operations are covered by PSCs costs incurred in currencies other than US Dollars are recoverable under 
the terms of the PSC at the rate of exchange between US Dollars and that currency at the date of payment of the expense. 
The Group maintains part of its cash balances in Pounds Sterling to defray head office costs but limits exposure to other currencies as far 
as practicable. Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Capital Structure Primary Statements
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to changes in the US Dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, on the 
Group’s profit before tax and the Group’s equity:
        Effect on profit 
      Change in before tax  
      US Dollar rate $’000
2013      (+ or –) 5% 130 
2012      (+ or –) 5% 125
Credit risk
During the year ended 31 December 2013, 82% of the Group’s oil and gas revenues, which were all derived from the US segment, 
were received from Sunoco Inc and 16% from Southwest Energy LP . During the year end 31 December 2012, 79% of the Group’s 
revenues, which were all derived from the US segment, were received from Sunoco Inc and 11% from Southwest Energy LP . 
In the US the Group trades only with a small number of recognised, creditworthy third parties. The Group manages the exposures to credit 
risk by performing credit evaluations on such of their major customers as require credit.
The Directors do not consider that any further provision is necessary against any financial assets.
Capital risk management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. 
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to 
reduce debt. 
The Group considers capital to be its equity reserves. At the current stage of the Group’s life cycle, the Group’s objective in managing its 
capital is to ensure funds raised meet the exploration expenditure commitments. 
The Group ensures it is meeting its objectives by reviewing its KPIs and other management information to ensure its activities are 
progressing in line with expectations, controlling costs and placing unused funds on deposit to conserve resources and increase returns 
on surplus cash held.
Financial assets
The Group’s financial assets consist of long‑term financial assets, its available‑for‑sale investment in DPC, cash at bank and receivables. 
The interest rate profile at 31 December for these assets at US Dollar equivalents was as follows:
     Financial assets Financial assets  
     on which  on which no 
     interest is earned interest is earned  Total 
     $’000 $’000 $’000
2013   
US Dollar     50,310 102,573 152,883
Pound Sterling     75 223 298
Euro     730 14 744
Syrian Pounds     148 7 155
Moroccan Dirham     1,621 147 1,768
Other currencies     79 101 180
     52,963 103,065 156,028
2012   
US Dollar     95,231 112,709 207,940
Pound Sterling     — 466 466
Euro     84 793 877
Syrian Pounds     — 55 55
Moroccan Dirham     — — —
Other currencies     — — —
     95,315 114,023 209,338 72 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure Primary Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures continued
6.2 Financial instruments, derivatives and capital management continued
Financial assets continued
The Pound Sterling, Euro, Moroccan Dirham and Syrian Pound assets principally comprise cash on hand, cash in instant access accounts 
and short‑term money market deposits. The US Dollar assets represent an available‑for‑sale financial asset, cash on call accounts, money 
market accounts, and short‑term receivables. The Group earned interest on its interest bearing financial assets at rates between 0.01% 
and 0.5%. 
In the current economic climate with exceptionally low interest rates, the Group is not sensitive to fluctuations in the interest rate received 
on bank and money market deposits and accordingly no sensitivity analysis is published.
Included in financial assets on which no interest is earned at 31 December 2013 and 2012 was a gross amount of $25.3 million of trade 
receivables that has been fully provided against. This amount is due from the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic in respect of oil 
sales in Syria. The receivable is acknowledged by General Petroleum Corporation of the Syrian Arab Republic but due to the ongoing 
sanctions against the country’s oil industry the payment of this amount has been delayed and, taking into account the current exceptional 
circumstances in Syria and the consequential difficulty of predicting the timing of future payment, has been fully impaired. The remaining 
trade receivables consist of amounts receivable from various counter‑parties where the Group considers the credit risk to be low. This risk 
is monitored by the Group. 
Financial liabilities
The Group’s financial liabilities consist of short‑term payables. None of these liabilities bear interest to external parties. The Group’s 
short‑term liabilities are considered to be payable on demand. At 31 December financial liabilities are classified as shown below:
       Financial liabilities  
       on which no  
       interest is charged 
       $’000
2013 
US Dollar       15,923
Pound Sterling       928
Euro       446
Syrian Pounds       292
Moroccan Dirham       3,138
Other currencies       719
       21,446
2012 
US Dollar       10,298
Pound Sterling       629
Euro       230
Syrian Pounds       550
Moroccan Dirham       —
Other currencies       72
       11,779 Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Capital Structure Primary Statements
Commodity price risk
The Group sells its hydrocarbon production on the spot market and has exposure to changes in oil and gas prices. The Directors make 
considerations as to the likely fluctuations in commodity prices and the materiality of revenue to the Group in determining if derivative 
contracts are required to mitigate any risk. In 2013 commodity prices averaged $102.18 for oil (2012: $102.10) and $3.79 for gas 
(2012: $3.20). 
In 2012 and 2013 the Group did not enter into derivative contracts in respect of its exposure to fluctuations in the price of oil and gas. 
Fair values
The Group has an available‑for‑sale financial asset valued by the Directors at $102 million as described further above in note 4.2. 
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the Directors considered the fair values and book values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities to 
be materially the same.
6.3 Related party transactions and key management
Key management of the Group are considered to be the Directors of the Company. Directors’ interests in shares and their remuneration 
and share options are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 40 and 41.
The remuneration of Directors is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. 
      2013 2012 
      $’000 $’000
Short‑term employee benefits      3,178 2,133 
Share‑based payments      181 975 
      3,359 3,108 
In 2013 the Group paid $nil (2012: $32,000) to Hamilton Capital Partners Limited, a company associated with Mr Judge, for London office 
representative costs.
In 2013 the Group paid $31,000 (2012: $nil) to Emiga Conseils SAS, a company associated with Mr Faure for management 
consultancy costs.
In 2013 the Group paid $30,000 (2012: $3,000) to McMillan LLP , a company associated with Mr Cowan for legal services. 
All of the above related party transactions were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related, have been eliminated on consolidation 
and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries are disclosed in note 6.4 of the Company 
Financial Statements. 
There were no other related party transactions of the Group during the years ended 31 December 2013 or 2012 and no amounts were 
due to or from related parties as at 31 December 2013 (2012: $nil).
6.4 Obligations under operating leases 
At the end of the year the Group had commitments for future minimum lease payments under non‑cancellable operating leases as follows:
 2013 2012
     
    Land and   Land and 
    buildings Other buildings Other 
    $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Amounts payable on leases:    
Within one year    712 8 651 7 
In two to five years    1,266 10 1,950 13 
    1,978 18 2,601 20  74 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Basis of Preparation Oil and Gas Assets Working Capital Other Assets/Liabilities Results for the Year Capital Structure Primary Statements
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures continued
6.5 Commitments
At 31 December 2013 the Group had the following capital commitments in respect of its exploration activities:
Morocco
Rharb permit – licence expiry date and deadline for fulfilment of capital commitments July 2014
•	 Drilling of a further six exploration wells.
•	 Total cost of commitments estimated at $14.0 million.
Fes permit – licence expiry date and deadline for fulfilment of capital commitments September 2015
•	 Drilling of three exploration wells.
•	 Acquisition of 1,000 km of 2D seismic which commenced in 2013 and will be completed in 2014.
•	 Acquisition of 100 km² 3D seismic.
•	 Total commitments estimated at $42.3 million inclusive of a $7.0 million carry. 
Tunisia
Chorbane permit – licence expiry date and deadline for fulfilment of capital commitments July 2015
•	 Drilling of one exploration well.
•	 Total commitments estimated at $7.0 million. 
Colombia
Putumayo 14
•	 Drilling of one exploration well.
•	 2D seismic minimum 103 km. 
•	 Total commitments estimated at $7.8 million.
•	 To be fulfilled by November 2016.
Llanos 50
•	 Drilling of one exploration well.
•	 2D seismic minimum 93 km.
•	 Total commitments estimated at $6.8 million.
•	 To be fulfilled by November 2016.
There were no other material obligations or contracts outstanding in relation to ongoing projects not provided or disclosed in these 
Financial Statements. Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75
Parent Company Financial Statements
and Notes to the Company Financial Statements
Section 1 Basis of Preparation
Parent Company Primary Statements
Section 2 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
Section 3 Investments in and Loans to Subsidiaries
Section 4 Working Capital 
Section 5 Results for the Year
Section 6 Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
This section contains the Group’s significant accounting policies that relate to 
the financial statements as a whole. Significant accounting policies specific 
to one note have been included in that note. Accounting policies determined 
non‑significant are not included in these financial statements. There have been 
no changes to the Group’s accounting policies that are no longer disclosed in the 
financial statements.
This section contains the Company’s primary Financial Statements. 
This section focuses on the property, plant, equipment and computer software 
utilised by the Company.
This section focuses on the Company’s investments and loans.
This section focuses on the working capital position of the Company 
supporting its business 
This section focuses on the results and performance of the Company.
The disclosures in this section focus on the issued share capital, the share 
schemes in operation and other mandatory disclosures.
1.1  Authorisation of financial 
statements and statement 
of compliance with IFRSs
1.2  Adoption of International 
Financial Reporting 
Standards
1.3.  Significant 
accounting policies
1.4  Critical accounting 
judgements and key 
sources of estimation 
uncertainty
p76  Company Balance Sheet
p77  Company Statement 
of Changes in Equity
p78  Company Cash Flow 
Statement
2.1  Property, plant and 
equipment
2.2  Intangible assets 
3.1 Investments
4.1  Trade and other 
receivables
4.2  Cash and cash equivalents
4.3  Trade and other payables
5.1  Revenue recognition
5.2  Operating leases
5.3  Share‑based payments
5.4  Taxation
5.5  Earnings per share
6.1  Share capital
6.2  Financial instruments, 
derivatives and capital 
management
6.3  Foreign currency
6.4.  Related party transactions 
and key management
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 76 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Company Balance Sheet
as at 31 December 2013
      2013 2012 
     Notes $’000 $’000
Assets   
Non‑current assets   
Property, plant and equipment     2.1  232 473 
Intangible assets     2.2  283 1,720
Long‑term financial assets     4.2  13,181 5,000 
Investments in and loans to subsidiaries    3.1  22,247 20,596 
Amounts due from subsidiaries     4.1 49,158 5,755
      85,101  33,544
Current assets   
Trade and other receivables     4.1  1,398 585
Cash and cash equivalents     4.2  29,168 89,440 
      30,566 90,025
Total assets      115,667 123,569 
Liabilities   
Current liabilities   
Trade and other payables     4.3  913 1,183 
Non‑current liabilities   
Amounts due to subsidiaries     4.3  2,690 2,378 
Total liabilities      3,603 3,561 
Net assets      112,064 120,008 
Equity   
Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders   
Share capital     6.1  13,131 13,131 
Share premium      105,926 105,926 
Treasury shares      (11,502) (11,619) 
Retained profit      4,509 12,570 
Total equity      112,064 120,008 
The Financial Statements of Gulfsands Petroleum plc (registered number: 05302880) were approved by the Board of Directors on 
3 April 2014 and signed on its behalf by:
Alan Cutler 
Director – Finance and Administration 
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Company Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2013
   Share  Share Treasury Retained Total 
   capital premium shares profit / (loss) equity 
   $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
At 1 January 2012   13,131 105,926  (11,902) 49,455 156,610
Options exercised   —  —  283  (149)  134 
Purchase of own shares   —  —  —  (119) (119)
Share‑based payment charge   —  —  —  1,751  1,751 
Loss for 2012   —  —  —  (38,368)  (38,368)
At 31 December 2012   13,131  105,926  (11,619)  12,570 120,008
Options exercised   —  —  117  (148)  (31) 
Share‑based payment charge   —  —  —  516 516
Loss for 2013   —  —  —  (8,429)  (8,429)
At 31 December 2013   13,131 105,926 (11,502) 4,509 112,064
The Company has represented its Statement of Changes in Equity to include the share‑based payments reserve as part of retained profit 
and to separate treasury shares from retained profit, both as permitted by IFRS.
 
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure 78 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Company Cash Flow Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2013
      2013 2012 
     Notes $’000 $’000
Cash flows from operating activities   
Operating loss      (8,400) (8,355)
Depreciation and amortisation     2.1 & 2.2 562 608 
Share‑based payment charge      516 1,751 
Increase in receivables      (811) (339) 
(Decrease) / increase in payables      (273) 839
Net cash used in operations      (8,406) (5,496)
Interest received      78 373 
Bank fees      (26) (9)
Foreign exchange (losses) / gains      (81) 280
Net cash used in operating activities     (8,435) (4,851)
Investing activities   
Capital expenditure      (62) (1,334)
Change in restricted cash balances    4.2 (8,181) (4,000) 
Funds transferred to subsidiaries      (43,563) (15,209)
Net cash used in investing activities     (51,806) (20,543)
Financing activities   
Cash proceeds from issue of shares     — 145 
Purchase of own shares      — (119)
Other payments in connection with options issued     (31) (11)
Net cash (used in) / provided by financing activities    (31) 15 
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents     (60,272) (25,379)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year     89,440 114,819 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year    4.2 29,168 89,440
 
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Notes to the Company Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 1 – Basis of Preparation
1.1 Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with IFRSs
Gulfsands Petroleum plc is a public limited company listed on the Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”) of the London Stock Exchange 
and incorporated in the United Kingdom. The principal activity of the Company is that of provision of services to its subsidiaries which are 
engaged in oil and gas production, exploration and development activities.
The Company’s Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 
3 April 2014 and the Balance Sheet was signed on the Board’s behalf by Alan Cutler.
The Company’s Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) 
as adopted by the European Union. The principal accounting policies adopted are set out in note 1.3 below.
The risks faced by the Company include those related to EU sanctions, described in note 4.2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
1.2 Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards
The Company’s Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 and for the comparative year ended 31 December 2012 
have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and IFRIC (IFRS 
Interpretations Committee) interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. 
See note 1.3b to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details of new IFRSs and interpretations.
1.3. Significant accounting policies
a) Basis of preparation and accounting standards
The Company’s significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company Financial Statements are set out in the 
notes below.
The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable IFRS as adopted by the EU and, except for share‑based 
payments, under the historical cost convention. They have also been prepared on the going concern basis of accounting, for the reasons 
set out as for the Consolidated Financial Statements in note 1.3a. 
b) Reporting currency
These Financial Statements are presented in US Dollars. The Company’s operations and the majority of all costs associated with foreign 
operations are paid in US Dollars and all loan balances with subsidiary undertakings are denominated in US Dollars. Therefore the 
presentational and functional currency of the Company is the US Dollar. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions, if any, 
are recognised in the Income Statement for the year. The effective exchange rate to the Pound Sterling at 31 December 2013 was 
£1: $1.66 (2012: £1: $1.61).
1.4 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described below, the Directors are required to make judgements, 
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. 
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. 
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision 
affects both current and future periods. 
The following set out the critical judgement that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies 
and the key assumptions concerning the Company and other key sources of estimate uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that has a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying values of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: 
•	 Deferred taxation – for further details see note 5.4.
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure 80 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 2 – Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets
2.1 Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is 
charged so as to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of assets on a straight‑line basis over their useful lives of between 
two and five years. 
       Office equipment,  
       fixtures and fittings 
       $’000
Cost: 
At 1 January 2012       332 
Additions       566 
At 1 January 2013       898 
Additions       16
At 31 December 2013       914
Accumulated depreciation: 
At 1 January 2012       (302)
Charge for 2012       (123)
At 1 January 2013       (425)
Charge for 2013       (257)
At 31 December 2013       (682)
Net book value at 31 December 2013       232
Net book value at 31 December 2012      473
2.2 Intangible assets 
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment. Amortisation is charged so as to 
write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of assets on a straight‑line basis over their useful lives of between two and five years. 
Amortisation is included with depreciation and classified as administrative expenses. No intangible assets have indefinite lives.
       Computer  
       software 
       $’000
Cost: 
At 1 January 2012       1,596
Additions       768 
At 1 January 2013       2,364 
Additions       45
Transfer to Group companies       (1,177)
At 31 December 2013       1,232
Accumulated amortisation: 
At 1 January 2012       (159)
Amortisation charge for 2012       (485)
At 1 January 2013       (644)
Amortisation charge for 2013       (305)
At 31 December 2013       (949)
Net book value at 31 December 2013      283 
Net book value at 31 December 2012      1,720
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure Capital Structure
Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Section 3 – Investments in and Loans to Subsidiaries
3.1 Investments
The Company’ s investments in subsidiary companies are included in the Company Balance Sheet at cost, less provision for any impairment. 
The Company’s fixed asset investment of $7.3 million represents the historic cost of acquisition of the entire share capital of Gulfsands 
Petroleum Ltd. by means of a share for share exchange in 2005, less any required provision for impairment.
Loans to subsidiary undertakings comprise a revolving loan from the Company to Gulfsands Petroleum USA, Inc. for $55.6 million 
(2012: $49.7 million) including accrued interest of $12.7 million (2012: $8.4 million) which is included within trade and other receivables. 
Interest is charged at 8.5% per annum on the outstanding principal and is payable in full on 31 December annually. The principal balance 
may be paid in part or in full at anytime with no penalty. On 1 January 2015 the loan converts to a term loan and the payments will be 
made in four instalments over the next three years. 
A total impairment provision of $40.7 million (2012: $36.4 million) has been recognised against the carrying value of this loan in the 
Company’s Financial Statements. This provision writes down the value of the loan to Gulfsands Petroleum USA, Inc. to the amount 
expected to be realisable after the anticipated disposal of the Company’s assets in the Gulf of Mexico. The fair value less costs to sell has 
been estimated following discussions with external specialist transaction advisers retained by the Group.
The acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Cabre Maroc Limited (“Cabre Maroc”) was completed on 16 January 2013. 
Following completion of the transaction the Company, indirectly, owns the entire issued share capital of Cabre Maroc, further details of the 
acquisition can be found in note 4.3 of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company’s investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown in note 4.1 of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Section 4 – Working Capital
4.1 Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amounts less any provision made for impairment of receivables. A provision for impairment 
of trade receivables is made when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to 
the original terms of the debt.
Trade and other receivables
      2013  2012 
      $’000 $’000
Current
Trade receivables      223 —
Other receivables      650 100
Prepayments and accrued income     525 485 
      1,398 585
Non‑current   
Amounts due from subsidiaries      49,158 5,755
Further details on the amounts due from subsidiaries are included in note 6.4.
4.2 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand by banks and other short‑term investments with 
original maturities of three months or less. Balances held in bank accounts subject to escrow agreements as collateral for performance 
bonds issued are excluded from cash and cash equivalents and are shown as long‑term financial assets.
      2013  2012 
      $’000 $’000
Cash at bank and in hand      29,168 89,440 
Restricted cash balances       13,181 5,000 
Total cash and bank resources      42,349 94,440 
Included in long‑term financial assets     13,181 5,000 
Total cash and cash equivalents      29,168 89,440 
The restricted cash balances at 31 December 2013 consist of:
•	 $10.0 million (2012: $5.0 million) held in escrow to guarantee minimum work obligations on the Rharb and Fes permits in Morocco.
•	 $3.2 million (2012: $nil) held in escrow to guarantee minimum work obligations on PUT 14 and LLA 50 in Colombia. 
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure 82 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 4 – Working Capital continued
4.3 Trade and other payables
Trade payables are not interest‑bearing and are stated at their nominal values.
Trade and other payables
      2013  2012 
      $’000 $’000
Current  
Trade payables      52 327 
Accruals and other payables      861 856
      913 1,183
Non‑current  
Amounts due to subsidiaries      2,690 2,378 
Section 5 – Results for the Year 
5.1 Revenue recognition
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective rate applicable.
Income statement and total revenue
No individual Income Statement is presented in respect of the Company as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. 
The Company’s loss for the year was $8.4 million (2012: $38.4 million). The total revenue of the Company, as defined by IAS 18, 
for 2013 was $4.2 million (2012: $4.1 million) comprising of interest income. 
The Company operates in one segment, that of the provision of services to Group undertakings, and in one geographical area, 
the United Kingdom. 
5.2 Operating leases
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight‑line basis over the lease term.
Obligations under operating leases
At the end of the year the Company had commitments for future minimum lease payments under non‑cancellable operating leases in 
respect of land and buildings of $0.4 million (2012: $0.6 million) within one year and $0.8 million (2012: $2.0 million) between two and 
five years. 
5.3 Share‑based payments
The Company has made equity‑settled share‑based payments to certain employees and Directors by way of issues of share options. 
The fair value of these payments is calculated at grant date by the Company using the Black‑Scholes option pricing model excluding the 
effect of non market‑based vesting conditions. The expense is recognised on a straight‑line basis over the period from the date of award 
to the date of vesting, based on the Company’s best estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest. At each Balance Sheet 
date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market‑based vesting 
conditions. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense 
reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the share‑based payments reserve. 
See note 5.3 within the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
5.4 Taxation
Key accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions:
Deferred taxation
No deferred tax assets has been provided in respect of losses carried forward in UK and other temporary timing differences as the 
Board does not consider it probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be made to offset the deductions represented by those 
deferred tax assets. 
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that 
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are 
measured using the enacted, or substantively enacted, tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to 
reverse. The recoverability of deferred tax assets is evaluated annually and an impairment provision is provided if it is more likely than not 
that the deferred tax asset will not give rise to future benefits in the Company’s tax returns.
Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
      2013  2012 
      $’000 $’000
Tax losses carried forward      9,053 8,145
Depreciation in advance of capital allowances     227 201
Other short‑term temporary differences     18,926 19,132
Unprovided deferred tax asset       (28,206) (27,478)
Deferred tax asset / (liability) at 31 December     — — 
The tax effect of amounts for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised is as follows:
      2013  2012 
      $’000 $’000
Unutilised tax losses      9,053 8,145
Other short‑term temporary differences     19,153 19,333
      28,206 27,478 
The tax losses of the Company have no expiry date.
Deferred tax assets are not provided where the Company does not consider it probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be made to 
offset the deductions represented by those deferred tax assets. 
5.5 Earnings per share 
No earnings per share information is shown as the Company is not required to present an Income Statement.
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures
Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company, being any instruments with a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all 
its liabilities, are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Repurchase of the Company’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit 
or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments. 
6.1 Share capital
See note 6.1 within the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
6.2 Financial instruments, derivatives and capital management
The financial risks of the Company are principally in respect of balances held in bank accounts and on deposit, and balances owed to, 
or owed by, subsidiary undertakings. Balances owed to or owed by subsidiary undertakings are all denominated in US Dollars. Other 
risks are managed on a unified basis with the Group and a full disclosure of these risks is made in note 6.2 of the Group Consolidated 
Financial Statements.
The exposure of the Company to interest rate and currency movements is not significant.
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure 84 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued
for the year ended 31 December 2013
Section 6 – Capital Structure and Other Disclosures continued
6.2 Financial instruments, derivatives and capital management continued
A summary of the financial assets and financial liabilities of the Company is set out below:
     Financial assets Financial assets  
     on which on which no  
     interest is earned interest is earned  Total 
     $’000 $’000 $’000
2013   
US Dollar     42,045 49,247 91,292
Pound Sterling     214 271 485
Euro     84 — 84
Other currencies     7 53 60
     42,350 49,571 91,921
2012   
US Dollar     92,394  7,586 99,980
Pound Sterling     —  465 465
Euro     —  335 335
Other currencies     — — —
     92,394 8,386 100,780
       Financial liabilities  
       on which no  
       interest is charged 
       $’000
2013   
US Dollar       2,927
Pound Sterling       529
Other currencies       22
       3,478
2012   
US Dollar       2,683 
Pound Sterling       834
Other currencies       44 
       3,561
During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Company impaired balances owed from subsidiary undertakings totalling $4.2 million 
(2012: $30.8 million) in respect of activities in the Gulf of Mexico. In 2012 this provision also related to its activities in Tunisia ($3.7 million), 
Syria ($6.4 million) and Iraq ($0.8 million).
6.3 Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions are translated to the functional and reporting currency of US Dollars at the rates prevailing when the 
transactions occurred. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the 
balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the Income Statement.
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
6.4. Related party transactions and key management
Key management of the Company are considered to be the Directors of the Company. Any transactions with Directors are disclosed 
in note 6.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interests in shares and their remuneration and share options are disclosed in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 40 and 41.
The Company traded with various undertakings within the same Group during the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012. A summary 
of the transactions and outstanding balances at the year end is set out below.
Balances owed by / (owed to) related parties
    2013 2012 
Name of related party  Nature of relationship Commercial terms $’000 $’000
Gulfsands Petroleum USA, Inc.  Subsidiary Interest rate 8.5% per annum 55,632 49,737
   Provision (40,692) (36,447)
   Non‑inter est bearing (47) (11)
Gulfsands Petroleum Tunisia Ltd  Subsidiary Non‑inter est bearing 27,882 24,652
   Provision (19,856) (19,967)
Gulfsands Petroleum Levant Ltd  Subsidiary Non‑inter est bearing 19,268 16,305
   Provision (16,038) (16,038)
Gulfsands Petroleum Ltd  Subsidiary Non‑inter est bearing (2,378) (2,378)
Gulfsands Petroleum Sud America Ltd Subsidiary Non‑inter est bearing (265) —
Gulfsands Petroleum (MENA) Ltd  Subsidiary Non interest‑bearing 362 —
Gulfsands Petroleum Morocco Ltd Subsidiary Non‑inter est bearing 18,505 —
Gulfsands Petroleum Holdings Ltd Subsidiary Non‑inter est bearing 18,952 51
Gulfsands Petroleum Iraq Ltd  Subsidiary Non‑inter est bearing 5,781 5,698
    Provision (5,698) (5,698)
Services recharged to related parties
 2013 2012
     
     Indirect  Indirect 
    Timewriting overhead Timewriting overhead 
Name of related party    $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Gulfsands Petroleum USA, Inc.    16 — — —
Gulfsands Petroleum Levant Ltd    354 — — —
Gulfsands Petroleum Morocco Ltd   1,668 367 — —
Gulfsands Petroleum Sud America Ltd   46 13 — —
Gulfsands Petroleum Tunisia Ltd    1,074 56 — —
Services recharged from related parties
 2013 2012
     
     Management  Management 
    Timewriting fee Timewriting fee 
Name of related party    $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000
Gulfsands Petroleum USA, Inc.    90 9 471 47
Primary Statements Basis of Preparation PPE / Intangible Assets Investments and Loans Working Capital Results for the Year Capital Structure 86 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
  unit 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Consolidated production      
Production – working interest  mmboe 0.1  0.1  3.1  3.8  2.7 
Production – entitlement  mmboe 0.1  0.1  1.3  1.7  1.6 
      
Summary Consolidated Income Statement      
Revenue  $MM 4.4  5.6  124.9  115.6  84.4 
Operating (loss) / profit  $MM (26.3)  (26.9)  56.7  45.5  29.0 
Net (loss) / profit to shareholders  $MM (26.8)  (27.0)  55.1  44.7  28.3 
Basic (loss) / earnings per share  US cents (22.70)  (22.94)  45.51  36.88  23.68 
      
Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement      
Net cash (used in) / from operating activities $MM (7.9)  (14.2)  94.3  70.2  43.5 
Net cash used in investing activities $MM (49.2) (19.1) (38.3) (48.0) (26.3)
Net cash from financing activities  $MM 0.0 0.0 (12.4) 0.8  3.6 
Net (decrease) / increase in cash  
and cash equivalents  $MM (57.2) (33.3) 43.6  23.0  20.8 
      
Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet      
Total assets  $MM 211.2  232.4  261.1  242.9  179.3 
Shareholders’ equity  $MM 176.7 202.9 228.2 183.0  134.2 
Cash and cash equivalents less debt $MM 33.8  91.0  124.2  80.6  57.6 
All amounts shown above for 2009, 2010 and 2011 include the results of the Group’s Syrian operations which are required to be treated as 
discontinued by IFRS and are therefore non‑GAAP measures.
The figures for 2009 shown above have been restated since publication of the original Financial Statements.
Five Year Summary Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87
Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Glossary of Terms
1C Low estimate Contingent Resources
1P Proved reserves, denotes low estimate 
scenario of Reserves
2C Best estimate Contingent Resources
2P Proved plus Probable Reserves, denotes 
best estimate scenario of Reserves
3C High estimate Contingent Resources
3P Proved plus Probable plus Possible 
Reserves, denotes high estimate scenario 
of Reserves
bbl Barrel of oil
bcf Billion cubic feet of gas
boe Barrels of oil equivalent where the gas 
component is converted into an equivalent 
amount of oil using a conversion rate of 
6mcf to one barrel of oil 
boepd Barrels of oil equivalent per day
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
DD&A Depletion, depreciation and amortisation
DGE Direction Générale de l’Energie (Tunisia)
DPC Dijla Petroleum Company
E&E Exploration and evaluation
E&P Exploration and production
EMV Expected monetary value
FRC Financial Reporting Council
G&A General and administrative expenses 
GPC General Petroleum Corporation 
HSE Health, Safety and Environment
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
km Kilometres
km
2
 Square kilometres
KPI Key Performance Indicators
mboe Thousand barrels of oil equivalent
mcf Thousand cubic feet of gas
MENA Middle East and North Africa
mmbbl Millions of barrels of oil
mmboe Millions of barrels of oil equivalent
NGLs Natural Gas Liquids
NRI Net revenue interest
NSAI Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.
ONHYM Office National des Hydrocarbures et des 
Mines (Morocco)
P10 There exists a 10% probability that the true 
quantity or value is greater than or equal to 
the stated P10 quantity or value 
P50 There exists a 50% probability that the true 
quantity or value is greater than or equal to 
the stated P50 quantity or value
P90 There exists a 90% probability that the true 
quantity or value is greater than or equal to 
the stated P90 quantity or value 
PDP reserves Proved Developed Producing Reserves
PDNP Proved Developed Non‑Producing Reserves
PRMS The 2007 Petroleum Resources 
Management classification system of 
the SPE
PSC Production Sharing Contract
Senergy Senergy (GB) Limited
SPE Society of Petroleum Engineers
WPC World Petroleum Congress 88 Gulfsands Petroleum plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Corporate Information
Corporate headquarters
6 Duke Street 
St James’s 
London SW1Y 6BN 
United Kingdom 
www.gulfsands.com 
info@gulfsands.com 
T: +44 (0)20 7024 2130 
Secretary and registered office
Ben Harber 
SGH Martineau Company Secretarial LLP 
1 America Square 
Crosswall 
London EC3N 2SG 
United Kingdom 
Regional offices
Colombia
World Trade Centre 
Calle 100 No 8A‑55 
Torre C Piso 10 
Bogotá Colombia 
Morocco
Bldg N°8 – 1st Floor  
Corner Ben Barka Av. and Eugenia st 
Hay Ryad 
Rabat 
Morocco
Syria
Dama Rose Hotel, 5th Floor 
Shukre Alkulatle Street 
Damascus 
Syria 
Tunisia
Emeraude Palace A3.1 – 3rd Floor 
Rue du Lac Windermere  
Les Berges du Lac 
1053 Tunis 
Tunisia 
US
3050 Post Oak Boulevard 
Suite 1700 
Houston 
Texas 77056  
USA 
Company number
05302880
Nominated adviser and broker
RBC Capital Markets
71 Queen Victoria Street 
London EC4V 4DE 
United Kingdom
First Energy Capital LLP
85 London Wall 
London EC2M 7AD 
United Kingdom
Auditor
Deloitte LLP
2 New Street Square 
London EC4A 3BZ 
United Kingdom
Solicitors
Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP
35 Vine Street 
London EC3N 2AA 
United Kingdom
CMS Cameron McKenna LLP
Mitre House 
160 Aldersgate Street 
London EC1A 4DD 
United Kingdom
McMillan LLP
1500‑1055 West Georgia 
Vancouver, BC V6E 4N7 
Canada
Registrars
Capita
Beaufort House 
34 Beckenham Road 
Beckenham 
Kent BR3 4TU 
United Kingdom
Stock Exchange listing
AIM market of London Stock Exchange 
Symbol: GPX Designed and produced by  
www.lyonsbennett.com 
Printed on Hello Silk. The pulp used in this product is bleached using a 
totally chlorine free process (TCF) or elemental chlorine free process (ECF) 
and is produced in a mill that is certified to ISO 14001 environmental 
management standards. This paper is from responsible sources. design back cover please
6 Duke Street 
St James’s 
London SW1Y 6BN
info@gulfsands.com 
T: +44 (0)20 7024 2130 
www.gulfsands.com 
