 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/1 4
India – our 
platform for 
growth
Hardy Oil and Gas plc
Annual Report and Accounts 
2013/14 Hardy Oil and Gas plc is an 
upstream international oil and gas 
company whose operating assets 
are in India. Its portfolio includes 
a blend of exploration, appraisal 
and development assets. 
Hardy’s goal is to evaluate and 
exploit its asset base with a view 
to creating significant value for 
its shareholders.
Strategic Report
Operational and Financial Highlights 01
Our India Focus  02
Chairman’s Statement  04
Board Introduction 07
Chief Executive Officer’s Strategic Review 08
Market Overview 10
Business Model 12
Key Performance Indicators  14
Operational Summary 16
Financial Summary 20
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 22
Corporate Responsibility Summary 24
Board of Directors 26
Governance
Governance Summary 28
Governance Report 29
Audit Committee Report 34
Directors’ Remuneration Report 37
Directors’ Remuneration Policy 38
Annual Report on Remuneration 42
Nomination Committee Report 46
Directors’ Report 48
Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report 51
Consolidated Statement of  
Comprehensive Income 54
Consolidated Statement 
of Changes in Equity 55
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 56
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 57
Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements 58
Parent Company Statement 
of Changes in Equity 74
Parent Company Statement 
of Financial Position 75
Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows 76
Notes to the Parent Company 
Financial Statements 77
 
Company Information
Reserves and Resources 85
Asset Description 86
Definitions and Glossary of Terms 87
Directors and Advisors ibc Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
01
Strategic Report
Summary
India’s demand for natural gas is expected to more than triple to 500 mmscmd by 
2022. With domestic supply projected to fall well short of expected demand, we see 
the creation of a robust environment in which to monetise the Company’s current and 
potential gas discoveries.
The recent national elections in India have provided a clear majority government with 
an unprecedented mandate to see through its plans, particularly with respect to energy 
supply and security. Realising the full potential of India’s hydrocarbon resources will require 
continued participation of independent operators, service providers and government. 
2013/14 – Operations
Through 2013/14 we have made progress on a number of initiatives set out for our 
India focused portfolio.
• The Company’s activities have been focused on the finalisation of the PY-3 
comprehensive Field Development Plan (FDP) that will enable us to meet our target 
to recommence production in early 2015.
• The GS-01 operator notified the Government of India (GOI) that it intends to 
relinquish its participating interest in the block. Hardy is continuing to pursue the 
acquisition of the operator’s participating interest and the approval of the proposed 
FDP. Dialogue with government bodies continues regarding the approval of this 
transfer, and consideration of the FDP submitted by Hardy in late 2012.
• The CY-OS/2 arbitration award in our favour was a very positive development. 
• The exploration drilling programme at D3 was pushed to 2014 due to the lack of 
rig availability. The joint venture applied for a 12-month extension to exploration 
Phase I and the Declaration of Commerciality for the Dhirubhai 39 and 41 natural 
gas discoveries is with the GOI.
2013/14 – Financial/Corporate
To improve reporting efficiencies the Board agreed to synchronise the Group’s 
accounting reference date to 31 March. 
No revenue was realised due to the continued shut-in of PY-3. Net cash used in 
continuing operating activities was $4.7 million and exploration related expenditures 
amounted to $0.2 million.
Cash and short-term investments at 31 March 2014 amounted to $24.7 million 
(2012: $29.1 million) and no debt.
Loss before taxation for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 amounted to 
$5.4 million (12 months ended 31 December 2012: loss of $12.7 million).
The Group remains in a strong financial position with no debt.
The Board adopted a new Code of Business Conduct and amended its Committees’ 
terms of reference in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In February 2014 the Company announced the appointment of Mr Ananth Kumar 
as a non-executive director of HEPI (a wholly owned subsidiary of Hardy). 
Highlights
2013
“Our commitment to developing 
our assets and meeting the growing 
energy demands in India 
remains steadfast.
We are well positioned to undertake 
our planned work programme 
of exploration, appraisal and 
development activities over the next 
12 months as well as benefit from the 
significant changes in the political and 
wider economic environment taking 
place in our target market.”
Alasdair Locke, Chairman Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
02
 
   
I N D I A
GS-OSN-2001/1
KG-DWN-2003/1
CY-OS/2
PY-3
SAURASHTRA
BASIN
KRISHNA
GODAVARI
BASIN
CAUVERY
BASIN
1 Directorate General of 
Hydrocarbons Under 
Ministry of Petroleum & 
Natural Gas, Govt. of 
India annual report 
2011/12 
Gujarat-Saurashtra Basin
Located in the relatively shallow waters off 
the west coast of India the Gujarat-Saurashtra 
Basin has many significant producing oil 
and gas fields. The Company’s Dhirubhai 33 
natural gas discovery is located within the 
GS-01 licence. In 2011 the Dhirubhai 33 
discovery was declared commercial and a 
field development plan has been submitted 
to the GOI.
Krishna Godavari Basin
Located on the east coast of India, the KG 
basin is regarded as the most prolific gas basin 
in India. It is a proven oil and gas province 
with the world class D6 gas development and 
a number of significant producing oil fields 
(Ravva, MA). To date four consecutive natural 
gas discoveries have been drilled on the D3 
block. Net risked prospective resources are 
estimated at approximately 396 bcf.
Cauvery Basin
The Cauvery Basin is located in the south 
east of India. The basin is a proven oil and gas 
province. Hardy is the operator of two licences 
(PY-3 and CY-OS/2) within this basin. The 
PY-3 oil field commenced production in 1997 
and has produced over 24 mmbbl. Currently 
shut-in, the Company estimates that a further 
15 mmbbl can be recovered with the drilling 
of additional wells. The Ganesha-1 natural 
gas discovery is located in the CY-OS/2 block 
and is currently under appraisal. 
Our India focus
PG 86 
for full  
Asset Descriptions Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
03
Strategic Report
Domestic supply is projected to 
fall short of expected demand creating 
a robust environment to monetise 
gas discoveries.
Transparent political environment
With a population of over one billion, India 
represents the world’s largest democracy. 
This political framework provides a good 
level of transparency and a robust platform 
for political discussion.
Stable legal framework 
The Indian legal system is based on 
common law providing a good platform 
to protect contractual rights and 
enforcement of obligations.
Domestic upstream 
technical expertise 
As a result of the success of ONGC  
(majority owned by the GOI), there is a 
strong community of upstream technical, 
operating and commercial professionals 
based in India.
Attractive fiscal platform
Production sharing contracts (PSC) 
provide for fiscal stability; full cost  
recovery of investment; seven-year tax 
holiday on mineral oil; and free market 
pricing provisions in PSCs.
India is currently the fourth largest consumer 
of energy in the world after USA, China and 
Russia. India’s demand for natural gas is 
expected to grow by about 19 per cent per 
annum and domestic supply is projected 
to fall well short of expected demand. 
India’s sedimentary basins are under-
explored and significant accumulations of 
hydrocarbons remain to be found. India has 
an estimated sedimentary area of 3.14 
million km
2
 comprising of 26 sedimentary 
basins. India estimates that 130 billion 
barrels of oil and gas equivalent are yet 
to be found.
1
 
India’s political, legal and upstream 
regulatory policies combined with globally 
competitive fiscal terms provide a positive 
foreign investment environment. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
04
The Company’s India 
focused asset portfolio has 
good underlying value and 
our objectives for realising 
this have not changed.
Chairman’s Statement
(The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.)
Alasdair Locke
Chairman Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
05
Strategic Report
Introduction
In general, listed independent exploration and production 
companies underperformed against the market in the past year and 
unfortunately Hardy is no exception. The Company’s India focused 
asset portfolio has good underlying value and our objectives for 
realising this have not changed, however advancement of our 
strategy has been slower than we had hoped. We have in place 
clear business plans for each asset and continue to focus on 
conservation of capital whilst these plans develop.
Markets – India focus
India’s demand for natural gas is expected to more than triple 
to 500 mmscmd by 2022. This will be driven by requirements 
of the power, fertiliser and other industries. Furthermore, the City 
Natural Gas and city gas sector is projected to see a quantum 
growth in natural gas use and it is expected that by 2017, over 
300 cities will be covered with city gas distribution.
Currently India is the fifth largest importer of Liquefied Natural Gas 
which accounts for approximately 35 per cent of supply. Global 
LNG markets are expected to remain constrained through 2020 
due to environmental concerns of other energy sources in other 
Asian countries and the uncertainly regarding Japan’s energy 
supply strategy. Domestic supply is projected to be 231 mmscmd 
in 2022, falling well short of expected demand and creating 
a robust environment in which to monetise the Company’s 
current and potential gas discoveries.
Our objectives are to secure the 
necessary approvals, and commence 
planning, for development drilling in 
PY-3, conclude the transfer of interest 
from our partner in GS-01 and 
participate in the drilling of an 
exploration well on our D3 block.
Importantly, the general election has given a clear majority 
to a new government based on an aspirational platform with 
a key objective to accelerate economic growth. Energy supply 
is expected to be an important consideration and, in particular, 
policy and regulation to optimise domestic production. Leading 
economists and industry analysts concur that timely migration 
to a “free market” pricing mechanism will facilitate the long-term 
objectives of the government. 
It is with this back-drop that we are indeed optimistic. The 
interests and objectives of the ministry and regulator may be 
better aligned going forward. Additionally, the Association of 
Oil and Gas Operators (AOGO) has developed into an effective 
platform for the industry to articulate a common view on effective 
policies to complement efforts to fully explore and develop India’s 
natural resource potential. 
Performance
To improve reporting efficiencies the Board agreed to 
synchronise the Group’s accounting reference date to 31 March. 
As a result, we are publishing 15-month results for the period 
ending 31 March 2014. No revenue was realised due to the 
continued shut-in of PY-3. Net cash used in continuing operating 
activities was $4.7 million. Exploration related expenditures 
amounted to $0.2 million and interest and investment income was 
$0.7 million. As a result, the Group’s cash reserves at 31 March 
2014 decreased to $24.7 million. The Group remains in a strong 
financial position with no debt.
Our business model 
Stage 1 – Hardy creates value through the exploration and 
production of hydrocarbons. In order to explore we must first 
be granted a licence by the government of the countries in 
which we choose to invest. After extensive analysis, exploration 
campaigns are planned to try to discover oil and gas fields 
within under-explored sedimentary basins. When we have 
a significant discovery we undertake appraisal programmes 
which may include the drilling of wells and further geotechnical 
analysis to determine the size and quality of the discovery. 
Stage 2 – If the appraisal programme confirms that 
development of a discovery will be commercially and financially 
viable, we begin work on a development plan. This maps out 
how we will get the hydrocarbons into production to generate 
revenue and cash flow. We also create value through the 
implementation of enhanced production strategies to optimise 
the value of recoverable hydrocarbons from existing 
producing fields. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
06
Chairman’s Statement continued
Governance
We undertook a number of initiatives to improve our corporate 
governance practices. Earlier in the period the Board adopted 
a new Code of Business Conduct (the Code). The Board also 
amended its Committees’ terms of reference in accordance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code (the UK Code). I maintain 
contact with major shareholders and we continue to evaluate 
our governance practices to ensure they are appropriate for 
a company of our size and resources.
Following the resignation of the CFO of Hardy Exploration & 
Production (India) Inc (HEPI), Mr MacKenzie, Chief Executive 
Officer, and Mr Galvin, Treasurer & Corporate Affairs Executive, 
assumed his responsibilities regarding management oversight 
and leadership of our Indian operation. As an interim measure 
Hardy has secured the services of Indian-based financial 
consultants to oversee and manage the running of the 
accounting function. 
We are pleased that Mr Ananth Kumar agreed to join as a 
non-executive director of HEPI. Mr Kumar has over 30 years’ 
experience in the oil and gas sector in financial, commercial and 
business aspects. He is a former Director Finance of Oil India 
Limited, India’s second largest exploration and production state 
enterprise. He is a qualified chartered accountant and a member 
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Risk management
The Board has established a clear and robust process to identify 
and manage keys risks to our business objectives. We have 
formed a sub-committee to monitor the Group’s risk and 
uncertainties processes. The Risk Committee is chaired by 
the Executive Director and reports its findings to the Audit 
Committee. The following principal risks facing the Group in 
the near-term remain: exploration risk inherent to any oil and gas 
business; the timing or execution of activities may not commence 
as forecast and delays may be experienced; and, the possible 
relinquishment of exploration and appraisal acreage.
Remuneration
Following a number of years with Director fees remaining 
unchanged, the Board undertook a review of the remuneration 
of the Directors. Having consideration for the remuneration levels 
of the organisation as a whole, the Non-Executive Directors’ 
fees were revised upwards by amounts ranging from £10,000 
to £15,000 per annum. No bonus was paid to the Executive 
Director, although his base salary was increased by 10 per cent 
allowing for general inflation and additional responsibilities 
following the resignation of HEPI’s CFO.
Outlook
This year our objectives are to secure the necessary approvals, 
and commence planning, for development drilling in PY-3, 
conclude the transfer of interest from our partner in GS-01 and 
participate in the drilling of an exploration well on our D3 block. 
Activity on CY-OS/2 will recommence subject to restoration 
of the block in accordance with the arbitration award. We will 
continue to reassess our overall strategic objectives to ensure 
that they remain relevant and achievable with the Company’s 
current portfolio. The Board’s monitoring of risk and uncertainties 
will be enhanced and management have been provided with 
a regular reporting structure from the executive. 
The Company is in good financial health and the Directors are of 
the opinion that the Group has adequate resources to enable it to 
undertake its planned work programme of exploration, appraisal 
and development activities over the next 12 months.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank our shareholders for 
their continued support.
Alasdair Locke
Chairman
11 June 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
07
Strategic Report
Composition
Non-Executive
Executive
Chairman
Nationality
UK
India
Expertise
Oil and gas
Engineering
Finance and 
accountancy
Capital markets
Environment and 
community
Gender
Male
Board Introduction
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance and consider it paramount for upholding our business 
integrity wherever we work. The Board has been fully briefed on the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and is committed to adhere to its 
principles and to comply as appropriate for a company of our size 
and resources.
Diversity
Alasdair Locke
Chairman
PG 28 
for the full  
governance  
review
Ian MacKenzie
Chief Executive 
Officer
Pradip Shah
Non-Executive 
Director
Peter Milne
Senior Non-
Executive Director
Yogeshwar 
Sharma
Non-Executive 
Director Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
08
Hardy’s India focused 
asset portfolio provides 
a good platform from 
which to create significant 
shareholder value. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Strategic Review
(The role of the Chief Executive Officer includes implementing the Group’s strategy as agreed by the Board.)
Ian MacKenzie
Chief Executive Officer Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
09
Strategic Report
Introduction
Through 2013/14 we have made progress on a number of 
initiatives set out for our India focused portfolio. The CY-OS/2 
arbitration award in our favour was very positive and we have 
made good progress with advancing the PY-3 field development 
plan. The exploration drilling programme at D3 was pushed to 
2014, due to the lack of rig availability. The Group realised a 
reduction in loss due in part to measures taken in the second 
half of 2012 to minimise administrative expenditure.
Our strategy
Hardy’s India focused asset portfolio provides a good platform 
from which to create significant shareholder value. The outcome 
of planned activity through 2014 and 2015 is expected to verify 
our view on the longer-term prospects of our portfolio. In the 
interim, we will continue to consider all opportunities to accelerate 
value creation for our shareholders.
We intend to undertake further direct recruitment or engagement 
of support personnel and resources, as we advance execution of 
our plans for the PY-3, GS-01 and CY-OS/2 assets. We continue 
to assess and evaluate further opportunities that complement our 
existing portfolio in India and identify longer-term upstream 
opportunities to potentially diversify the Company’s portfolio.
Health, safety and environment (HSE)
As an offshore operator, the Company is committed to excellent 
health and safety practices which are at the forefront in all of 
our activities. Although all offshore activities were suspended 
in March 2012 we intend to initiate activities in the future and 
will continue our commitment to maintain high HSE standards 
throughout the organisation. The Company’s HSE policy 
document was reviewed and amended with increased focus 
on leadership and accountability. 
Implementation
The Company’s activities have been focused on the finalisation 
of the PY-3 comprehensive FDP which will enable us to meet our 
target to recommence production in 2015. The cooperation of our 
joint venture partners has allowed Hardy to make good progress 
towards this goal although there remain key commercial 
considerations regarding levy obligations which need to be 
resolved by and between the Licensee and the GOI prior to the 
FDP being formally considered. In this regard we were moving 
towards a consensus amongst the partners unfortunately the 
duration of India’s national election process combined with the 
Country’s Model Code tapered momentum over the past months. 
There remain some contractual clarifications required particularly 
surrounding the term of the PSC, quantum of levies to apply and 
their treatment as a contract cost. We are optimistic that progress 
will be made in the near future.
The KG-D3 joint venture continued to progress a number 
of geotechnical studies focused on assessing the potential 
of the eastern area and the high grading of identified prospects. 
In accordance with GOI policy, an application to extend the 
exploration phase of the block to the end of 2014 was submitted 
to the GOI. Confirmation of extension is outstanding however the 
approval of the initial six-month extension was received in the first 
quarter of 2014. India’s Ministry of Defence (MOD) notified the 
joint venture that a portion of the southwest area of the block 
has been identified as a Defence Research & Development 
Organisation (DRDO) impact zone. As a result, access to 
this portion of the block may be restricted from time-to-time. 
CY-OS/2 arbitration concluded with the Hon’ble Tribunal award 
in favour of the joint venture. The GOI has subsequently filed an 
appeal against the international award in the High Court of Delhi 
and this action has caused a delay in the restoration of the block 
and recommencement of appraisal activity. We have filed an 
execution application in the Delhi High Court since the Company 
believes that the unanimous international tribunal award is well 
reasoned and, as per the India Arbitration & Conciliation Act 
1996, may not be subject to appeal in Indian courts. Hardy 
currently recognises a contingent asset of $36.0 million 
associated with the Tribunal’s award of interest on investment.
The GS-01 operator notified the GOI that it intends to relinquish 
its participating interest in the block. In accordance with our joint 
operating agreement, Hardy is entitled to assume the interest of 
a withdrawing party. The Company is continuing to pursue the 
acquisition of the operator’s participating interest and progress 
the approval of the proposed FDP. Dialogue with government 
bodies continues regarding the approval of transfer and 
consideration of the FDP submitted by Hardy in late 2012.
Financial results
The Group is reporting a total comprehensive loss of $4.8 million 
for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014. In 2012, we successfully 
implemented steps to reduce our overheads. Administrative 
expenses for the reporting period was $6.2 million in 2013/14. 
As a result the Group’s cash and short-term investments position 
reduced by $4.4 million to $24.7 million. Capital expenditure was 
nominal due to limited exploration activity. The Group has no debt, 
and is well funded to meet its future work commitments.
Outlook
Our primary objectives remain to secure key stakeholders’ 
approvals, initiate activity that will take us closer to realising 
production from our portfolio of assets and recommence D3 
exploration drilling by the end of 2014. We have clear deliverables 
for each asset and management are fully accountable for the 
implementation of the agreed plans. Energy demand in India 
continues to grow at an exceptional rate and the GOI has stated 
that energy security is a priority. We are optimistic that policy 
will continue to evolve to facilitate the timely exploitation and 
development of the country’s natural resources.
The working capital position of the Company remains strong and 
we are well funded to meet our planned work programmes. We 
will continue to seek opportunities to build value for shareholders.
Ian MacKenzie
Chief Executive Officer
11 June 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
10
Market Overview
Hardy’s assets are based solely 
in India and the Company is 
contractually obliged to sell 
all produced petroleum into 
the Indian market.
India
Over the next five years India’s annual Gross Domestic Product 
(GDP) growth is projected to average 6.5 per cent
1
, domestic 
gas supply is projected to fall short of expected demand creating 
a robust environment to monetise gas discoveries.
India is the fourth largest consumer of energy in the world and 
India and China accounted for 90 per cent of the net increase 
in global energy consumption
2
. India’s demand for natural gas 
is expected to more than triple by 2022 to over 500 mmscmd 
and domestic supply is projected to fall well short of expected 
demand (see Fig. 1).
India’s sedimentary basins are under-explored and significant 
accumulations of hydrocarbons remain to be found. India has 
an estimated sedimentary area of 3.14 million km
2
 comprising 
26 sedimentary basins. Estimates suggest that as much as 
130 billion barrels of oil and gas equivalent are yet to be found. 
Gas pricing
The NELP production sharing contract (PSC), that governs the 
Group’s assets, provides for natural gas to be sold at arm’s length 
prices, with “arm’s length” defined as sales made freely in the 
open market between willing and unrelated sellers and buyers, 
and that the pricing formula be approved by the GOI taking into 
account the prevailing policy on natural gas.
In June 2013, the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs of 
the GOI approved a new pricing formula for domestic gas sales 
in India, based on the recommendations of the Rangarajan 
Committee. The pricing formula is based on the average of the 
prices of imported LNG into India and the weighted average 
of gas prices in North America, Europe and Japan. Using the 
approved price formula, the price effective for 1 April 2014 is 
estimated at around $8.40/mmbtu, double the price of $4.20/
mmbtu for current gas sales from Reliance Industries Limited 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
275
450
625
600
700
800
MMscmd
300
400
200
100
500
0
2014/15
2015/16
2016/17
2017/18
2018/19
2019/20
2020/21
2021/22
2022/23
2023/24
2024/25
2025/26
2026/27
2027/28
2028/29
2029/30
India natural gas supply vs demand projections
Figure 1
Gap Demand Supply Pipeline
1 Global Economic Prospects, World Bank, January 2014.
2 Statistical Review of World Energy, BP, 2013.
Source: “Vision 2030” natural gas infrastructure in India, Petroleum & Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB). Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
11
Strategic Report
KG-D6 Block. The pricing terms of the Petronet contracts are 
expected to result in further increases in the gas prices in future 
quarters, assuming current pricing levels of JCC, US Henry Hub, 
UK National Balancing Point and Japan LNG imports.
Global oil pricing
Brent oil prices continued to trade in a relatively narrow band 
between $100 and $110 per barrel as the perception of a 
slowdown in demand growth, particularly in China, India and 
the Middle East, was offset by supply side concerns driven by 
potential political instability in the Middle East and North Africa. 
Global economic activity and world trade are showing signs of 
a measured recovery. There is evidence that the upstream cost 
environment is stabilising following several years of considerable 
cost inflation.
Empowered
The recent national elections have provided a clear majority 
government with an unprecedented mandate to see through its 
plans. Energy security is continuing to be an active topic on the 
national agenda. Industry has been providing a more coordinated 
voice through the AOGO. These developments are encouraging 
and may result in a more collaborative and streamlined regulatory 
environment. Realising the full potential of India’s hydrocarbon 
resources will require continued participation of independent 
operators, service providers and government. 
India appeal
India’s political, legal and upstream regulatory policies combined 
with globally competitive fiscal terms provide a positive foreign 
investment environment. 
Dynamic political environment: India represents the world’s 
largest democracy with over 1 billion population. The recent 
national election enjoyed over 65 per cent participation. 
Combined with independent news agencies, this political 
framework provides a good level of transparency and a solid 
platform for political discussion.
Robust institutions: The Indian legal system is based on 
common law providing protection of contractual rights and 
enforcement of obligations.
Improving infrastructure: The pace of economic and 
population growth has outstripped investment in infrastructure. 
An area of focus for the new government however visible 
improvements are apparent in particular in areas of transportation 
and distribution. 
Growing Economy: The Indian economy realised GDP growth 
over 8 per cent per annum in the past decade. Of late GDP 
growth has slowed and inflation remains high. 
Competitive fiscal platform: PSCs provide for fiscal stability; 
full cost recovery of investment; seven-year tax holiday on mineral 
oil; and free market pricing provisions.
Domestic upstream technical expertise: As a result of the 
success of ONGC (majority owned by GOI), there is a strong 
community of upstream technical, operating and commercial 
professionals based in India. An established services industry 
is present with some degree of competition.
Facilitating 
industry
Industry knowledge and expertise Policy and regulation Fiscal stability
Longstanding industry presence, 
good talent pool to draw upon.
Clear objective required to shape 
policy and regulation.
Globally competitive terms and 
stability clauses governed under  
the framework of PSC.
Economic 
growth
0
5
10
15
15
10
5
0 2004
GDP Growth per annum (%)
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2011 2013 2014
Foundation
Worlds largest democracy Robust Institutions Improving Infrastructure
Independent media, multi-party 
opposition, good governance 
& transparency.
Independent; legal system and 
central bank, enforcement & security, 
education, independent.
Transportation, Energy, 
Communications. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
12
Business Model
Hardy’s India focused asset
portfolio provides a good platform
from which to create significant
shareholder value.
Obtaining 
exploration rights
Acquire directly through national 
authorities or indirectly via purchase 
or farm-in 
Obtaining hydrocarbon exploration rights 
is accomplished through:
a. The granting of exploration licences 
by the Government of the countries 
in which we choose to invest. In India 
this is accomplished via the New 
Exploration Licensing Policy (NELP), 
a periodic competitive closed bid 
process. 
b. The acquisition of exploration licences 
from third parties. This can be 
accomplished via direct farm-in, 
purchase, or corporate mergers.
Exploration
Geoscience surveys and studies,  
high-grade prospects, verify via drilling 
Exploration campaigns are planned to 
try to discover oil and gas fields within 
under-explored sedimentary basins. Initial 
activity will typically involve investment in 
extensive geotechnical analysis which will 
typically include geological modelling of 
sedimentary basins and the acquisition 
of seismic and other data, which is then 
integrated to facilitate the identification 
of possible subsurface hydrocarbons 
accumulations (prospects). Drilling of 
exploration wells commences if a prospect 
has a reasonable chance of success and 
meaningful size estimate.
Appraisal
Geotechnical and engineering studies 
to assess commerciality of discoveries 
When we have a significant discovery we 
undertake appraisal programmes which 
may include the drilling of wells and further 
geotechnical analysis to determine the 
size and quality of the discovery. Initial 
development concepts are also formulated 
at this time to facilitate the determination 
of commerciality. Presence of markets to 
monetise the discovered hydrocarbon 
is identified at this time.
D3
 Page 16 for the full review of D3.
CY-OS/2
 Page 19 for the full review of CY-OS/2.
Hardy creates value through investment in exploration and development activities to 
achieve the timely generation of positive cash flow from the production of hydrocarbons 
in sufficient quantities to ultimately achieve significant return on capital for stakeholders. 
We concentrate on a relatively small number of assets within India and operate a 
meaningful proportion of the portfolio.
Full cycle approach: Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
13
Strategic Report
Development
Finalise optimal development plan 
implement plan and commence 
production 
If the appraisal programme confirms 
that the development of a discovery will 
be commercially and financially viable, 
we begin work on a development plan. 
The plan will map out the optimal process 
to extract the hydrocarbons in a cost 
effective manner and identify which 
markets the production may be sold into. 
Field developments are complex, require 
significant capital investment and may 
take many years to implement.
Production optimisation 
and enhanced recovery
Monitor production and performance, 
identify viable enhanced recovery 
techniques 
Once a discovery is in production we 
use our expertise and knowledge to 
ensure strategies optimise recovery in 
a safe and cost effective manner. Later 
in a field’s life we create value through the 
implementation of enhanced production 
strategies to optimise the value of 
recoverable hydrocarbons from existing 
producing fields.
Return profits 
to shareholders
Establish sustainable business, return 
capital to shareholders 
After retaining sufficient profit to reinvest 
in the business, we return profits to our 
shareholders. Dispositions and farm downs, 
throughout the investment cycle described 
above, may also accelerate the return of 
profits to shareholders.
GS-01
 Page 19 for the full review of GS-01.
PY-3
 Page 18 for the full review of PY-3.
PY-3
 Page 18 for the full review of PY-3. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
14
KPIs provide an illustration of management’s ability to 
successfully deliver against the Company’s strategic objectives.
The Board periodically reviews the KPIs of the Group taking 
into account the strategic objectives and the challenges facing 
implementation of such. The Board has identified two financial 
and three non-financial measures as KPIs for Hardy. The 
measures reflect the Company’s exploration-focused strategy, 
the importance of a positive cash position and our underlying 
commitment to ensuring safe operations. In addition to the 
five key measures the Company also recognises that timely 
stakeholder approvals of our FDPs are important milestones 
in our pursuit of realising production and creating significant 
shareholder value. 
We measure our progress through six KPIs closely aligned with 
delivering our strategy. A summary is provided in the table below:
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
Category HSE Operational Financial
KPI Total recordable injuries (TRI) Contingent resource Wells drilled Cash and short-term investments Cash flow overhead
Definition TRI includes fatalities, lost time injuries, 
cases restricted for work, cases of 
substitute work due to injury, and medical 
treatment cases by medical professionals 
(doctors, nurses, etc.). It does not include 
any first aid injury
Those quantities of petroleum estimates, 
as of a given date, to be potentially 
recoverable from known accumulations 
by application of development projects, 
but which are not currently considered 
to be commercially recoverable due to 
one or more contingencies
The number of exploration, appraisal and 
development wells in India
Liquid assets held as cash in term 
deposits or liquidity funds that are 
redeemable within one business day
Administrative expense less – share-based 
payments, foreign exchange charges, 
partner recharge
Relevance This metric is used to provide guidance 
as to the Group’s HSE performance
Increasing contingent resources is a good 
metric for the results of our exploration 
activities. Objective to migrate to Reserves
Frequency of drilling of wells is a key factor 
in realising value for Hardy
Funding considerations play an important 
role in the Company’s ability to execute 
its planned activities
Preservation of capital is an important 
consideration of the Board. Net cash 
from operating activities provides a good 
measure of the level of capital erosion or 
accretion experienced by the organisation
Progress Absence of field activity and diligent 
onshore procedures have maintained 
low to no LTIs
No change due to absence of exploration 
drilling activity
Operator has yet to recommence drilling 
of the D3 block. Development drilling 
dependent on partners approvals
Cost review in 2012 has facilitated 
conservation of liquid resources 
in 2013/14
Reduced underlying cost base of 
business. Further reductions may 
be counterproductive
Outlook/target No TRIs Increase Two wells Maintain $5 million Maintain current levels
Risk management Prior to recommencement of field 
operations management undertake a 
comprehensive review and reintroduction 
to HSE policy and practices
Robust geotechnical evaluation adopting 
industry best practice and external 
advisors when required
Exploration assets are non-operated and 
as such has limited influence on timing 
or drilling activity
Robust budget process and regular 
update of cash flow projections
Robust budget process. Internal control 
audit undertaken in 2014
2
1
0 2011 2012 2013/14
200
bcf
100
50
150
0 2011 2012 2013/14
1
0.5
0 2011 2012 2013/14
$40
$20
$15
$10
$5
$25
$30
$35
$0 2011 2012 2013/14
$8.0
$4.0
$2.0
$6.0
$0 2011 2012 2013/14 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
15
Strategic Report
Category HSE Operational Financial
KPI Total recordable injuries (TRI) Contingent resource Wells drilled Cash and short-term investments Cash flow overhead
Definition TRI includes fatalities, lost time injuries, 
cases restricted for work, cases of 
substitute work due to injury, and medical 
treatment cases by medical professionals 
(doctors, nurses, etc.). It does not include 
any first aid injury
Those quantities of petroleum estimates, 
as of a given date, to be potentially 
recoverable from known accumulations 
by application of development projects, 
but which are not currently considered 
to be commercially recoverable due to 
one or more contingencies
The number of exploration, appraisal and 
development wells in India
Liquid assets held as cash in term 
deposits or liquidity funds that are 
redeemable within one business day
Administrative expense less – share-based 
payments, foreign exchange charges, 
partner recharge
Relevance This metric is used to provide guidance 
as to the Group’s HSE performance
Increasing contingent resources is a good 
metric for the results of our exploration 
activities. Objective to migrate to Reserves
Frequency of drilling of wells is a key factor 
in realising value for Hardy
Funding considerations play an important 
role in the Company’s ability to execute 
its planned activities
Preservation of capital is an important 
consideration of the Board. Net cash 
from operating activities provides a good 
measure of the level of capital erosion or 
accretion experienced by the organisation
Progress Absence of field activity and diligent 
onshore procedures have maintained 
low to no LTIs
No change due to absence of exploration 
drilling activity
Operator has yet to recommence drilling 
of the D3 block. Development drilling 
dependent on partners approvals
Cost review in 2012 has facilitated 
conservation of liquid resources 
in 2013/14
Reduced underlying cost base of 
business. Further reductions may 
be counterproductive
Outlook/target No TRIs Increase Two wells Maintain $5 million Maintain current levels
Risk management Prior to recommencement of field 
operations management undertake a 
comprehensive review and reintroduction 
to HSE policy and practices
Robust geotechnical evaluation adopting 
industry best practice and external 
advisors when required
Exploration assets are non-operated and 
as such has limited influence on timing 
or drilling activity
Robust budget process and regular 
update of cash flow projections
Robust budget process. Internal control 
audit undertaken in 2014
2
1
0 2011 2012 2013/14
200
bcf
100
50
150
0 2011 2012 2013/14
1
0.5
0 2011 2012 2013/14
$40
$20
$15
$10
$5
$25
$30
$35
$0 2011 2012 2013/14
$8.0
$4.0
$2.0
$6.0
$0 2011 2012 2013/14 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
16
D3
200 m
1000 m
2000 m
3000 m
N
KRISHNA GODAVARI
BASIN
150 km
OIL FIELD
GAS FIELD
Operational Summary 
Krishna Godavari 
Basin
D3
Block KG-DWN-2003/1
Exploration  
(Hardy 10 per cent interest)
The D3 exploration licence in the Krishna 
Godavari Basin remains at the core of our 
organic growth potential and we expect 
drilling to recommence in the second 
quarter of 2013.
The Company’s exploration and 
production assets are based in India 
and are held through its wholly owned 
subsidiary Hardy Exploration 
& Production (India) Inc. (HEPI). 
Summary table – The table below provides a brief comparison of our stated operational objectives for 2013/14 and our progress 
to date:
Block Objective Status
D3 Recommence exploration drilling programme Finalising the prospects with associated risk estimates 
towards completion of the balance of the Minimum 
Work Programme
PY-3 Submission of FDP to the management committee for 
final approval
Technical consensus has been achieved. Commercial 
considerations are being finalised with partners
GS-01 Facilitate the GOI review of the proposed development plan GOI review is pending resolution of acquisition discussions 
between Hardy and the operator
CY-OS/2 GOI to reinstate block to Hardy and the resumption of 
appraisal planning
GOI has filed an appeal in the High Court, Delhi. Execution 
application filed by the Company Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
17
Strategic Report
0 20 km 
A/B 
W 
R 
GAS DISCOVERY
PROSPECT/LEADS
PLEIST. BIOGENIC STRATIGRAPHIC 
PLEIST. BIOGENIC STRUCTURAL 
PLIOCENE BIOGENIC UNCONFORMITY  
MIOCENE BIOGENIC STRAT/STR.   
MIOCENE MIXED TOE THRUST 
LWR. TERTIARY MIXED SUB SHALE 
PROVEN PLAY IN BLOCK 
PROVEN PLAY IN BLOCK 
1
3
6
2
4
5
5
6
1
3 6
2
4
5
PANHANDLE TOE
THRUST AREA
0 20 km 
A/B 
W 
R 
GAS DISCOVERY
PROSPECT/LEADS
PLEIST. BIOGENIC STRATIGRAPHIC 
PLEIST. BIOGENIC STRUCTURAL 
PLIOCENE BIOGENIC UNCONFORMITY  
MIOCENE BIOGENIC STRAT/STR.   
MIOCENE MIXED TOE THRUST 
LWR. TERTIARY MIXED SUB SHALE 
PROVEN PLAY IN BLOCK 
PROVEN PLAY IN BLOCK 
1
3
6
2
4
5
5
6
1
3 6
2
4
5
PANHANDLE TOE
THRUST AREA
D3 Unique exploration block
Six play types present
D3 Early stages of exploration
Expanding portfolio of plays and prospects
Health, safety and environment
The Company is committed to excellent 
health and safety practices which are 
at the forefront in all of our activities. 
Although all offshore activities are currently 
suspended, maintaining high HSE 
standards throughout the organisation 
remains core to all our undertakings. The 
Company’s HSE policy document was 
reviewed and amended with increased 
focus on leadership and accountability.
Block KG-DWN-2003/1 (D3): 
Exploration (HEPI 10 per cent interest)
Operations – The joint venture continued 
to undertake a number of geotechnical 
studies, including the interpretation of 
PSDM seismic data, with a focus on 
assessing the potential of the eastern area 
of the block and high grading prospects, 
including the evaluation of deeper plays.
In accordance with the GOI extension 
policy, the joint venture applied to extend 
the block’s Phase I exploration period to 
December 2014. Confirmation of the 
extension to the end of 2014 is outstanding 
however the approval of the initial six-month 
extension to December 2013 was received 
in the first quarter of 2014.
The MOD (via the Directorate General of 
Hydrocarbons (DGH)) has communicated 
that the southwest portion of the D3 block 
falls under a DRDO designated impact 
zone. The operator continued discussions 
with the DGH and DRDO to clarify any 
conditions that may be imposed on the 
impact zone and to agree a way forward. 
A DOC proposal for the Dhirubhai 39 and 
41 natural gas discoveries, submitted in 
2012, remained under review by the GOI. 
The proposed development plan provides 
for a dry gas, sub-sea cluster development 
with the flexibility to add in additional wells 
and to include possible discoveries in the 
adjoining area.
Outlook – Exploration drilling is expected 
to recommence in 2014 subject to GOI 
confirmation of a 12-month extension, and 
the GOI’s review of the D3 DOC proposal 
will likely continue through to the 
completion of exploration Phase I. 
The D3 joint venture operator, Reliance 
Industries Limited (Reliance) is currently 
operating the deep-water drill ships 
Dhirubhai Deepwater KG2 and Dhirubhai 
Deepwater KG1 on the east coast of India. 
The GOI’s review of the D3 DOC proposal 
will likely continue through 2014. Clarity 
regarding the gas pricing framework 
should facilitate the review of the DOC. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
18
N
L-XI
L-1
L-1 (EXTN)
CY-ONN2002/1
CY-OS-2
CY-OS-2
CY-OS-90/1
CY-ONN2004/1
CY-ONN2002/2
CY-ONN2004/2
BHUVANAGL02
NEYVELI
MADANAM
KALI
KUTHALAM
PY-3 FIELD
PY-1 FIELD
MYLIADUTHURAI
Ganesha-1 well
ARIYALUR-PONDICHERRY 
SUB-BASIN
TRANQUEBAR
SUB-BASIN
OIL FIELD
GAS FIELD
GAS CONCENTRATE FIELD
Pondicherry
Chennai
Villupuram
30 km
Cauvery 
Basin
PY-3
Block CY-OS 90/1 
Oil Field (shut-in July 2011)  
(Hardy 18 per cent interest – Operator)
As operator of the PY-3 field 
Hardy implemented key enhanced 
recovery techniques that have 
significantly increased the estimated 
recoverable volumes and extended 
the life of the field. Following the 
drilling of new wells the field could 
produce for a further ten years.
Operational summary continued
Block CY-OS 90/1 (PY-3): Oil Field 
(HEPI 18 per cent interest – operator)
Operations – Following a number 
of technical and operating committee 
meetings, regarding a comprehensive 
FDP, technical consensus has been 
achieved in the period. Discussions 
between partners continued to establish 
an acceptable commercial framework to 
proceed with the recommencement of 
production. In this regard we were moving 
towards a consensus amongst the 
partners. Unfortunately the duration of 
India’s national election process combined 
with the Country’s Model Code tapered 
momentum over the past months. There 
remain some contractual clarifications 
required particularly surrounding the term 
of the PSC, quantum of Government levies 
to apply and their treatment as a contract 
cost. We are optimistic that progress will 
be made in the near future.
Outlook – Secure approval of the FDP 
from the GOI after which we intend to 
target the recommencement of production 
in 2015. This will be achieved by securing 
the appropriate offshore production and 
storage facilities and simultaneously initiate 
planning for a development 
drilling programme.
The cooperation of our 
joint venture partners has 
allowed Hardy to make 
good progress towards 
this goal although there 
remain key commercial 
considerations regarding 
levy obligations which 
need to be resolved. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
19
Strategic Report
M-1
B-1
S-1
A-1
BM-16
ONGC
B3
ONGC
B2
ONGC
B-1C
ONGC
BM-17
ONGC
BM-6
BM-12
ONGC
B-18
ONGC
N. TAPTI
Kodinar
Dahanu
Mumbai
MID. TAPTI
S. TAPTI
MUKTA
PANNA
BASSEIN
HEERA
RATNA
BOMBAY
HIGH 1
ARABIAN SEA
OIL FIELD
GAS FIELD
SUB-SEA PIPELINE
N
100 km
Gujarat-Saurashtra 
offshore basin
GS-01
Block GS-OSN-2000/1 
Development (Hardy 10 per 
cent interest)
The Dhirubhai 33 natural gas 
discovery is in close proximity 
to the industrial state of 
Gujarat which has an 
established natural gas 
infrastructure and robust 
energy demand 
growth projections.
Block GS-OSN-2000/1 (GS-01): 
Appraisal (HEPI 10 per cent interest)
Operations – The operator recently 
notified the GOI of its intention to 
relinquish its 90 per cent participating 
interest in the block. Subsequently, Hardy 
has notified the operator of its election to 
acquire the operator’s interest in 
accordance with the block’s joint operating 
agreement. Assignment of the operator’s 
participating interest is pending. 
A detailed FDP, for the Dhirubhai 33 
natural gas discovery, was submitted 
to GOI for review and approval in 2012. 
The development plan provides for several 
dry tree wells, an unmanned platform, 
multiphase pipeline to shore and onshore 
processing and export facilities. 
Outlook – Conclude discussions 
with our joint venture partner to acquire 
their participating interest in the block. 
Following this, a priority will be to secure 
GOI approval of the FDP and initiate 
planning for development.
Block CY-OS/2: Appraisal  
(HEPI 75 per cent interest – operator)
Operations – In 2013, the Company 
announced that the joint venture was 
successful in obtaining an extension of the 
CY-OS/2 licence (award detail provided in 
note 15 on page 67). On 2 August 2013, 
the Company received notification that the 
GOI has filed an appeal with the Delhi 
High Court of India. In December 2013, 
Hardy filed an execution petition with the 
Delhi High Court. 
The Company believes that it has a strong 
position as the unanimous international 
award is well reasoned and, as per the India 
Arbitration & Conciliation Act 1996, may 
not be subject to appeal in Indian courts. 
Outlook – We will continue our 
endeavours to ensure that the GOI 
restores the block to the CY-OS/2 joint 
venture in a timely manner. The GOI 
appeal is being heard in the Delhi High 
Court and this is likely to continue through 
2014. Hardy will recommence work on the 
appraisal of the Ganesha-1 natural gas 
discovery once the block has been 
restored to the CY-OS/2 joint venture.
PG 86 
for full  
Asset Descriptions Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
20
Accounting reference date
The Group had maintained different accounting reference dates for the Company and its India based activities. To streamline the 
Group’s reporting process, the Board resolved to synchronise the Group’s accounting reference date to 31 March. As a result the 
Group is reporting for the 15-month period to 31 March 2014. The Group’s significant accounting policies and details of the 
significant judgements and critical accounting estimates are disclosed within the notes to the financial statements.
Overview
In the 15 months ended 31 March 2014, the Group recorded total comprehensive loss of $4.8 million and exited the period with cash 
and short-term investments of $24.7 million with no debt. The Company currently plans to drill up to two exploration wells in 2014 
which will be funded from existing cash resources.
2013/14
$ million
2012
$ million
Administrative expense
Measures taken to reduce costs in 2012, including the move of our corporate office to Aberdeen, 
Scotland from London, and the reduction of staff contributed to an overall fall in expenses. In 2013/14, 
administrative expenses included an unrealised foreign exchange loss of $0.4 million related to India 
rupee denominated term deposits, including the PY-3 site restoration fund, and an inventory write-down 
of $0.3 million Administrative expense in 2012 included a provision and restructuring costs amounting to 
$1.7 million. (6.2) (7.5)
Operating loss
A production costs credit of $0.5 million was realised due to reversal of an over accrual in prior years. 
The Group had written-off unsuccessful exploration costs of $5.4 million in 2012. The Company did not 
participate in the drilling of exploration wells in 2013/14. (5.7) (13.2)
Taxation
No current tax is payable for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014. The Group has recorded a deferred 
tax credit of $0.6 million for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014. The deferred tax asset is expected to 
be realised with the recommencement of production from the PY-3 oil field and other production of oil 
and gas from those areas which are available for commercial development. 0.6 1.6
Total comprehensive loss
The comparable reduction is attributed to a significant reduction in administration expense in 2013/14 
and the Group writing off unsuccessful exploration costs of $5.4 million in 2012. (4.8) (11.1)
Financial Summary
The Company currently plans to drill
up to two exploration wells in 2014 
which will be funded from existing
cash resources. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
21
Strategic Report
Summary statement of financial position
2013/14
$ million
2012
$ million
Non-current assets 
Primarily represents successful or work-in-progress exploration expenditure. Changed primarily due to an 
increase in deferred tax asset of $0.6 million. 96.0 95.1
Current assets
Receivables were reduced primarily due to receipt of a tax refund of $0.3 million. The Group recorded an 
inventory write-down of $0.3 million and cash and short-term investments reduced by $4.4 million. 27.3 32.5
Current liabilities
Principally trade and other accounts payable declined due to reduction of $0.8 million in trade payables 
and $0.3 million in reversal of accruals. (5.0) (6.1)
Non-current liabilities
The Group recorded an increase in decommissionings provision of $0.4 million due to the unwinding of 
future value discounting. (5.5) (5.2)
Contingent asset
The Group has considered a contingent asset of $36.0 million on the interest cost awarded by the 
arbitration tribunal for the block CY-OS/2 (note 15). 36.0 24.8
2013/14
$ million
2012
$ million
Cash flow (used in) operating activities
Cash used in operating activities comprised of $4.2 million in administrative costs and $0.7 million 
in changes to working capital and a tax receipt of $0.3 million. In 2012 the Group undertook a cost 
reduction exercise which had contributed to the fall in administrative expenditure. (4.7) (6.5)
Capital expenditure
Capital expenditure was primarily associated with geophysical studies undertaken by the operator of the 
Group’s D3 exploration licence. (0.3) (1.8)
Financing activity
The Group realised $0.7 million of interest and investment income from its Indian rupee deposits. 0.6 0.9
Cash and short-term investments
Sufficient resources available to meet ongoing capital, operating and administrative expenditure. The 
Group has no debt. 24.7 29.1
The working capital position of the Company remains strong and we are well 
funded to meet our planned work programmes.
Internal control
Following a change in personnel we undertook a review of our internal control systems and as a result the Board approved a number 
of changes including the update of authority procedures and reassignment of treasury function.
Liquidity risk management and going concern
The Company closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk. Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run for different 
scenarios including changes in timing of developments and cost overruns of our exploration activity. At the present time, the Group 
does not have any debt. The Company’s projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes as described above, show that 
the Company will have sufficient liquid financial resources for the 12 months from the date of approval of the Preliminary Results for 
the 15 months ended 31 March 2014.  Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
22
As an oil and gas exploration and production company with 
operations focused in India, Hardy is subject to a variety of risks 
and uncertainties. Managing risk effectively is a critical element 
of our corporate responsibility and underpins the safe delivery 
of our business plans and strategic objectives. The Group has 
a systematic approach to risk identification and management 
which combines the Board’s assessment of risk with risk factors 
originating from and identified by the Group’s senior management 
team. Risks are identified, assessed for materiality, documented, 
and monitored through a risk register with senior management 
involved in the process. Risks that are identified as high and/or 
trending upwards are noted and assigned to the Executive 
Director to monitor and, if possible, pro-actively mitigate. The risk 
register is a part of a dynamic database in which new risks may 
be added when identified or removed as they are eliminated or 
become immaterial.
In 2013, the Board resolved to form a sub-committee on risk 
which reports periodically to the Audit Committee. The Board 
is provided with regular updates of the identified principal risks 
at scheduled Board meetings.
Principal risks
The underlying risks and uncertainties inherent with Hardy’s 
current business model have been grouped into four categories; 
strategic, financial, operational and compliance. The Board has 
identified principal risks and uncertainties for 2014/15 and 
establishing clear policies and responsibilities to mitigate their 
possible negative impact to the business, a summary of which 
is provided below:
Principal Risks and Uncertainties
Risk or uncertainty Mitigating action
Strategic The Group’s strategy is predominantly driven by the exploration, appraisal, 
development and production of its existing assets in India. There are risks 
inherent in the exploration, appraisal, development and production of oil 
and gas reserves and resources.
1. Asset portfolio over-weighted to long-
cycle appraisal and development licences
Preferential allocation of resources to advance current discoveries to the development 
stage. Continually assessing acquisition opportunities, consistent with stated 
objectives, offering near-term production increases.
2. Sub-commercial exploration results Effective portfolio management comprised with rigorous review and implementation of 
best practice exploration processes and techniques. Internal expertise review process 
and, when necessary third party consultation prior to Board approval.
Financial Any volatility and future decreases in international crude oil prices or 
India natural gas prices could materially and adversely affect the Group’s 
business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Other 
major financial risks facing the Company could be financing constraint 
for further exploration and development, cost inflation and overruns.
1. Absence of stakeholder approval for 
proposed development and 
appraisal programmes
Regular and proactive communication with stakeholders to identify and maintain an 
understanding of key agendas and constraints. Maintain sufficient working capital 
to account for extended delays and maintain tight controls on overhead inflation.
2. GS-01 – Failure to secure the operator’s 
interest in the block may result in deemed 
relinquishment of the block
Hardy has advised the operator and the GOI of its intent to continue with the asset. 
Hardy has issued request to assignment by RIL and is in regular communication with 
senior GOI officials. The Group’s intangible assets include an amount of $5.2 million 
with respect to exploration expenditure for the GS-01 block.
3. Liquidated damages for incomplete 
minimum work programmes
The Group has minimum work commitments on its exploration assets. The GS-01 
block has reached the end of their exploration phase with outstanding MWP 
commitment and the D3 MWP has yet to be completed MWP. The Group makes 
provisions when the amount is ascertained by the operator of the licence. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
23
Strategic Report
Risk or uncertainty Mitigating action
Operational Offshore exploration and production activities by their nature involve 
significant risks. Risks such as delays in executing work programmes, 
construction and commissioning of production facilities or other technical 
difficulties, lack of access to key infrastructure, adverse weather conditions, 
environmental hazards, industrial accidents, occupational and health 
hazards, technical failures, labour disputes, unusual or unexpected 
geological formations, explosions and other acts of God are inherent to 
the business.
1. Lack of control on timing of exploration 
on D3
Proactive communication with partners to drive corporate interests and mandates. 
Each licence is governed by joint operating agreements, which provide for processes 
and procedures designed to ensure that the input and interests of non-operating 
partners are considered.
2. Securing timely approval for a PY-3 
full FDP
Proactive communication with partners to address individual interests and agendas. 
Clearly formulate and articulate mutual beneficial proposals. Mitigate expenditures prior 
to budget approvals.
3. Loss of well control could occur during 
offshore drilling operations
The Company’s planned work programme for 2014/15 involves the drilling of up to two 
deepwater wells. These wells are on non-operated blocks and as such the Company 
relies on the HSE and operational integrity procedures mandated by the operator and 
the contractors. Liabilities associated with an accident are insured to the extent 
reasonably possible.
4. Loss of key staff and succession planning The Company’s ability to compete in the upstream oil and gas exploration and 
production industry is dependent on being able to retain and attract experienced 
technical personnel. Structured performance based remuneration practices and 
promote a positive and rewarding work environment.
Compliance The Group’s current business is dependent on the continuing enforceability 
of the PSCs, farm-in agreements, and exploration and development licences. 
The Group’s core operational activities are dependent on securing various 
governmental approvals. Developments in politics, laws, regulations and/or 
general adverse public sentiment could compromise securing such 
approvals in the future.
1. Stakeholder sentiment Communicate with investors and other stakeholders on a regular basis providing 
transparent and timely information. Effectively convey strategic goals and objectives 
and improve delivery.
2. Changing regulatory and political 
environment in India
Develop sustainable relationships with governments and communities. Indian PSC 
includes fiscal stability clauses. Actively collaborate with industry groups to formulate 
and communicate interests to government authorities.
  Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
24
Corporate social responsibility is a fundamental part of 
implementing the Group’s corporate strategy and has both 
practical and ethical dimensions. It includes managing business 
concerns, such as risk, enhancing reputation in conjunction with 
investing in the community, and creating a place where people 
feel good about working. 
Governance – managing our business ethically and 
with integrity
Code of Business Conduct
We have a comprehensive Code adopted in early 2013 which 
details the levels of behaviour we expect all employees to adhere 
to when representing Hardy. Everyone working for Hardy is 
personally responsible for following the Code and ensuring that 
we conduct our business safely and in a fair, honest and ethical 
manner. Full details of the policy are available on our website 
www.hardyoil.com. 
Compliance awareness 
The Chief Executive Officer personally introduced the Code to all 
employees and the Board and Executive are committed to ensure 
that the Code is embedded throughout the business. 
Raising concerns 
Hardy employees and contractors are encouraged to promptly 
report any concerns they have about the Company’s business 
practices or where someone is concerned or suspects that the 
Code has been breached. Where members of staff do not feel 
comfortable reporting concerns to their line manager or executive 
they have been invited to contact the Senior Non-Executive 
Director directly through a confidential email address. The Board 
will not tolerate retaliation against an individual reporting in 
good faith.
Health, safety and environment
The Company is committed to excellent health and safety 
practices which are at the forefront in all of our activities. Although 
all offshore activities are currently suspended, maintaining high 
HSE standards throughout the organisation remains core to all 
our undertakings. The Company’s HSE policy document was 
reviewed and amended with increased focus on leadership 
and accountability.
The Board would like to take this 
opportunity to recognise the importance 
of our team and acknowledge their 
efforts in the past year.
Corporate Responsibility Summary
Hardy is committed to applying high
ethical standards to maintain and 
enhance its reputation as an employer
and operator of choice. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
25
Strategic Report
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
Hardy Oil and Gas plc’s total GHG emissions for the period 
1 January 2013 to 31 March 2014 have been calculated as 
279 tCO
2
e which equates to 13.3 tCO
2
e/FTE. Calculations have 
been carried out in accordance with the Defra Environmental 
Reporting Guidelines (2013) and emissions factors have been 
sourced from the Defra 2013 UK Government Conversion 
Factors for Company Reporting. The figure presented includes 
all material Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from all assets 
under Hardy Oil and Gas plc’s operational control. 
Reporting 
period
Scope 1
 emissions
 tCO
2
e
Scope 2
 emissions
 tCO
2
e
Total 
carbon
 footprint
 tCO
2
e
Intensity
 metric
 tCO
2
e/
FTE
2013/14 94 185 279 13.3
Total GHG emissions and intensity metric for the reporting period 01/01/2013–31/03/2014.
Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs (2013) Environmental Reporting 
Guidelines: Including mandatory GHG emissions reporting guidance. 
Our people – being a rewarding, challenging and pleasant 
place to work
Local content 
India has an extensive pool of upstream oil and gas professionals. 
As a result we have been fortunate to assemble and maintain 100 
per cent local content of our India based professionals and staff. 
Development
We recognise that our success is clearly linked to the knowledge, 
skills, experience and motivation of our team and their ability to 
develop innovative and creative solution to our many opportunities 
and challenges. Management have set ambitious targets which 
will require Hardy employees to maintain their high level of 
proficiency and strive for excellence.
The Board would like to take this opportunity to recognise the 
importance of our team and acknowledge their efforts and 
patience in the past year. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
26
Board of Directors
Alasdair Locke (aged 60)
Non-Executive Chairman 
 
Ian MacKenzie (aged 57)
Chief Executive Officer 
 
Peter Milne (aged 60)
Senior Non-Executive  
Director 
Pradip Shah (aged 61)
Non-Executive Director
T erms of appointment
Mr Locke was appointed to 
Hardy’s Board as Non-Executive 
Chairman in January 2012.
T erms of appointment
Mr MacKenzie was appointed to 
Hardy’s Board as Chief Executive 
Officer in February 2012
T erms of appointment
Mr Milne was appointed to Hardy’s 
Board as Senior Non-Executive 
Director in March 2012
T erms of appointment
Mr Shah was appointed to Hardy’s 
Board as Non-Executive Director 
in 1999.
Background and experience
Mr Locke is the former executive 
chairman of Abbot Group plc, 
an oil services company which he 
founded in 1992. It was listed on 
the London Stock Exchange from 
1995 until its sale in 2008 for 
£906 million to Turbo Alpha Ltd, 
a company controlled by a US 
private equity fund. He sold his 
remaining interest in the group and 
stepped down altogether in 2009. 
His early career started in 
investment banking at Citigroup 
in 1974, where he specialised 
in shipping and oil.
Mr Locke was appointed to 
Hardy’s Board as Non-Executive 
Chairman in January 2012. 
Mr Locke holds a History and 
Economics degree from Oxford. 
He was the recipient of the 
Grampian Industrialist of the 
Year (2001) award, the Scottish 
Business Achievement Awards 
Trust International Business 
Achievement Award (2000) 
and the Scottish Business 
Achievement Awards Entrepreneur 
of the year (1999).
Background and experience
Mr MacKenzie has a proven track 
record of knowledge, experience 
and achievement of high 
performance in the management 
of oil and gas operations, technical 
support functions, and major 
design and construction projects 
developed through 30 years in 
the oil and gas industry.
Mr MacKenzie was a group 
director and member of the 
executive team of KCA DEUTAG 
Drilling as well as directors of 
group subsidiaries including 
chairman of the main Norwegian 
operating entity KCA DEUTAG 
Norge A/S. Mr MacKenzie gained 
an honours degree in Engineering 
Science from Aberdeen University 
and a postgraduate diploma in 
Offshore Engineering from Robert 
Gordon University, Aberdeen. 
He also has formal qualifications 
in Finance and Accounts. He is a 
Chartered Mechanical Engineer; 
FEANI registered European 
Engineer, member of the Institution 
of Mechanical Engineers, Energy 
Institute, Society of Petroleum 
Engineers, Institute of Directors 
and a past External Examiner in 
the RGU Oil & Gas MSc course.
Background and experience
Mr Peter Milne has a proven 
track record in the oil sector. For 
over 15 years he was the finance 
director of Abbot Group plc, the 
largest UK headquartered drilling 
contractor. During that period 
the company grew from being 
a largely UK focused business, 
with turnover of £50 million, 
into a global organisation with 
more than £1 billion turnover, 
operations in 20 countries and 
employing over 8,000 people. 
This transformation was achieved 
through a strategy of organic and 
acquisition led growth. Mr Milne 
qualified as a chartered 
accountant with Deloittes in 
1977 and was an executive 
director of Abbot Group plc 
(a former FTSE 250 company) 
and KCA DEUTAG Drilling 
Group up until 2010.
Background and experience
Mr Shah is the founder and 
chairman of IndAsia Fund Advisors 
Private Limited. He co-founded 
Indocean Fund in October 1994 
with affiliates of Soros Fund 
Management and Chemical 
Venture Partners and founded and 
managed CRISIL, India’s first and 
largest credit agency in 1988. Mr 
Shah also assisted in setting up 
Housing Development Finance 
Company in 1977 and acted as 
consultant to USAID, the World 
Bank and the Asian Development 
Bank. Mr Shah holds an MBA from 
Harvard Business School and is 
a chartered accountant and 
cost accountant.
External appointments
He is also chairman of Argenta 
Holdings plc, an unlisted holding 
company which trades in Lloyds of 
London, and chairman of Ceramic 
Fuel Cells Limited.
External appointments
None
External appointments
None
External appointments
Mr. Shah is founder and chairman of 
IndAsia Fund Advisors, Chairman of 
Wyeth, Sonata Software and Shah 
Foods and a Director of BASF 
(India), Godrej & Boyce, Panasonic 
Energy India, Pfizer and Tata 
Investment Corporation amongst 
other companies.
Committee membership
Chairman of Nomination 
Committee, member of Risk 
Committee and Remuneration 
Committee.
Committee membership
Chairman of Risk Sub-Committee.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Audit Committee, 
a member of the Remuneration 
Committee, Nomination 
Committee and Risk Committee.
Committee membership
Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, a member of the 
Audit Committee and Nomination 
Committee. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
27
Strategic Report
Executive and  
Senior Management
Y ogeshwar P. Sharma (aged 62)
Non-Executive Director 
 
T erms of appointment
Mr Sharma was Chief Executive 
Officer until 16 May 2012 at which 
time he was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director.
Background and experience
Mr Sharma was Chief Executive 
Officer until 16 May 2012 at which 
time he was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director. Mr 
Sharma, a co-founder of Hardy has 
over 40 years of broad international 
oil and gas industry experience, 
with particular emphasis in 
reservoir engineering and field 
management. Prior to founding 
Hardy, he worked at Schlumberger 
Doll Research in the USA and 
Elf Geoscience Research Centre 
in London. While with Elf 
International he was an external 
examiner at Heriot Watt University 
for three years. Mr Sharma 
completed his undergraduate 
studies at the University of Alberta 
in Mechanical Engineering and 
post graduate studies at the 
University of Calgary in Chemical 
Engineering. He is a registered 
professional engineer in Alberta, 
Canada, a full member of the SPE 
and a member of the Society of 
Applied Industrial Mathematics. 
Mr Sharma has published articles 
on reservoir engineering and 
reservoir modelling in the Journal 
of Petroleum Engineering. 
External appointments
Non-executive director of 
Longreach Oil and Gas Ventures 
Limited non-executive chairman 
and director of Horizon Petroleum.
Committee membership
Member of the Audit Committee 
and Nomination Committee.
Richard Galvin
Treasurer & Corporate  
Affairs Executive 
T.K. Ananth Kumar
Non-Executive Director 
of HEPI
Background and experience
Mr Galvin has over 15 years of 
commercial and corporate finance 
experience in the upstream oil and 
gas industry. Mr Galvin started his 
career at Encana (formally AEC) 
working in progressively senior 
commercial roles over seven years. 
Mr Galvin holds a master of 
business administration from the 
London Business School and a 
bachelor of commerce from the 
University of Calgary. Mr Galvin 
joined Hardy in 2005 as Business 
Development Manager and was 
appointed an Executive Officer 
of the Company in 2011. Mr Galvin 
is a Director of HEPI.
Background and experience
Mr Kumar has over 30 years 
of experience in the oil and gas 
sector in financial, accounts, 
treasury, strategic and business 
development initiatives. He recently 
superannuated as director finance 
of Oil India Limited a $5 billion 
Navaratna Company and India’s 
second largest exploration and 
production state enterprise. 
Mr Kumar is a qualified chartered 
accountant, a member of the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India and has a bachelors 
degree in Commerce from 
Osmania University, India.
Mr Kumar’s recent achievements 
include leading the GOI successful 
$590 million Offer for Sale in Oil 
India; the $2.5 billion joint 
acquisition of Videocon’s stake in 
Mozambique gas fields in 2013, 
and in 2009 the landmark $550 
million Initial Public Offering (IPO) 
for Oil India.
Sankalpa Mitra
Senior Vice President 
Production of HEPI
CH. V. Satya Sai
Vice President Geoscience 
of HEPI 
Background and experience
Mr Mitra has over 31 years of 
experience in the oil and gas 
industry. He previously worked 
for ONGC over 23 years holding 
a position of chief engineer – 
production having experience 
in both onshore and offshore 
operations and project 
implementation. Mr. Mitra joined 
HEPI in 2006 as manager special 
projects and has been heading 
the operations team as general 
manager – PY3 since 2010.
He holds a BE (Mechanical) from 
Calcutta University.
Background and experience
Mr Satya Sai has over 29 years 
of G&G experience in the oil 
and gas industry. Mr. Satya Sai 
previously worked at ONGC for 
over 21 years holding a position of 
superintending geophysicist prior 
to leaving. He holds a masters 
degree in Geophysics and a 
bachelor degree in Science from 
Andhra University. Mr Satya Sai 
joined Hardy in 2006 as Chief 
Geophysicist and has been the 
Head of G&G since 2012. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
28
Governance Summary
Chairman’s introduction
The Board recognises that good governance is key to the future development and performance of the Company’s business and to 
the attainment of the Board’s strategic objectives. This summary outlines the Group’s governance framework and describes the key 
governance issues that have been addressed by the Board and its Committees during 2013, together with the governance issues 
that will be a key focus for 2014.
Governance framework
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee
Key areas of responsibility
Monitor integrity of financial statements; 
review of internal control and risk management 
systems; monitor effectiveness of internal and 
external audit functions.
Key areas of responsibility
Succession planning; Board appointments; 
oversight of diversity policy; recruitment 
process for Directors.
Key areas of responsibility
Developing policy on executive remuneration; 
fixing remuneration of individual Directors and 
monitoring level and structure of remuneration. 
Risk Sub-Committee
Oversee risk management systems and report 
to the Audit Committee.
Succession planning
A focus of the Board and Nomination Committee through 2013/14 has been succession planning. Following the resignation of our 
Finance Executive the Board considers the current executive and senior management structure appropriate however to deliver on our 
longer-term strategy additional resources will be required. The Chairman will continue to assess the appropriateness of the Board’s 
composition. Mr Ananth Kumar a former director, finance of a prominent Indian national oil company was appointed non-executive 
director HEPI.
Board composition and diversity
The Board underwent a restructuring earlier in 2012 and subsequent internal reviews conclude that the Board is functioning appropriately. 
As per the Company’s Act requirement provided below is a breakdown by gender of the number of persons who were Directors, 
senior managers and employees as at 31 March 2014. Those persons included in the category of “senior management” are those 
with responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of a strategically significant part of the Company.
Board
Senior  
management Employee
Female – – 36%
Male 100% 100% 64%
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 1 to 27, has been approved by the Board.
Alasdair Locke
11 June 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
29
Governance
Governance Report
Introduction
The Board is committed to ensuring that high levels of corporate 
governance are achieved. Hardy Oil and Gas plc is incorporated 
in the Isle of Man and is not subject to any corporate governance 
regime in its place of incorporation.
The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Company maintains a listing on the London Stock Exchange 
and under the UK Listing Rules, is required to comply with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 (the 
UK Code). The UK Code is publicly available on the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk. 
This corporate governance report describes the manner in which 
the Group has applied the main principles of governance set out 
in the UK Code throughout the period. The Company is also 
required to disclose whether it has complied with the provision of 
the UK Code during the period and, to the extent it has not done 
so, to explain any deviations from them.
The Company is a small cap upstream oil and gas company 
with a modest resource base. The Company has a clear mandate 
to optimise the allocation of limited resources to support its 
exploration programme and development plans. As such, the 
Company strives to maintain a balance between conservation of 
limited resources and maintaining robust corporate governance 
practices. As the Company evolves the Board is committed to 
enhancing the Company’s corporate governance policies and 
practices deemed appropriate for the size and maturity of 
the organisation.
Set out below are Hardy’s corporate governance practices 
for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014. Disclosures below 
include matters where Hardy has not fully complied during 
the reporting period.
Leadership 
The Company is headed by an effective Board which is collectively 
responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The role of the Board 
The Board sets the Group’s strategy, ensuring that the necessary 
resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategic priorities, 
and reviews management and financial performance. It is 
accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of 
both strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term 
shareholder value. To achieve this, the Board directs and monitors 
the Group’s affairs within a framework of controls which enable 
risk to be assessed and managed effectively. The Board also has 
responsibility for setting the Group’s core values and standards of 
business conduct and for ensuring that these, together with the 
Group’s obligations to its stakeholders, are widely understood 
throughout the Group’s. The Board has a formal schedule of 
matters reserved which is provided later in this report.
Board meetings 
The core activities of the Board are carried out in scheduled 
meetings of the Board and its Committees. These meetings are 
timed to link to key events in the Group’s corporate calendar and 
regular reviews of the business are conducted. Additional 
meetings and conference calls are arranged to consider matters 
which require decisions outside the scheduled meetings. During 
the 15 months ended 31 March 2014, the Board met on six 
occasions. The Board endeavours to arrange for one meeting to 
be held at its Indian based office. This provides senior managers 
from across several disciplines with the opportunity to present 
to the Board and to meet the Board members informally. It also 
provides the Board with an opportunity to meet a broad cross-
section of staff and to assess senior managers at first hand.
Outside the scheduled meetings of the Board, the Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer make frequent contact with each other 
and the other Directors to discuss any issues of concern they may 
have relating to the Group or their areas of responsibility, and to 
keep them fully briefed on the Group’s operations.
Matters reserved specifically for the Board
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved that can 
only be decided by the Board. The key matters reserved are the 
consideration and approval of:
 – the Group’s overall strategy;
 – financial statements and dividend policy;
 – management structure including succession planning, 
appointments and remuneration (supported by the 
Nomination Committee);
 – material acquisitions and disposal, material contracts, 
major capital expenditure projects and budgets;
 – capital structure, debt and equity financing and other matters;
 – risk management and internal controls (supported by the 
Audit Committee);
 – the Company’s corporate governance and compliance 
arrangements; and
 – corporate policies.
Subject to those reserved matters, the Board delegates authority 
for the management of the business primarily to the Executive 
Director and members of the Group’s Senior Executive team. 
Certain other matters are delegated to the Board Committees, 
namely the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Summary of the Board’s work in the period
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014, the Board considered 
all relevant matters within its remit, but focused in particular on 
the following key issues:
 – strategy and management with a particular focus on the 
optimisation of the Group’s India focused portfolio;
 – financial management;
 – regulatory/compliance;
 – environment, health and safety;
 – appointment and succession planning – this is dealt with 
more fully in the Nomination Committee’s Report on pages 46 
and 47; and 
 – stakeholder relations.
Attendance at meetings:
Member Meetings attended
Alasdair Locke (Chairman) 6 of 6
Ian MacKenzie 6 of 6
Peter Milne 6 of 6
Pradip Shah 5 of 6
Yogeshwar Sharma 6 of 6
1 All Directors served in office for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
30
The Board is pleased with the high level of attendance and 
participation by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors 
at Board and Committee meetings.
Division of responsibility
There is a defined separation of the responsibilities between 
Alasdair Locke, the Non-Executive Chairman and Ian MacKenzie, 
the Chief Executive Officer, which has been set out in writing and 
agreed by the Board. The Chairman is primarily responsible for 
the effective working of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive 
Officer is responsible for the operational management of the 
business, for developing strategy in consultation with the 
Board and for implementation of the strategy.
The Chairman 
The Chairman sets the Board agenda and ensures adequate time 
for discussion. On appointment as Chairman on 16 January 2012, 
Alasdair Locke met the independence criteria set out in the 
CIR Code. 
Non-Executive Directors 
The Non-Executive Directors bring a broad range of business 
and commercial experience to the Company and have a particular 
responsibility to challenge independently and constructively the 
performance of the executive management and to monitor the 
performance of the management team in the delivery of the 
agreed objectives and targets. As part of this responsibility, the 
Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the Executive 
Director present. Separately, the Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer hold informal discussions with the Non-Executive 
Directors in respect of current issues affecting the Group.
As Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Peter Milne is 
available to meet shareholders if they have concerns that cannot 
be resolved through discussion with the Chairman and/or 
Chief Executive Officer or where such contact is considered 
inappropriate. Efforts are made to ensure that the Non-Executive 
Directors are briefed on the more technical and operational 
aspects of our activities.
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a term of 
three years, which may, subject to satisfactory performance and 
re-election by shareholders, be extended by mutual agreement. 
Pradip Shah and Yogeshwar Sharma have been members of 
the Board for over nine years. As a result they are subject to 
re-election on an annual basis.
Delegations of authority
Board Committees 
The Board has delegated matters to three Committees namely 
Audit, Remuneration, and Nomination Committees. The 
memberships, roles and activities of these Committees are 
detailed in separate reports: the Audit Committee on pages 
34 to 36 the Remuneration Committee on pages 37 to 45 the 
Nomination Committee on pages 46 and 47. Each Committee 
reports to the Board and the issues considered at meetings 
of the Committees are tabled by the respective Committee 
chairmen. The terms of reference of each Committee are 
reviewed by the Board every other year.
In 2013 the Board agreed to form a sub-committee of the Audit 
Committee responsible for overseeing the risk and uncertainty 
assessment function. The Board appointed Ian MacKenzie 
(Chair), Alasdair Locke and Peter Milne as members. The Risk 
Committee’s terms of reference are available on the 
Company’s website.
Other governance matters 
All of the Directors are aware that independent professional 
advice is available to each Director in order to properly discharge 
their duties as a Director. In addition, each Director and Board 
Committee has access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary 
The Company Secretary is Richard Vanderplank who is retained 
on a consultancy basis. He is available to Directors and is 
responsible for the Board complying with Isle of Man procedures. 
He is supported by the Treasurer & Corporate Affairs Executive 
in the provision of company secretarial services to the Company.
Effectiveness
The Board currently comprises of a Non-Executive Chairman, 
Chief Executive Officer, and three Non-Executive Directors. 
Biographical details of the Board members are set out on page 
26 and 27 of this report.
The Directors are of the view that the Board and its Committees 
consist of Directors with an appropriate balance of skills, 
experience, independence and diverse backgrounds to enable 
them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
At the Company’s Annual General Meeting held on 9 May 2013, 
shareholders re-elected Pradip Shah and Yogeshwar Sharma 
Non-Executive Directors.
Independence 
The Non-Executive Directors bring a broad range of business and 
commercial experience to the Company. The Board considers 
Alasdair Locke, Peter Milne and Pradip Shah to be independent 
Directors in character and judgement.
Pradip Shah has served as a Director for a period of more than 
nine years. He currently has outstanding 260,233 employee 
stock options to purchase Ordinary Shares in the Company 
which were awarded prior to the Company listing on AIM in June 
2005. He is based in India and is actively involved in many 
business endeavours holding executive and non-executive roles 
across a diverse range of industries and is well established within 
India’s commerce and political communities. Notwithstanding 
Pradip Shah’s tenure and option holdings, the Board is fully 
satisfied that he demonstrates complete independence, 
robustness of character and judgement both in his designated 
role and as a Board member. The appointment of a new Chief 
Executive Officer, in 2012, has reinforced the Board’s view 
of his independence.
Governance Report continued Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
31
Governance
Yogeshwar Sharma served as an Executive Director of Hardy 
for more than nine years and was the Group’s Chief Executive 
Officer from 4 March 2010 to 16 May 2012. He currently has 
outstanding a total of 1,280,700 options to purchase Ordinary 
Shares in the Company (details of the awards are provided on 
page 43) which were issued as part of his remuneration package. 
The Board considers Yogeshwar Sharma a significant member of 
the Board, providing upstream oil and gas technical expertise; 
strong relationships in, and an in-depth perspective of, the India 
commercial and geopolitical environment; and, as a founder of the 
Group, possesses significant knowledge of the history of Hardy. 
Due to his recent tenure as an Executive Officer and interest in 
Hardy share options, the Board does not consider Yogeshwar 
Sharma to be an independent Director. 
Appointments 
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the 
structure, size and composition of the Board and making 
recommendations to the Board with regards to any 
required changes.
Commitments
All Directors have disclosed any significant commitments to the 
Board and confirmed that they have sufficient time to discharge 
their duties.
Induction
All new Directors receive an induction as soon as practical 
on joining the Board. This includes meetings with the Executive 
Committee members and other senior management and, where 
appropriate, visits to the Group’s principal offices of operation. 
New Directors are also provided an overview of their duties as 
a Director, corporate governance policies and established 
Board procedures as part of the induction process. 
Training
In early 2014, the Chairman reviewed training and development 
needs with each Director. It was agreed that each Director had 
the necessary current and relevant experience and expertise 
to effectively discharge their respective responsibilities.
Conflict of interest 
A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has, 
or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly 
may conflict with the interests of the Group. The Board has 
satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the independence 
of those Directors who have appointments on the boards of, 
or relationships with, companies outside the Group. The Board 
requires Directors to declare all appointments and other 
situations which could result in a possible conflict of interest.
Board performance and evaluation 
Hardy has a policy of appraising Board performance annually. 
Having reviewed various approaches to Board appraisal, Hardy 
has concluded that for a company of its current scale, an internal 
process in which all Board members submit answers to a 
questionnaire that considers the functionality of the Board and its 
Committees is most appropriate at this stage. This questionnaire 
also contains a series of questions to evaluate the performance 
of individual Board members and that of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is responsible 
for reporting on this matter to the Board, including reviewing 
the performance of the Chairman, with the exception of reviewing 
his own performance which is carried out by the Chairman. The 
process of completing the performance evaluation of the Board 
as a whole, its Chairman, and individual Executive and Non-
Executive Directors, was completed in early 2014. The evaluation 
resulted in constructive feedback which has resulted in actionable 
items primarily regarding enhancement of communication 
between Non-Executive Directors and the executive. Overall, 
it was felt that the Board was functioning well and that all the 
Directors feel proud to be part of Hardy’s team.
Re-election 
The Board has agreed that Ian MacKenzie, Pradip Shah and 
Yogeshwar Sharma will stand for re-election at the Company’s 
2014 Annual General Meeting. The Director’s position is subject 
to satisfactory performance of their responsibilities and is subject 
to reappointment by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 
The Board of Directors is pleased with the attendance of all 
Directors at Board and Committee meetings, despite significant 
travel and time requirements. The Board of Directors is also 
satisfied with the participation by all the Directors in formulating 
corporate strategies and for their engagement in meaningful 
dialogue and discussions at Board and Committee meetings.
Accountability
The Board is committed to providing shareholders with a clear 
assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. This is 
achieved through this report and, as required, other periodic 
financial and trading statements. 
The arrangements established by the Board for the application 
of risk management and internal control principles are detailed on 
pages 22 to 23. The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee 
oversight of the relationship with the Company’s auditors as 
outlined in the Audit Committee report on page 34.
Going concern 
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely to 
affect its future operations, financial position, and liquidity position 
are set out in the Strategic Review section of the Annual Report. 
In addition, note 24 to the consolidated financial statements 
discloses the Group’s financial risk management practices with 
respect to its capital structure, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, 
interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, and other 
related matters.
The Directors, having made due and careful enquiry, are of the 
opinion that the Group and the Company have adequate working 
capital to execute their operations and have the ability to access 
additional financing, if required, over the next 12 months. The 
Directors, therefore, have made an informed judgement, at the time 
of approving these financial statements, that there is a reasonable 
expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate 
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
future. As a result, the Directors have continued to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial 
statements in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: 
Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
32
Internal controls 
The Board of Directors reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s 
system of internal controls in line with the requirement of the UK 
Code. The internal control system is designed to manage the risk 
of failure to achieve its business objectives. This covers internal 
financial and operational controls, compliances and risk 
management. The Group had the necessary procedures in place 
for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the 
Annual Report and Accounts. The Directors acknowledge their 
responsibility for the Groups’ system of internal controls and for 
reviewing its effectiveness. The Board confirms the need for an 
ongoing process for identification, evaluation and management 
of significant risks faced by the Group and has formed a Risk 
Committee which reports to the Audit Committee. A risk 
assessment for each project is carried out by a team consisting 
of the Executive Director and senior management and report to 
the Risk Committee before making any material commitments. 
This team meets as and when required. Internal and external 
risks, including exploration and development risks, regulatory 
and compliance obligations under various production-sharing 
contracts, economics including oil price, interest rate and 
currency exposure, as well as natural catastrophes are 
continuously assessed.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews and reports to the Board 
on the effectiveness of the internal control systems. Given the 
size of the Group, the relative simplicity of the systems and the 
close involvement of senior management, the Board considers 
that there is no current requirement for an internal audit function. 
The procedures that have been established to provide internal 
financial control are considered appropriate for a company of its 
size and include controls over expenditure, regular reconciliations 
and management accounts. Most of the assets are owned jointly 
with others: budgets and expenditures are rigorously reviewed by 
joint venture partners, and approvals as well as external project 
audits take place with respect to capital and operating 
expenditures on a regular basis.
The Directors are responsible for taking such steps as are 
reasonably available to them to safeguard the assets of the 
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Business model 
Hardy strives to create value through the exploration of 
undiscovered hydrocarbons. In order to explore we must first 
be granted a licence by the government of the countries in 
which we choose to invest. After extensive analysis, exploration 
campaigns are planned to try to discover oil and gas fields within 
underexplored sedimentary basins. When we have a significant 
discovery we undertake appraisal programmes which may include 
the drilling of wells and further geotechnical analysis to determine 
the size and quality of the discovery. If the appraisal programme 
confirms that development of a discovery will be commercially and 
financially viable, we begin work on a development plan. This maps 
out how we will get the hydrocarbons into production to generate 
revenue and cash flow. We also create value through the 
implementation of enhanced production strategies to optimise the 
value of recoverable hydrocarbons from existing producing fields.
Remuneration
The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee 
responsibility for agreeing the remuneration policy for the 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and senior executives. The 
Directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 41 contains full 
details of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee.
Shareholder relations
Communication and dialogue 
Open and transparent communication with shareholders is 
given high priority and there is regular dialogue with institutional 
investors, as well as general presentations made at the time of 
the release of the annual and interim results. All Directors are kept 
aware of changes in major shareholders in the Company and are 
available to meet with shareholders who have specific interests 
or concerns. The Group issues its annual results promptly to 
individual shareholders and also publishes interim and annual 
results on the Company’s website: www.hardyoil.com. Regular 
updates to record news in relation to the Group and the status of 
its exploration and development programmes are included on the 
Company’s website. Shareholders and other interested parties 
can subscribe to receive these news updates by email by 
registering online on the website free of charge. 
The Chairman and Executive Director are available to meet 
with institutional shareholders to assist them in gaining an 
understanding of the Group’s business, its strategies and 
governance. At the 2013 Annual General Meeting of 
shareholders, the Chairman was present and the Committee 
chairs participated via conference call. Peter Milne currently 
serves as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the 
Company and is available to shareholders if they have concerns 
that have not been resolved through the normal channels of 
Chairman or Executive Director. Meetings are also held with the 
corporate governance representatives of institutional investors 
when requested.
Annual General Meeting 
At every Annual General Meeting individual shareholders 
are given the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, 
Committee Chairs and other members of the Board. Notice of 
the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 
working days before the meeting. Details of proxy votes for and 
against each resolution, together with the votes withheld are 
announced to the London Stock Exchange and are published on 
the Company’s website as soon as practical after the meeting. 
Governance Report continued Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
33
Governance
Non-compliance with the UK Code
The Company did not comply with the UK Code in the following matters during the 15 months ended 31 March 2014:
Code provision Subject matter Discussion
B.1.1 Non-Executive 
Directors meeting 
independence 
requirements
Pradip Shah has served on the Board for more than nine years. He was also granted share 
options in 2005 when the Company’s Ordinary Shares were listed on AIM. Notwithstanding the 
above, Pradip actions in 2013/14 demonstrated independent character and judgement the Board 
considers Pradip Shah to be independent.
The Board considers Yogeshwar Sharma an instrumental member of the Board providing upstream 
oil and gas technical expertise; strong relationships in, and an in-depth perspective of, the India 
commercial and geopolitical environment; and, as a founder of the Group, significant knowledge 
of the Groups’s history. Due to his recent tenure as Chief Executive Officer and his interest in 
share options, the Board does not consider Yogeshwar Sharma to be independent. 
D.1.3 Remuneration for Non-
Executive Directors 
should not include 
share options
Share options were granted in 2005 to Non-Executive Directors when the Company was listed 
on AIM and not subject to the UK Code.
No share options have been granted to Non-Executive Directors since 2005.
The Board believes that its composition is suitable having regard to its international stature with a focus on India. Notwithstanding the 
long tenure of some of the Directors, the Board believes all of the Non-Executive Directors provide valuable advice and counsel in 
furthering the business objectives of the Group.
Although Hardy is a publicly-listed company and has been listed on the London Stock Exchange’s main market for listed securities 
since February 2008, the Company is a small cap upstream oil and gas company with a modest resource base. The Group has a clear 
mandate to optimise the allocation of limited resources to support its exploration programme. As such, the Group strives to maintain a 
balance between conservation of limited resources and maintaining robust corporate governance practices. As the Company evolves, 
the Board is committed to enhancing the Company’s corporate governance policies and practices deemed appropriate considering 
the size and maturity and complexity of the organisation.
Alasdair Locke
Chairman
11 June 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
34
Audit Committee Report
The Audit Committee comprises of three 
Non-Executive Directors and oversees 
the Group’s financial reporting and 
internal controls, and provides a formal 
reporting link with the external auditors.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual 
Report and Accounts and the half-yearly reports remains with 
the Board. 
The Audit Committee met four times in the 15 months ended 
31 March 2014 and all Committee members served in office 
for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014.
The attendance of members at the Audit Committee meetings 
held in the current reporting period were as follows:
Committee member Meetings attended
Peter Milne (Chairman) 4 of 4
Pradip Shah 3 of 4
Yogeshwar Sharma 4 of 4
Main responsibilities
The Audit Committee acts as a preparatory body for discharging 
the Board’s responsibilities in a wide range of financial matters by:
 – monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and formal 
announcements relating to the Company’s financial performance;
 – reviewing significant financial reporting issues and accounting 
policies and disclosures in financial reports;
 – overseeing that an effective system of internal control and risk 
management systems are maintained;
 – ensuring that effective whistle-blowing, anti-fraud and bribery 
procedures are in place;
 – considering the Company’s internal audit requirements and 
make recommendations to the Board;
 – overseeing the Board’s relationship with the external auditors 
and, where appropriate, the selection of new external auditors;
 – approving non-audit services provided by the external auditors, 
or any other accounting firm, ensuring the independence and 
objectivity of the external auditors is safeguarded when 
appointing them to conduct non-audit services; and
 – ensuring compliance with legal requirements, accounting 
standards and the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and 
Transparency Rules.
The Audit Committee terms of reference can be accessed via the 
Company’s website www.hardyoil.com. Following a review, the 
Board approved the amendment of the Audit Committee’s terms 
of reference in January 2013. The Committee fully discharged its 
responsibilities during the year.
Governance
The UK Code requires that at least one member of the Audit 
Committee has recent and relevant financial experience. Mr Milne, 
who has been the Chairman of the Audit Committee since May 
2012, has been a chartered accountant for 36 years and has over 
30 years of oil and gas sector experience. Pradip Shah, who was 
a member of the Audit Committee throughout the year, is also a 
chartered accountant. The Committee is satisfied that Mr Milne 
and Mr Shah’s membership of the Committee satisfy the UK 
Code requirement noted above.
External auditor
The Company’s external auditors are Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP. 
Authorisation of non-audit services provide to the Group is a 
matter reserved for the Audit Committee. In the 15 months ended 
31 March 2014 Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP did not provide any 
non-audit services to the Company.
The external auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit 
Committee Chairman. During the current audit process, the Audit 
Committee Chairman met with the audit engagement partner 
from Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP, without the presence of 
management. The external auditors were invited to attend all or 
part of every Audit Committee meetings in the 15 months ended 
31 March 2014.
The Committee is satisfied that Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP 
has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that 
auditor objectivity and independence are maintained. The 
external auditors report to the Audit Committee annually on 
their independence from the Company. In accordance with 
professional standards, the partner responsible for the audit is 
changed every five years, and last changed in December 2012. 
The current auditors, Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP were first 
appointed by the Company in 1999 and the current partner is due 
to rotate off the engagement after completing the March 2017 
audit. Taking into consideration the transitional rules issued by the 
Competition Commission as an indication of best practice, the 
Company would intend to put the audit out to tender after the end 
of the 2019 audit at the latest. Having assessed the performance, 
objectivity and independence of the Auditors, the Committee will 
be recommending the reappointment of Crowe Clark Whitehill 
LLP as auditors to the Company at the 2014 Annual 
General Meeting. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
35
Governance
Meetings
In the 15 months ended 31 March 2014, the Audit Committee 
met on four occasions. Meetings are scheduled to allow sufficient 
time to enable full discussion of key topics. During the reporting 
period the Chief Executive Officer and the Treasurer were invited 
to attend each meeting of the Audit Committee.
The committee fully discharged its responsibilities during the year. 
The Committee key activities are summarised below.
Consideration and review of six and 12-month interim 
statements and results for the 15 months ended 
31 March 2014 
 – The Audit Committee met with the external auditors as part of the 
two interim statements and 15 month accounts approval process.
 – The Audit Committee considered the most appropriate 
treatment and disclosure of any new or judgemental matters 
identified during the audit of the 15 month accounts or two 
interim statement reviews, as well as any other recommendation 
or observation made by the external auditor.
Synchronisation of Group accounting 
 – The Audit Committee had previously noted that the Group 
maintained several different Accounting Reference dates. In 
light of this the Audit Committee requested that management 
review current practices and identify possible efficiencies. 
 – Based on management’s review and recommendation the Audit 
Committee agreed to recommend to the Board the 
synchronisation of the Group’s Accounting Reference date to 
31 March from 2014 onwards. The synchronisation is expected 
to introduce budgetary and reporting efficiencies. As a result 
Hardy Oil and Gas plc is reporting results for the 15 months 
ending 31 March 2014.
Audit planning and update on relevant accounting 
developments 
 – The Company prepares financial statements under International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the 
European Union. 
 – The Audit Committee continued to review the appropriateness 
of the Company’s accounting policies and was satisfied that 
the policies adopted by management are currently appropriate.
 – The Audit Committee approved the scope of the work to be 
undertaken by the external auditors for interim reviews and 
period-end statutory audits. 
Review of risk management framework and appropriateness 
of key performance indicators 
 – The management via the Risk Committee provided the Audit 
Committee with clear updates of risk and uncertainties facing 
the Company and accompanying actions to mitigate such risk.
 – Following a review the Audit Committee was satisfied with the 
appropriateness of the risk management framework which 
provides for a systematic approach to risk identification and 
management which combines the Board’s assessment of risk 
with risk factors originating from and identified by the Group’s 
senior management.
 – The Audit Committee has reviewed the KPIs adopted 
by the Company and is satisfied that the adopted KPIs 
remain appropriate.
Review of the Company’s Code of Business Conduct 
 – In line with best practice and to ensure that Hardy works to the 
highest ethical standard, in early 2013 the Company adopted 
a Code of Business Conduct which provides clear guidance 
for ethical behaviour and decision making as well as whistle-
blowing and anti-bribery procedures and practices. The Code 
of Business Conduct was introduced to all employees in the 
first quarter of 2013 and a copy is available on the Company’s 
website; www.hardyoil.com. The Committee considers the 
whistle-blowing procedure to be appropriate for the size and 
scale of the Company.
Review of the Audit Committee terms of reference
 – The Audit Committee reviewed its terms of reference during 
the period. As a result of the review the Audit Committee 
recommended that the Board adopt several amendments 
to comply with current ISCA guidelines and the UK Code. 
Key amendments were:
 - 9.3 – added a Committee duty to review and monitor the 
Company’s compliance, whistle-blower and fraud policies 
and practices;
 - 9.6 – added a Committee duty to advise the Board as 
to whether the Company’s Annual Report and Accounts 
provide a fair and balanced representation of the Company.
 – A copy of the revised terms of reference can be found on the 
Company’s website www.hardyoil.com.
Review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee
 – During the period the Board completed a review of its 
effectiveness which included the assessment of the Audit 
Committee. The review was coordinated by the Chairman 
of the Audit Committee and Treasurer. As a result the Audit 
Committee was considered to be operating effectively and 
in accordance with the UK Code.
Succession planning subsequent to the CFO resignation
 – Mr Ramasamy Jeevanandam, the Chief Financial Officer of 
HEPI, resigned in mid-2013. Following a review it was agreed 
by the Board that Mr MacKenzie, Chief Executive Officer, 
and Mr Galvin, Treasurer & Corporate Affairs Executive, 
assume his responsibilities regarding management oversight 
and leadership of the Indian operation. Management secured 
the services of an Indian based financial consultants to 
oversee and perform the finance and accounting function 
on an interim basis. 
Review of the requirement for an internal audit function
 – The Committee considered the requirement for an internal 
audit function. The Audit Committee considered the size of the 
Company, the relative simplicity of the systems and the close 
involvement of senior management. Following the Committee’s 
review it was recommend to the Board that an internal audit 
function is not appropriate at this time.  Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
36
Audit Committee Report continued
Significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements 
The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee in relation to these financial statements and how these were addressed 
by the Audit Committee are set out in the table below:
Issue Action taken by the Committee
Internal control
The internal controls within the Group are designed to manage 
key risks that could result in the failure of the Group to achieve 
its business objectives. The Group issues corporate guidelines 
that stipulate responsibilities and authorities and form part of the 
control environment for specific areas, such as finance, accounting, 
investments and procurement.
During the year the CFO of HEPI resigned and as a result there 
where changes in the internal control systems of the Group. A 
change in systems and the subsequent period of transition was an 
area of increased risk and hence a focus for the Audit Committee.
Following the resignation of the CFO, the Chairman of the 
Committee made two site visits to our project office in India to 
review the internal controls in place across the finance function. 
As a result relevant changes were implemented. Subsequently, the 
Audit Committee reviewed and agreed to recommend to the Board 
the adoption of amended guidelines stipulating responsibilities 
and authorities for specific areas such as finance, accounting, 
investments and procurement.
In June 2014 the external auditor reported to the Committee on 
their review of the Group’s internal controls. The Audit Committee 
is satisfied that the internal control system is appropriate and robust.
Intangible assets (exploration) in relation to CY-OS/2
There is continuing uncertainty over the status of the block due to the 
ongoing legal dispute with the GOI. The value of the intangible asset 
in relation to CY-OS/2 is material to the Group balance sheet. Details 
of the dispute and arbitration award are provided for on Note 15 on 
page 67.
The Audit Committee reviewed and considered the legal advice 
obtained by management concerning the CY-OS/2 block and is 
satisfied to continue recognise CY-OS/2 as an intangible asset, 
valued at US$36.0 million in the Group balance sheet and that 
the disclosures concerning the dispute are fair and balanced.
Oil and gas assets and other intangible assets (exploration) 
The determination of whether an impairment of an asset has occurred 
is necessarily based upon a number of factors and, particularly in 
light of the circumstances set out in pages 16 to 19 of the Strategic 
Report, the carrying value of these assets in the Group’s balance 
sheet is seen as a key risk.
The Committee has reviewed with management their future plans 
for each block and has considered their underlying assumptions and 
judgements. The Committee is satisfied that no impairment in the 
value of these assets has occurred.
The UK Code states that the Audit Committee should have primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, 
reappointment or removal of the external auditors. The Audit Committee is not aware of any non-audit related professional services 
provided to the Company in the current reporting period and the Audit Committee is satisfied with Crowe Clark Whitebill LLP 
assessment of its independence in accordance with the Ethical Standards for Auditors. On the basis of the Audit Committee’s review 
of the external auditor’s effectiveness and independence, the Committee recommends to the Board that it recommend to shareholders 
the reappointment of the auditors at the Company’s 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Peter Milne
Chairman of the Audit Committee
11 June 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
37
Governance
Directors’ Remuneration Report
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased  
to present a report on Directors’ 
remuneration for the 15 months ended  
31 March 2014, for which we will be 
seeking approval from shareholders at our 
Annual General Meeting on 7 August 2014.
The Committee has noted feedback from shareholders and 
various shareholder interest groups regarding the Company’s 
previous remuneration practices. A significant number of 
shareholders voted against the 2012 Remuneration Report. 
The general reasons cited for not voting in favour of the report 
were regarding the terms and conditions of stock options 
awarded to the Executive Director. Specific concerns were 
regarding vesting provisions being subject to a single 
performance condition (share price appreciation), multiple testing, 
and the absence of vesting conditions linked to personal targets. 
The Committee has set out short to medium-term performance 
objectives, which are linked to the Company’s strategy, for the 
award of bonus and equity based long-term incentives (LTI). 
Having consideration for the Company’s long-term strategy 
being contingent on the short-term development the Committee 
consider conventional vesting conditions either inappropriate, 
as the Company is not currently producing, has limited operating 
control of certain key assets currently being dependent on 
government decisions which are outside the Company’s 
control, or dilutive to the efficient incentivisation of the executive. 
We maintain that the Company’s remuneration policy including 
vesting conditions placed on stock option awards to provide 
competitive remuneration for the Executive is appropriate for 
a company of our size, scope and circumstance. When 
circumstances change we will review the vesting conditions.
The Committee is aware of the sensitive nature of executive 
remuneration and regularly considers the guidelines on executive 
remuneration set out by the Association of British Insurers. 
Hardy is an Isle of Man incorporated company and is therefore 
not subject to the UK company law requirement to submit its 
remuneration report to a binding policy vote on Director pay to 
shareholders. However, we have adopted the new remuneration 
report format and will submit a policy report to shareholders for 
approval. Given the different legal jurisdiction in which the 
Company operates, this approval will be on an advisory rather 
than binding basis. In line with the Company’s commitment to 
good corporate governance, the Board will take due notice of 
shareholder feedback on the policy and it is the Board’s intention 
to operate in line with the approved policy. The Company would 
seek a further advisory vote from its shareholders should the 
current policy change or, if earlier, in three years’ time. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank shareholders for their 
continued support. Should any shareholder wish to contact me 
in connection with the Company’s senior executive remuneration 
policy, please email me at investor.relations@hardyoil.com. 
Pradip Shah
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
11 June 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
38
Directors’ Remuneration Policy
This part of the Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration 
policy for the Company which will operate from 1 April 2014. 
Policy overview
The Remuneration Committee considers remuneration policy and 
the employment terms and remuneration of the executives and 
makes recommendations to the Board of Directors on the overall 
remuneration packages for the executives. The Remuneration 
Committee’s remuneration principles are to ensure that 
remuneration promotes the attraction, motivation and retention 
of the highest-quality executives who are key to executing our 
strategy and delivering substantial returns to shareholders. 
The remuneration package for the Executive Directors and senior 
executives will comprise of base salary, annual bonus, taxable 
benefits, pension payments and participation in the Company’s 
share incentive arrangements. A meaningful proportion of 
executive and senior managements’ remuneration is structured 
to link rewards to corporate and individual performance, 
conservation of limited capital resources, and an alignment 
of interests with those of shareholders and to incentivise 
them to perform at the highest levels.
Consideration of shareholders’ views
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback 
received at the Annual General Meeting each year and, more 
generally, guidance from shareholder representative bodies. 
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received from time 
to time, is considered as part of the Company’s annual review 
of remuneration policy.
Employment conditions elsewhere in the Group
In setting the remuneration policy and remuneration level for the 
Executive Directors, the Committee is cognisant of the approach 
to rewarding employees in the Group and levels of pay 
increases generally.
Operation of share plans
The Committee will operate the Unapproved Share Option Plan, 
Executive Share Option Plan and Restricted Share awards 
according to their respective rules and in accordance with the 
Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant. The Committee 
retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation 
and administration of the plans in relation to senior management 
including the Executive Directors. These include (but are not limited 
to) the following:
 – who participates;
 – the timing of grant of awards and/or payment;
 – the size of awards and/or payment;
 – discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the 
event of a change of control or reconstruction;
 – determination of a good leaver (in addition to any specified 
categories) for incentive plan purposes and a good 
leaver’s treatment;
 – adjustments to awards required in certain circumstances (e.g. 
rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends); and
 – the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional 
events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
Non-executive remuneration
Policy 
The main goals of the Company’s remuneration policy for the 
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors is designed to assure 
alignment with shareholders, maintain independence, recognise 
time commitments and attract and retain outstanding candidates.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined 
by the Chairman and the Executive Director outside the 
framework of the Remuneration Committee and approved by 
the Board of Directors. The fees paid are set at a level to attract 
individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make 
a significant contribution to the Group’s activities, while also 
reflecting the time commitment and responsibility of the role. 
None of the Directors participate in any discussion or votes 
on any proposal relating to his or her own remuneration.
Director fees 
Each Non-Executive Director currently receives a basic 
annual fee of £50,000. The Chairman of the Board will receive an 
additional annual fee of £65,000 to reflect his additional 
responsibilities as Chairman of the Board. The Audit Committee 
Chairman will receive an additional annual fee of £10,000 to 
reflect additional responsibilities. Each Non-Executive Director 
is also entitled to the reimbursement of necessary travel and other 
expenses. In certain circumstances a non-executive may receive 
additional fees to compensate for time spent in excess of what 
would normally be expected in the execution of responsibilities. 
Non-Executive Directors are entitled to an annual restricted 
shares award equivalent to 25 per cent of their basic annual 
fee based on the market value of Hardy shares on the last trading 
day prior to the date of issue. These shares will remain restricted 
for three years from the date of issue. The shares will become 
unrestricted and are delivered to the individual three years after 
the date of issue. The share award will be in addition to the annual 
basic fee. In the event of change of control of Hardy and the 
participant is no longer a Director going forward, all of the 
restricted shares will vest. In the event of death of a Director, 
all shares will become fully vested. Upon the Director not being 
re-elected at a general meeting of shareholders after offering 
himself for re-election as a Director at a general meeting, the 
shares will vest. In all other circumstances, shares that will remain 
restricted are forfeited if the participant is no longer a Director of 
Hardy. In addition, for a Good Leaver (defined as death, injury or 
disability, redundancy, retirement, his office or employment being 
either a company which ceases to be a Group member or relating 
to a business or part of a business which is transferred to a 
person who is not a Group member or any other reason the 
Committee so decides) the Board has discretion to accelerate 
vesting on a date determined by it.
Chairman’s additional remuneration
Alasdair Locke’s terms of agreement provide for a one time award 
of restricted shares equivalent to £50,000 in the event that the 
average price of the Company’s Ordinary Shares remains above 
£3.00 for any consecutive three-month period during the term 
of his appointment. 
Legacy remuneration
For the avoidance of doubt, the Company intends to honour any 
commitments entered into with current Directors that have been 
disclosed to shareholders in previous Remuneration Reports.
Summary Directors’ remuneration policy
The table overleaf sets out a summary of each element of the 
Directors’ remuneration packages, their link to the Company’s 
strategy, the policy for how these are operated, the maximum 
opportunity and the performance framework.  Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
39
Governance
Summary of Directors’ remuneration policy
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Base salary
Purpose and link to strategy To provide an appropriate level of fixed cash income to attract and retain individuals with the personal 
attributes, skills and experience required to deliver our strategy.
Operation Generally reviewed annually with increases effective from 1 January. Base salaries will be set by the 
Committee taking into account the:
 – scale, scope and responsibility of the role;
 – skills, experience and performance of the individual; and
 – retention risk.
Base salary of other individual undertaking similar roles in companies of comparable size and 
complexity.
Opportunity Increases to the current Executive Director salary, presented in the “Application of policy in 2014” 
row below, will not normally exceed the average increase awarded to other UK-based employees. 
Increases may be above this level in certain circumstances, for instance if there is an increase in the 
scale, scope or responsibility of the role or to allow the base salary of newly appointed executives 
to move towards market norms as their experience and contribution increase.
Framework for recovery None.
Application of policy in 2014/15
1
Executive Director 
Base salary – £250,000 (will be reviewed by the Committee effective 1 January 2015).
Pension and benefits
Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain individuals with the personal attributes, skills and experience required to deliver 
our strategy.
Operation Salary supplement contribution to personal pension plan. Membership of a medical scheme, life and 
long-term disability assurance cover, and professional dues and other professional services.
Opportunity Pension: 7.5 per cent of base salary. 
Benefits: The range of benefits that may be provided is set by the Committee after taking into account 
local market practice in the country where the executive is based. Additional benefits may be provided, 
as appropriate.
Framework for recovery None.
Application of policy in 2014/15
1
No change.
Incentive 
Purpose and link to strategy To provide a simple, competitive, incentive plan that: will attract, retain and motivate individuals with 
the required personal attributes, skills and experience; provide a real incentive to achieve our strategic 
objectives; and align the interests of management to shareholders.
Operation Annual bonus plan – personal performance targets are set for the executive which the Committee 
deem appropriate and effective in aligning and motivating the executive toward the achievement of the 
Company’s short-term objective: 
 – Annual award of cash bonus based on personal target linked performance ranging from nil up to the 
equivalent of 100 per cent of the executive base salary.
Annual long-term equity-based award will be made in line with the Committee’s assessment of the 
strategic targets:
 – Unapproved Share Option Plan, ExSOP (a structured option plan) or restricted shares;
 – annual long-term equity based award based on performance of the Company and personal 
performance; and
 – option and restricted share awards will normally vest after three years, subject to certain 
performance conditions and continued service.
Opportunity Annual bonus plan – the maximum annual level of award is 100 per cent of salary for 
Executive Directors.
Annual long-term share or option award – the maximum face value for an annual award of option or 
share-based LTIs is equivalent to 100 per cent of the executive’s base salary. Face value is the product 
of market value at time of award and number of options/shares awarded.
Framework for recovery Claw back: Unvested restricted shares and options can be terminated by the Board in instances of 
material misstatement or serious misconduct. 
1 Not part of the policy report. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
40
Directors’ Remuneration Policy continued
Incentive 
Application of policy in 2014/15 Award will be based on the Boards assessment of performance in meeting strategic targets
Bonus
LTI  
(Option based 
award)
Threshold 20% nil%
Target 40% 65%
Cap 100% 100%
LTI – Option vesting will be conditional on the Company’s share price appreciating at an average 
compounded rate of 5 per cent over three to five years from the date of grant. At the time of award the 
Board may apply additional vesting conditions as it deems appropriate.
The Board has adopted a simple and effective incentive arrangement which it believes best serves the 
mission that management is charged with, which is to create additional value leading to a higher share 
price for all shareholders, subject to general market conditions
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
Purpose and link to strategy To provide an appropriate fee level to attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to 
make a significant contribution to the effectiveness of the Board and to the Group’s activities while 
also reflecting the time commitment and responsibility of the role.
Operation The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic annual fee with additional 
responsibility fees for the chairing of the Audit Committee. Fees are normally reviewed annually. 
Each Non-Executive Director is also entitled to a reimbursement of necessary travel and other 
expenses and when applicable extra fees for additional work beyond the normal Non-Executive 
Director responsibilities. Restricted shares are issued to the Chairman and each Non-Executive 
Director on an annual basis equivalent to 25 per cent of their basic annual fee.
Opportunity There is no maximum prescribed fee increase although fee increases for Non-Executive Directors will 
not normally exceed the average increase awarded to the Executive Director. Increases may be above 
this level if there is an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role.
Framework for recovery None.
Application of policy in 2014/15
1
Current Non-Executive Director fees
Basic annual non-executive £50,000
Additional fees
Chairman of the Board £65,000
Chairman Audit Committee £10,000
Each Director will be entitled to Restricted Share award equivalent to 25 per cent of basic annual fee 
in the first quarter of 2015.
1 Not part of the policy report.
  Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
41
Governance
Remuneration scenarios for the Executive Director
The chart below shows how the composition of the Executive 
Director’s remuneration package varies at different levels of 
performance under the remuneration policy, as a percentage of 
total remuneration opportunity and as a total value.
Chief Executive Officer
1,000
£’000
500
750
250
0
Threshold Expected Maximum
250 250 250
21
50
21 21
250
165
100
250
Salary
Annual bonus – cash
Pension and beneﬁts
Annual LTI award
Service agreement
All of the service contracts with Directors are on an evergreen 
basis, subject to termination provisions. The Company may, in 
lieu of notice, terminate the Executive Director’s employment with 
immediate effect by making a payment which does not exceed: 
a lump sum equal to basic salary, pension entitlement and other 
benefits at the rate prevailing at the date of termination for a 
period which does not exceed 12 months; and a bonus to the 
extent earned and awarded by the Company at the date of 
termination. The appointment of the Executive Directors is 
subject to termination by no greater than 12 months by either 
party. The appointments of Non-Executive Directors are 
subject to termination upon at least three months’ notice.
Chief Executive Officer
The service contract of Ian MacKenzie is on an evergreen 
basis until terminated by not less than 12 months’ written notice 
by either party. If a written notice is given by either party, the 
Company may require the Executive Director to continue to 
perform such duties as the Board may direct during the notice 
period or require the Executive Director to perform no duties. 
In each case, the Company will continue to pay salary and 
provide all other benefits arising under the service contract 
until the end of the notice period.
External appointment
The Board has not introduced a formal policy in relation to the 
number of external directorships that an Executive Director may 
hold. Currently the Executive Director does not hold any other 
external appointment.
Policy for new appointments
Executive
Base salary levels will take into account market data for the 
relevant role, internal relativities, the individual’s experience 
and their current base salary. Where an individual is recruited at 
below market norms, they may be re-aligned over time (e.g. two 
to three years), subject to performance in the role. Benefits will 
generally be in accordance with the approved policy.
The Committee may consider buying out incentive awards which 
an individual would forfeit upon leaving their current employer 
although any compensation would, where possible, be consistent 
with respect to currency (i.e. cash for cash, equity for equity), 
vesting periods (i.e. there would be no acceleration of payments), 
expected values and the use of performance targets.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree 
that the Company will meet certain relocation and/or incidental 
expenses as appropriate.
Non-executive
A one-time restricted share award will made to a new Non-
Executive Director on joining the Board under the same terms 
and conditions outlined for non-executive annual restricted share 
award. The market value of the one-time award of Hardy Ordinary 
Shares will not be greater than 100 per cent of the annual fee 
entitlement. In exceptional circumstance this amount may be 
revised as deemed appropriate by the Remuneration Committee 
with Board approval.
Policy for loss of office
The Chief Executive Officer’s service contract is terminable 
by him or the Company on 12 months’ notice. There are no 
specific provisions under which the Executive Directors are 
entitled to receive compensation upon early termination, other 
than in accordance with the notice period. On termination of an 
Executive Director’s service contract, the Committee will take into 
account the departing Director’s duty to mitigate his loss when 
determining the amount of any compensation. Disbursements 
such as legal and outplacement costs and incidental expenses 
may be payable where appropriate. 
Any unvested awards held under the Unapproved Share Option 
Plan, ExSOP plan or restricted shares awards will lapse at 
cessation unless the individual is a Good Leaver in which case 
the Board may permit the extension of unvested options to a later 
date not to exceed 12 months from date of cessation.
Non-Executive Director terms of appointment
The services of Alasdair Locke, Peter Milne, Pradip Shah and 
Yogeshwar Sharma are, as Non-Executive Directors, provided 
under the terms of agreements with the Company dated 
as follows:
Non-Executive Director
Year of  
appointment
Number of years 
completed
Date of current  
engagement letter
Alasdair Locke 2012 2 12 January 2012
Peter Milne 2012 2 29 February 2012
Pradip Shah 1999 14 2 June 2005
Yogeshwar Sharma 1997 16 16 May 2012
The appointments of any Non-Executive Director may be 
terminated by either party on three months’ written notice. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
42
Annual Report on Remuneration
This part of the report provides details of the operation of the Remuneration Committee, how the remuneration policy was implemented in 
the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 (including payment and awards in respect of incentive arrangements) and how shareholders voted 
at the 2013 Annual General Meeting. This part of the report is to include a summary of how the policy will be operated for the next 
financial year however, for ease of reference, this is presented within the Remuneration Policy Report page 38 to 41.
The Remuneration Committee
The Company’s Remuneration Committee comprises of three Non-Executive Directors: Pradip Shah (Chairman), Alasdair Locke 
and Peter Milne. 
Hardy’s Remuneration Committee operates within the terms of reference approved by the Board. The Remuneration Committee 
reviewed its terms of reference early in 2013. As a result of the review the Remuneration Committee recommended that the Board 
adopt several amendments to comply with current ISCA guidelines and the UK Code.
A copy of the Remuneration Committee’s terms of reference can be found on the Company’s website www.hardyoil.com.
Committee’s main responsibilities
 – The Remuneration Committee considers remuneration policy, employment terms and remuneration of the Executive Director and 
also reviews the remuneration of senior management. 
 – The Remuneration Committee’s role is advisory in nature and it makes recommendations to the Board on the overall remuneration 
packages for Executive Directors and senior management in order to attract, retain and motivate high quality executives capable 
of achieving the Group’s objectives. 
 – The Remuneration Committee also reviews proposals for the share option plans and other incentive plans, makes recommendations for 
the grant of awards under such plans as well as approving the terms of any performance-related pay schemes.
 – The Board’s policy is to remunerate the Group’s senior executives fairly and in such a manner as to facilitate the recruitment, 
retention and motivation of suitably qualified personnel.
 – The Remuneration Committee, while considering the remuneration packages of Hardy executives, has reviewed the policies 
of comparable groups in the industry. The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the 
Executive Director outside the framework of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee met five times in the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 and all Committee members served in office 
throughout the period. The attendance of members at the Remuneration Committee meetings was as follows:
Committee member
Number of  
meetings attended
Pradip Shah (Chairman) 4 of 5
Alasdair Locke 5 of 5
Peter Milne 5 of 5
Committee evaluation
The performance of the Remuneration Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation which was completed in 2014. 
The review was coordinated by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Treasurer. As a result the Remuneration Committee 
was considered to be operating effectively.
Committee advisors
No remuneration advisors were retained by the Remuneration Committee during the 15 months ended 31 March 2014.
The Company also consults with the Company’s major investors and investor representative groups as appropriate. No Director takes 
part in any decision directly affecting their own remuneration. The Company Chairman also absents himself during discussion relating 
to his own fees.
Remuneration review
Executive
Following a review in September 2013 the Committee recommended to the Board an increase in the Executive Director’s base salary 
by 10 per cent to £250,000. The base salary is well below industry average and may consider closing this gap as the Company 
realises key strategic objectives for its India focused portfolio. The Executive Director’s remuneration had not been revised since his 
appointment in February 2012. The Committee did not recommend a bonus payment during the 15 months ended 31 March 2014.
Non-Executive
The Non-Executive Director basic annual fee had not been reviewed for several years. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
reviewed the basic fee and recommended that the basic annual fee for Non-Executive Directors be increased by £14,000 to £50,000 
effective 1 January 2014. The non-executives reviewed and recommended that the additional fee for the Chairman be increased by 
£15,000. In the period the Board approved the payment of an extra fee to Mr Milne and Mr Shah of £10,000 and £3,500 respectively 
in relation to significant additional time commitments required to facilitate management transition following the resignation of the CFO 
of HEPI. No Director was directly involved with the determination of his respective fees. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
43
Governance
Single total figure of remuneration for each Director (audited)
Set out below are the emoluments of the Directors for the years indicated (US$):
Executive
Fixed Long term
Name of Director
Salaries/fees
(a)
Benefits
(b)
Bonuses
(c)
LTI  
vesting
(d)
Pension 
contribution
(e)
Other
(f) Total
Ian MacKenzie
1
2013/14 469,145 5,415 – – 34,394 – 508,954
 2012 328,340 4,068 – – 26,669 – 359,077
Non-executive
Fixed Long term
Name of Director
Salaries/fees
(a)
Benefits
(b)
Bonuses
(c)
LTI  
vesting
(d)
Pension 
contribution
(e)
Other
(f) Total
Alasdair Locke
2,3
2013/14 204,698 – – 79,347 – – 284,045
 2012 158,173 – – 452,963 – – 611,136
Peter Milne
4,5
2013/14 120,018 – 36,525 156,543
 2012 69,025 – – 74,524 – – 143,549
Pradip Shah
6
2013/14 83,087 – – 28,565 – 111,652
 2012 57,182 – – 14,423 – – 71,605
Yogeshwar Sharma
7,8
2013/14 77,267 – – 22,898 – – 100,165
 2012 562,580 11,906 – – – – 574,486
1 Ian Mackenzie’s benefits included life and medical insurance.
2 Upon his appointment Alasdair Locke was awarded restricted shares amounting to US$372,621.
3 Upon the appointment of Ian MacKenzie, Alasdair Locke was awarded restricted shares amounting to US$80,342.
4 Upon his appointment Peter Milne was awarded restricted shares amounting to US$74,524.
5 Peter Milne was awarded an extra fee of US$16,546 due to extraordinary services provided to the Company in 2013.
6 Pradip Shah was awarded an extra fee of US$5,820 due to extraordinary services provided to the Company in 2013.
7 In 2012 Yogeshwar Sharma received a payment of US$348,938 in connection with the cessation of his employment as Chief Executive Officer.
8 Yogeshwar Sharma was appointed a Non-Executive Director effective 16 May 2012 and subsequently received fees amounting to US$35,703.
Long-term incentive plans
Unapproved Share options
The Committee did not award Share options to the Executive Director in the 15 months ended 31 March 2014. In April 2014 the 
Committee recommended the award of 250,000 options to the Executive Director. The options awarded will vest between the third 
and fifth anniversary of the date of grant (the Vesting Period) subject to the satisfaction of a Performance Condition. The Performance 
Condition shall be satisfied where at any time during the Vesting Period, the volume weighted average market price of an Ordinary 
Share for any 10 consecutive London Stock Exchange trading days is equal to or greater than the Ordinary Share price of the 
Company on the date of grant as increased by compounded growth of 5 per cent per annum in the share price as at the end of such 
10-day period. In the event that the Performance Condition is not satisfied by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, the options shall 
lapse. Options will vest immediately upon the occurrence of a Rule 8 Event under the unapproved share option scheme (relating to 
change of control etc).
ExSOP scheme 
The Committee did not recommend any awards under the ExSOP scheme.
Set out below is certain information pertaining to share options granted to Directors who held office at 31 March 2014:
Director
As at 
31 December  
2012
Granted  
during 
2013/14
Forfeited  
during 
2013/14
As at 
31 March 
2014
Date of  
grant
Vested at  
end of 
2014 Expiry date
Exercise price 
per share 
 (£)
Ian MacKenzie
1,2
750,000 – – 750,000 14-Mar-12 – 13-Mar-22 1.55
Pradip Shah
3
260,233 – – 260,233 7-Jun-05 260,233 6-Jun-15 1.44
Yogeshwar Sharma
3
780,700 – – 780,700 7-Jun-05 780,700 6-Jun-15 1.44
300,000 – – 300,000 2-Jul-07 300,000 1-Jul-17 4.31
200,000 – – 200,000 11-Oct-10 – 10-Oct-20 2.12
Total 2,040,933 – – 2,040,933 1,340,933
1 Mr MacKenzie was awarded 250,000 share options effective 14 April 2014 with a strike price of £0.65.
2 Mr MacKenzie’s options awarded in 2012 and 2014 are subject to the conditions outlined above.
3 Legacy share option awards to Non-Executive Directors Mr Shah and Mr Sharma have previously been granted options to purchase Ordinary Shares of Hardy. No options have 
been granted to Non-Executive Directors since 2005. Yogeshwar Sharma received his awards as part of his remuneration package as an executive of Hardy. Pradip Shah received 
his awards before the Company was listed in 2005. 
No price was paid for any grant of options by the Directors to the Company. There were no variations made during the year in the 
terms and conditions with respect to any outstanding share options granted by the Company. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
44
Annual Report on Remuneration continued
Termination payments
No Director left in the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 and therefore no compensation for loss of office was paid. In 2012 Mr Sharma 
received a payment of US$348,938, equivalent to 12 months’ base salary, in connection with the cessation of his employment as 
Chief Executive Officer which was in excess of his contractual entitlement. In determining the appropriate cessation payment the 
Committee considered industry norms and Mr Sharma’s cooperation and contribution throughout the induction process of 
Mr MacKenzie.
Material contract
There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a Director of the Company was materially 
interested and/or which were significant in relation to the Group’s business.
Performance graph
Ordinary Shares of the Company were listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed securities 
(Main Market) from 20 February 2008. In the circumstances, and since the Company’s principal business is upstream oil and gas 
exploration, development and production, the Company has chosen to compare its performance with the FTSE All-Share Index and 
FTSE 350 Oil and Producers Index.
Shareholders return and index performance
5 June 2005 – 31 March 2014
350%
300%
250%
200%
150%
100%
50%
0%
Jun 05
Hardy Oil and Gas
Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 12 Dec 11 Dec 13 Dec 14
UK FTSE All-Share FTSE 350 Index Oil and Gas Producers
Chief Executive Officer remuneration
2009 2010 2011 2012
1
2013/14
Total remuneration (US$) 324,113 347,113 399,350 359,077 508,954
Months of service 12 12 12 11 15
Total remuneration (US$/mth) 27,009 28,926 33,279 32,646 33,930
Annual bonus (%)
2
nil nil nil nil nil
Option vesting nil nil nil nil nil
1 CEO remuneration figure includes Mr MacKenzie’s total remuneration in 2012, he was appointed CEO designate effective 1 February 2012.
2 The CEO was entitled to a bonus of nil to 40 per cent of annual salary equivalent. No bonus has been awarded by the Board.
On 31 March 2014, the market price of an Ordinary Share of Hardy was £0.64 per share. The highest and lowest market price of an 
Ordinary Share of Hardy during the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 was £1.29 and £0.64 respectively. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
45
Governance
Percentage change in Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration
The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officer’s total remuneration between the financial period ended 
31 December 2012 and 31 March 2014 compared to that of the average for all employees of the Group. 
Salary Benefits Bonus
Chief Executive 11% 0 0
Average employees 16% 0 0
Note: Percentage figures provided in the table above are determined based on the currency in which individuals are paid.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following table shows the Company’s actual spend on pay for all employees relative to dividends.
2013/14 2012 %
1
Total employee remuneration (US$/m) 2.9 2.8 (17)
Dividend and share buyback 0 0 nil
1 Weighted average change.
Shareholder voting at the last Annual General Meeting
At last year’s Annual General Meeting (9 May 2013) the Company’s Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders:
For Against
Total cast for  
and against Votes withheld
Total issued share 
capital instructed
Total number of votes 30,454,926 22,659,368 53,115,744 1,450 53,115,744
% of votes cast 57.34 42.66 72.69
A significant number of shareholders voted against the 2012 Remuneration Report. The general reasons cited for not voting in favour of 
the report were regarding the terms and conditions of stock options awards to the Executive Director. Specific concerns were regarding 
vesting provisions being subject to a single performance condition (share price appreciation); multiple testing; the absence of linked to 
personal targets and no individual limits. We maintain that the Company’s remuneration policy including the vesting conditions placed 
on stock option awards to the executive are appropriate for a company of our size and scope as we strike a balance between conserving 
resources and maintaining robust governance practices. It is our intention to review our remuneration policies and practices as the 
Company circumstances evolves. 
Directors’ interests in the share capital of the Company (audited)
The Directors who held office at 31 March 2014 and who had beneficial interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are 
summarised in the table below. There are no minimum shareholding requirements for Directors:
Name of Director Position
As at 
31 March  
2014
As at 
31 December 
2012
Alasdair Locke Non-Executive Chairman 883,503 829,227
Peter Milne
1
Senior Non-Executive Director 155,430 30,000
Ian MacKenzie Chief Executive Officer 352,969 250,000
Pradip Shah
1
Non-Executive Director 698,886 679,347
Yogeshwar Sharma
1
Non-Executive Director 2,674,600 4,158,135
1 Also includes restricted shares awarded to Non-Executive Directors (including the Chairman) as part of their remuneration. 
Other than above, the Directors do not have any beneficial interest in the Ordinary Shares or any other securities of the Company, 
except for stock options.
Other matters
The Company does not manage any pension scheme for any of the Directors. 
The Company has not paid out any excess retirement benefits to any Directors or past Directors. 
The Company has not paid any compensation to past Directors. 
The Company has not paid any sums to third parties with respect to any services of Directors. 
Approved on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Pradip Shah
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
11 June 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
46
Following the restructuring of the Board in 2012 there were no 
changes to the composition of the Board in the 15 months ended 
31 March 2014. The focus of the Committee through the 
reporting period shifted from Board composition to succession 
planning, compliance and executive and senior management 
requirements to achieve strategic objectives.
As a result of this work we are delighted that Mr Ananth Kumar 
agreed to join the board of HEPI a wholly owned subsidiary from 
which our India operations are run. The Nomination Committee 
will continue to assess the Group’s leadership requirements 
and the overall effectiveness and composition of the Board.
Committee’s role
The Nomination Committee reviews the composition and balance 
of the Board and senior executive team on a regular basis to 
ensure that the Board and senior management have the right 
structure, skills and experience in place for the effective 
management of the Company’s business.
Main responsibilities
In 2013 the Nomination Committee reviewed its terms of 
reference and recommended that the Board adopt several 
changes which were approved by the Board in January 2013. 
A copy of the Nomination Committee’s terms of reference can 
be found on the Company’s website www.hardyoil.com. 
The main duties of the Nomination Committee are 
summarised below:
 – review the structure, size and composition of the Board and 
make recommendations to the Board with regard to 
any changes;
 – succession planning for Directors and other senior executives;
 – identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates to fill 
Board vacancies as and when required;
 – reviewing annually the time commitment required of 
Non-Executive Directors; and
 – making recommendations to the Board regarding membership 
of the Audit and Remuneration Committee in consultation with 
the Chairman of each Committee.
Committee membership
The Nomination Committee currently comprises of four 
Non-Executive Directors with Alasdair Locke as Chairman. 
The Nomination Committee met twice in the 15 months ended 
31 March 2014. All Committee members served in office for 
the 15 months ended 31 March 2014. The membership and 
attendance of members at Committee meetings held are 
provided below:
Committee member Meetings attended
Alasdair Locke (Chairman) 2 of 2
Peter Milne 2 of 2
Pradip Shah 1 of 2
Yogeshwar Sharma 2 of 2
Committee activities during the 15 months ended 31 March 
2014 and subsequent to year end
Review terms of reference 
The Nomination Committee reviewed its terms of reference during 
the year. As a result of the review the Nomination Committee 
recommended that the Board adopt several amendments to 
comply with current ISCA guidelines and the UK Code. The key 
amendments were:
 – Duties – Clauses 9.5 to 9.10 – several clauses were amended 
regarding guidelines for identification and appointment 
of Directors.
 – Other matters regarding: access to resources; timely training; 
consideration of law as and regulations; and periodic review 
of Committee performance.
A copy of the revised terms of reference can be found on the 
Company’s website www.hardyoil.com.
Committee evaluation 
The performance of the Nomination Committee was evaluated as 
part of the Board evaluation which was completed in early 2014. 
The review was coordinated by the Senior Non-Executive Director 
with the assistance of management. The review showed that the 
Nomination Committee was considered to be operating effectively. 
Succession planning
Following the resignation of HEPI’s chief financial officer 
and member of the executive team, Mr Jeevanandam, the 
Board agreed that Mr MacKenzie and Mr Galvin assume his 
responsibilities regarding management oversight and leadership 
of the Company’s India operation. Management subsequently 
secured professional services to oversee and perform the finance 
and accounting function. The Committee members made a site 
visit to our India project office which provided a good platform 
to assess the Company’s senior management capabilities and 
expertise. The Committee is satisfied that the Company currently 
has sufficient human resources to achieve the Company’s 
short-term objectives and has identified areas of enhancement 
to be put in place as our projects mature. 
Nomination Committee Report Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
47
Governance
Appointment of non-executive to HEPI
Based on findings of last year’s Board evaluation, input from 
management and the Nomination Committee’s review mention 
above the Committee recognised a requirement to compliment the 
India based executive presence. As a result we were delighted with 
the appointment of Mr Ananth Kumar as non-executive director of 
HEPI in February 2014. Mr Ananth Kumar, who has over 30 years 
of experience in the oil and gas sector in financial, commercial and 
business aspects, is a former director finance of Oil India Limited, 
India’s second largest exploration and production state enterprise. 
He is a qualified chartered accountant, a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India and has a bachelor’s degree in 
Commerce from Osmania University, India.
The Nomination Committee believe that Mr Ananth Kumar’s wealth 
of financial management experience as well as investor relations, 
corporate finance and capital market awareness and strong 
interaction with key stakeholders across the spectrum of the 
Company’s business will complement current managements’ skills 
and knowledge. The HEPI board comprises of Mr Ian MacKenzie, 
president and chief executive officer and Mr Richard Galvin, 
treasurer and Mr Ananth Kumar as a non-executive director.
UK Code compliance
The Committee has noted shareholder feedback regarding 
independence of non-executives and gender diversity. All of 
the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are male reflecting 
the relatively low level of gender diversity at senior levels in the 
upstream oil and gas industry generally. The Committee 
recognises the benefit of diversity but does not have an explicit 
policy, regarding gender, in place and does not consider it a 
priority at this time. The Board is diverse in respect to skills, 
experience and cultural background.
Several Non-Executive Directors do not satisfy the requirements 
for independence within the framework of the UK Code, primarily 
due to term of service. The Committee believes that the current 
members are the most appropriate for the needs of the 
organisation. We will continue to closely monitor the composition 
of the Board in this regard and take action when appropriate. 
Membership of Board Committees
In 2013, the Board resolved to form a sub-committee for 
risk assessment which would report to the Audit Committee. 
The Nomination Committee recommended the appointment 
of Mr MacKenzie (Chair), Mr Locke and Mr Milne to the Risk 
Sub-Committee. 
Alasdair Locke
Chairman of the Nomination Committee
11 June 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
48
The Directors of Hardy Oil and Gas plc present their annual report together with the audited financial statements for the 15 months 
ended 31 March 2014. These will be presented before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on  
7 August 2014.
Business review and future developments
Hardy is an international upstream oil and gas company focused in India. The Company is incorporated in the Isle of Man and 
its registered office is Fort Anne, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 5PD. Hardy’s objective is to be a leading independent exploration and 
production company in India and deliver consistent step change growth in shareholder value through the exploration of potential 
commercial hydrocarbon accumulations. A full review of the Group’s activities during the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 and 
plans for 2014/15 can be found in the Strategic Review section on pages 1 to 27 of the Annual Report, which are incorporated 
herein by reference. 
Directors
The Directors that served in office throughout the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 were:
Board member Position Committee member
Alasdair Locke Non-Executive Chairman Remuneration
Nomination (Chairman)
Risk
Ian MacKenzie Chief Executive Officer Risk (Chairman)
Executive Director
Peter Milne Non-Executive Director Audit (Chairman)
Remuneration
Nomination
Risk
Pradip Shah Non-Executive Director Remuneration (Chairman)
Audit
Nomination
Yogeshwar Sharma Non-Executive Director Audit
Nomination
Indemnity provision for Directors 
Subject to the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004, but without prejudice to any indemnity to which a Director may otherwise 
be entitled, every Director shall be entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, losses, 
damages and liabilities incurred by the Director in the actual or purported execution of his or her duties. The Group has a directors’ 
and officers’ liability insurance policy in place.
Results and dividends
The Group is reporting a total comprehensive loss of US$4,793,638 for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 compared to 
a comprehensive loss of US$11,069,191 for 2012. The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
Election and re-election of Directors
At the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, to be held on 7 August 2014, Ian MacKenzie, Pradip Shah and Yogeshwar 
Sharma will offer themselves for re-election as Non-Executive Directors. Biographical details for Mr MacKenzie, Mr Shah and 
Mr Sharma are set out on pages 26 to 27.
Messrs Locke, Milne, Shah, and Sharma have entered into engagement letters with the Company in respect of their appointments as 
Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The appointments are subject to termination upon at least three months’ notice by either party.
Ian MacKenzie has entered into a service agreement as an Executive Director with the Company pursuant to which his engagement 
is subject to termination upon 12 months’ notice by the Company or the executive.
Pradip Shah and Yogeshwar Sharma have served as Directors for more than nine years.
Pradip Shah Chairs the Company’s Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees. Yogeshwar 
Sharma is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
The Board of Directors believe that the contribution being made by all the Directors continues to be invaluable and are satisfied 
that they conduct themselves in an appropriate manner and in the best interest of shareholders. The Board of Directors is satisfied 
that the performance of all Directors continues to be effective and is also satisfied as to their commitment to their role as Directors.
Directors’ Report Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
49
Governance
Capital structure and significant shareholders
The Company’s authorised and issued share capital and changes 
thereto are disclosed in note 20 to the consolidated financial 
statements. Disclosures with respect to share options are 
provided in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements 
and in the Directors’ Remuneration Report.
At 31 March 2014 and at the date of this report, there were 
73,148,416 Ordinary Shares of Hardy issued and fully paid. Major 
interests in share capital of the Company, in excess of 3 per cent
1
, 
as of the date of this report are as follows: 
Seren Capital Management Limited 9,557,578 13.08%
Universities Superannuation  
 Scheme Limited 9,243,931 12.65%
Aberforth Partners LLP 5,593,656 7.65%
Aequitas Investments Limited 3,928,866 5.38%
Henderson Global Investors 3,277,403 4.49%
NFU Mutual Insurance Society Limited 2,713,479 3.71%
Yogeshwar Sharma 2,662,438 3.64%
Gadus SE 2,554,829 3.50%
John Grahame Whateley 2,438,169 3.34%
Legal & General Group Plc (L&G) 2,245,667 3.07%
Total 44,216,016 60.51%
1 The Company relies on TR-1 notifications to track major shareholdings. Such notification 
is to be issued by the shareholder to the Company and appropriate authority following 
which the Company is required to disclose via an RNS. There is no mechanism in place 
for the Company to verify the accuracy of such disclosures.
GHG emissions
The disclosures concerning GHG emissions as required by law 
is included in the Strategic Report on page 24.
Diversity
The disclosures concerning Director, management and employee 
gender diversity as required by law are included in the Strategic 
Report on page 7.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s next Annual General Meeting will be held at 
Skene House, Rosemount Viaduct, Aberdeen, AB25 1NX, 
Scotland on 7 August 2014 at 11.00 BST. The notice of meeting 
and the explanatory circular to shareholders setting out business 
to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting accompanies 
this Annual Report. The notice includes an item of special 
business which is explained by the Chairman in his letter 
contained in the circular. The item of special business concerns 
the disapplication of the pre-emption rights set out in article 5.1 
of the Company’s Articles of Association.
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements 
in accordance with applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the 
European Union. Under such requirements, the Directors are 
required to prepare Consolidated and Parent Company financial 
statements of Hardy Oil and Gas plc for the 15 months ended 
31 March 2014, which comprise Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income, Consolidated and Parent Company 
Statements of Financial Position, Consolidated and Parent 
Company Statements of Cash Flows, Consolidated and Parent 
Company Statements of Changes in Equity, and related notes. In 
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 – select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
 – make judgements and estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent;
 – state whether applicable accounting standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
 – prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting 
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Group and of the Group and to enable 
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 
Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004. The Directors 
are responsible for ensuring the Directors’ Report and other 
information included in the Annual Report are prepared in 
accordance with company law of the Isle of Man and are 
also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes 
information required by the rules of the London Stock Exchange.
In addition to the above, the Directors are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and of the Group and 
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and 
detection of fraud or other irregularities.
Directors’ responsibility statement pursuant to disclosure 
and Transparency Rule 4.1.12
The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
a) the financial statements, which are prepared in accordance 
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and 
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit 
or loss of the Group; and 
b) the Annual Report and statement of accounts includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business 
and the position of the Group, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Internal control and risk management systems
The Board has the ultimate responsibility for the Group’s internal 
control and risk management systems. The Audit Committee 
monitors internal controls and risk management systems on 
an annual basis. 
The Group has established a system of control and risk 
management involving an appropriate degree of oversight 
by senior management in each of the business units in which 
it operates.
Charitable and political donations
During the 15 months ended 31 March 2014, the Group made 
no payments to charitable institutions or political associations. 
Payment policy
Hardy’s policy with respect to payments to its vendors is to 
establish terms of payment when contracting for goods or 
services and generally abide by those payment terms. Normal 
credit terms are generally 30 days.
Reappointment of auditors
Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP have expressed their willingness 
to continue as auditors. In accordance with the Isle of Man 
Companies Acts 1931 to 2004, a resolution reappointing Crowe 
Clark Whitehill LLP as auditors of the Company will be proposed 
at the next Annual General Meeting. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
50
Going concern
The Group’s business activities, together with factors likely 
to affect its future operations, financial position, and liquidity 
position are set out in the Strategic Report, Review of Operations, 
Financial Review, and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties 
section of the Annual Report. In addition, note 24 to the financial 
statements disclosed the Group’s financial risk management 
practices with respect to its capital structure, foreign currency 
risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, 
credit risk, and other related matters.
The Directors, having made due and careful enquiry, are of the 
opinion that the Group has adequate working capital to execute 
its operations over the next 12 months. The Directors, therefore, 
have made an informed judgement, at the time of approving 
financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that 
the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 
existence for the foreseeable future. As a result, the Directors 
have continued to adopt the going concern basis of accounting 
in preparing the annual financial statements.
Events subsequent to 31 March 2014
There have not been any material events that have occurred since 
31 March 2014 to the date of this report.
Approved by the Board of Directors.
Alasdair Locke
Chairman
11 June 2014
Directors’ Report continued Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
51
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Shareholders 
of Hardy Oil and Gas plc
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
 – the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Group’s and of the parent company’s state of affairs as at 31 March 2014 
and of the Group’s loss for the period then ended;
 – the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the European Union;
 – the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 
and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004; and
 – the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004 
and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements of Hardy Oil and Gas plc comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated 
and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows, the 
Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has 
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company 
financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004.
Going concern 
As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Director’s statement on page 50 that the Group is a going concern. 
We confirm that:
 – we have not identified material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern which we believe would need to be disclosed in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European 
Union; and
 – we have concluded that the Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting for the preparation of the financial statements 
to be appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability 
to continue as a going concern.
Basis for opinions
We have audited the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing 
(ISAs) (UK and Ireland). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described below under Respective Responsibilities 
of Directors and Auditor. In performing our audit, as required by those standards, we complied with the Financial Reporting Council’s 
Ethical Standards for Auditors including those requiring us to be independent and objective.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an 
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors; 
and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Chairman’s Statement, Strategic Report, Directors’ Report, 
Governance Report, Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report and the unaudited sections of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become aware of any apparent 
material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Auditor commentary
Our assessment of risks significant to the audit
In preparing the financial statements the Board make a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant 
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. We focused our 
work primarily on these areas by assessing the judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements and evaluation 
the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary 
to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, 
substantive procedures or a combination of both. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
52
We identified the following risks which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and 
directing the efforts of the engagement team:
Risk How the scope addressed the assessed risk
Internal controls 
During the year there has been a significant change in the 
internal controls systems, including a change in key accounting 
personnel. A weakness in control systems can have a material 
impact on the completeness and accuracy of financial 
information or on the ability of the Group to safeguard its assets.
We met with the individuals responsible for the internal control 
systems relevant to financial reporting to document the system and 
to perform walkthrough testing. We considered the key controls 
operating in those systems and tested their operation. We also 
considered whether there was any evidence of management 
override of controls. As required by ISA we discussed our 
observations on the systems of internal control relevant to financial 
reporting with both management and the Audit Committee.
Intangible assets – CY-OS/2 
There is an ongoing legal dispute over the status of the CY-OS/2 
block, if the block is relinquished an impairment test will be 
required which could have a material impact on the Group.
We have reviewed the arbitration award, made in Hardy’s favour, in 
February 2013, considered the legal advice received by the Group 
in respect of the enforcement of the award and discussed this 
directly with Hardy’s legal advisors.
Intangible assets – exploration 
Under accounting standards the point at which a formal 
impairment test is required on the exploration assets of the 
Group can be a matter of judgement and this could have 
a material impact on the Group.
We have discussed with Management, and relevant personnel, 
the status on each of the blocks held by the company. We have 
considered the impairment indicators contained in IFRS 6 
Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources. Where 
exploration is not planned in the next 12 months we challenged 
management as to whether a formal impairment assessment 
needed to be undertaken.
Carrying value of the PY-3 field 
The PY-3 field has been shut in since July 2011 and there is a 
risk that the asset carried within property, plant and equipment 
and the related deferred tax asset is impaired.
We have reviewed the plans for the recommencement of production 
from the field and the potential for profits to be available in the future, 
against which the deferred tax asset may be utilised.
Our audit procedures in relation to these matters were designed in the context of our audit opinion as a whole, they were not designed 
to enable us to express an opinion on these matters individually and we express no such opinion.
The Audit Committee’s consideration of these matters is set out on page 34.
Our assessment of materiality
In planning and performing our audit we applied the concept of materiality. An item is considered material if it could reasonably be 
expected to change the economic decisions of a user of the financial statements. We used the concept of materiality to both focus 
our testing and to evaluate the impact of misstatements identified.
When assessing the level of materiality we considered the pre-tax loss, and the net and gross assets of the Group. We determined 
overall materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be US$900k. We conducted our audit of particular groups of 
balances or transactions at a level of materiality less than overall materiality (“performance materiality”). We agreed with the Audit 
Committee to report all errors identified to the Committee in excess of US$20k. Errors below that threshold would be reported 
to the Committee if, in our opinion as auditors, disclosure was required on qualitative grounds.
The scope of our audit
The parent company and its subsidiary are accounted for from one central operating location in Chennai, India. Our audit was 
conducted from the central operating location which the Responsible Individual visited during the course of the audit work.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931 to 2004 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
 – the parent company and the Group have not kept proper accounting records;
 – the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns;
 – if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or 
 – if information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Shareholders of Hardy Oil and Gas plc continued Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
53
Financial Statements
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
 – the Directors’ statement in relation to going concern;
 – the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Company’s compliance with certain elements of the UK Code 
specified for our review; and
 – certain elements of the Board of Directors’ Remuneration Report to shareholders.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors
Responsibility of Directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Auditor’s responsibility
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Financial Report Council’s Ethical Standards 
for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the parent company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 15 of the Isle of Man Companies 
Act 1982. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required 
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for 
the opinions we have formed.
Matthew Stallabrass
Responsible Individual
For and on behalf of
Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP
Statutory Auditor
London
11 June 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
54
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
For the year 15 months ended 31 March 2014
Notes
15 months ending 
31 March 2014 
US$
Year ending 
31 December 2012 
US$
Continuing operations 
Revenue 3 – –
Cost of sales
Production costs 4 486,095 (277,100)
Unsuccessful exploration costs 15 – (5,358,471)
Gross profit/(loss) 486,095 (5,635,571)
Administrative expenses (6,160,451) (7,516,316)
Operating loss 5 (5,674,356) (13,151,887)
Interest and investment income 10 689,803 848,850
Finance costs 11 (420,709) (361,224)
Loss before taxation (5,405,262) (12,664,261)
Taxation 12 611,624 1,595,070
Total comprehensive loss for the period attributable to owners of the parent (4,793,638) (11,069,191)
Loss per share 
Basic and diluted 13 (0.07) (0.15)
Comprehensive loss per share
Basic and diluted 13 (0.07) (0.15) Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
55
Financial Statements
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014
Share capital 
US$
Share premium 
US$
Shares to be issued 
US$
Retained
 earnings/(loss) 
US$
Total 
US$
At 1 January 2012 727,852 119,996,084 4,256,526 1,136,050 126,116,512
Total comprehensive loss for the year – – – (11,069,191) (11,069,191)
Share-based payment – 5,654 757,785 – 763,439
Adjustment of lapsed vested options (415,566) 415,566 –
Share options exercised 100 22,600 – – 22,700
Restricted shares issued 2,375 587,613 – – 589,988
At 31 December 2012 730,327 120,611,951 4,598,745 (9,517,575) 116,423,448
Total comprehensive loss for the period – – – (4,793,638) (4,793,638)
Share-based payment – – 939,120 – 939,120
Adjustment of lapsed vested options – – (1,835,262) 1,835,262 –
Restricted shares issued 1,157 166,180 – – 167,337
At 31 March 2014 731,484 120,778,131 3,702,603 (12,475,951) 112,736,267 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
56
Notes
31 March 
2014 
US$
31 December 
2012
 US$
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 14 5,840,028 5,947,203
Intangible assets – exploration 15 78,049,506 77,818,796
Intangible assets – others 16 – 4,536
Site restoration deposits 24 4,083,776 3,970,628
Deferred tax asset 12 7,997,536 7,385,911
Total non-current assets 95,970,846 95,127,074
Current assets
Inventories 17 1,689,947 2,024,502
Trade and other receivables 18 915,269 1,410,976
Short-term investments 19 20,652,380 26,032,807
Cash and cash equivalents 24 4,004,674 3,052,150
Total current assets 27,262,270 32,520,435
Total assets 123,233,116 127,647,509
Equity and liabilities
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 20 731,484 730,327
Share premium 21 120,778,131 120,611,951
Shares to be issued 21 3,702,603 4,598,745
Retained loss (12,475,951) (9,517,575)
Total equity 112,736,267 116,423,448
Non-current liabilities
Provision for decommissioning 22 5,512,694 5,152,050
Total non-current liabilities 5,512,694 5,152,050
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 23 4,984,155 6,072,011
Total current liabilities 4,984,155 6,072,011
Total liabilities 10,496,849 11,224,061
Total equity and liabilities 123,233,116 127,647,509
Approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 11 June 2014.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
57
Financial Statements
Notes
15 months ending 
31 March  
2014 
US$
Year ending
 31 December  
2012 
US$
Operating activities
Cash flow (used in) operating activities 6 (5,013,695) (7,059,025)
Tax refund 297,373 606,926
Net cash (used in) operating activities (4,716,322) (6,452,099)
Investing activities
Expenditure on intangible assets – exploration (230,710) (1,475,779)
Expenditure on other fixed assets (1,737) (108,165)
Site restoration deposit (113,148) (233,123)
Realised from short-term investments 5,380,427 3,661,161
Net cash from investing activities 5,034,832 1,844,094
Financing activities
Interest and investment income 694,079 857,611
Financial costs (60,065) (24,174)
Issue of shares – 22,700
Net cash from financing activities 634,014 856,137
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 952,524 (3,751,868)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 3,052,150 6,804,018
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 24 4,004,674 3,052,150
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
58
1. Accounting policies
The following accounting policies have been applied in preparation of consolidated financial statements of Hardy Oil and Gas plc 
(Hardy or the Group). The domicile, country of incorporation, address of the registered office and a description of the Group’s 
principal activities can be found in the Directors’ Report. 
These financial statements are for a 15-month period ending 31 March 2014. The prior period was for 12 months ending 
31 December 2012 and hence is not entirely comparable. The change in accounting reference date was done to synchronise 
the period end date with other reporting requirements and to introduce budgetary and reporting efficiencies.
a) Basis of measurement
Hardy prepares its financial statements on a historical cost basis except as otherwise stated.
b) Going concern
The Group has in the past generated working capital from its production activities and successfully raised finance to provide additional 
funding for its ongoing exploration and development programmes. The Directors have considered the guidance given in the document 
“Going concern and liquidity risk; Guidance for Directors” issued in October 2009 by the Financial Reporting Council. The Directors 
have also reviewed the Group’s ongoing activities including its future intentions in respect of the drilling of exploration wells and having 
regard to the Group’s existing working capital position and its ability to potentially raise finance, if required, the Directors are of the 
opinion that the Group has adequate resources to enable it to undertake its planned work programme of exploration, appraisal and 
development activities over the next 12 months from the date of these financial statements (in coming to this opinion the Directors 
have not included the receipt of any finds from the CY-OS/2 arbitration award). 
c) Basis of preparation
Hardy prepares its financial statements in accordance with applicable IFRS and interpretations issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board as adopted by the European Union. 
As at the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective: 
Issued but not yet EU adopted
IFRS 9 – Financial instruments 
IFRIC 21 – Levies
IAS 19 (amendment) – Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions
Issued and EU adopted
IFRS 10 – Consolidated Financial Statements
IFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements
IFRS 12 – Disclosure of Interests in other entities
IAS 27 – Separate Financial Statements
IAS 28 – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future reporting periods will have a material 
impact on the Group’s results.
d) Functional and presentation currency
These financial statements are presented in US dollars which is the Group’s functional currency. All financial information presented 
is rounded to the nearest US dollar.
e) Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the results of Hardy Oil and Gas plc and its subsidiary undertaking. The Group 
comprises of the parent company – Hardy Oil and Gas plc – and the wholly owned subsidiary HEPI which is incorporated under 
the Laws of State of Delaware, United States of America. The members of the Group are engaged in the business of exploration 
and production of oil and gas and all are included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Group participates in several unincorporated joint ventures which involve the joint control of assets used in the Group’s oil and 
gas exploration and production activities. The Group accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure of joint 
ventures in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as appropriate.
f) Revenue and other income
Revenue represents the sale value of the Group’s share of oil (which excludes the profit oil sold and paid to the GOI as a part of profit 
sharing) and the income from technical services to third parties if any. Revenues are recognised when crude oil has been lifted and 
title has been passed to the buyer or when services are rendered.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
59
Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies continued
g) Oil and gas assets
i) Exploration and evaluation assets
Hardy has adopted the successful efforts based accounting policy for its oil and gas assets.
Costs incurred prior to acquiring the legal rights to explore an area are expensed immediately in the income statement.
Expenditure incurred in connection with and directly attributable to the acquisition, exploration and appraisal of oil and gas assets are 
capitalised for each licence granted under the production sharing contracts and are undepleted within intangible exploration assets 
until the licence to explore the contract area has ended or commercial reserves have been declared.
Exploration expenditure incurred for geological and geophysical activities before the commencement of exploratory drilling is initially 
capitalised within intangible exploration assets. Exploration drilling costs are initially capitalised on a well-by-well basis until the 
success or otherwise of the well has been established. The success or failure is assessed on a well-by-well basis. Exploration well 
costs are written off on completion of the well unless the results indicate the presence of hydrocarbons which have reasonable 
commercial potential.
Following appraisal of such wells, if commercial reserves are established and technical feasibility for extraction is demonstrated, the 
related capital intangible exploration and appraisal costs are transferred into a cost centre within the property, plant and equipment 
development assets after testing for impairment, if any. Where exploration well results indicate the presence of hydrocarbons which 
are ultimately not considered commercially viable, all related costs will be written-off to the income statement.
ii) Oil and gas development and producing assets
Development and production assets are accumulated on a field-by-field basis. These comprise the cost of developing commercial 
reserves discovered to put them into production and the exploration and evaluation costs transferred from intangible exploration and 
evaluation assets, as stated in the policy above. In addition, interest payable and exchange differences incurred on borrowings directly 
attributable to development projects, if any, and assets acquired for the production phase, as well as cost of recognising provision for 
future restoration and decommissioning, are capitalised.
iii) Decommissioning
At the end of the producing life of a field, costs are incurred in removing and decommissioning facilities, plugging and abandoning 
wells. The full discounted cost of decommissioning is estimated and considered as an asset and liability. The decommissioning cost is 
included within the cost of property, plant and equipment development assets. Any revision in the estimated cost of decommissioning 
which alters the provisions required also adjusted in the cost of asset. The amortisation of the asset, calculated on a unit of production 
basis based on proved reserves, is shown as “Decommissioning charge” in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and unwinding 
of the discount on the provision is included in the finance costs.
iv) Disposal of assets
Proceeds from any disposal of assets are credited against the specific capitalised costs included in the relevant cost pool and any 
loss or gain on disposal is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
h) Depletion and impairment 
i) Depletion
The net book values of the producing assets are depreciated on a field-by-field basis using the unit of production method, based on 
proved and probable reserves. Hardy periodically obtains an independent third party assessment of reserves which is used as a basis 
for computing depletion. 
ii) Impairment
Exploration assets are reviewed regularly for indications of impairment following the guidance in IFRS 6 Exploration and Evaluation 
of Mineral Resources, where circumstances indicate that the carrying value might not be recoverable. In such circumstances, if the 
exploration asset has a corresponding development/producing cost pool, then the exploration costs are transferred to the cost pool 
and depleted on unit of production. In cases where no such development/producing cost pool exists, the impairment of exploration 
costs is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. Impairment reviews on development/producing oil and gas assets 
for each field is carried out on each year by comparing the net book value of the cost pool with the associated discounted future cash 
flows. If there is any impairment in a field representing a material component of the cost pool, an impairment test is carried out for the 
cost pool as a whole. If the net book value of the cost pool is higher than the associated discounted future cash flows, the excess 
amount is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as impairment and deducted from the pool value.  Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
60
1. Accounting policies continued
i) Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment, other than oil and gas assets, are measured at cost and depreciated over their expected useful 
economic lives as follows:
Annual rate (%) Depreciation method
Leasehold improvements over lease period Straight line
Furniture and fixtures 20 Straight line
Information technology and computers 33 Straight line
Other equipment 20 Straight line
j) Intangible assets 
Intangible assets, other than oil and gas assets, are measured at cost and depreciated over their expected useful economic lives 
as follows:
Annual rate (%) Depreciation method
Computer software 33 Straight line
Amortisation charges are included within administrative expenses.
k) Investments
Investments by the parent company in its subsidiaries are stated at cost.
l) Short-term investments
Short-term investments are regarded as “financial assets at fair value through profit or loss” and are carried at fair value. In practice, 
the nature of these investments is such that the fair value equates to the value of initial outlay and therefore in normal circumstances 
no fair value gain or loss is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
m) Inventory
Inventory of crude oil is valued at the lower of average cost or net realisable value. Average cost is determined based on actual 
production cost for the year. Inventories of drilling stores are recorded at cost including taxes, duties and freight. Provision is made 
for obsolete or defective items where appropriate, based on technical evaluation.
n) Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised at fair value in the Group’s Statement of Financial Position based on the 
contractual provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables are not interest bearing and their fair value is deemed to be their nominal value as reduced by necessary provisions 
for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables are not interest bearing and their fair value is deemed to be their nominal value.
o) Equity
Equity instruments issued by Hardy and the Group are recorded at net proceeds after direct issue costs.
p) Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on the taxable profit of the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Statement of Comprehensive 
Income as it excludes certain item of income or expenses that are taxable or deductible in years other than the current year and it further 
excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The current tax liability is calculated using the tax rates that have been enacted or 
substantially enacted by the year end date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using 
the liability method.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
61
Financial Statements
1. Accounting policies continued
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent 
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available in the future against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods 
in which temporary differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted at the year end date.
q) Foreign currencies
Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction. At the year end date, 
all foreign currency monetary assets and monetary liabilities are restated at the closing rate. Exchange difference arising out of actual 
payments/realisations and from the year end restatement are reflected in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Rate of exchanges were as follows:
31 March 2014 31 December 2012
£ to US$ 1.66 1.62
US$ to Indian rupees 59.93 55.01
r) Leasing commitments
Rental charges payable under operating leases are charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income as part of production cost 
over the lease term. 
s) Share-based payments
Hardy issues share options to Directors and employees, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value of the 
equity settled options determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. In performing the 
valuation of these options, only conditions other than market conditions are taken into account. Fair value is derived by use of the 
binomial model. The expected life used in the model is based on management estimates and considers non-transferability, exercise 
restrictions and behavioural considerations. In case of lapsed vested options, the amount recognised in the shares to be issued 
reserve is adjusted to retained earnings as a reserve movement.
t) Contingent assets
Contingent assets are disclosed but not recognised where the receipt of income is probable but not virtually certain. The asset and 
related income is only recognised in the period when the receipt becomes virtually certain.
2. Critical accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations 
of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom 
equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.
i) Intangible assets – exploration
Hardy has been awarded costs and interest after the conclusion of the arbitration on the CY-OS/2 block, in which it holds a 75 per cent 
participating interest. Hardy’s share of these awards totals approximately US$35.96 million and has been disclosed as a contingent 
asset. This is regarded as a significant area of judgement and full details are disclosed in note 15 to these financial statements.
ii) Decommissioning
The liability for decommissioning is reviewed based on the updated current cost estimates of the decommissioning, which is 
predominated by the charter hire charges of drill ship and supply boats. Accordingly, the provision made in the books will reflect 
the risk free discounted future cost for decommissioning and this is an annual adjustment based on the changes in costs as a result 
of technical advancements and other factors. Further details are contained in note 22.
iii) Deferred tax asset
The deferred tax asset will be realised with the recommencement of production from PY-3 field and also from the production of oil and 
gas from those areas which are available for commercial development. Further details are contained in note 12. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
62
3. Segment analysis
The Group is organised into two business units as at end of the year: India and United Kingdom. The Indian business unit is operated 
by the wholly owned subsidiary, HEPI and Hardy Oil and Gas plc operates in the United Kingdom. 
The India business unit focuses on exploration and production of oil and gas assets in India. The United Kingdom business unit 
is the holding company. Management monitors these business units separately for resource allocation, decision making and 
performance assessment.
2014  
US$
India UK
Inter-segment 
eliminations Total 
Revenue
Other income – – – –
Operating loss (1,763,244) (3,911,112) – (5,674,356)
Interest income 665,711 24,092 – 689,803
Interest income on inter-corporate loan – 1,400,810 (1,400,810) – 
Finance costs (420,709) – – (420,709)
Interest expense on inter-corporate loan (1,400,810) – 1,400,810 – 
Loss before taxation (2,919,052) (2,486,210) – (5,405,262)
Taxation 73,823 537,801 – 611,624
Loss for the period (2,845,229) (1,948,409) – (4,793,638)
Segment assets 103,042,734 20,190,382 – 123,233,116
Inter-corporate loan – 104,606,209 (104,606,209) – 
Segment liabilities (10,323,356) (173,493) – (10,496,849)
Inter-corporate borrowings (104,606,209) – 104,606,209 – 
Capital expenditure 231,432 1,015 – 232,447
Unsuccessful exploration costs – – – – 
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation (13,242) (41,089) – (54,331)
2012  
US$
India UK
Inter-segment 
elimination Total
Revenue
Other income – – – –
Operating loss (9,223,442) (3,928,445) – (13,151,887)
Interest income 754,707 94,143 – 848,850
Interest on inter-corporate loan – 1,121,145 (1,121,145) –
Finance costs (361,224) – – (361,224)
Interest on inter-corporate loan (1,121,145) – 1,121,145 –
Loss before taxation (9,951,104) (2,713,157) – (12,664,261)
Taxation 793,183 801,887 – 1,595,070
Loss for the year (9,157,921) (1,911,270) – (11,069,191)
Segment assets 102,570,256 25,077,253 – 127,647,509
Inter-corporate loan – 100,661,878 (100,661,878) –
Segment liabilities (11,003,670) (220,391) – (11,224,061)
Inter corporate borrowings (100,661,878) – 100,661,878 –
Capital expenditure 1,475,779 108,165 – 1,583,944
Unsuccessful exploration costs (5,358,471) – – (5,358,471)
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation (17,828) (35,096) – (52,924)
The Group is engaged in one business activity, the exploration, development and production of oil and gas. Other income relates to 
technical services to third parties, overhead recovery from joint venture operations and miscellaneous receipts, if any. Revenue arises 
from the sale of oil produced from the contract area PY-3 India and the revenue by destination is not materially different from the 
revenue by origin.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
63
Financial Statements
4. Cost of sales
Production costs, related to PY-3, included in the cost of sales consists of:
2014  
US$
2012  
US$
Production costs (58,925) (277,100)
Reversal of over accrual in prior years 545,020 –
Production cost net credit (expense) 486,095 (277,100)
5. Operating loss
Operating loss is stated after charging:
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Unsuccessful exploration costs – 5,358,471
Depreciation and amortisation 54,331 52,924
Provision for irrecoverable costs – 1,073,402
Operating lease costs
– Plant and machinery – –
– Land and buildings 195,645 358,631
External auditors’ remuneration
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts. 81,820 72,655
– Fees payable to the Company’s auditors and its associates for other services. – –
– Audit related assurance services 26,560 13,103
Exchange loss 605,045 142,373
The provision for potentially irrecoverable costs relates to the costs potentially irrecoverable from the parties to a production sharing contract 
for which retrospective budget approval is pending from the concerned parties. This provision is contained in administrative costs.
The Group has a policy in place which requires approval of the Audit Committee for the award of non-audit services to be provided 
by the auditors.
6. Reconciliation of operating loss of continuing operations to operating cash flows
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Operating loss (5,674,356) (13,151,887)
Unsuccessful exploration costs – 5,358,471
Depletion, amortisation and depreciation 54,331 52,924
Share option and restricted share charge 1,328,323 972,464
Other non-cash movements 59,117 –
(4,232,585) (6,768,028)
Decrease in inventory 334,555 44,022
(Increase) in trade and other receivables (27,809) (305,367)
(Decrease) in trade and other payables (1,087,856) (29,652)
Cash (used in) operating activities (5,013,695) (7,059,025)
7. Staff costs
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Wages and salaries 1,819,890 2,363,548
Social security costs 178,451 269,081
Share-based payments charge 479,643 419,254
2,477,984 3,051,883
Staffs costs, including the Executive Director’s salary, fees, benefits and share-based payments, are shown gross before amounts 
recharged to joint ventures.  Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
64
7. Staff costs continued
The average monthly number of employees, including the Executive Directors and individuals employed by the Group working on joint 
venture operations are as follows:
2014 2012
Management and administration 12 17
Operations 11 12
23 29
8. Share-based payments
Share options have been granted to subscribe for Ordinary Shares of US$0.01 each in the capital of the Company, which are 
exercisable between 2014 and 2024 at prices of £0.66 to £7.69 per Ordinary Share.
Hardy has an unapproved share option scheme for the Directors and employees of the Group. Options are exercisable at the quoted 
market prices of the Company’s shares on the date of grant. The vesting period is three years with a stipulation that the options are 
granted in proportion to the period of employment after the grant subject to a minimum of one year, or, with respect to options from 
2010 onwards, the period is three years. The options are exercisable for a period of 10 years from the date of grant. Details of the 
share options outstanding during the years are as follows:
2014 2012
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average price
Number of 
options
Weighted 
average price (£)
Outstanding at beginning of the year 3,626,933 £2.94 3,393,399 2.64
Granted during the year 275,000 £0.66 800,000 1.52
Forfeited/lapsed during the year (732,000) £3.45 (556,466) 2.15
Exercised during the year – – (10,000) 1.44
Outstanding at the end of the year 3,164,933 £1.98 3,626,933 2.47
Exercisable at the end of the year 1,675,933 £2.57 2,147,933 2.94
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted and outstanding as at 31 March 2014 is US$6,235,811. The inputs 
into the binomial model for computation of value of options granted during the period are as follows:
2014 2012
Share price at grant date £0.66 £1.19–1.55
Option exercise price at grant date £0.66 £1.1–1.55
Expected life 5 5
Expected volatility 40% 40%
Expected dividend – –
Risk free rate 1.9% 2.2%
Cost per option £0.28 £0.52–0.67
Expected volatility was determined by calculating Hardy’s historical volatility. The expected life used has been adjusted based on 
management’s best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. Details of 
outstanding options at the end of the year with the weighted average exercise (WAEP) price as follows:
2014 2012
Number WAEP (£) Number WAEP (£)
2005–2015 1,130,933 1.51 1,240,933 1.51 
2006–2016 30,000 3.02 30,000 3.02
2007–2017 395,000 4.01 600,000 3.70
2008–2018 120,000 7.69 277,000 7.69 
2010–2020 419,000 2.12 679,000 2.12
2012–2022 800,000 1.52 800,000 1.52
2014–2024 275,000 0.66 – –
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
65
Financial Statements
8. Share-based payments continued
On 14 March 2012, the Company issued 182,342 restricted Ordinary Shares having a face value of US$0.01 per share and an 
aggregate market value of US$452,963 (£282,630) to Mr Alasdair Locke and issued 30,000 restricted Ordinary Shares having a face 
value of US$0.01 per share and an aggregate market value of US$74,524 (£46,500) to Mr Peter Milne upon their appointments as a 
Non-Executive Directors. The cost of issuing such shares is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income over a three year 
period from the date of issue. 
Restricted Ordinary Shares are issued to Non-Executive Directors in consideration for services rendered in 2012 and 2013. The cost 
of issuing such shares is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period ending 31 March 2014. 
On 15 March 2013, the Company issued 40,710 restricted Ordinary Shares having a face value of US$0.01 per share and an 
aggregate market value of US$75,046 (£49,666) to its Non-Executive Directors and Chairman in the following manner:
Name
Number of 
Ordinary Shares 
issued
Alasdair Locke (Chairman) 20,492
Peter Milne 8,538
Pradip Shah 7,377
Yogeshwar Sharma 4,303
Total 40,710
On 10 March 2014, the Company issued 75,000 restricted Ordinary Shares having a face value of US$0.01 per share and an 
aggregate market value of US$92,250 (£55,475) to its Non-Executive Directors and Chairman in the following manner 
Name
Number of 
Ordinary Shares 
issued
Alasdair Locke (Chairman) 33,784
Peter Milne 16,892
Pradip Shah 12,162
Yogeshwar Sharma 12,162
Total 75,000
The Group has expensed a net amount of US$1,328,323 in the current period (2012: US$972,464) towards equity settled  
share-based payments. Equity shares to be issued are re-valued at the exchange rate as at 31 March 2014. The revaluation loss  
for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 is US$390,836 (2012: revaluation loss US$252,665). The value of shares to be issued  
as at 31 March 2014 is US$3,702,603 (2012: US$4,598,745).
9. Directors’ emoluments
Details of each Directors’ remuneration and share options are set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that forms part of the 
Company’s Annual Report. Directors’ emoluments are included within the remuneration of the key management personnel in note 30.
10. Interest and investment income
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Bank interest 589,118 525,481
Other interest income 84,980 273,243
Dividend 15,705 50,126
689,803 848,850
11. Finance costs
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Bank guarantee charges 60,065 24,174
Other finance costs 360,644 337,050
420,709 361,224
Other finance cost is charge incurred as a result of the unwinding of the discount to the decommissioning provision. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
66
12. Taxation
a) Analysis of taxation (credit) for the year
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Current tax charge
UK corporation tax – –
Foreign tax – India – (180,912)
Minimum alternate tax – (29,549)
Foreign tax – USA – –
Total current tax (credit) – (210,461)
Deferred tax (credit) (611,624) (1,384,609)
Taxation (credit) (611,624) (1,595,070)
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Charge in respect of change in tax rates 761,670 –
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (1,373,294) (1,384,609)
Deferred tax credit (611,624) (1,384,609)
Deferred tax analysis:
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Difference between accumulated depletion, depreciation and amortisation and capital allowances 3,577,657 3,909,448
Other temporary differences 4,419,879 3,476,463
Deferred tax asset 7,997,536 7,385,911
b) Factors affecting tax charge for the year
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Loss before taxation from continuing operations (5,405,262) (12,664,261)
Profit before taxation multiplied by the rate of tax in UK of 23% (2012: 24%) (1,243,210) (3,039,422)
Disallowable expenditure 208,171 1,654,813
Other (338,257) –
Effect of change in tax rates 761,670 –
Foreign tax on overseas income – current year – (210,461)
Total tax credit (611,624) (1,595,070)
Indian operations of the Group are subject to a tax rate of 42.024 per cent which is higher than UK and US corporations tax rates. 
To the extent that the Indian profits are taxable in the US and/or the UK, those territories should provide relief for Indian taxes paid, 
principally under the provisions of double taxation agreements. Based on the current expenditure plans, the Group anticipates that 
the tax allowances will continue to exceed the depletion charge of each year, though the timing of related tax relief is uncertain.
13. Loss per share
Loss per share is calculated on a loss of US$4,793,638 for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 (2012; US$11,069,191) 
on a weighted average of 73,066,870 Ordinary Shares for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 (2012: 72,984,352). No diluted 
loss per share is calculated.
Comprehensive loss per share is calculated on a loss of US$4,793,638 for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 (2012; US$11,069,191) 
on a weighted average of 73,066,870 Ordinary Shares for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 (2012: 72,984,352). 
Diluted loss per share on loss attributable to parent company for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 and the year 2012 has not 
been calculated.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
67
Financial Statements
14. Property, plant and equipment 
Oil and gas assets represent interest in producing oil and gas assets falling under the India cost pool. Other fixed assets consist 
of office furniture, computers, workstations and office equipment.
Oil and gas 
assets 
US$
Other fixed 
assets 
US$
Total 
US$
Cost
At 1 January 2012 35,524,396 2,102,616 37,627,012
Additions – 108,165 108,165
Disposals – (426,891) (426,891)
At 1 January 2013 35,524,396 1,783,890 37,308,286
Additions (59,117) 1,737 (57,380)
Disposals – (5,372) (5,732)
At 31 March 2014 35,465,279 1,780,255 37,245,534
Depletion, depreciation and amortisation
At 1 January 2012 29,684,318 2,056,576 31,740,894
Charge for the year – 47,080 47,080
Disposals – (426,891) (426,891)
At 1 January 2013 29,684,318 1,676,765 31,361,083
Charge for the period – 49,795 49,795
Disposals – (5,372) (5,372)
At 31 March 2014 29,684,318 1,721,188 31,405,506
Net book value at 31 March 2014 5,780,961 59,067 5,840,028
Net book value at 31 December 2012 5,840,078 107,125 5,947,203
Oil and gas assets relate to the PY-3 field which has not produced since July 2011 and therefore no depletion has been charged.
The (negative) addition figure of US$59,117 represents the reversal of an over accrual in previous periods of a capitalised cost.
15. Intangible assets – exploration
India 
US$
Costs and net book value
At 1 January 2012 81,701,488
Additions 1,475,779
Unsuccessful exploration cost (5,358,471)
At 1 January 2013 77,818,796
Additions 230,710
Unsuccessful exploration cost –
At 31 March 2014 78,049,506
The details of the intangible assets stated above are as follows: 
US$
Exploration expenditure – block CY-OS/2 51,030,895
Exploration expenditure – block D3 21,971,433
Exploration expenditure – block GS-01 5,047,178
Total 78,049,506
In March 2009, Hardy were informed by the Government of India that the block CY-OS/2, in which Hardy holds a 75 per cent 
participating interest, was relinquished as Hardy had failed to declare commerciality within the two years from the date of discovery 
which is applicable to an oil discovery. Hardy disputed this ruling believing that the discovery was a gas discovery and consequently 
that it was entitled to a period of five years from the date of discovery to declare commerciality. As no agreement was reached the 
dispute was referred to arbitration under the terms of the PSC. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
68
15. Intangible assets – exploration continued
The arbitrators ruled on 2 February 2013 that the discovery was a gas discovery and consequently that the order for the relinquishment 
of the block was illegal. The arbitrators have ordered the GOI to restore the block to Hardy and its partners and to allow them a period of 
three years from the date of restoration to complete the appraisal programme. In addition, the arbitrators awarded costs of US$0.2 million 
and interest on the exploration expenditure incurred to date. As at 31 March 2014, Hardy’s 75 per cent share of the interest awarded is 
approximately US$35.96 million. On 2 August 2013, the GOI filed an appeal, against the arbitration award, with the High Court Delhi and 
the Company subsequently filed and execution application before the High Court Delhi. Three hearings have been scheduled and the file 
hearing is expected to commence in the second half of 2014.
The Company believes that the unanimous international tribunal award is well reasoned and, based upon external legal advice, that the 
award may not be subject to appeal in the Indian courts as per the India Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996.
16. Intangible assets – others
US$
Cost
At 1 January 2012 508,728
Additions –
At 1 January 2013 508,728
Additions –
At 31 March 2014 508,728
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012
498,348
Charge for the year 5,844
At 1 January 2013 504,192
Charge for the period 4,536
At 31 March 2014 508,728
Net book value as at 31 March 2014 –
Net book value as at 31 December 2012 4,536
Intangible assets – others represent the cost of software used for geological and geophysical studies and other software for normal 
business operations.
17. Inventories
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Drilling and production stores and spares 1,689,947 2,024,502
1,689,947 2,024,502
An amount of US$334,555 (2012: US$nil) was provided for during the period.
18. Trade and other receivables
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Other receivables 746,811 1,024,510
Prepayments and accrued income 168,458 386,466
915,269 1,410,976
19. Short-term investments
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
HSBC US$ Liquidity Fund Class-A 20,652,379 25,999,256
HSBC £ Liquidity Fund Class-A 1 33,551
20,652,380 26,032,807
The above investments are in liquid funds which can be converted into cash at short notice. The book value of these investments 
approximates to their fair values.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
69
Financial Statements
20. Share capital
Number US$0.01 
Ordinary Shares US$
Authorised Ordinary Shares
At 1 January 2013 200,000,000 2,000,000
At 31 March 2014 200,000,000 2,000,000
Allotted, issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares
At 1 January 2012 72,785,204 727,852
Shares options exercised during the year 10,000 100
Restricted shares issued during the year 237,502 2,375
At 1 January 2013 73,032,706 730,327
Restricted shares issued during the period 115,710 1,157
At 31 March 2014 73,148,416 731,484
Ordinary Shares issued have equal voting and other rights with no guarantee to dividend or other payments.
21. Reserves
Hardy holds the following reserves, in addition to share capital and retained earnings:
Share premium account
The share premium account is the additional amount over and above the nominal share capital that is received for shares issued less 
any share issue costs.
Shares to be issued
The shares to be issued represent the fair value of share options issued to Directors and employees.
22. Provision for decommissioning
US$
At 1 January 2012 4,815,000
Change in decommissioning estimate 337,050
At 1 January 2013 5,152,050
Change in decommissioning estimate 360,644
At 31 March 2014 5,512,694
The provision has been made by estimating the decommissioning cost at the current prices using existing technology. 
Decommissioning of PY-3 is expected to be incurred between 2020 and 2025.
An amount of Rs. 244,740,699 (US$4,083,776) has been deposited with the State Bank of India for site restoration obligations. 
This amount has been treated as a non-current asset as this deposit has end use restriction for site restoration.
23. Trade and other payables
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Trade payables 4,115,631 4,889,918
Other payables 123,162 179,782
Accruals 745,362 1,002,311
4,984,155 6,072,011
Trade and other payables are unsecured and payable on demand. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
70
24. Financial risk management
Hardy finances its operations through a mixture of equity and retained earnings. Finance requirements are reviewed by the Board 
when funds are required for acquisition, exploration and development of projects.
Hardy’s policy is to maintain a strong financial position to sustain future development of the business. There were no changes to the 
Group’s capital management approach during the year.
Hardy’s treasury functions are responsible for managing fund requirements and investments which include banking, cash flow 
management, interest and foreign exchange exposure to ensure adequate liquidity at all times to meet cash requirements.
Hardy’s principal financial instruments are cash, deposits and short-term investments and these instruments are only for the purpose 
of meeting its requirement for operations. 
Hardy’s main financial risks are foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk and credit risks. Set out 
below are policies that are used to manage such risks:
Foreign currency risk
The Group reports in US dollars and the majority of its business is conducted in US dollars. All revenues from oil sales are received in 
US dollars and the majority of costs except a portion of expenses for overhead are incurred in US dollars. For currency exposure other 
than US dollars, a portion of the cash is kept on deposit in other currencies to meet its payments as required. No forward exchange 
contracts were entered into during the period.
Liquidity risk
The Group currently has surplus cash which has been placed in deposits and short-term investments which can be converted into 
cash at short notice, ensuring sufficient liquidity to meet the Group’s expenditure requirements. Hardy has no outstanding loan 
obligations at period end dates.
Interest rate risk
Surplus funds are placed in deposits and short-term investments at fixed or floating rates. Hardy’s policy is to place deposits only with 
well established banks or financial institutions that offer the competitive interest rates and ensure security of capital at the time of issue.
Commodity price risks
The Group’s share of production of crude oil from PY-3 field is sold to the GOI’s nominee Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited. 
The sale price is arrived at based on an average price of Brent crude for the 30-day period commencing 15 days before and ending 
15 days after the delivery of crude oil. No commodity price hedging contracts have been entered into by the Group.
Credit risk
All Hardy’s sales are to Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited, a state oil company in India. As it is the GOI nominee for the purchase 
of crude oil, the credit risk is considered negligible.
Where the Group is the operator of, or is the largest owner in, a field it recovers a percentage of the costs incurred from its joint 
venture partners in accordance with the levels of participating interests. Partners may either be Indian state owned companies or 
private enterprises. Cash calls on partners are usually made in advance of incurring field expenditure which, along with the assessed 
credit standing of the partners, is considered to reduce any credit risk to a negligible level.
Deposits and other money market instruments, as a general rule, are placed with banks and financial institutions that have ratings 
of not less than AA or equivalent, which are verified before placing the deposits. Cash surpluses are also invested in short-term 
investments in certain liquid funds. These funds are primarily invested in terms deposits and graded commercial papers of not less 
than AA or equivalent.
The Board will continue to assess the strategies for managing credit risk and is satisfied with the existing policies for sale of crude oil 
to Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited. At the period end, the Group did not have any bad debt risk. The maximum financial risk 
exposure relating to the financial assets is the carrying value of such financed assets as on the period end date.
Capital management
The objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity within the Group to carry out the 
committed work programme requirements of all its PSCs. The Group monitors the long-term cash flow requirements of the business 
in order to assess the requirement for changes to the capital structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility. The Group 
considers its capital to consist of share capital only.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
71
Financial Statements
24. Financial risk management continued
The Board manages the structure of its capital and makes necessary adjustments to accommodate the changes in the economic 
conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Board may issue new shares for cash. No significant changes were made 
in the objectives, policies or processes during the 15 months ended 31 March 2014.
Maturity of non-current financial liabilities
The maturity of non-current financial liabilities, which consist of the decommissioning provision as at 31 March 2014 and 31 December 
2012 are as follows:
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
In more than two years but not more than five years – –
In more than five years 5,512,694 5,152,050
The Group does not have any fixed maturity or interest bearing financial liabilities as at 31 March 2014 or 31 December 2012.
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets
The interest rate risk profile of the financial assets of the Group as at 31 March 2014 is as follows: 
2014
Fixed rate 
financial assets 
US$
Floating rate 
financial assets 
US$
Financial assets – 
 no interest 
is earned 
US$
Total 
US$
US dollars 1,855,500 749,085 96,777 2,701,362
Pound sterling – 195 438,000 438,195
Indian rupees 746,941 – 118,176 865,117
Cash and cash equivalents 2,602,441 749,280 652,953 4,004,674
2012
Fixed rate 
financial assets 
US$
Floating rate 
financial assets 
US$
Financial assets –  
no interest 
is earned 
US$
Total 
US$
US dollars – 763,901 325,937 1,089,838
Pound sterling – 210 31,809 32,019
Indian rupees 1,836,567 – 93,726 1,930,293
Cash and cash equivalents 1,836,567 764,111 451,472 3,052,150
An amount of Rs. 244,740,699 (US$4,083,776) (2012: Rs. 218,424,223 (US$3,790,628)) deposited with the State Bank of India for 
site restoration obligation is treated as a non-current asset. The interest rate of this deposit is based on the highest rate of interest as 
applicable for the period paid by the State Bank of India.
Interest income will increase or decrease by US$33,517 (2012: US$26,007) for every one per cent change in interest rates.  Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
72
24. Financial risk management continued
Currency exposures
The currency exposures of the monetary assets denominated in currencies other than US dollars of the Group as at 31 March 2014 
are as follows: 
2014
Indian rupees 
US$
Pound sterling 
US$
Total 
US$
US dollars 4,948,893 438,196 5,387,089
2012
Indian rupees 
US$
Pound sterling 
US$
Total 
US$
US dollars 5,900,921 65,570 5,966,491
An amount of US$455,960 (2012: US$135,749) was recognised as foreign exchange loss on account of exchange rate fluctuations 
on bank balances and investments made in currencies other than US dollars.
Exchange gains will increase by US$54,410 (2012: US$60,261) for every one per cent appreciation of Indian rupee and sterling and 
loss of US$53,332 (2012: US$59,081) for one per cent depreciation of Indian rupee and sterling.
25. Financial instruments
Book values and fair values of Hardy’s financial assets and liabilities are as follows:
Financial assets
Primary financial instruments
Book value 
2014 
US$
Fair value 
2014 
US$
Book value 
2012 
US$
Fair value 
2012 
US$
Short-term investments 20,652,380 20,652,380 26,032,807 26,032,807
Cash and short-term deposits 4,004,674 4,004,674 3,052,150 3,052,150
Trade and other receivables 915,269 915,269 1,410,976 1,410,976
Site restoration deposit 4,083,776 4,083,776 3,970,628 3,970,628
29,656,099 29,656,099 34,466,561 34,466,561
Financial liabilities
Primary financial instruments
Book value 
2014 
US$
Fair value 
2014 
US$
Book value 
2012 
US$
Fair value 
2012 
US$
Accounts payable (4,984,155) (4,984,155) (6,072,011) (6,072,011)
Provisions for decommissioning (5,512,694) (5,512,694) (5,152,050) (5,152,050)
(10,496,849) (10,496,849) (11,224,061) (11,224,061)
All of the above financial assets and liabilities are current at the period end dates.
26. Capital commitments
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Oil and gas expenditure – –
27. Pension commitments
The Group has no pension commitments as at the period end date.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
73
Financial Statements
28. Other financial commitments under operating leases
The Group entities have entered into commercial leases for land and building and office equipment. These leases have an average life 
of one to five years and there are no restrictions placed on the lessee by entering into these leases. The minimum future lease 
payments for the non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
 2014 
US$
 2012 
US$
Land and buildings:
One year 118,188 110,595
Two to five years 30,048 71,348
After five years – –
Other:
One year 10,242 11,158
Two to five years 4,580 18,937
After five years – –
29. Contingent liabilities
The Group issues guarantees in respect of obligations under various PSC in the normal course of business. The Group has provided 
a guarantee to the GOI for US$2,334,650 as at 31 March 2014 issued under a facility with HSBC plc bank for the Group’s share 
of minimum work programme commitments for the year to 25 December 2014. 
The guarantees were obtained by placing security deposits of £789,284 (US$1,312,500) and £326,538 (US$543,000) in the bank 
with the interest rate of 0.29% per cent and 0.09% respectively. 
In addition, the parent company guarantees the Group’s obligation under various PSCs to the GOI. The guarantees are deemed 
to have negligible fair value and are therefore accounted for as contingent liabilities.
In the normal course of business the Group may be involved in legal disputes which may give rise to claims. Provision is made in the 
financial statements for all claims where a cash outflow is considered probable. No separate disclosure is made of the detail of claims 
as to do so could seriously prejudice the position of the Group.
30. Related party transactions
The aggregate remuneration of Directors and the key management personnel, including its subsidiary undertaking, of the Group is 
as follows:
 2014 
US$
 2012 
US$
Short-term employee benefits 1,121,541 1,342,576
Share-based payments 425,634 443,918
1,547,175 1,786,494
Key management personnel include the Directors and the executive officers of the Group as set out in the over view of the Board 
of Directors in the business review. Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report which forms part of the Group’s 2014 Annual Report. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
74
Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014
Share capital 
US$
Share premium 
US$
Shares to be issued 
US$
Retained earnings 
US$
Total 
US$
At 1 January 2012 727,852 119,996,084 4,256,526 7,023,632 132,004,094
Total comprehensive loss for the year – – – (1,911,270) (1,911,270)
Share-based payment – 5,654 342,219 415,566 763,439
Share option exercised 100 22,600 – – 22,700
Restricted shares issued 2,375 587,613 – – 589,988
At 31 December 2012 730,327 120,611,951 4,598,745 5,527,928 131,468,951
Total comprehensive loss for the period – – – (1,948,409) (1,948,409)
Share-based payment – – 939,120 – 939,120
Adjustment of lapsed vested options – – (1,835,262) 378,534 (1,456,728)
Restricted shares issued 1,157 166,180 – – 167,337
At 31 March 2014 731,484 120,778,131 3,702,603 3,958,053 129,170,271 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
75
Financial Statements
Parent Company Statement of Financial Position 
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014
Notes
31 March 
2014 
US$
31 December
2012 
US$
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 56,307 96,381
Intangible assets – others 10 – –
Investments 11 109,153,382 106,612,089
Total non-current assets 109,209,689 106,708,470
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 12 223,270 470,121
Short-term investments 13 20,652,380 26,032,807
Cash and cash equivalents 17 513,745 271,065
Total current assets 21,389,395 26,773,993
Total assets 130,599,084 133,482,463
Equity and Liabilities
Equity attributable to the owners
Equity
Called-up share capital 14 731,484 730,327
Share premium 120,778,131 120,611,951
Shares to be issued 3,702,603 4,598,745
Retained earnings 3,958,053 5,527,928
Total equity 129,170,271 131,468,951
Non-current liabilities
Provision for deferred tax 15 1,255,319 1,793,121
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 16 173,494 220,391
Total current liabilities 173,494 220,391
Total liabilities 1,428,813 2,013,512
Total equity and liabilities 130,599,084 133,482,463
Approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 11 June 2014. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
76
Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows 
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014
Notes
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Operating activities
Cash flow (used in) operating activities 4 (2,617,303) (2,994,271)
Tax refund – 180,912
Net cash (used in) operating activities (2,617,303) (2,813,359)
Investing activities
Purchase of other property, plant and equipment (1,015) (108,165)
Realised from short-term investments 5,380,427 3,661,161
Net cash (used in) from investing activities 5,379,412 3,552,996
Financing activities
Interest and investment income 1,424,902 1,229,552
Inter corporate loan (3,944,331) (6,819,174)
Issue of shares – 22,700
Net cash (used in) from financing activities (2,519,429) (5,566,922)
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents 242,680 (4,827,285)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 271,065 5,098,350
Cash and cash equivalent at the end of the period 513,745 271,065 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
77
Financial Statements
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014
1. Accounting policies
The Company follows the accounting policies of the Group.
2. Revenue
 2014 
US$
 2012 
US$
Overhead recovery – –
Management fees from subsidiary – –
– –
The Directors do not consider there to be more than one class of business or geographic segment for the purposes of reporting. 
The Company operates in one geographical area, the United Kingdom and the Company’s activity is one class of business as holding 
company for the Group.
3. Statement of comprehensive Income
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 3 of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1982 not to publish its 
statement of comprehensive income and related notes. The Company’s loss for the year was US$1,948,409 (2012: US$1,911,270).
4. Reconciliation of operating loss to operating cash flows
2014 
US$
 2012 
US$
Operating loss (3,911,113) (3,928,445)
Depreciation 41,089 35,096
Share-based payments 1,052,768 875,192
(2,817,256) (3,018,157)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables 246,851 (41,150)
(Increase)/decrease in trade and other payables (46,898) 65,036
Cash flow (used in) operating activities (2,617,303) (2,994,271)
5. Staff costs
2014 
US$
 2012 
US$
Wages and salaries 1,014,512 1,313,786
Social security costs 148,049 172,131
Share-based payments 425,954 321,982
1,588,515 1,807,899
Staff costs include Executive Directors’ salary, fees, benefits and share-based payments. The Company has no pension commitments 
as at the year end dates.
The weighted average monthly number of employees, including the Executive Director and individuals employed by the Company, 
are as follows:
2014 2012
Management and administration 3 6
6. Share-based payments
Share-based payments are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements
7. Audit fees
Audit fees payable to the Company’s auditors for the audit of the parent company financial statements for the 15 months ended 
31 March 2014 is US$10,000 (2012: US$10,000). Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
78
8. Interest and investment income
2014 
US$
 2012 
US$
Bank interest 8,387 2,348
Interest on inter-corporate loan 1,400,810 1,121,145
Other interest – 41,669
Dividend 15,705 50,126
1,424,902 1,215,288
9. Property, plant and equipment
Total 
US$
Cost
At 1 January 2012 372,378
Additions 108,165
Depletion (266,766)
At 1 January 2013 213,777
Additions 1,015
Depletion –
At 31 March 2014 214,792
Depreciation
At 1 January 2012 349,066
Charge for the year 35,096
Depletion (266,766)
At 1 January 2013 117,396
Charge for the period 41,089
Depletion –
At 31 March 2014 158,485
Net book value at 31 March 2014 56,307
Net book value at 31 December 2012 96,381
10. Intangible assets – others
Total 
US$
Cost
At 1 January 2012 131,250
At 1 January 2013 131,250
At 31 March 2014 131,250
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2012 131,250
Charge for the period –
At 1 January 2013 131,250
Charge for the period –
At 31 March 2014 131,250
Net book value at 31 March 2014
–
Net book value at 31 December 2012 –
Intangible assets represent the software used for office automation and other business applications of the Group.
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
79
Financial Statements
11. Investments
 Shares in subsidiary 
US$
Loan to subsidiary 
US$
Carrying value at 1 January 2012 5,852,939 93,842,704
Additional investment during the year 97,272 6,819,174
Carrying value at 1 January 2013 5,950,211 100,661,878
Additional investment during the year (1,403,038) 3,944,331
Carrying value at 31 March 2014 4,547,173 104,606,209
Shares in subsidiary represent the investment made as at 31 March 2014 in HEPI, the wholly owned subsidiary of Hardy Oil and Gas 
plc. Full details of this subsidiary are given in Note 1(e) of the consolidated financial statements. The movement in respect of the 
shares in subsidiary during the period relates to an adjustment for lapsed vested share options granted to employees of the subsidiary.
Loan to subsidiary at 31 March 2014 consists of US$104,606,209 to HEPI. This loan is long-term and is repayable on commercial 
production of the ongoing exploration projects. Interest on these loans is LIBOR plus 1 per cent.
12. Trade and other receivables
 2014 
US$
 2012 
US$
Other receivables 41,834 89,158
Prepayments and accrued income 14,203 –
Prepaid expenses – share-based payments 167,233 380,963
223,270 470,121
13. Short-term investments
 2014 
US$
 2012 
US$
HSBC US$ Liquidity Fund Class-A 20,652,379 25,999,256
HSBC £ Liquidity Fund Class-A 1 33,551
20,652,380 26,032,807
The above investments are in liquid funds which can be converted into cash at short notice. Fair value of these investments 
approximates book values as at 31 March 2014 and 31 December 2012.
14. Share capital
Number US$0.01 
Ordinary Shares 
’000 US$
Authorised Ordinary Shares
At 1 January 2013 200,000 2,000,000
At 31 March 2014 200,000 2,000,000
Allotted, issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares
At 1 January 2012 72,785,204 727,852
Share options exercised during the year 10,000 100
Restricted shares issued 237,502 2,375
At 1 January 2013 73,032,706 730,327
Restricted shares issued 115,710 1,157
At 31 March 2014 73,148,416 731,484
Ordinary Shares issued have equal voting and other rights with no guarantee to dividend or other payments. Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
80
Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued
For the 15 months ended 31 March 2014
15. Deferred taxation
Deferred tax analysis:
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Differences between accumulated depreciation and capital allowances 47,465 55,214
Other temporary differences 1,117,594 802,555
Group relief availed (2,420,378) (2,650,890)
Deferred tax (liability) (1,255,319) (1,793,121)
16. Trade and other payables
2014 
US$
2012
 US$
Trade payables 32,734 155,719
Accruals 140,760 64,672
173,494 220,391
17. Financial risk management
The Company follows the risk management policy stipulated in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Interest rate risk profile of financial assets
The interest rate risk profile of the financial assets of the Company as at 31 March 2014 is as follows:
Fixed rate
financial assets 
US$
Floating rate
financial asset 
US$
Financial asset no 
interest is earned 
US$
Total
US$
US dollars – – 83,460 83,460
Pound sterling – 195 430,090 430,285
Cash and cash equivalents – 195 513,550 513,745
Financial assets include cash and deposits and the floating interest rates are based on the base rate of the relevant central bank.
The interest rate risk profile of the financial assets of the Company as at 31 December 2012 is as follows:
Fixed rate
financial assets 
US$
Floating rate
financial asset 
US$
Financial asset no 
interest is earned 
US$
Total
US$
US dollars – – 243,710 243,710
Pound sterling – 210 27,145 27,355
Cash and cash equivalents – 210 270,855 271,065
Financial assets include cash and deposits and the floating interest rates are based on the base rate of the relevant central bank.
Currency exposures
The currency exposures of the monetary assets denominated in currencies other than US dollars of the Company are as follows:
Pound sterling in equivalent US$
2014 2012
US dollars 430,283 60,906
Foreign exchange gain recognised on account of exchange rate for the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 is US$59,104 
(2012: loss US$49,057) Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
81
Financial Statements
18. Financial instruments
Book values and fair values of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities is as follows:
Financial assets
Primary financial instruments
Book value 
2014 
US$
Fair value 
2014
US$
Book value 
2012 
US$
Fair value 
2012 
US$
Short-term investments 20,652,380 20,652,380 26,032,807 26,032,807
Cash and short-term deposits 513,745 513,745 271,065 271,065
Trade and other receivables 223,270 223,270 470,121 470,121
21,389,395 21,389,395 26,773,993 26,773,993
All of the above financial assets are current and unimpaired as at 31 March 2014.
Financial liabilities
Primary financial instruments
Book value 
2014
 US$
Fair value 
2014
US$
Book value 
2012 
US$
Fair value 
2012 
US$
Accounts payable (173,494) (173,494) (220,391) (220,391)
All of the above financial liabilities are current as at 31 March 2014.
19. Other financial commitments under operating leases
The Company has entered into commercial leases for land and building and office equipment. These leases have an average life of one 
to five years and there are no restrictions placed on the lessee by entering into these leases. The minimum future lease payments for 
the non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Land and buildings
One year 44,898 43,654
Two to five years 17,259 71,348
20. Related party transactions
a) The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary is HEPI. The following table provides the details of balances outstanding with subsidiary 
companies at year end dates:
2014
US$
2012
US$
Amount owned from subsidiary undertakings 104,606,209 100,661,878
b) The following table provides the details of the transactions with subsidiary companies:
2014 
US$
2012 
US$
Parent company fees to joint venture operations of subsidiary – –
Management fees – –
Inter company interest income 1,400,810 1,121,145 Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
82
Notes Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
83
Financial Statements Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
84
Notes Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
85
Company Information
Due to limited drilling activity in the 15 months ended 31 March 2014 and the uncertainty surrounding the recommencement 
of production in the PY-3 asset, the Company has taken the decision to postpone the updating of a competent person’s report 
(CPR) until further data is acquired. The estimates provided in the Company’s 2011 CPR are provided below.
Reserves (Proven + Probable)
Net PY-3 oil production from 31 December 2010 to 31 March 2014 was 129 mmbbl.
31 December 2010
Reserves (Proven + Probable)
1
 Gross Net
3
 
PY-3
2
Producing Oil mmbbl 15.1 2.1
Total Reserves (Proven + Probable) Oil mmbbl 15.1 2.1
1. The GCA has used the Petroleum Resources Management System published by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, World Petroleum Council, American Association of Petroleum 
Geologists and Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers in March 2007 (SPE PRMS) as the basis for its classification and categorisation of hydrocarbon volumes.
2. On 19 April 2007, the PY-3 joint venture management committee had approved gross expected ultimate 2P oil Reserves of 44.4 mmbbl. As of 31 December 2010 the field had 
produced 24.1 mmbbl giving 2P oil Reserves of 20.3 mmbbl, about 5 mmbbl higher than the 2P estimate by GCA.
3. Net entitlement reserves are reserves based on Hardy’s entitlement of cost oil plus a share of profit oil.
Contingent Resources (2c)
Net 2C Contingent Resources (BCFE) are 175 BCF.
31 December 2010
CONTINGENT RESOURCES (2C)
1
  Gross Net
GS-01 B1 (Dhirubhai 33) Gas BCF 83.0 8.3
CY-OS/2
2, 3
Ganesha 1 Gas BCF 130.0 97.5
D3 A1 (Dhirubhai 39) Gas BCF 210.0 21.0
D3 B1 (Dhirubhai 41) Gas BCF 213.0 21.3
D3 R1 (Dhirubhai 44) Gas BCF 98.0 9.8
D3 W1 (Dhirubhai 52) Gas BCF 162.4 16.2
GS-01 B1 (Dhirubhai 33) Oil mmbbl 1.85 0.19
Gas BCF 896.4 174.1
Total Contingent Resources
1
 (2C) Oil mmbbl 1.85 0.19
1. GCA has used the Petroleum Resources Management System published by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, World Petroleum Council, American Association of Petroleum 
Geologists and Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers in March 2007 (SPE PRMS) as the basis for its classification and categorisation of hydrocarbon volumes.
2. With respect to Ganesha-1 (CY-OS/2) non-associated natural gas discovery, in 2010 the Group formally commenced arbitration proceedings pursuant to dispute resolution 
provisions of the governing PSC regarding a licence extension request.
3. In the event of a commercial development of a discovery, ONGC has the option to back-into the CY-OS/2 licence at an interest of 30 per cent.
Prospective Resources
Net best estimate risked Prospective Resources are 494 BCF
31 December 2010
Risked Prospective Resources (Best Estimate)
1, 2
Gross Net
CY-OS/2
3, 4
Prospects Gas BCF 113 84
GS-01 Prospects Gas BCF 142 14
D3 Prospects and leads Gas BCF 3,959 396
Total risked Prospective Resources (best estimate)
1, 2
Gas BCF 4,214 494
1. Aggregated risked Prospective Resources have been derived by Hardy and are not aggregated or provided as risked volumes by GCA.
2. The GCA has used the Petroleum Resources Management System published by the Society of Petroleum Engineers, World Petroleum Council, American Association of Petroleum 
Geologists and Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers in March 2007 (SPE PRMS) as the basis for its classification and categorisation of hydrocarbon volumes.
3. With respect to Ganesha-1 (CY-OS/2) non-associated natural gas discovery, in 2010 the Group formally commenced arbitration proceedings pursuant to dispute resolution 
provisions of the governing PSC regarding a licence extension request.
4. In the event of a commercial development of a discovery, ONGC has the option to back-into the CY-OS/2 licence at an interest of 30 per cent.
Reserves and Resources Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
86
Block KG-DWN-2003/1 (D3): Exploration (HEPI 10 per cent interest)
Situated in the Krishna Godavari Basin, a prolific petroleum province on the East coast of India, the D3 exploration licence 
encompasses an area of 3,288km
2
, in water depths of 400m to 2,200m, and is located approximately 45km offshore. The D3 block 
is operated by Reliance which holds a 60 per cent participating interest while BP and Hardy hold participating interests of 30 per cent 
and 10 per cent respectively. To date, four consecutive gas discoveries have been made via the Dhirubhai 39, 41, 44 and 52 (KGV-
D3-A1, B1, R1 and W1) exploration wells. The joint venture has acquired approximately 3,250km
2
 of 3D seismic data over the block.
Block CY-OS 90/1 (PY-3): Oil Field (HEPI 18 per cent interest – Operator)
The PY-3 field is located off the east coast of India, 80km south of Pondicherry in water depths between 40m and 450m. The Cauvery 
Basin was developed in the late Jurassic/early Cretaceous period and straddles the present-day east coast of India. The licence, 
which covers 81km
2
, produces high quality light crude oil (49° API).
Block GS-OSN-2000/1 (GS-01): Appraisal (HEPI 10 per cent interest)
In 2011, the GS-01 joint venture secured the GOI’s approval for a DOC proposal for the Dhirubhai 33 discovery (GS01-B1, drilled in 
2007) which flow-tested at a rate of 18.6mmscfd gas with 415bbld of condensate through a 56/64inch choke at flowing tubing head 
pressure of 1,346psi. The GS-01 licence is located in the Gujarat-Saurashtra offshore basin off the west coast of India, northwest of 
the prolific Bombay High oil field, with water depths varying between 80m and 150m. The retained discovery area covers 600km
2
.
Block CY-OS/2: Appraisal (HEPI 75 per cent interest – Operator)
Hardy is the operator of the CY-OS/2 exploration block and holds a 75 per cent participating interest
1
, through its wholly owned 
subsidiary Hardy Exploration & Production (India), Inc and Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) holds the remaining 25 per cent 
participating interest. The block is located in the northern part of the Cauvery Basin immediately offshore from Pondicherry, India 
and covers approximately 859km
2
. The licence comprises of two retained areas with the Ganesha-1 natural gas discovery located 
in the northern area, which comprises an area of approximately 300km
2
. 
Ganesha-1 – The natural gas discovery Ganesha-1, announced in January 2007, was drilled to a depth of 4,089m, encountering 
sandstone reservoir within the Cretaceous section. The well flow tested at a peak rate of 10.7mmscfd. The Company published 
a competent person report, prepared by Gaffney, Cline & Associates, dated March 2011, which estimates gross 2C Contingent 
Resources of approximately 130 BCF.
A brief summary of the Hon’ble Tribunal’s award is provided below;
Dispute – Hardy, along with GAIL and Oil & Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), are a party and operator to a Production Sharing 
Contract (PSC) for the CY-OS/2 block. Hardy holds 75 per cent participating interest in the block. Hardy and GAIL declared a 
gas discovery on 8 January 2007 which discovery qualified as Non Associated Natural Gas (NANG) under the terms of the PSC. 
The Government of India, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas (MOPNG) however, stated that the discovery being Oil and the 
commerciality of the block not having been declared within 24 months from the date of the notification of the discovery, the block 
stood relinquished. Hardy had disputed the characterisation of the discovery as oil and the consequential relinquishment.
Hon’ble Tribunal – This dispute was referred to Arbitration under the PSC to a Tribunal consisting of three Arbitrators who were 
former Chief Justices of India. The Hon’ble Tribunal passed the award on 2 February 2013 at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
Award summary – The Hon’ble tribunal has awarded and directed as follows:
a) The Ganesha-1 discovery made by Hardy and GAIL is NANG;
b) The order of relinquishment by the MOPNG was illegal, being on the erroneous impression that the discovery was oil;
c) That the parties shall be immediately relegated to the position in which they stood prior to the order of relinquishment and the block 
shall be restored to Hardy and GAIL;
d) Hardy shall be entitled to a period of three years from the date on which the block is restored to it to carry out further appraisal;
e) MOPNG shall pay to Hardy and GAIL interest at the simple rate of 9 per cent per annum on the amount of Rs.5.0 billion spent by 
them on the block, from the date of relinquishment till the date of the award (as at 31 December 2013: US$22.2 million net to Hardy).
f) From the date of award interest will accrue at a rate of 18 per cent per annum on the amount of Rs.5.0 billion until such time as the 
block is restored to the parties (as at 31 December 2013: US$9.9 million net to Hardy). 
1 In the event of a declaration of commerciality, the Government of India’s nominee is entitled to assume a 30 per cent participating interest in the block. As a result Hardy’s 
participating interest would be 52.5 per cent.
Asset Description Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
87
Company Information
$: United States dollars 
+CO
2
e: Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
+CO
2
e/FTE: Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent for full time equivalent
2D/3D: Two dimensional/three dimensional 
2P: Proven plus probable 
AGM: Annual General Meeting
AOGO: Association of oil and gas operators
API°: American Petroleum Institute gravity 
bbl: barrel
bbld: barrel per day
bcf: billion cubic feet
BOP: Blow-out preventer 
bwpd: Barrels of water per day 
Board: The Board of Directors of Hardy Oil and Gas plc 
BP: BP plc
the Code: Hardy’s Code of Business Conduct adopted January 2013
the Company: Hardy Oil and Gas plc 
Contingent Resources: Those quantities of petroleum estimates, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from known 
accumulations by application of development projects, but which are not currently considered to be 
commercially recoverable due to one or more contingencies 
CNG: Compressed natural gas
CPCL: Chennai Petroleum Company Limited, formerly known as Madras Refinery Limited 
CPR: Competent persons report 
CY-05/2 Offshore exploration licence CY-05/2 located on the east coast of India
D3: Offshore Licence KG-DWN-2003/1 awarded in NELP V 
D6: Licence KG-DWN-2000/i Reliance Block
DOC: declaration of commerciality
DST: Drill stem test 
DGH: Directorate General of Hydrocarbons 
Dhirubhai 33: Gas discovery on GS-01-B1 well 
Dhirubhai 39: Gas discovery on KGV-D3-A1 well 
Dhirubhai 41: Gas discovery on KGV-D3-B1 well 
Dhirubhai 44: Gas discovery on KGV-D3-R1 well 
Dhirubhai 52: Gas discovery on KGV-D3-W1 announced on 31 August 2010
DRDO: Defence Research and Development Organisation of India
ExSop: a structured option plan
FDP: Field development plan 
FPU: Floating Production Unit
FSO: Floating storage and offloading vessel 
GAIL: Gas Authority of India Limited 
Ganesha: Gas discovery on Fan-A1 well located in CY-OS/2 
GCA: Gaffney, Cline & Associates Ltd 
GOI: Government of India
the Group: The Company and its subsidiaries 
GS-01: Offshore Licence GS-OSN-2000/1 awarded under NELP II 
Hardy: Hardy Oil and Gas plc 
HEPI: Hardy Exploration & Production (India) Inc. 
HOEC: Hindustan Oil Exploration Company Limited 
HSE: Health, safety and environment 
IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards 
IPO: Initial public offering 
Definitions and Glossary of Terms Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/14
88
ISA International Standards on Auditing
JOA: joint operating agreement
KG Basin: Krishna Godavari sedimentary basin comprising an area on the south east India continental shelf 
km: Kilometre 
km
2
: Kilometre squared 
KPI: Key performance indicator
London Stock Exchange: London Stock Exchange plc 
LNG: Liquefied natural gas
LTI: Long-term incentives
m: Metre 
Main Market: Official List of the London Stock Exchange’s market for listed securities 
Management Committee:  As per India PSCs the Management Committee comprises representatives of each participating interest 
holder, DGH and the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas of India 
mmcfd: Million standard cubic feet per day 
mmscmd: Million standard cubic metres per day 
mmbbl: Million stock tank barrels per day 
mmbtu Million British thermal units
MOPNG: Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas
MOD: Ministry of Defence
MWP: minimum work programme
NANG: non-associated natural gas 
NELP: New Exploration Licensing Policy of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas of India 
ONGC: Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited
Operating Committee:  As per India PSCs the Operating Committee comprises representatives of the various participating 
interest holders in the licence 
Ordinary Share: The Ordinary Share of US$0.01 each in the capital of the Company 
Prospective Resources: Those quantities of petroleum which are estimated, on a given date, to be potentially recoverable from 
undiscovered accumulations 
PSC: Production sharing contract 
PSDM: Pre-stack depth migration 
psi: Pounds per square inch 
PY-3: Offshore Licence CY-OS-90/1 
Reliance: Reliance Industries Limited 
RS Indian rupee
scf: Standard cubic feet 
scfd: Standard cubic feet per day 
TCF: Trillion cubic feet 
TRI: Total recordable injuries
TVD: Total vertical depth 
TVDRT: Total vertical depth from rotary table
UK: United Kingdom 
The UK Code: UK Code of Conduct 2012
US: United States of America 
US$: United States dollars
Definitions and Glossary of Terms continued Company Information
Directors and Advisors
Hardy Oil and Gas plc
16 North Silver Street 
Aberdeen AB10 1RL 
Tel: +44 (0) 12 2461 2900 
Fax: +44 (0) 12 2463 3995
Email: ir@hardyoil.com
Website: www.hardyoil.com
Board of Directors
Alasdair Locke (Chairman)
Ian MacKenzie (Chief Executive Officer)
Peter Milne (Senior Non-Executive)
Pradip Shah (Non-Executive)
Yogeshwar Sharma (Non-Executive)
Executive Officers
Richard Galvin (Treasurer & Corporate Affairs Executive)
Hardy Exploration & Production (India) Inc.
5th Floor, Westminister Building
108, Dr Radhakrishnan Salai
Chennai, India, 600 004
Phone: +91 44 284 71990
Fax: +91 44 284 71064
Email: info@hardyoil.co.in
Directors of HEPI
Ian MacKenzie (President and Chief Executive Officer)
Richard Galvin (Treasurer)
T.K. Ananth Kumar (Non-Executive Director)
Auditors
Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP
St Bride’s House
10 Salisbury Square
London, EC4Y 8EH
Broker
Arden Partners plc
125 Old Broad Street
London, EC2N 1AR
Financial PR
Tavistock Communications
131 Finsbury Pavement
London, EC2A 1NT
Company Secretary
Richard Vanderplank LLB
Registered Office
Fort Anne
Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 5PD
Principal Bankers
HSBC Holdings Plc
8 Canada Square
London, E14 5HQ
Barclays Bank Plc
54 Lombard Street
London, EC3P 3AH
UK Solicitors
Pinsent Masons LLP 
30 Crown Place
Earl Street
London EC2A 4ES
Lawrence Graham LLP
4 More London Riverside 
London, SE1 2AU
Isle of Man Legal Adviser
Cains Advocates Limited
Fort Anne
Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 5PD
Registrars
Cains Fiduciaries Limited
Fort Anne
Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 5PD
CREST Agent
Computershare Investor Services (Channel Islands) Limited
Ordnance House
31 Pier Road, St. Helier
Jersey, JE4 8PW Hardy Oil and Gas plc
16 North Silver Street
Aberdeen
AB10 1RL
www.hardyoil.com
Hardy Oil and Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013/1 4
