 Europe's leading
floorcovering distributor
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Headlam markets, supplies and distributes
an extensive range of floorcovering products to
independent flooring retailers and contractors
throughout the UK, France, Switzerland and 
the Netherlands.
Our operational strategy is focused on
providing our customers with an up to date
comprehensive range of competitively priced
floorcovering products with the support of a
next day delivery.
As part of this strategy, Headlam offers its
suppliers the opportunity to achieve wide
market penetration backed by cost effective
distribution.
In implementing this strategy, Headlam has
developed a diverse and autonomous structure
with 50 businesses in the UK and a further
four in Continental Europe.
A key factor contributing to the group’s 
success is the individuality of experienced
management teams who are responsible 
for the market presence, development and
ultimate profitability of their business.
Each business is supported by the commitment
to continued investment in people, product,
facilities and IT. This commitment has provided
the basis for the group’s growth and
performance enabling it to develop into
Europe’s leading floorcovering distributor. Financial Highlights
Contents
Highlights
01 Highlights
Market Presence
02 Market Presence
The Year in Review
10 Chairman’s Statement
16 Chief Executive’s Review
20 Financial Review
22 Directors, Officers and Advisers
Accounts
23 Financial Calendar
24 Directors’ Report
29 Corporate Governance
35 Remuneration Report
41 Corporate and Social Responsibility
44 Independent Auditor’s Report to the
Members of Headlam Group plc
46 Consolidated Income Statement 
47 Statement of Recognised Income 
and Expense
48 Balance Sheets
49 Cash Flow Statements
50 Notes to the Financial Statements
91 Principal Trading Subsidiaries
92 Financial Record
93 Notice of Annual General Meeting
97 Shareholder Information
Sales
(£m)
+2.3%
2003* 2008 2004 2007 2005 2006
412.3
557.3
464.8
544.7
486.7
509.9
Operating Profit
(£m)
-4.3m
2003* 2008 2004 2007 2005 2006
33.5
41.7
38.9
46.0
41.5
43.9
Earnings 
Per Share
(p)
-7.0%
2003* 2008 2004 2007 2005 2006
27.3
31.3
37.1
33.1
35.1
Proposed
Dividends
(p)
-14.7%
2003*
* Not restated for IFRS
2008 2004 2007 2005 2006
13.85
19.70
16.25
23.10
18.00
20.15
34.5
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 01 Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 02
Market Presence
The UK operating structure is based on five
business sectors each aimed at maximising
market penetration and supporting different
aspects of the floorcovering market. 
Our Regional and National multi-product
businesses provide a comprehensive
residential and commercial product range 
and extensive geographical coverage. 
The Regional commercial businesses focus 
on strong relationships with suppliers and 
a high level of localised service for their
customers. Our Residential specialist
businesses supply medium to premium
residential carpet on a national basis and 
the Commercial specialist businesses, which
have a national presence, provide a range 
of products servicing various aspects of the
commercial market. Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 03
Our business in France operates from two
distribution centres and 21 service centres
and the businesses in Switzerland and the
Netherlands each operate from a single
distribution centre. All four businesses on
the Continent offer an extensive range of
floorcovering products providing full national
coverage across their respective countries.
MARKET PRESENCE Market Presence
continued
Regional Multi-product Distribution
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 04 National Multi-product Distribution
MARKET PRESENCE
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 05 Market Presence
continued
Regional Commercial Distribution
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 06 National Residential Specialist Products
MARKET PRESENCE
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 07 Market Presence
continued
National Commercial Specialist Products
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 08 MARKET PRESENCE
European Multi-product Distribution
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 09 Chairman’s Statement
Compared with last year, revenue from the
group’s activities increased by 2.3% to
£557.3 million. Profit before tax declined 
by 11.2% to £40.1 million.
Earnings and dividend
Shareholders will be aware that during the
last two years, the board has progressively
increased dividends with the intention of
achieving a payout ratio of 67% by the end
of 2009. The board remains committed to 
this objective, but whilst difficult trading
conditions persist, has decided to delay the
full implementation of this policy. We intend
to resume our commitment to enhancing
shareholder returns through increasing
dividends as soon as it is evident that the
economies in the regions in which we trade
have returned to normal conditions. 
The board is therefore recommending a final
dividend of 14.1p per share. Total dividend
for the year will decrease by 14.7% from
23.1p to 19.7p per share.
The final dividend, if approved by
Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting,
will be payable at the close of business on 
5 June 2009.
Strategy
The performance of our 50 businesses in 
the UK and four businesses in Continental
Europe confirms that our fundamental
strategy, of operating these businesses
autonomously whilst complying with strict
operational and financial disciplines, is
delivering sustainable results.
This strategy allows the highly motivated 
and incentivised individual management
teams to focus on their specific business
objectives within either the geographical
areas or specific product sectors in which
they operate.
The key objectives for the group and within
each individual business are to maintain and
continue to expand our position as the
leading floorcoverings distributor in Europe.
The development of the group will be
achieved through a combination of organic
growth, as market conditions allow, and
continued investment in new freehold
distribution facilities, which will incorporate
the latest material handling equipment. 
This will be supplemented by the strategic
acquisition of floorcovering distributors to
enlarge our position in the UK and
Continental Europe.
Operations
Through the complementary efforts of the
senior and individual business management,
we continue to work closely with the leading
worldwide flooring manufacturers to develop
residential and commercial products in order
to enhance our market position.
I am pleased to report that, whilst the UK market proved
to be particularly challenging during 2008, each of our
business sectors and product categories outperformed
market indicators and increased their market share. 
Our businesses in Continental Europe benefited from 
more stable conditions and were able to continue their
improvement. 
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 10 This relationship with our suppliers has
resulted in our 50 businesses in the UK,
located in 19 distribution centres and 12
service centres, launching 3,725 new products
through our 361 external sales people who
positioned 732,000 new point of sale items
and sample books into independent flooring
retailers and contractors.
Products are developed and launched in an
ongoing timely manner, to ensure that our
customers are at the forefront of all new
products coming into their respective
markets.
Our businesses in Continental Europe continue
to prosper and the ongoing development will
be enhanced by the construction of a new
freehold purpose built distribution centre for
our Dutch operations.
Employees
The benefit of a group structure, combined
with encouraging the autonomy of individual
business operations, provides all employees
with the opportunity for career progression 
in both specific businesses and the group 
as a whole. This was particularly evident
during 2008 and early 2009 when a number
of our employees continued their career
development through internal promotion. 
We wish to thank all of our management 
and employees for their contribution to the
group’s performance in 2008.
Outlook
During the last 16 years, our floorcovering
distribution business has delivered continual
growth in sales revenue, profitability and
dividend payment. This growth has been
interrupted in 2008 due to the wider
economic conditions.
In light of these conditions, the group has
undertaken certain restructuring and reduced
costs during 2008 and the first quarter of
2009. With unpredictable markets, we will
continue to carefully monitor and reduce
overheads where possible whilst retaining 
our high level of service to customers.
Notwithstanding this, we are committed to
pursuing our fundamental strategy and
maintaining the autonomous structure of 
the group, providing a platform to maximise
our market position and achieve our core
objective of sustainable future growth.
Graham Waldron Chairman
We are committed 
to pursuing our fundamental
strategy to maximise our market
position and achieve sustainable
future growth
THE YEAR IN REVIEW
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 11 ORDER
Customers in the 
UK, who are principally
independent flooring
retailers and contractors,
placed 4,576,574 orders
during 2008
Active Customer Accounts
2008 2007 2006
41,539
39,033
36,225
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 12 THE YEAR IN REVIEW
SELECT
Immediate order
processing, comprehensive
product ranges and high
stock levels allow us to
respond quickly to
customer demand
UK Warehouse Storage
48
million
cubic feet
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 13 CUT
Investment in material
processing and handling
equipment enables us to
increase efficiency and
reduce waste
UK Cut Lengths
1,014
per hour
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 14 THE YEAR IN REVIEW
DELIVER
Orders, which are
received on a daily basis,
are processed immediately
and subject to customers
requirements delivered the
following day
UK Deliveries 
24,400
per week
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 15 Chief Executive’s Review
During 2008, the combined performance of
our 50 UK businesses resulted in a marginal
decrease in sales revenue of 1.1%, which on
a like for like basis was a decrease of 2.5%.
With the benefit of a strong first quarter, 
first half like for like sales revenue in the 
UK increased by 2.8%. However, with market
conditions deteriorating in the second half,
like for like sales revenue declined by 7.2%.
We believe that the performance of the UK
businesses is particularly robust in what were
extremely challenging market conditions and
undoubtedly, our collective businesses were
able to increase their market share.
This was achieved through a group strategy
based on autonomous businesses, with
focused and motivated management teams
and sales representatives, developing their
individual markets in both residential and
commercial floorcovering with independent
flooring retailers and contractors.
Our businesses in Continental Europe
continue to prosper, where revenue from 
our businesses located in France, Switzerland
and the Netherlands increased on a like for
like basis by 3.2% in local currency. 
Facilities investment
During 2008, we completed the construction
of a new purpose built freehold 42,000 square
feet (sq ft) distribution facility for MCD Wales
in Bridgend. This became operational in the
spring of 2008, enabling MCD Wales to
increase their residential and commercial
business in South Wales and the south west
of England.
The two additional service centres located 
in Dartford, 5,000 sq ft, and Walthamstow,
9,000 sq ft, became operational at the
beginning of 2008, enabling Faithfulls to
enlarge significantly its commercial presence
in London.
During May 2008, we opened our 6,000 sq ft
freehold service centre in Southampton,
which provides Richards with an enlarged
commercial presence in the south of England.
We have completed the 6,000 sq ft extension
to the freehold distribution facility of Baileys
Plymouth, which will allow Baileys to develop
commercial activities with flooring
contractors in the south west of England, 
to complement what has principally been 
a residential business to date.
In the Netherlands, the construction of a 
new purpose built freehold 65,000 sq ft
distribution centre is now complete. This 
will allow Lethem Vergeer and the recently
acquired Silvester to enhance their product
offering and increase service levels to
customers.
We are in the process of applying for
planning permission and in final negotiations
to purchase land to relocate the Faithfulls
and Garrods businesses in Hadleigh, near
Ipswich. This new 120,000 sq ft freehold
distribution centre, anticipated to be
complete by the end of 2010, will
considerably increase the two businesses
profile in the south east of England in both
residential and commercial flooring.
Restructuring
On 23 September 2008, a fire completely
destroyed our distribution centre in
Northampton, from which the Garrard Waters
business operated. With the benefit of
disaster management procedures and utilising
information technology, the Garrard Waters
business was operational the following day
from our Coleshill distribution centre.
We have established a local presence for
Garrard Waters’ management and sales
representatives in a 10,000 sq ft service
centre in Northampton to maintain and
enhance their customer relationships. 
The principal logistics service continues 
to operate from Coleshill.
In the late autumn, we decided to relocate
the logistics of Baileys Bristol and Solmere
Bishop Auckland to our existing larger
distribution centres in Thatcham and
Gildersome, Leeds respectively. By
maintaining their independent management
and sales activity with both suppliers and
customers, this restructuring provides Baileys
and Solmere with extended product ranges
and a comprehensive logistics service to
benefit their customers.
With the particularly challenging markets 
we are operating in, the group has also been
prudent with the recruitment of replacement
employees. In conjunction with the
restructuring at Garrard Waters, Baileys and
Solmere, we reduced the number of employees
during 2008 by 9%, from 1,892 to 1,720.
UK operations
Our 50 businesses in the UK continue to
operate within five defined business sectors.
This allows the autonomous businesses to
optimise their market presence, working to
clearly defined strategies and objectives.
We believe that the performance of the UK businesses is
particularly robust in what were extremely challenging market
conditions, and were able to increase their market share.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 16 THE YEAR IN REVIEW
Regional multi-product: The 20 businesses
sell both residential and commercial
floorcovering, operating regionally, in total
giving a comprehensive geographical coverage
throughout the UK. Whilst sales revenue
declined by 5.6%, market indications would
substantiate this outperformed the UK
floorcovering market and consequently these
businesses increased their market share.
National multi-product: The Mercado 
network of businesses, operating nationally
throughout England, Wales and Northern
Ireland, also outperformed the market in
residential and commercial floorcovering
notwithstanding its modest decline in sales
revenue of 2.4%.
Regional commercial: The 15 operations in
this sector, four of which are benefiting from
an investment in new facilities, were able to
increase sales revenue by 7.4%. It is our
intention in coming years to increase the
number of service centres, in order to enlarge
the geographical presence of these operations
for the regional distribution of commercial
floorcovering.
Residential specialist: Through a continuing
process of product development and
marketing, particularly the medium to high
price carpet products, these 13 businesses
were able to outperform significantly the UK
carpet market and increased sales revenue by
13.9%.
Commercial specialist: Our four commercial
specialist businesses enjoyed a more positive
commercial market and were able to increase
sales revenue by 1.2%.
yourfloors.co.uk
In July 2008, we launched the consumer
internet gateway, yourfloors.co.uk. The
yourfloors facility creates an opportunity 
for independent flooring retailers to take
advantage of the increasing trend for
consumers to purchase online. 
Our 50 businesses 
in the UK continue to operate
within five defined business
sectors allowing them to 
optimise their market 
presence
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 17 Chief Executive’s Review
continued
Each individual retail customer participating
enjoys the benefit of their own website
created by yourfloors.
Performance criteria measured by daily
activity on the website, sample requests 
and ultimately orders, are showing an
increasing daily trend. Since its launch, we
have recorded 252,512 visits to the website
and satisfied 12,865 requests for samples.
With further enhancements currently being
undertaken, we expect yourfloors to provide 
a benefit in coming years to our customer
base and ultimately, to the group as a whole.
Suppliers
The business relationship and partnership
with our principal suppliers is particularly
important to the ongoing growth of the
group’s activities. This consistent approach,
both from a group strategic involvement and
the product development of our individual
management teams, enables the continual
launch of new products through our external
sales teams into independent flooring
retailers and contractors.
Products
The product development activity with our
suppliers has resulted in an increased 
market presence throughout the principal
floorcovering products in the UK.
Carpet continues to be our largest product
category, accounting for 45% of UK sales
revenue. During 2008, we launched 2,224 
new ranges, placing 491,000 new point of
sale items into our customers and, whilst
sales declined 4.7% in the year, market
indicators would again suggest this
significantly outperforms the market as 
a whole.
Residential vinyl sales revenue increased by
2.2% supported by the placement of 170,000
new point of sale items to launch 956 new
ranges with independent flooring retailers 
and contractors.
Wood and laminate benefited from a number
of innovative product launches in laminate
flooring and an increasing presence in
engineered and solid wood, which enabled
the sales revenue decrease to be managed 
to 1.2%.
Rugs have continued to enlarge their profile
in the group, principally through the
activities of National Carpets, Crucial Trading
and Plantation Rug Company. This has
resulted in the sales revenue of rugs
increasing by 46% and the product now
accounts for 2.5% of UK sales revenue.
Commercial Flooring produced an increase 
in sales revenue of 5.2% benefiting from
stronger demand for commercial flooring 
and the developing presence of our regional
commercial businesses. Commercial flooring
now accounts for 31% of UK sales revenue.
funonthefloor.com
During 2008, the group contributed to 
a generic advertising campaign,
funonthefloor.com, to increase the profile 
and consumer awareness of carpets in the 
UK. Given the existence of particularly
challenging market conditions when this
initiative was launched, the results are very
difficult to measure. The participants in the
campaign have agreed to a reduced level of
contribution to continue the initiative during
2009.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 18 In the Netherlands, Lethem Vergeer continued
to enlarge its business, principally in
residential floorcovering, increasing sales
revenue by 2.0%.
In October 2008, we acquired the residential
distribution business of Silvester in the
Netherlands. This business was immediately
relocated following completion, to our
original distribution centre. During March
2009, Lethem Vergeer and Silvester
commenced operations from the new 
purpose built distribution centre.
Outlook
During the financial and operating plan
process for 2009, we considered very carefully
the market conditions before us. Whilst the
trading environment continues to be
challenging, the group’s performance in 
the first quarter of 2009 has been in line
with our planned expectations.
The autonomous management teams in the
UK and Continental Europe are clearly focused
on their individual targets and measurements,
which we consider are positioned at realistic
levels. Assuming no further significant
deterioration in market conditions, the 
group believes it is structured to achieve 
its operating objectives for the year.
Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive
THE YEAR IN REVIEW
Customers
The number of active accounts increased 
from 39,033 in 2007 to 41,539 in 2008. 
This clearly demonstrates the market strength 
and financial stability of independent flooring
retailers and contractors. During the year, our
customers placed 4,576,574 orders, compared
with 4,624,489 in 2007 and although credit
taken by customers increased from 42 days in
2007 to 44 days in 2008, this was primarily
due to an increase in the proportion of
business with flooring contractors. 
Acquisitions
The group has continued to evaluate
acquisitions in both the UK and Continental
Europe and whilst only one acquisition was
completed during the year, it is our intention
to enlarge our market position where a
potential acquisition is a strategic benefit 
to the group.
Europe
Our businesses in France, Switzerland and 
the Netherlands continued the positive
performance of previous years, increasing
sales revenues by 3.2% in local currency.
In France, LMS enjoyed a solid market in both
residential and commercial floorcovering.
With the sales activities of its 21 service
centres, supported by two principal
distribution centres, LMS increased sales
revenue by 3.0%.
Belcolor in Switzerland continued to enlarge
its presence in commercial flooring and
parquet, complementing its presence in
residential floorcovering, and increased 
sales revenue by 3.7%.
The number of active
customer accounts increased
from 39,033 in 2007 to 41,539
in 2008 illustrating that the
independent sector continues 
to prosper
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 19 Financial Review
TRADING
Revenue
Group revenues increased during the year by
2.3% from £544.7 million to £557.3 million.
In the UK, like for like sales decreased by
2.5%. However, businesses acquired during
2007 contributed an incremental £4.3 million
during the year reducing the decline in revenue
to 1.1% from £463.7 million to £458.6 million. 
On the Continent, our businesses collectively
achieved a like for like improvement of 3.2%
with overall revenues, including currency
effects, increasing by 21.9% from £81.0 million
to £98.70 million.
Gross margin
A substantial proportion of product purchased
by the group originates from suppliers located
in Continental Europe. The purchases by our 
UK businesses are predominately Sterling
based. However, due to Sterling’s continued
decline against the Euro over the course of
2008, coupled with high raw material price
inflation on oil related products during the first
half of 2008, imported product was subjected
to a number of price increases. These increases
were passed into the market in full enabling
gross margins to be retained.
Although inflationary pressures on oil-based
raw materials have eased, Sterling remains 
at historically weak levels compared with 
the Euro. Notwithstanding the existence of
forecasts, that predict that Sterling will recover
some of its losses against the Euro during
2009, the pricing environment has potential 
to remain volatile and it is difficult to be
certain about improvements in gross margin
whilst these conditions persist.
Expenses
Distribution and administration expenses,
collectively representing 23.9% of revenue,
increased by 8.3% compared with the previous
year.
Distribution expenses amounting to £98.5
million increased by 12.3% compared with last
year mainly due to fuel price rises, the full year
impact of sales and marketing investment
either implemented or initiated during 2007 
in combination with the cost of launching
yourfloors.co.uk and funding the first year of
funonthefloor.com.
Administration expenses decreased by 1.8%
from £35.0 million to £34.4 million due to the
lower level of intangible amortisation in 2008,
£0.3 million compared with 2007 when it
amounted to £1.5 million.
As mentioned in the Chief Executive’s Review,
during the second half of last year we
introduced a restructuring plan in connection
with the businesses located in Bishop
Auckland, Bristol and Northampton. The cost 
of restructuring amounted to £0.8 million and
we expect the full year benefit to amount to
£2.2 million.
We have already received substantial payments
on account in connection with the fire at our
Northampton facility and discussions with our
insurers are nearing conclusion. We are not
presently aware of any reasons why this claim
will not be settled equitably.
Financing costs
The movement in finance costs from £0.8
million to £1.6 million was due to the increase
in bank funding used to finance the share
buyback programme during 2007 and 2008 and
a requirement for additional working capital
investment during the second half of 2008.
Taxation
As previously anticipated, the effective rate of
taxation decreased to 28.5% during the year
down from last year’s rate of 30.0%. We expect
the rate to fall to 28.0% for 2009.
Last year we highlighted the potential for the
group’s deferred tax liability to increase by
£7.8 million because of the abolition of capital
allowances in respect of Industrial Buildings.
On further examination, we have reconsidered
the accounting implications and determined
that this adjustment was not necessary.
Therefore, consistent with our interpretation 
of IAS 12: Deferred Tax, no adjustment has
been reflected in these accounts.
Dividends
As already highlighted in the Chairman’s
Statement, the board has proposed a reduction
to the final dividend for 2008, which will result
in total dividends for the year decreasing by
14.7% to 19.7p per share. This represents a
cautious response by the board to challenging
markets and desire to retain a measure of
flexibility in uncertain times.
Cash flows and net funds
Cash generated from operations
Cash flows from operating activities declined 
by 10.6% during the year from £52.7 million 
to £47.1 million.
Investment in net working capital increased
during the year by £9.7 million from £10.0
million to £19.7 million leading to cash
generated from operations reducing by £15.3
million from £42.7 million to £27.4 million.
Compared with last year, we reduced our
investment in trade and other receivables 
and inventory by £7.7 million and £3.3 million
respectively. The movement in trade and other
payables required us to utilise additional bank
funding amounting to £20.7 million compared
with 2007 because the decline in revenues
during the second half of 2008 led to a
significant curtailment in buying activity.
Subject to no material adverse change in 2009
sales revenue, we expect our working capital
investment to be substantially lower.
Cash flows from investing and financing
activities
Net cash outflows from investing activities
totalled £7.1 million compared with £11.3
million during 2007. Investment in property,
plant and equipment amounted to £10.7
million compared with £11.0 million for 2007.
In common with 2007 and as already
highlighted in the Chief Executive’s Review,
expenditure related to a number of relatively
small projects.
Expenditure in 2009 will cover the purchase 
of the freehold interest in the Kidderminster
property, which was formerly occupied on a
leasehold basis, completion of the facility for
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 20 THE YEAR IN REVIEW
our Dutch business and purchase of the land
for the distribution facility for Faithfulls. These
projects in conjunction with regular recurring
investment will result in expenditure being
broadly the same as 2008.
Within our freehold property portfolio, we 
hold five vacant properties. These properties
are currently being marketed for disposal, but
we recognise that the prospect of sale in the
immediate future is remote given current
economic circumstances. Furthermore, our
preference is to hold the properties and realise
a fair value rather than sell at a discounted
price.
Net cash flow from investing activities moved
from a cash out flow of £39.7 million during
2007 to a cash inflow of £13.1 million in 2008.
The 2007 expenditure was principally due to
the share buy-back programme whilst the cash
inflow in 2008 results from the draw down of
loan facilities.
Changes in net funds
Group net funds decreased from £16.7 million
to £0.7 million during the year as detailed in
the table below. 
Employee benefits
During the year, the employee benefits net
deficit, as measured under IAS 19 increased 
by £3.3 million from £11.3 million to £14.6
million. The adverse movement on the UK
defined benefit pension plan was the principal
cause with the deficit increasing from £10.9
million to £12.9 million because of plan
obligations rising mainly due to the adoption
of the more up-to-date mortality assumptions
that were used for the triennial actuarial
valuation at 31 March 2008.
The group operates both UK and Swiss defined
benefit plans. The UK plan, which is the
group’s largest plan, is subject to a triennial
actuarial valuation that determines the plan’s
funding requirement. The UK plan actuary has
now issued the results of the triennial actuarial
valuation following a period of consultation
between the trustee and company. The results
conclude that the net deficit has increased
from £13.1 million at 31 March 2005 to £22.4
million at 31 March 2008. The two main factors
contributing to this deterioration, which arises
because of an increase in the plan’s
obligations, are changes in the mortality
assumptions and an increase in the inflation
assumption. The mortality assumptions have
been derived to take account of the
characteristics of the plan members and include
a greater allowance for future increases in
longevity compared with the assumptions
previously adopted. The annual contributions
for providing future service benefits have
increased by £0.2 million and annual
contributions required to fund the past service
deficit have increased by £1.2 million. This
results in total annual contributions increasing
by £1.4 million from £2.6 million to £4.0
million.
Facilities and going concern
The group’s total bank facilities amount to
£89.5 million. Our UK facilities total £75.0
million of which £30.0 million, a five-year 
term loan that was drawn in full during the
year, lapses in July 2012. The remaining £45.0
million are on demand facilities of which £20.0
million is due for renewal by 31 May 2009 and
£25.0 million due by 31 July 2009. Both our
UK banks have in principal, communicated
their intention to renew these facilities for 
a further twelve months.
Our banking partners on the Continent have
also signalled their intent to provide continued
support.
Having reviewed the group’s resources and a
range of likely trading out-turns, the directors
believe they have reasonable grounds for
stating that the group has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
group’s financial statements.
Stephen Wilson Group Finance Director
CHANGES IN NET FUNDS
At At 
1 January Cash Translation 31 December
2008 flows differences 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 16,805 16,600 1,788 35,193
Bank overdraft (103) 112 (9) –
16,702 16,712 1,779 35,193
Debt due within one year – (3,726) (780) (4,506)
Debt due after one year – (30,000) – (30,000)
16,702 (17,014) 999 687
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 21 Directors, Officers and Advisers
◆ Audit committee
● Remuneration committee
■ Nomination committee 
❉ Charities committee
ADVISERS
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
2 Cornwall Street
Birmingham B3 2DL
Taxation Advisers
Deloitte LLP
Four Brindleyplace
Birmingham B1 2HZ
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
PO Box 3333
15 Colmore Row
Birmingham B3 2WN
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Corporate and Institutional Banking
5th Floor, 2 St Philips Place
Birmingham B3 2RB
Stockbrokers
Arden Partners plc
Arden House
17 Highfield Road, Edgbaston
Birmingham B15 3DU
Registrars
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0LA
Swindon Building Society and Digital
Healthcare Limited, where he is Chairman. 
Age 56.
D L Grove 
Non-executive Director ◆ ● ■
David was appointed a non-executive 
director in October 2007. He is Chairman 
of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC, Chairman of 
Key Technologies PLC and a non-executive
director of a number of private manufacturing,
distribution and investment companies. 
Age 60.
COMPANY SECRETARY 
G M Duggan 
Geoff was appointed Company Secretary in
April 1998. He is an associate of the Institute
of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators
and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants. Age 48.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 
A J W Simpson 
Managing Director UK Operations
Andrew joined the company in September
1991 and is the Managing Director of UK
Operations. Andrew has 36 years experience
in the floorcovering industry. Age 56.
G B Phillips 
Finance Director Operations
Gary joined the company in June 1992 
and is the Finance Director of floorcovering
operations. He is an associate of the
Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants. Age 45.
A R Judge 
Managing Director,
Coleshill and Tamworth businesses
Tony joined the company in May 1992 and is
Managing Director of all businesses operating
from the Coleshill and Tamworth distribution
centres. Tony has 28 years experience in the
floorcovering industry. Age 44.
K R Yates 
Managing Director, Mercado
Keith joined Mercado in April 1983 and was
subsequently appointed its Managing Director
in 1996. Keith has 26 years experience in the
floorcovering industry. Age 53.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
G Waldron 
Chairman ❉
Graham was appointed an executive director 
in June 1991 becoming Chairman later that
year until 31 December 1999. On the
resignation of Trevor Larman on 1 June 2006
he was re-appointed Chairman. He has 56
years experience in the floorcovering industry.
He is the non-executive Chairman of Tandem
Group plc. Age 78.
A J Brewer 
Group Chief Executive ■
Tony was appointed an executive director in
June 1991, becoming Managing Director of 
the Floorcoverings Division in January 1992,
and was appointed Group Chief Executive in
November 2000. He has 31 years experience 
in the floorcovering industry. Age 48.
S G Wilson 
Group Finance Director
Steve was appointed Group Finance Director 
in December 1991. He is the non-executive
Chairman of Synergy Healthcare plc and is 
a fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants. Age 54.
R W Peters 
Non-executive Director ◆ ● ■
Dick was appointed a non-executive director 
in December 2005. He was formerly Senior
Partner for the East Midlands practice of
Deloitte & Touche in Nottingham. He is a BSc
in Mathematics and Statistics and is a fellow
of the Institute of Chartered Accountants. 
He has considerable experience of auditing
large companies, both UK and overseas,
transactional support and project management
activities. He is a director and Chairman of
Headlam Pension Trustees Limited. Age 54.
M K O’Leary 
Senior Independent Director ◆ ● ■
Mike was appointed a non-executive director
in March 2006. He was formerly a director of
MISYS plc and chief executive of Marlborough
Stirling plc. Mike has worked in domestic and
international markets and brings a wealth of
general management experience to the
company. He is currently a non-executive
director of Psion Teklogix plc, the Stroud &
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 22 ACCOUNTS
Financial Calendar
Announcements
Interim Management Statement 18 May 2009
Annual General Meeting 26 June 2009
Interim results announced 28 August 2009 
Interim Management Statement 19 November 2009
Full year results announced March 2010
Dividend Dates
Final dividend for 2008, if approved, payable to qualifying 
shareholders on the register as at 5 June 2009 1 July 2009
Interim dividend for 2009 announced August 2009
Interim dividend for 2009 payable January 2010
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 23 Directors’ Report
The directors present their annual report to shareholders on the affairs 
of the group and the company together with the audited financial
statements and independent auditor’s report, for the year ended 
31 December 2008.
Principal activity
The group’s activities are wholly aligned to the sales, marketing, supply
and distribution of floorcovering and certain other ancillary products. 
The principal trading subsidiaries are listed on page 91.
Review of the business
A detailed review of the group’s activities and future plans is contained
within the Chairman’s Statement on page 10 and the Chief Executive’s
Review and the Financial Review on pages 16 to 21. The information
contained in these sections fulfils the requirements of the Business
Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and
should be treated as part of this report. The reports on Corporate
Governance on pages 29 to 34 and Corporate and Social Responsibility 
on pages 41 to 43 are also incorporated into this report by reference. 
A description of the group’s financial risk management objectives and
policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity and cash flow risk is
contained in note 22 to the Financial Statements on page 81. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
The group’s business, results and financial condition are influenced by 
a range of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond the control
of the board. Whilst the following highlights some of these risks it is not
intended to provide an exhaustive analysis of the risks affecting the
business. For instance, there are some risks which are as yet not known
and others which whilst not presently material could become a
significant factor in the future.
Market demand
Approximately 94% of the group’s sales are to independent retailers 
and flooring contractors. The activity levels within this customer base 
are determined by consumer demand created through residential property
refurbishment or moves, new residential housing developments and a
wide range of commercial refurbishment and new building projects.
Periods of recession, low consumer confidence or changes in trends and
preferences have the potential to affect market activity and therefore
demand for products supplied by the group. However, market activity is
monitored in each individual business and at group level on a daily basis
which enables a rapid response to any factors adversely affecting trading.
Furthermore, since the group’s principal activities are supply and
distribution, it has the ability to quickly respond to market changes.
This, coupled with the development of broad market penetration through
the establishment of a range of diverse regional, national and specialist
businesses provides the group with a degree of resilience and protection.
Competitor risk
The group operates in four different geographical markets which generally
share similar trading characteristics. Within each market, the group
competes with a variety of regional and national distributors,
manufacturers selling directly to our customer base and indirectly with
multiple retail chains. The group seeks to sustain its competitive position
by maintaining close relationships with its supplier and customer base.
Substantial and continued investment in: 
• management
• an extensive product offering
• a knowledgeable sales resource
• stock availability
• IT
• efficient material handling and 
• logistics
removes the need to compete strictly on price and allows the group to
enhance its overall market position through its commitment to service.
The distribution competition in Continental Europe is diverse and very
fragmented. The group has deliberately adopted a cautious acquisition
policy in these markets searching for opportunities that provide good
growth opportunities but at sensible valuations. Given the number of
opportunities it is possible that a competitor, following a more
aggressive acquisition strategy on the Continent, could challenge 
the group’s position as Europe’s leading floorcovering distributor.
Credit risk
The group trades with the majority of its customers on credit terms 
and therefore there is always the risk that customers are unable to pay
outstanding balances. The group has standardised credit checking and
debt collection procedures at each individual business. Businesses are
encouraged to share credit information with other group businesses on 
a regular basis in order to prevent the escalation of small credit risks. 
All open accounts are subject to credit limits and businesses must obtain
central approval for credit limits in excess of £10,000. These procedures,
combined with the local knowledge of the credit control teams, not only
reduce the risk of default, but also, in a number of instances, provide
opportunities to assist the customer to trade out of their default
position. The group does not use credit insurance since the level of
default is generally low. Appropriate impairment provisions are made on 
a regular basis whenever the likelihood of default is high.
Infrastructure
An important element of the group’s ability to service its customer base
is its network of distribution and service centres. The group’s policy of
improvement through continued investment in new or extended facilities
has been one of the principal drivers behind the group’s historic growth
rates. In order to support growth rates in the future, the group will
continue to invest in new centres. There is a risk that future growth will
be constrained if these development projects are unduly delayed through
either land availability, planning consent or prohibitive building cost.
Systems
The group is highly reliant on its IT systems to deliver its operational
objectives and maintain financial control. As a consequence, any
prolonged IT failure has the potential to adversely affect business
activity. However, each business has its own dedicated computer 
system and failure in one will not interrupt another. Furthermore, the
group operates well defined back up procedures and has contingency
plans in place to enable swift recovery from a failure of this nature.
Transport
The majority of customer orders result in deliveries within twenty four
hours on vehicles operated by the group. Any interruption to this service,
for example, major disruption to road networks or the prolonged reduced
availability of vehicle fuel could have an adverse affect on activity.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 24 ACCOUNTS
Directors’ Report
continued
People
The group’s ability to deliver continued success is very dependant upon
its people. The group is committed to providing a workplace that is safe
and environmentally sound and creating opportunities for individuals to
progress their careers. Recruitment, training and development are aimed
at ensuring that the group has suitably skilled and qualified people to
meet the operational needs of the business.
Pension
The cost of funding the group’s defined benefit plans may increase due 
to a decline in investment returns, movement in interest rates and longer
life expectancy. As a result of the triennial actuarial valuation of the UK
plan, undertaken at 31 March 2008, the group agreed to make an
additional payment of approximately £1.4 million every year until 2018.
The results of future scheme valuations, the next being 31 March 2011,
could result in this commitment increasing.
Government legislation
The group’s operations are regulated by a variety of laws, which relate,
amongst others, to health and safety, the environment, employment,
commercial, corporate, financial and tax. The group is committed to
complying with these requirements in each of the markets in which it
operates and achieves this by managing its obligations at the group level
and within individual businesses. Where appropriate, the group engages
the services of competent third party advisers. Changes in regulations are
incorporated into the group’s polices and procedures on a timely basis.
Financial results and dividends
The profit attributable to equity holders of the company for the financial
year was £28.7 million as shown in the Consolidated Income Statement
set out on page 46. 
The directors are proposing a final dividend for the current year of 14.10p
per share (2007: 17.75p), making a total dividend of 19.70p per share
for the year (2007: 23.10p).The final dividend, if approved by
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), will be payable on 
1 July 2009 to shareholders whose names appear on the register at the
close of business on 5 June 2009. The associated ex-dividend date is 
3 June 2009. An interim dividend of 5.60p per share (2007: 5.35p) was
paid on 2 January 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of
business on 5 December 2008.
Directors and their interests
The following were directors of the company during the financial year
ended 31 December 2008: Graham Waldron, Tony Brewer, Steve Wilson,
Dick Peters, Mike O’Leary and David Grove, biographical details of the
directors currently serving on the board being set out on page 22. No
other person has acted as a director of the company during the financial
year ended 31 December 2008. The company’s Articles of Association
(“articles”) give directors power to appoint and replace directors. The
articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election
to the first AGM following appointment, that directors retire at the AGM
held in the third calendar year after election or last re-election and that
one third of the directors retire by rotation each year. Accordingly Steve
Wilson and Mike O’Leary retire by rotation and being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM. In proposing their 
re-election, the board confirms to shareholders that following a formal
performance evaluation, each of these individual’s performance continues
to be effective and they have expressed a willingness to continue in their
roles.
Details of directors remuneration and service contracts are set out on
pages 37 and 38.The beneficial interests of the directors and their
immediate families in the company’s shares and their interests in share
options are detailed on page 39. No director had, at any time during the
period under review, a material interest in any contract with the company
or any of its subsidiaries. 
Directors’ indemnity
The company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and
indemnity cover (as defined in section 233 of the Companies Act 2006)
which is provided for the benefit of the company’s directors and officers.
AGM
This years AGM will be held at the group’s distribution facility in Coleshill,
Birmingham on Friday 26 June 2009 at 10.00am. The notice convening
this meeting has been mailed to shareholders with this Annual Report. 
A description of the resolutions that will be proposed at the meeting is
set out below. 
Resolution 1 - Report and accounts
The company is required by law to put its Annual Report and Accounts
for the financial year ended 31 December 2008 before the meeting.
Shareholders are invited to vote to receive and adopt the Annual Report
and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Resolution 2 - Declaration of dividend
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 14.10p on
each of the ordinary shares entitled thereto. The final dividend, together
with the interim dividend of 5.60p, gives a total dividend of 19.70p.
Subject to shareholders’ approval, the final dividend is expected to be
paid on 1 July 2009 to shareholders on the register on 5 June 2009. 
Resolution 3 - Re-election of Steve Wilson as a director
Steve Wilson (age 54) is retiring by rotation in accordance with the
company’s articles and is offering himself for re-election 
by shareholders. He became Group Finance Director on appointment to
the board in December 1991.
Resolution 4 - Re-election of Mike O’Leary as a director
Mike O’Leary (age 56) is retiring by rotation in accordance with the
company’s articles and is offering himself for re-election by shareholders.
Mike was appointed a non-executive director in March 2006. He was
formerly a director of MISYS plc and chief executive of Marlborough
Stirling plc. 
Resolution 5 - Re-appointment of Auditor 
The company is required to appoint an auditor at each general meeting
at which accounts are laid before the company, to hold office until the
end of the next such meeting. This resolution proposes the appointment
of an auditor. KPMG has expressed its willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 6 - Agreement of Auditor remuneration
In addition to the company’s requirement to appoint an auditor,
shareholder authority is sought for the directors to determine the
remuneration to be paid to the auditor for the period of appointment.
Resolution 7 - Directors’ Remuneration Report
Shareholders are being asked to approve the 2008 director’s
Remuneration Report, which is set out on pages 35 to 40 of the
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 25 Directors’ Report
continued
company’s Annual Report and Accounts. Whilst the payment of
remuneration to the directors is not dependent on the passing of the
resolution, the board will take the vote into account when considering
the future development and operation of the company’s remuneration
policy and practice.
Special Business – Resolutions 8 to 11
Resolution 8 - Authority to allot shares
Shareholders are again being asked to pass the necessary resolution to
grant to the directors a general authority, for the purpose of section 80
of the Companies Act 1985, to allot relevant securities. On this occasion
the proposed general authority is to allot up to an aggregate nominal
amount of £1,122,500 representing 22,450,000 ordinary shares (29.8% 
of the company’s ordinary share capital in issue at 20 March 2009 (the
latest practical date prior to the publication of this report)). As at 
20 March 2009, the company held 2,248,647 treasury shares, which
represented approximately 2.63% of the company’s issued share capital,
which the company can cancel or hold for sale or use to meet the
obligations under the company’s employee share schemes.
This authority will lapse on 30 June 2010 or at the conclusion of the
AGM to be held in 2010, if earlier. Your directors have no current
intention of exercising this authority except in connection with the
company’s employee share schemes.
Resolution 9 - Dis-application of pre-emption rights 
Shareholders are again being asked to pass a resolution to empower 
the directors to allot equity securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash 
as if section 89(1) of the Companies Act 1985 (which gives shareholders
certain pre-emption rights on the issue of shares or convertible
securities) did not apply to any such allotment. The authority allows 
the issue or sale of shares of up to an aggregate nominal amount of
£1,122,500 representing 22,450,000 ordinary shares in respect of rights
issues and other issues pro-rata to existing entitlements, and also allows
issues or sales for cash (other than in relation to a rights issue) limited
to shares having an aggregate nominal amount of £213,000 (5% of 
the company’s ordinary share capital in issue at 20 March 2009). The
authority will lapse on 30 June 2010 or at the conclusion of the AGM to
be held in 2010, if earlier.
Resolution 10 - Purchase of own shares
The directors believe that it is in the interests of the company and its
members to continue to have the flexibility to purchase its own shares
and this resolution seeks authority from members to do so. The directors
intend only to exercise this authority where, after considering market
conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such
exercise would be to increase the earnings per share and be in the best
interests of shareholders generally. The effect of such purchases would
either be to cancel the number of shares in issue or the directors may
elect to hold them in treasury pursuant to the Companies (Acquisition 
of Own Shares) (Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 (the “Regulations”),
which came into force on 1 December 2003. The Regulations enable
certain listed companies to hold shares in treasury, as an alternative to
cancelling them, following a purchase of own shares by a company in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. Shares held in treasury may
subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy share options
and share awards under a company’s employee share scheme. Once held
in treasury, a company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including
the right to attend and vote at meetings in respect of the shares.
Further, no dividend or other distribution of the company’s assets may 
be made to the company in respect of the treasury shares.
This resolution renews the authority given at the AGM held on 20 June
2008. The authority is in respect of 10% of the company’s issued ordinary
share capital (excluding treasury shares) as at 20 March 2009 and will
lapse on 30 June 2010 or at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in
2010, if earlier. The resolution specifies the maximum and minimum
prices at which the shares may be bought. If the company buys any of its
shares under the authority proposed by resolution 10, the board will
decide at the time whether to cancel them immediately or hold them in
treasury. The purchase of shares will be dependent on market conditions
and will also take into account the cash generated in the business and
other investment opportunities that may arise over time.
Details of share options outstanding and treasury share movements
including details of own shares acquired by the company are shown
respectively in notes 19 and 21 to the financial statements. 
Resolution 11 - Shareholder rights directive
This will be proposed as a special resolution to approve the holding of
general meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 days’ notice. Although the
company’s articles currently permit this, regulations are due to come into
force on 3 August 2009 to implement the Shareholder Rights Directive in
the UK. As currently drafted, these regulations will require a shareholder
resolution to be passed to authorise general meetings to be held on 14
days' notice. Without the passing of resolution 11, the minimum notice
period under the regulations would be 21 days. If resolution 11 is passed
by the shareholders, the regulations as currently drafted would only allow
the company to call a general meeting on 14 days' notice if it were to
make a system of electronic voting available to its shareholders in
respect of the meeting in question. Although the final form of the
regulations will not be known before the AGM, the directors nevertheless
consider it to be in the best interest of shareholders to pass resolution
11 in order to prevent being constrained by the regulations implementing
the directive.
Recommendation
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM
are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole.
Your board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends
that you do so as well.
Full details of these resolutions are provided in the Notice of Annual
General Meeting accompanying this report.
Takeovers directive
The following provides the additional information required for
shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive
into English law. 
As at 31 December 2008, the company’s issued share capital comprised 
a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares. Details of the
ordinary share capital can be found in note 21 to the financial
statements which should be treated as forming part of this report.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder 
of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have 
one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy 
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 26 ACCOUNTS
Directors’ Report
continued
and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and
appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be
passed at the AGM. All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for,
against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at 
the AGM and published on the company’s website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the
company other than:
• certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and
regulations (for example, insider trading laws).
• pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority
whereby certain directors, officers and employees of the company
require the approval of the company to deal in the company’s
ordinary shares.
Resolution 10, which will be proposed as a special resolution at the 2009
AGM, will give the company authority to use its available cash resources
to acquire up to 12,467,000 of its own shares in the market for either
cancellation or to hold them as treasury shares. The directors will only
use this power after careful consideration, taking into account market
conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities,
appropriate gearing levels, and the overall position of the company. 
The directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account 
the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders.
The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or voting rights.
There are no agreements between the company and its directors or
employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment
(whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise) that
occurs because of a takeover bid. The company’s banking arrangements
are terminable upon a change of control of the company. Certain other
indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a
downgrade in the credit rating of the company. 
The company’s articles may only be amended by a special resolution at 
a general meeting of shareholders. At the 2009 AGM a special resolution
will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the company’s
existing articles as described under the above AGM section and in the
Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Substantial shareholdings
As at the last date prior to posting the Annual Report and Accounts, in
accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the company had
been notified of the following substantial interests in the share capital of
the company.
Ordinary shares of 5p each
Nature of
Shareholder Number Per cent holding
Aberforth Partners LLP 4,163,928 5.01% Indirect
Aegon UK Group of Companies 5,853,493 7.04% Direct and
Indirect
Aviva plc 6,281,526 7.56% Direct and
Indirect
AXA S.A. 4,573,109 3.39% Direct and
Indirect
Credit Suisse Asset
Management Limited 5,665,376 6.82% Direct
Legal & General Investment
Management Limited 3,292,327 3.96% Direct
Lloyds TSB Group Plc 5,773,723 6.95% Direct and
Indirect
Schroders plc 8,289,262 9.97% Direct
Contributions for political and charitable purposes
The group’s Charities Committee considers requests for charitable
donations within set criteria. During 2008, in addition to donations 
made to overseas charities, the group contributed charitable donations 
to UK charitable organisations, principally to local organisations serving
the communities in which we operate, of £9,528 (2007: £19,174). 
The group’s policy is not to make any donations for political purposes 
in the UK or to donate to EU political parties or incur EU political
expenditure. Accordingly neither the company nor its subsidiaries made
any political donations or incurred political expenditure in the financial
period under review (2007: nil).
Supplier payment policy
It is the group’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in
accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the company
and its suppliers. The group seeks to strictly comply with these payment
terms whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods
and services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. The
payment policy has been and will continue to be developed to meet the
group’s specific requirements and is not based on any particular code or
standard relating to payment practice. The number of creditor days of 
the company at 31 December 2008 was 45 days (2007: 43 days).
The environment
The group regards compliance with relevant environmental laws and the
adoption of responsible standards as integral to its business operation. 
It is also committed to introducing measures to limit any adverse effects
its business may have on the environment and will promote continuous
improvement in accordance with best available techniques.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 27 Directors’ Report
continued
Employee involvement
The total number of employees at the end of the period was 2,061. 
The group recognises the value of its employees and seeks to create 
an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment in which to work. 
It places considerable importance on communications with employees
which take place at many levels through the organisation on both a
formal and informal level.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the company and the group
operates an HMRC Approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme
(SAYE). Those employees who choose to take up the option to purchase
shares in the company may enter into a savings arrangement for either 
a three or five year period, with the option price determined by reference
to the share price at the date of grant. On exercise the shares are
purchased by the employee free of income tax and national insurance,
although capital gains tax rules apply.
Disabled employees
The group gives full consideration to applications for employment from
disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately
fulfilled by handicapped or disabled persons. Where existing employees
become disabled, it is the group’s policy wherever practicable, to provide
continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to
provide training, career development and promotion wherever appropriate.
Further details of arrangements relating to employees are described in
the Corporate and Social Responsibility report on pages 41 to 43. 
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the
group and parent company financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company
financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they are
required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to
prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
The group and parent company financial statements are required by law
and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position 
of the group and the parent company and the performance for that
period; the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial
statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial
statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving
a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements,
the directors are required to:
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
• make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
• state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as
adopted by the EU and
• prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it
is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company
will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of
the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.They have general
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to
safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible
for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ Remuneration Report and
Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those
regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
corporate and financial information included on the company’s website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement in respect of the annual
financial report:
The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
• The group and parent company financial statements in this report,
which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (adopted IFRSs), including
interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board (IASB) and those sections of the Companies Act 1985
applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs as adopted in the EU,
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position
and profit of the company and group taken as a whole; and
• The management report (which comprises the Directors' report and
Chief Executive’s Review) includes a fair review of the development
and performance of the business and the position of the company
and the group taken as a whole, together with a description of the
principle risks and uncertainties they face.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
In accordance with the provisions of section 234 ZA of the Companies
Act 1985 the directors who held office at the date of approval of this
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is 
no relevant audit information of which the company’s auditor is unaware,
and each of the directors has taken all steps that he ought to have taken
as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information, 
as defined, and to establish that the company’s auditor is aware of that
information.
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as
auditor of the company and in accordance with the provisions of section
385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for its re-appointment and
to authorise the directors to agree its remuneration will be proposed at
the forthcoming AGM. Auditor remuneration and fees paid during the year
to 31 December 2008 are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
This directors report has been approved by the board and signed on its
behalf by
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
30 March 2009
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 28 ACCOUNTS
Corporate Governance
The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance
and supports the principles laid down in the revised Combined Code 
on Corporate Governance as issued by the Financial Reporting Council
in June 2006 (‘the Code’). This statement describes how the principles
of the Code are applied and reports on the company’s compliance with
the Code’s provisions. The Code is publicly available on the Financial
Reporting Council’s website www.frc.org.uk. 
The directors consider that the company has been in compliance with
the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December
2008 and up to the date of this report. 
Directors’ and board effectiveness
The board is collectively responsible for the proper management and
success of the group. Its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership
within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables
risk to be assessed and managed; to set strategic aims, ensure that
the necessary financial and human resources are in place to meet its
objectives and review management performance; to set the group’s
values and standards; and to ensure that its obligations to its
shareholders and others are understood and met. 
To help ensure the effective control of the group, the board has a
number of items reserved for its sole consideration:
• setting group strategy
• preparation, review and approval of an annual budget and medium
term projections
• reviewing operational and financial performance
• approving acquisitions and divestments
• material agreements and major capital commitments 
• reviewing the group’s systems of financial control and risk
management
• ensuring that appropriate management development and
succession plans are in place
• reviewing the health and safety and environmental performance 
of the group
• approving appointments to the board and to the position of
Company Secretary and approving policies relating to directors’
remuneration and the severance of directors’ service contracts
• ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders
• approval of annual and interim results and the annual report and
accounts
• setting and agreeing dividend policy
• approving and reviewing the group’s treasury policy
• reviewing the group’s approach to corporate governance and
ensuring compliance with the listing requirements
• setting the group’s policy with regards to corporate social
responsibility
Further details of the board’s role in relation to the group’s systems 
of internal control and risk management are given on pages 33 and 34. 
A description of the specific responsibilities delegated to the principal
board committees is given on pages 31 to 33.
Board of directors
The board of directors (the “board”) currently has six members,
comprising Graham Waldron, Chairman, Tony Brewer, Group Chief
Executive, Steve Wilson, Group Finance Director and three independent
non-executive directors, Dick Peters, Mike O’Leary and David Grove.
Mike O’Leary was the Senior Independent Director throughout the year.
All of the directors bring strong judgement to the boards deliberations
and the board is of sufficient size and diversity that the balance of
skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for the
requirements of the business. The non-executive directors are all
independent of management and free from any business or other
relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred
to in provision A.3.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with
the exercise of independent and objective judgement. The Senior
Independent Director, Mike O’Leary, is available to shareholders if they
have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of
the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director; or for
which such contact is inappropriate. The board will keep under review
the size and structure of the board to ensure it is appropriate for the
ongoing business.
The biographical details of the current directors are given on page 22.
The board usually meets eight or nine times a year and normally
includes at least one meeting at an operating business. During the
year there are sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to meet with
the non-executive directors without the executive directors being
present should this be deemed appropriate. The Company Secretary
maintains a record of attendance at board meetings and committee
meetings, further details of which are set out on page 31.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief
Executive are clearly divided, set out in writing and periodically
reviewed by the board. Whilst collectively they are responsible for 
the leadership of the group, the Chairman’s primary responsibility 
is for leading the board and ensuring its effectiveness and the Group
Chief Executive is responsible for implementing strategy, running 
the businesses in accordance with the objectives and policies agreed
by the board and for the executive management of the group. 
The other significant current commitments of the Chairman are listed
in his biography on page 22 and the board is satisfied that his
existing commitments do not unduly restrict his availability to the
group.
Board information, induction, training and professional
development
The board has a forward rolling business agenda which is regularly
updated to include specific topics that directors have requested for
review at future meetings. The board reviews the key activities of the
business receiving papers and presentations from senior management
and external advisers, generally a week in advance of the meeting, to
enable it to do so effectively. There is an established procedure for the
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 29 Corporate Governance
continued
preparation and review, at least annually, by the board of medium term
plans and the annual budget. The board receives regular reports from
the executive management covering a broad range of issues including
health, safety and environmental matters, finance and operational
performance, risk management, business development initiatives,
special projects, legal and regulatory developments, governance and
best practice guidelines that affect the group. The Company Secretary
is responsible to the board, and is available to individual directors, 
in respect of board procedures. In conjunction with the Chairman, 
the Company Secretary ensures that information distributed to the
board is sufficient, clear and accurate, that it is circulated in a timely
manner and is appropriate to enable the board to discharge its duties. 
On joining the board, a director receives a comprehensive induction
pack which includes background information about the group and 
its directors, details of board meeting procedures, directors’
responsibilities, procedures for dealing in company shares and a
number of other governance-related issues. The director meets 
with the Group Chief Executive to be briefed on the general group
strategy encompassing visits to group businesses. External training,
particularly on matters relating to the role of a director and the role
and responsibilities of board committees, is arranged as appropriate.
Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary and may be
identified in annual performance reviews or on an ad hoc basis. 
The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the 
Company Secretary. Training and development of directors in the 
year took various forms, including visits to group businesses with the
Group Chief Executive, attendance by certain directors at courses run
by professional bodies and solicitors, attendance at external training
sessions and seminars on matters relevant to members of the audit
and remuneration committees and workshops run by external bodies 
on various commercial and regulatory matters. Directors receive 
regular updates appropriate to the business throughout the year and
the company provides resources for directors to develop and refresh
their knowledge and capabilities as required. All directors are suitably
qualified, trained and experienced so as to be able to participate fully
in the work of the board.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary. In
addition, to assist with the independent conduct of their function and
if required in connection with their duties, the non-executive directors
are able to obtain professional advice at the company’s expense, and 
a process is in place to facilitate this. The company provides directors’
and officers’ insurance cover, in line with normal market practice, for
the benefit of directors in respect of claims arising in the performance
of their duties.
Board appointments and performance evaluation
There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of
new directors to the board which is described in the section on the
nominations committee below. Non-executive directors are initially
appointed for a three-year term and, subject to review and re-election,
can serve up to a maximum of three such terms. 
In line with agreed procedures, using an in-house process, the board
has conducted an evaluation of its own performance and that of its
committees and individual directors, including the Chairman, involving
the completion of a questionnaire. No actions were considered
necessary as a result of the evaluations. The board intends to conduct
a further evaluation of its performance during 2009 with the aim of
continually improving processes, procedures and performance. The
evaluation process is designed to cover board processes, the structure
and capability of the board, strategic alignment, board dynamics and
the skills brought to the board by each director.
The schedule of matters reserved for the board, statements outlining
the roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive, the terms of
reference of the committees and other policy statements are
periodically reviewed as part of the evaluation process.
The Chairman communicates frequently with the non-executive and
executive directors. Directors have the opportunity to discuss any
issues or concerns with the Chairman at any time throughout the year.
Director re-election
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM
following their appointment by the board. Under the articles of
association of the company, each of the directors is required to retire
by rotation at least once every three years. Details of the directors
retiring and seeking re-election at an AGM are given to shareholders 
in the directors report and also in the notice of meeting.
Accountability and audit
The statement of the responsibility of directors for the preparation of
the Directors’ Report and the accounts under adopted IFRS is set out
on page 28.The director’s confirmation that they consider it
appropriate to prepare the accounts for 2008 on a going concern basis
is given on page 21.
Communication with shareholders
The company is committed to maintaining good communications 
with shareholders. The board aims to present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the group’s financial position and
prospects in its reporting to shareholders and this is outlined in the
Financial Review. The company reports formally to shareholders twice 
a year when its half year and full year results are announced and an
interim and a full year report is issued to shareholders. There are
regular institutional, analyst and media presentations which cover
strategy, trading and market conditions. The company seeks to present
an accurate and objective view in a manner appropriate for the
intended audience. Contact with the major shareholders is principally
maintained by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Chairman ensures that the views of shareholders are communicated
to the board as a whole. The board is provided with a summary of the
feedback from broker and shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have met with
the company’s brokers during the year to ensure they are aware of the
current views of major shareholders and of any material issues they
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 30 ACCOUNTS
Corporate Governance
continued
may have. These reports include summaries prepared by the company’s
brokers on the market’s reaction to results announcements and the
subsequent meetings between management and investors. External
brokers’ reports on the company are circulated to all directors. The
Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors 
are invited to attend presentations to analysts and shareholders, in
particular the annual and interim results presentations. No specific
meetings were requested by shareholders with the non-executive
directors during the year.
All directors normally attend the AGM and shareholders are invited 
to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with directors after
the formal proceedings have ended. The group seeks to present an
accurate, objective and balanced picture in its annual and interim
reports, trading statements, results presentations and city
announcements in a style and format which is appropriate to the
intended audience. Copies of annual and interim reports, along with
other published information and press releases, are available on the
company’s website at www.headlam.com. The notice of the meeting
and related papers are sent to shareholders at least twenty-one clear
days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each
substantial issue. Shareholders at the meeting are advised as to the
level of proxy votes received, including the percentage for and against
each resolution together with the level of abstentions, following each
vote on a show of hands. The company issues a market announcement
after the conclusion of the AGM setting out the voting results of the
various resolutions and details are made available on the company’s
website.
Details of the 2009 AGM are set out in the notice of meeting which
forms part of these report and accounts along with details of the
facilities available for proxy votes to be cast electronically. The
company offers shareholders the right to withhold their vote, if they
so wish, in line with best practice.
Directors’ attendance record
The attendance of directors at relevant meetings of the board and of
the remuneration, audit and nominations committees held during 2008
was as follows:
Board Committee meetings
meetings Remuneration Audit Nominations
Total number of meetings 8 5 3 1
Graham Waldron 8 * * *
Tony Brewer 8 * * 1
Stephen Wilson 8 * * *
Dick Peters 7 5 3 1
Mike O’Leary 7 5 3 1
David Grove 7 5 3 1
*Executive directors do not attend these meetings unless invited to do so by the committee Chairman.
Board committees
The terms of reference of the following board committees are available
upon request.
Audit committee
At 31 December 2008, membership of the audit committee comprised
Dick Peters (Chairman), Mike O’Leary and David Grove, each being 
non-executive directors and regarded by the board as independent. 
The board has determined that Dick Peters has recent and relevant
financial experience. Only members of the committee are entitled to
be present at meetings however the auditor, Chairman, Group Chief
Executive and Group Finance Director attend meetings by invitation.
The company does not have a formal internal audit function,
considering that one is not appropriate, however detailed monthly
reviews are carried out by the Finance Director for Operations and
Financial Controller. The Finance Director for Operations reports to 
the Group Finance Director and has access to the Chairman of the
committee. The committee members, all other directors and senior
management have direct access to the external auditor throughout 
the year, to seek advice or raise any issues or concerns.
The committee monitors the integrity of the company’s financial
statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process. It is
responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the
company and the external auditor is maintained, including reviewing
non-audit services and fees, and makes recommendations to the board
on the appointment, re-appointment or dismissal of the external
auditor. It also reviews the group’s systems of internal control and the
processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the group on
an ongoing basis. The committee periodically reviews its terms of
reference and its effectiveness and recommends to the board any
changes required as a result of such review.
The committee has an agenda linked to events in the group’s financial
calendar, normally meeting at least twice a year, including meetings
before the annual and interim results announcements. The committee
met three times in the year, members’ attendance record being given
above, during which it discharged its responsibilities as set out in its
terms of reference and schedule of business for the year. All of the
committee members attended the meetings that they were eligible to
attend. The committee has authority to investigate any matters within
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 31 Corporate Governance
continued
its terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information and
to obtain external professional advice at the cost of the company.
At each meeting there is an opportunity for the external auditor to
discuss matters with the committee without any executive
management being present. The committee has independent access 
to the external auditor who has direct access to the Chairman of the
committee outside formal committee meetings. The Audit committee
has the specific task of keeping under review the nature and extent of
non-audit services provided by the external auditor in order to ensure
that objectivity and independence are maintained. The external auditor
has in place processes to ensure its independence is maintained
including safeguards to ensure that, where it does provide non-audit
services, its independence is not compromised. It has written to the
audit committee confirming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
During the 2008 financial period, the Audit committee discharged its
responsibilities by:
• reviewing the group’s draft 2007 preliminary annual results
announcement and financial statements and 2008 interim results
statement prior to board approval, including consideration of the
significant accounting judgments contained therein, and reviewing
the external auditors’ detailed reports thereon
• reviewing the group’s trading update announcement prior to
release at the AGM
• reviewing the consistency of and any changes to the group’s
accounting policies, the application of appropriate accounting
standards and methods used to account for significant or unusual
transactions.
• reviewing regularly the potential impact on the group’s financial
statements of certain matters such as impairment of asset values
and employee benefits
• reviewing the effectiveness of the 2007 external audit process 
and recommending to the board, after due consideration, the 
re-appointment of the incumbent external auditor at the AGM
• reviewing the application of the board’s policy on non-audit work
performed by the group’s external auditor together with the non-
audit fees payable to the external auditor in 2007
• reviewing the external auditors’ plan for the audit of the group’s
2008 accounts, which included key areas of focus, key risks on the
accounts, confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed
audit fee and approving the terms of engagement for the audit
• reviewing reports from the external auditor on the group’s systems
of internal control in advance of the announcement of the group’s
results for 2007 (the internal report included a summary of and
commentary on the business risks and internal control processes)
and reporting to the board on the results of this review and
reviewing interim updates prior to the interim results
• receiving regular updates from management on key financial
control matters arising in the group
• considering the appropriateness of an internal audit function
During the year the committee reviewed the scope and programme 
of work to be undertaken by the external auditor, considered the
independence and objectivity of services provided and reviewed the
level of fees paid for those services. Whilst KPMG have been an
external auditor to the group since 1991, there is a procedure in 
place for the audit partner to change every five years, so maintaining
objectivity and independence without the need to change firms, the
last such change taking place during 2007.
Resolution 5 set out in the Notice of AGM recommends that
shareholders re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the group’s auditor and
resolution 6 authorises the directors to determine their remuneration.
When appointing advisers for non-audit work, the group considers 
the value for money, experience and objectivity required and in this
respect it has used Deloitte & Touche to conduct non-audit tax work.
The committee recognises that there are occasions when it is
advantageous to use the external auditor to undertake non-audit
services, when they are best placed to do so. The committee operates
under a formal policy approved by the board to help ensure the
independence and objectivity of the external auditor is not
compromised. The policy states that non-audit fees paid to the
principal external auditor should not exceed 250% of the audit fee,
except in the case of significant events. The Chairman of the
committee is required to authorise non-audit work above a pre-agreed
threshold. Note 3 to the group accounts provides a breakdown of 2007
and 2008 audit and non-audit fees. In 2008, the non-audit services
provided by the external auditor was below the pre-agreed threshold,
being predominantly in respect of salary sacrifice arrangements.
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration committee comprises Mike O’Leary (Chairman), 
Dick Peters and David Grove. It met five times in the period. The
committee determines, on behalf of the board, service contract terms,
remuneration and benefits, including bonuses, for executive directors
and senior managers. It is also responsible for the granting of share
based incentive awards. Further information on the activities of the
committee is given in the directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 35 
to 40 which should be read in conjunction with this report. The
directors’ Remuneration Report also describes how the principles of the
Code are applied in respect of remuneration matters and includes a
statement on the company’s policy on directors’ and senior managers’
remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements and pension
arrangements.
A resolution to approve the remuneration report will be proposed at
the AGM.
Nominations committee
During the year the Nominations committee consisted of the non-
executive directors, Mike O’Leary, Dick Peters and David Grove, and 
the Group Chief Executive, Tony Brewer, under the Chairmanship of
Mike O’Leary. Appointments to the committee are made by the board. 
The committee leads the process for identifying and makes
recommendations to the board on candidates for appointment as
directors of the company and as Company Secretary, giving full
consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of 
the group. It also makes recommendations to the board on the
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 32 ACCOUNTS
Corporate Governance
continued
composition and Chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration
committees. It keeps under review the structure, size and composition
of the board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience
and the independence of the non-executive directors, and makes
recommendations to the board with regard to any changes. The
committee meets periodically when required. The Nominations
committee met once during the year, as reflected in the attendance
record during 2008 given above. Only members of the committee are
entitled to be present at meetings but others may be invited by the
committee to attend. The board has agreed the procedures to be
followed by the Nominations committee in making appointments to
the various positions on the board and as Company Secretary. The
committee has access to such information and advice both from 
within the group and externally, at the cost of the company, as it
deems necessary. This may include the appointment of external
executive search consultants, where appropriate. No director is
involved in any decisions regarding their appointment.
All non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three year term
pursuant to a standard letter of appointment, which is available for
viewing at the company’s registered office during normal business
hours or at the AGM.
The committee ensures that newly appointed directors receive a full
induction and when considering the re-appointment of directors
ensures that the board has an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge
and experience. Items discussed by the committee during the year to
enable it to discharge its duties in accordance with its terms of
reference included:
• the size, structure, composition and skills of the board
membership
• the consideration of potential candidates submitted by members 
of the board regarding the appointment of an independent non-
executive director
• the proposal to re-elect Steve Wilson and Mike O’Leary under the
retirement by rotation provisions
• the board and board committee evaluation process
The committee, in conjunction with the board, receives updates from
the Group Chief Executive on succession and development planning for
senior positions within the group. Changes to directors’ commitments
are reported to the committee as they arise and are considered on
their individual merits. There were no significant changes to any of 
the directors’ external commitments during the year.
Risk management and internal controls
The board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining
the group’s systems of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness.
The board confirms that it has established procedures necessary to
comply with the Code to implement the guidance on internal control
issued by the Turnbull Committee and is reporting in accordance with
that guidance.
The board is responsible for ensuring that the group maintains systems
of internal controls, including internal financial control, operational
and compliance controls and risk management systems and for
monitoring the effectiveness of these controls. Meetings of the board
and the Audit committee ensure that risk management and internal
control are considered on a regular basis throughout the year and 
are subject to continuous review and development. This includes
consideration of corporate social responsibility matters.
The systems are designed to meet the group’s particular needs and 
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks to which the businesses
are exposed. By their nature, they provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. The board
considers that the measures taken, including physical controls,
segregation of duties and reviews by management, provide sufficient
and objective assurance.
During the year the board maintained its process of hierarchical
reporting and review in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the
group’s systems of financial and non-financial controls. The group 
has developed a comprehensive series of operating and financial
control procedures which are applied at all businesses and the group
finance team performs monthly reviews to verify that the businesses
are complying with the prescribed operating and financial control
procedures. In addition, the board reviews the group’s high level
internal controls and risk management arrangements. Furthermore, 
the Audit committee receives reports from the external auditor on
matters identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
These procedures provide a documented and auditable trail of
accountability, the results of which are periodically reviewed by
management for completeness and accuracy. These procedures allow 
for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels 
of management through to the board. Planned corrective actions are
monitored for timely completion. Having reviewed its effectiveness,
the directors are not aware of anything in the group’s systems of
control during the period covered by this report and accounts which
could render them ineffective. There were no changes in the group’s
internal controls or financial reporting that have materially affected,
or are reasonably likely to affect, the group’s systems of internal
control.
The group operates a comprehensive planning system, including
detailed reviews at all subsidiary undertakings, together with formal
reviews and approval of annual plans by the board. Actual performance
is reported on a monthly basis measured against plan and prior year
including a detailed explanation of major variances and on a daily
basis, sales, margin and cashflow, measured against plan and prior
year are reported. The company and its subsidiary undertakings have
implemented control procedures designed to ensure complete and
accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit the
potential exposure to fraud. The group has clearly defined guidelines
for capital expenditure and investment appraisal. These include annual
plans, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 33 Corporate Governance
continued
due diligence requirements when businesses are acquired. Any
acquisition or disposal of a business needs formal board approval. 
The board reports that full procedures are in place to achieve
compliance with the internal control aspects of the Code for the 
next financial period.
The output of these reviews form an important element of management
reporting and a process is in place for monitoring the achievement of
action plans together with the identification of new and emerging
risks. An ongoing process of risk management and internal control in
accordance with the Code has been in place for the financial year
under review and up to the date of this report. The group views the
careful management of risk as a key managerial activity in delivering
business opportunities. The ethos of the group, delegation of
responsibility and other control procedures together with accounting
policies and procedures are communicated through the group and laid
out in the group procedures manual which is periodically updated.
The objective of the group’s risk management processes is to ensure
sustainable development throughout the conduct of its business in 
a way which:
• satisfies its customers
• maintains proper relationships with suppliers and contractors
• protects against losses from unforeseen causes
• provides a safe and healthy workplace
• develops environmentally friendly processes
• minimises the cost and consumption of increasingly scarce
resources
• prevents pollution and waste
• maintains a positive relationship with the communities in which 
it does business
A high standard of health and safety management is promoted at all
levels within the group. The group’s health and safety approach is
supported by training programmes at operating businesses, group
health and safety rules and monitoring and auditing to promote a 
high level of awareness and commitment. Individual businesses are
assessed on a periodic basis, and remedial solutions implemented
where necessary. Line management retain the responsibility for
completion of action plans with progress being monitored and
reported.
The Audit committee meets at least twice a year and in accordance
with its terms of reference, reviews the effectiveness of the group’s
systems of internal control. In accordance with the Code the board 
has undertaken an assessment of the need for a group internal audit
function. The board considers that the control systems and procedures
undertaken by the group are adequately performed by management 
and therefore does not currently propose to introduce a group internal
audit function but will keep the matter under review.
The integrity and competence of personnel is assessed during the
recruitment process and monitored throughout employment. Ethical
standards expected of personnel are laid out in the group procedures
manual.
The system for monitoring risks is continuous and an ongoing process
throughout the year. Principal risks and uncertainties are set out on
pages 24 and 25 of the Directors’ Report.
This process has identified a number of risks where action plans 
have been developed to eliminate, minimise or mitigate these risks
(including the use of insurance where appropriate).The board has not
identified or been advised of any significant failings or weaknesses
where action has not been taken which might have a material impact
on the business.
The Corporate Governance Report and the Audit Committee Report
contained in it have been approved by the board and are signed on 
its behalf by
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
30 March 2009
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 34 ACCOUNTS
Remuneration Report
Introduction
This report describes the group’s remuneration policy as it applies to
directors and senior executives and provides detailed disclosures in
relation to directors’ remuneration. It explains how the company has
applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance
that relate to directors’ remuneration during the period and has been
prepared in accordance with the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002. The report is divided into two parts. The first part
contains the commentary on remuneration policy which is not required
to be audited. The second part contains the remuneration tables that
have been audited in accordance with the relevant statutory
requirements.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, a resolution will be
submitted to the forthcoming AGM seeking shareholder approval for 
the directors’ Remuneration Report.
Composition and role of the Remuneration committee
The remuneration committee is appointed by the board and comprises
Mike O’Leary (Chairman), Dick Peters and David Grove. The non-
executive directors have no personal financial interest, other than as
shareholders, in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of
interest and, as independent non-executive directors, no day to day
involvement in running the business. The biographical details for each
of the committee members are shown on page 22. Details of members
attendance at the meetings of this committee, which meets not less
than three times a year, are shown in the report on Corporate
Governance on page 31 and directors’ shareholdings are shown later 
in this report on page 39. The remuneration of the non-executive
directors is the responsibility of the other board members.
The committee is responsible for setting the framework and policy for
the remuneration of the executive directors which it reviews annually
for appropriateness and relevance. It is also responsible for determining
the specific elements of the executive directors’ remuneration,
performance targets, their contractual terms and compensation
arrangements. This is to ensure that on termination, contractual terms
and payments are fair both to the company and to the individual so
that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is
recognised. In addition, the committee monitors the level and structure
of remuneration for senior management and approves their bonus
payments. It also oversees any major changes in employee benefit
structures throughout the group. 
The terms of reference of the committee are available from the
company on request. In setting policy and compensation levels, the
committee has due regard to the Combined Code. The committee has
access to advice provided by the Group Chief Executive, Company
Secretary and external consultants, agreeing the terms of reference 
of any remuneration consultants it may appoint. During 2008 the
committee sought information from a wide variety of published 
sources, and members attended seminars on the subject, to assist 
in the formulation of the committee’s recommendations and in 
respect of retirement benefits and non-executive directors’ fees. 
The committee did not however make any specific appointments in
sourcing such information.
Remuneration policy
The group’s remuneration policy is to ensure that the remuneration 
of executive directors and other senior executives is sufficiently
competitive to enable the group to retain and motivate existing
directors and attract high quality individuals in the future. The policy
takes into account the group’s performance, the markets in which the
group operates and pay and conditions elsewhere in the group, with
the objective of providing remuneration packages that are challenging
and competitive in both commercial and human terms.
The committee aims to achieve a balanced package for each executive
director, reviewing executive directors’ remuneration annually. The
company believes that in order to meet its remuneration objectives, the
remuneration of executive directors should comprise a balance between
fixed and variable performance related pay elements with a significant
proportion of the potential remuneration dependent on the attainment
of performance objectives, both through the annual bonus scheme and
through participation in share incentive schemes. The committee
constantly reviews remuneration policy to ensure that it is sufficiently
flexible to take account of future changes in business operations and
environment and recognises key developments in remuneration practice
and alignment to shareholder interests. Participation in share incentive
schemes is designed to align the interests of executive directors and
other senior executives with the longer - term interests of shareholders
by rewarding them for delivering increased shareholder value.
The Remuneration committee, through the executive directors and
Company Secretary, seeks the views of the company’s principal
shareholders as necessary. In determining the level of base salaries 
and the annual performance related bonus scheme, the committee takes
into consideration the potential maximum remuneration that executives
could receive.
The group’s remuneration policy in respect of non-executive directors is
to pay annual fees, which reflect the responsibilities and duties placed
upon them, whilst also having regard to market practice.
The total emoluments of the executive directors are disclosed on page
38.
No director is involved in the determination of, or votes on any matter
relating to their own remuneration.
Components of remuneration
Base salary
The committee reviews base salary, which is the only element of
remuneration that is pensionable, annually with any change taking
effect from 1 January. As stated above, the aim of the group is to
provide a competitive remuneration package to attract, retain and
motivate key executives. In this regard the committee seeks to
establish a base salary for each executive director and other senior
executives determined by individual performance and having regard to
market salary levels by reference to independent third party sources
relating to market salaries. For 2009 however, the executive directors
recommended to the committee that the executive directors’ base
salary should be held at the same level as 2008.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 35 Remuneration Report
continued
Annual performance bonus
The committee reviews the annual performance related bonus scheme 
to ensure that it remains competitive in the marketplace and continues
to offer an incentive to the executive directors and other senior
executives. The scheme focuses on annual objectives and links
individual performance with business financial targets. The financial
targets are calculated by reference to the extent to which the group’s
profit before taxation meets the planned target. The committee
establishes the objectives that must be attained for each financial year
if a bonus is to be paid. As notified in previous remuneration reports
and agreed by shareholders, if the targets are not achieved the
committee has discretion to award part payment if circumstances are
considered appropriate. 
The committee takes account of the relative success of the group’s
performance and the extent to which strategic objectives are being
attained. The performance related scheme for 2008, as reported last
year, provided for a maximum bonus of 150% of base salary payable for
achievement of performance related targets including over performance. 
With regard to the current economic environment and the trading
performance of the business, the committee has exercised its discretion
in awarding a bonus payment to executive directors in respect of 2008
amounting to 33% of base salary. Furthermore, the committee reviewed
the bonus scheme and, in recognition of current circumstances, decided
to temporarily suspend the current bonus parameters in respect of
2009. In its place, the executive directors’ bonus scheme for 2009
provides for a bonus award of 77% of base salary on achievement of
financial target with a maximum of 150% of base salary payable for
achievement of performance related targets including over performance. 
Whilst being two separate annual schemes, the bonus payment in
respect of 2008 and the potential payment in respect of 2009, if the
financial target is achieved, amount to a total of 110% of one years
base salary. This represents a reward that has previously been achieved
over a one year period and is now only achievable on the performance
attained over two years.  
Details of the payments to directors are included in the directors’
emoluments for the year on page 38.
Share incentive arrangements
The committee is keen to encourage directors and key employees to
build up or increase their shareholdings in the company, so aligning
their interests with the company’s shareholders. The committee
recognises the importance of share incentives in recruiting and
retaining directors and key employees on whose performance the
success of the company depends. 
At the 2008 AGM shareholders authorised the adoption of a new 
HMRC approved discretionary share option scheme, the Headlam Group
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2008 and a new non-HMRC
approved discretionary share option scheme, the Headlam Group
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 2008 (together the “New
Share Option Schemes”), which have replaced the Headlam Group
Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 and the Headlam Group
Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 that expired in 2008
(together the “1998 Share Option Schemes”). Shareholders also
authorised the adoption of the Headlam Group Performance Share Plan
2008 (the “PSP”) and the Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 (the
“CIP”). The committee has not yet implemented either of the PSP or
the CIP and does not currently plan to implement them in 2009. 
A summary of the main terms of the 1998 Share Option Schemes, the
New Share Option Schemes, the PSP and the CIP is set out below.
The 1998 approved scheme is a standard HMRC approved share option
scheme under which a participant receives a right to acquire shares at 
a price equal to the market value of the shares at the grant date which
will normally vest after 3 years, subject generally to continued
employment and achievement of performance targets. No new options
can be granted under this scheme following its expiry in 2008, however
current options remain capable of exercise until their normal lapse date. 
The 1998 unapproved scheme is a non-HMRC approved share option
scheme under which a participant receives a right to acquire shares at 
a price equal to the market value of the shares at the grant date which
will normally vest after 3 years, subject generally to continued
employment and achievement of performance targets. Prior to its expiry
in 2008, the Unapproved Scheme would have allowed the committee 
to grant awards in excess of the levels permitted by relevant tax
legislation for the purposes of the 1998 Approved Scheme, although
such awards would not have been tax-efficient. No new options can be
granted under this scheme following its expiry, however current options
remain capable of exercise until their normal lapse date. 
The 2008 approved scheme is a standard HMRC approved share option
scheme under which a participant receives a right to acquire shares at 
a price equal to the market value of the shares at the grant date which
will normally vest after 3 years, subject generally to continued
employment and achievement of performance targets.
The 2008 unapproved scheme is a non-HMRC approved share option
scheme under which a participant receives a right to acquire shares at 
a price equal to the market value of the shares at the grant date which
will normally vest after 3 years, subject generally to continued
employment and achievement of performance targets. The 2008
Unapproved Scheme allows the committee to grant awards in excess of
the levels permitted by relevant tax legislation for the purposes of the
2008 Approved Scheme, although such awards will not be tax-efficient. 
The PSP is a discretionary non-HMRC approved plan under which a
participant receives a right to acquire shares for no cost which will
normally vest after 3 years, subject generally to continued employment
and the achievement of performance targets.
The CIP is a discretionary non-HMRC approved plan under which a
participant invests the whole or part of any annual bonus in ordinary
shares of the company and receives a right to acquire matching shares
for no cost which will normally vest after 3 years, subject generally to
continued employment and the achievement of performance targets.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 36 ACCOUNTS
Remuneration Report
continued
The performance targets for options granted under the 1998 Share
Option Schemes are based on the extent to which growth in the group’s
earnings per share (“EPS”) exceeds growth in the Retail Prices Index
(“RPI”) over a three-year performance period, EPS being calculated as
fully diluted earnings per share. In respect of the approved scheme EPS
growth must exceed RPI growth by 3% pa or more over the three year
performance period. In respect of the unapproved scheme, for options
up to one times eligible earnings, EPS growth must exceed RPI growth
by 3% pa or more over the three year performance period and by 5% or
more over the three year performance period for options granted of
between one times and two times eligible earnings. The committee felt
that these performance conditions were appropriate at the time the
options were granted.  
Details of subsisting share options and shares issued under the various
schemes summarised above are set out on page 39. No new executive
share options were granted in 2008, the most recent grant of options
made under the 1998 Option Schemes being in 2005. 
Retirement benefits
The executive directors currently participate in the Headlam Group Staff
Retirement Benefits Scheme, the defined benefit plan operated by the
group, on a non-contributory basis. Details regarding the executive
directors’ participation in the defined benefit pension plan are given on
page 40.
Other employment benefits
Executive directors receive taxable benefits including a company car,
private fuel, lump sum life assurance for death-in-service cover and
private medical insurance. They are also eligible to participate in the
company’s Inland Revenue-approved sharesave scheme which is open 
to all eligible employees on the same basis, providing a long-term
savings and investment opportunity. The exercise of options under 
the sharesave scheme is not subject to the satisfaction of performance
conditions as this is an all employee arrangement.
With regard to the other components of executive directors’
remuneration, only minor changes are proposed in 2009 and these 
are covered in the respective sections of this report.
Service contracts
The current policy is for executive directors’ service contract notice
periods to be normally no longer than twelve months. The service
contracts of the executive directors’ have no fixed term but provide
that either the director or the company may terminate the employment
by giving twelve months’ written notice and that the company may pay
compensation in lieu of notice. The company recognises however that it
may be necessary in the case of new executive appointments to offer
an initial longer notice period, which would subsequently reduce to one
year after the expiry of that period. All future appointments to the
board will comply with this requirement.
The Chairman does not hold a service contract and does not participate
in the company’s executive share schemes, incentive plans or pension
schemes. Additionally, he is not a member of the various committees of
the board.
External appointments of executive directors
The board believes that experience of other companies’ practices and
challenges is valuable both for the personal development of its
executive directors and for the company. It is therefore the company’s
policy to allow each executive director to accept one non-executive
directorship of another company, although the board retains the
discretion to vary this policy. Fees received by executive directors in
respect of external non-executive appointments are retained by the
individual director. In 2008 Graham Waldron and Steve Wilson received
fees of £50,000 and £44,000 respectively.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors do not have service agreements but 
instead are appointed for an initial period of three years by letter of
appointment which is terminable by either party subject to one month’s
notice, for which no compensation is payable. At the end of the initial
period, the company discusses with the non-executive director whether
they wish to renew their appointment and whether it is in the best
interests of the company for their appointment to be renewed. Such
renewal would normally be for a further period of three years (subject
to termination as aforesaid). Non-executive directors are typically
expected to serve two three-year terms, although the board may invite
them to serve for an additional period. All appointments and
subsequent reappointment is subject to approval by shareholders.
Non-executive directors’ fees are reviewed by the board annually by
reference to prevailing market conditions and at a level which will
attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make 
a significant contribution to the group’s affairs. The fees were reviewed
during the year taking into account not only the need to attract
individuals of the right calibre and experience, but also their increased
responsibilities and time commitment, as envisaged in the Combined
Code. As part of the review, the board received survey and other
information from a variety of sources. With effect from 1 January
annual fees remained unchanged at £35,000, with an additional £5,000
being paid to the respective chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration
committees. Non-executive directors are not involved in any discussion
or decision about their own remuneration nor do they participate in
any of the company’s share schemes, incentive plans or pension
schemes. The aggregate limit for fees paid to non-executive directors is
laid down in the articles. 
Non-executive directors’ appointment dates are shown on page 38.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 37 Remuneration Report
continued
Performance graph
The above graph has been included to meet the requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985. It shows the group’s performance for 
the five year period to 31 December 2008 measured by total shareholder return (“TSR”), compared with the performance of the FTSE 250
Excluding Investment Trusts index also measured by TSR, which is defined as share price growth, plus re-invested dividends. The FTSE Excluding
Investment Trusts 250 index has been chosen because it provides a basis for comparison against companies in a relevant broad based equity
index in which the group was a constituent member at the start of the year. The FTSE SmallCap Index, of which the company is currently a
constituent member, is believed to be a less meaningful index for comparison purposes. The TSR indices used in the chart have been calculated 
in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 relative to a base date at the end of December 2003. 
Audited information
The Remuneration Report from page 35 to page 37 up to this statement, has not been audited. With the exception of directors’ interests in shares
on page 39, from this point until the end of the report on page 40 the disclosures have been audited by the company’s auditor, KPMG.
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of the directors for their services as directors of the group for the year ended 31 December 2008 were:
Salary and fees Benefits Performance related pay Total
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors
Tony Brewer 520 495 36 31 168 659 724 1,185
Steve Wilson 376 358 39 46 125 487 540 891
Graham Waldron 115 110 21 20 – – 136 130
Non-executive directors
Tom Anderson (i) – 16 – – – – – 16
David Grove (ii) 35 7 – – – – 35 7
Mike O’Leary 40 37 – – – – 40 37
Dick Peters 40 39 – – – – 40 39
1,126 1,062 96 97 293 1,146 1,515 2,305
(i) Tom Anderson resigned from the board and retired on 25 May 2007
(ii) David Grove was appointed on 19 October 2007
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 38 ACCOUNTS
Remuneration Report
continued
Benefits are in respect of all taxable benefits arising from employment by the company including the provision of a company car, private fuel, life
assurance cover and private medical insurance. Pension benefits and gains made by executive directors in respect of share options are excluded
from the table above. The aggregate amount of gains made by executive directors on the exercise of share options was £33,973 (2007: £nil).
Directors’ interests in shares
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R, the two tables set out below show the beneficial interests of the directors, and their connected persons,
who held office at the end of the year in the ordinary shares of the company and the interests in the company’s share schemes.
Shareholdings at Shareholdings at
31 December 2008 31 December 2007
Executive Directors
Graham Waldron 360,638 310,638
Tony Brewer 519,942 443,874
Steve Wilson 400,770 336,433
Non-executive Directors
Dick Peters 5,000 5,000
David Grove 30,000 10,000
The interests in shares of the directors were unchanged at 30 March 2009 from those at 31 December 2008. 
During the year the company introduced a policy whereby executive directors are required to hold ordinary shares of 5p in the company equivalent
in value to once time’s base salary, newly appointed directors being expected to build their holding over a five year period.
Directors’ interests in share option schemes
Details of options held by executive directors are set out below, a description of which is given on page 36:
Options Options Options Options Options
held at granted cancelled exercised held at Exercise Date from
1 January during during during 31 December price which Expiry
2008 the year the year the year 2008 (pence) exercisable date
Tony Brewer
1998 USOS (i) 342,858––– 342,858 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2012
1998 ESOS (ii) 7,142––– 7,142 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2015
Sharesave (iii) 8,337 – – (8,337) – 197.00 Jan 2008 Jun 2008
Sharesave (iii) – 5,367 – – 5,367 303.20 Jul 2013 Jan 2014 
Steve Wilson
1998 USOS (i) 242,858––– 242,858 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2012
1998 ESOS (ii) 7,142––– 7,142 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2015
Sharesave (iii) 8,337 – – (8,337) – 197.00 Jan 2008 Jun 2008
Sharesave (iii) – 5,367 – – 5,367 303.20 Jul 2013 Jan 2014 
Graham Waldron
Sharesave (iii) 2,331 – 2,331 – – 401.00 July 2009 Jan 2010
Sharesave (iii) – 3,100 – – 3,100 303.20 Jul 2011 Jan 2012 
(i) Headlam Group Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 (1998 USOS)
Details of the operation of the scheme including the performance conditions attaching to options are provided on page 36.
(ii) Headlam Group Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 (1998 ESOS)
Details of the operation of the scheme including the performance conditions attaching to options are provided on page 36.
(iii) Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2002 (Sharesave)
The company operates an Inland Revenue-approved all-employee savings-related share option scheme in the UK. The scheme is designed to provide a long-term savings and investment opportunity for
employees and is described on page 37. On 10 January 2008 options granted in 2002 were exercised at normal maturity at the option price of 197.00 pence per share when the mid market value of a
share was 400.75 pence per share. These shares were retained on exercise, but had the shares been sold, the gain that would have been made is stated under Directors’ emoluments above. 
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 39 Remuneration Report
continued
On 8 May 2008, the company granted options under its savings related share option scheme for terms of between three and five years at an
option price of 303.20 pence per share.
The mid-market ordinary share price range during the year was 184.75p.to 440.00p with an average price of 321.58 pence. The mid market closing
price of a Headlam Group plc ordinary share on 31 December 2008, the last trading day of the financial period, was 210.50 pence. 
Pension benefits
Tony Brewer and Steve Wilson participate in the group’s defined benefit pension scheme which provides benefits at a normal retirement age of
fifty five based upon pensionable service and basic pay, bonus being excluded. The maximum pension payable under the scheme is two-thirds of
final pensionable pay subject to Inland Revenue limits. There are lump sum death-in-service benefits and pension provisions for members’
dependents.
Details of executive directors’ pension benefits for the year ended 31 December 2008 are shown below:
Increase in Accumulated Change in Accumulated
accrued Transfer accrued pension accrued accrued
pension during value of at 31 December pension over 31 December
the year increase 2008 the year 2007
£000pa £000 £000pa £000pa £000pa
Tony Brewer 35860 5 55
Steve Wilson 4 110 77 7 70
The increase in accrued pension entitlement is the difference between the accrued benefit at the year end and that at the previous year end.
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice consistent with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.The increase in the transfer
value is the increase in the value of accrued benefits during the year. The transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits, required by the
listing rules, discloses the current value of the increase in accrued benefits that the director has earned in the period, whereas the change in the
transfer value, required by the Companies Act, discloses the absolute increase or decrease in the transfer value and includes the change in value
of the accrued benefits that result from market volatility affecting the transfer value at the beginning of the year, as well as the additional value
earned in the year.
Transfer value of Change in Transfer value of
accrued pension at transfer value accrued pension at
31 December 2008 over the year 31 December 2007
£000 £000pa £000
Tony Brewer 1,150 217 933
Steve Wilson 2,075 520 1,555
This report has been approved by the Remuneration committee and signed on its behalf by
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
30 March 2009
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 40 ACCOUNTS
Corporate and social responsibility
The Board is committed to Corporate and Social Responsibility (“CSR”)
and the need to take proper account of the morale and welfare of our
employees, the satisfaction of our customers and our impact on the
environment. We have a duty to our shareholders to consider all social
and environmental issues that could affect our business. 
Our commitment to CSR is articulated through our group procedures
manual which includes our undertaking to act ethically and responsibly 
in all of our business dealings with stakeholders and includes our 
ethics, fraud and whistle blowing policies, which are communicated to
employees. We do not permit bribery, anti-competition or corrupt
practices in any dealings. We are committed to continuous improvements
in all aspects of CSR – our policies, our systems, our performance and our
reporting. Our management structure allows the consideration of social
and environmental factors by both individual businesses within the group
and also at a group level. Our links with external stakeholders continue
to grow including improved customer liaison and community
involvement. We aim to manage our relationships with our stakeholders
and communicate with them professionally and responsibly. The board
has identified its principal stakeholders as shareholders, customers,
employees, suppliers and local communities and also recognises its
responsibility to the environment.
We monitor our performance against objectives with the aim of continual
improvement. In addition to improvements in respect of environmental
performance, we have continued to make positive moves in waste and
energy management, health and safety and staff development and
welfare.
Our policy sets out the framework for the development and
implementation of CSR activities across the group. We will conduct all 
our business activities in a fair and balanced manner, respecting and
responding to legal, social and ethical issues arising from our commercial
activities and are committed across the group to continued progress.
Health and safety
Health and safety is a key issue for the group. We have a health and
safety policy, endorsed by the board and used throughout the group. 
The policy seeks to ensure that group operations are carried out at all
times in such a manner as to ensure, so far as it is reasonably
practicable, compliance with the relevant health and safety legislation in
the jurisdictions in which we operate. It also seeks to ensure the health
and safety at work of employees and all persons likely to be affected,
including other contractors, customers, staff and members of the public
where appropriate. The board receives an annual presentation on health
and safety matters including detailed facts on health and safety issues
and the progress made in improving our performance where required.
These reports also outline planned health and safety initiatives and
comment on potential future developments and challenges.
Relevant health and safety information and guidance forms part of 
our induction process and many managers are guided and supported 
in risk assessment techniques. We actively promote health and safety
committees at all sites with representation from the various business
departments, meeting on a periodic basis and co-ordinated by the health
and safety manager on site.  
All businesses undergo health and safety audits by an external 
contractor and the measures by which we judge satisfactory outcome 
are continually reviewed and the standards raised. Each business receives
a comprehensive health and safety manual for use as a source of
information, guidance and training together with a set of compliance
documentation which is reviewed, and updated as necessary, on an
annual basis. 
The value of employee participation in delivering this commitment 
is recognised and management teams are encouraged to create a
supportive culture. To achieve this we endeavour to ensure that we:
• continue to improve health and safety systems, procedures and
guidance
• make personnel aware of this policy
• maintain high standards of health and safety
• maintain a consistent reporting structure
• provide adequate resources
Training in health and safety includes an awareness of impending
changes in relevant legislation and other specialist subjects. The 
common approach taken throughout the group, with the group policy
being introduced into recently acquired businesses, improves our
governance. Good relationships are maintained with Health and Safety
and Environmental Health regulators in the areas in which we operate
with positive and prompt responses to any findings and/ or observations
following compliance inspections.
During the year we have continued to develop our policies and
procedures in relation to working at height and the storage and handling
of flammable products, particularly aerosols, where new approaches have
been adopted. Whilst we aim for lower levels, the low level of accidents
reflects the success of our health and safety policies. Whilst management
is committed to providing a safe working environment with the
appropriate working practices and training, this can only be achieved 
if employees equally give their commitment to a rigorous health and
safety culture. Investment in automated dispatch sortation equipment
has significantly reduced manual handling in those businesses where 
they have been installed. In 2008 there were nineteen reportable
accidents made to the Health and Safety Executive, none of which
resulted in serious injury, with no prosecutions for breaches of health 
and safety or enforcement actions in the year. We investigate all
reportable accidents and in the minority of instances where 
improvement is required, changes are implemented in a timely manner.  
Our people
The wellbeing and professional development of our employees is central
to recruiting and retaining high performing individuals. Our people seek
to deliver their best for the business, which combined with a fair and
responsive way of doing business, generates a common ambition to add
value. 
The board values two-way communication between the business unit
management and employees on all matters affecting the welfare of the
business including regular senior management visits to operating units. 
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 41 Corporate and social responsibility
continued
The group’s Annual Report is available to staff which provides employees
with a greater awareness of the group’s performance as well as the
financial and economic factors that affect it. In addition, those
employees who are eligible are also encouraged to become involved 
in the group’s performance through participation in share schemes. 
The group remains committed to providing a workplace that is safe 
and environmentally sound and which complies with applicable laws 
and regulations. The group expects employees to respect confidential
information and company time and assets and believes in open and
honest communication, fair treatment and equal opportunities. The 
group supports the fundamental principles of good governance. 
It is the group’s policy that employment opportunities, training, career
development and promotion should be available to all, irrespective of
age, gender, ethnic origin, religion or disability. Due consideration is
given to applications for employment, having regard to the particular
aptitudes and abilities of the applicants. Any employee who develops 
a disability during employment is given the opportunity to retrain for
alternative employment where practicable, given the nature of the
group’s activities. 
It is the group’s continued practice to maintain employee participation
and involvement in matters which affect their interests. The group 
places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has
continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them and on the
various factors affecting the performance of the group. This is achieved
through formal and informal meetings and through the annual and
interim financial statements.
Employee turnover remains low and as a result the employee base
remains stable. The group is firmly committed to developing the potential
of its people and regularly reviews its succession planning processes.
Recruitment, training and development is designed to ensure the group
has suitably skilled and qualified employees to meet the operational
needs of the business and offer the opportunity for employees to develop
and grow. Training is delivered primarily through internal resources with
assistance from external providers as and when required.
The group considers it important that its employees provide for their
retirement and accordingly provides opportunities for them to participate
in retirement plans.
Environmental
We seek to reduce each of CO
2
emissions, fuel consumption and vehicle
emissions, the amount of waste sent to landfill, the amount of packaging
and water consumption. We seek to increase recycling rates, increasing
the use of green energy and encouraging the use of whole life cost
assessments and pollution prevention initiatives.
Whilst we are not a significant consumer, we seek to reduce energy 
and water consumption through the introduction on repair, renewal 
or installation of energy or water efficient techniques and equipment. 
We continue to invest in new facilities for our businesses which
incorporate modern construction techniques and products, as applied 
in the construction of the new distribution facility in Bridgend and the
extension to Plymouth. We are investigating renewable energy solutions
and intelligent lighting systems in branches, which turns warehouse
lights off automatically in areas which are not used for a period of time.
We had no prosecutions relating to environmental matters during the
year. This reflects in part the fact that as a distributor our activities
generally have a lower impact on the environment but also our proactive
approach when planning and developing new branches.
The group has a policy to replace the commercial and motor vehicles 
it operates every five and three years respectively, so improving
operational efficiencies and reducing operating costs and vehicle
emissions. Obligations placed on manufacturers have resulted in the
production of more efficient and less polluting vehicles. Progressive
replacement of Euro 2 compliant commercial vehicles with new Euro 4
compliant models, according to manufacturers statistics, has resulted in
significant savings in all regulated exhaust emissions: a 62.5% reduction
in carbon monoxide, a 58.8% reduction in hydrocarbons, a 50% reduction
in nitrous oxides and a 86.6% reduction in particulate matter or soot in
respect of each replacement vehicle. Efficiencies achieved in motor
vehicles have been less notable with CO
2
emissions for the majority of
the motor vehicles operated reducing from 159g to 157g per new vehicle
following the introduction of Euro 4 compliant models. 
Adblue is an additive used in our Euro 4 compliant vehicles resulting in 
a cut in carbon emissions per vehicle by over 30%. Selective catalytic
reduction involves optimising the fuel injection timing so fuel burns
more efficiently and particulate emissions are radically reduced. But at
the resultant higher combustion temperatures, the levels of NOx are
increased so a catalytic converter is employed to reduce NOx. Before the
exhaust gases reach the catalytic converter, adblue is injected in minute
measured quantities into the exhaust system. In the heat of the exhaust
stream, the adblue hydrolyses and ammonia molecules are released. The
ammonia molecules and NOx react in the catalyst, producing harmless
nitrogen and water in the form of steam.
Our operations predominantly create waste materials in the form of
protective plastic wrapping, cardboard and wooden pallets. Increasingly
we sort the plastic and cardboard in discreet types and, with the use of
baler units that we have invested in over the last few years, dispatch
these to specialist re-processing agents. This has allowed us to reduce
the amount of our waste going to landfill and the number of vehicles 
on the road to collect our waste.
Wooden pallets are recycled where possible or sent to specialist re-
processors. In addition we recycle the cardboard poles that are used in
the centre of rolls of carpet and vinyl until they are no longer capable 
of being re-used. In these ways we have reduced the amount of waste
that is sent to landfill sites. Guidance on waste management is issued 
to the managers of the individual businesses to increase awareness of 
the need to control waste.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 42 ACCOUNTS
Corporate and social responsibility
continued
Higher risk areas of the facilities, such as fuel and lubrication stores and
fork lift truck battery charging areas, have containment and inspection
regimes which meet legislative requirements. 
Good relationships are maintained with national and local regulatory
organisations such as the Environment Agency and Environmental Health
Departments in the UK. Processes are in place to keep up to date on
regulatory issues and are the subject of regular review. The amount of
environmental legislation is growing, resulting in increasing training 
and compliance costs. Staff training in health, safety and environmental
matters is important and is reviewed annually as part of normal appraisal
processes.
Achieving sustained growth and profitability
Whilst seeking to achieve the group’s goal of sustained growth and
profitability in future years, there are a number of key areas which will
assist in attaining the financial objectives at the same time as meeting
our corporate social responsibility obligations. 
Through improving our understanding and control of our supply 
chain, we shall continue to investigate the benefits from using green
specification guides and modify our strategy accordingly. We shall
continue to work with suppliers to ensure products are supplied from
renewable sources and that their manufacturing processes fairly reward
employees and do not seek to exploit. 
We place great importance on effectively managing our operations to
minimise the likelihood of adverse impact. We proactively manage our
facilities to minimise energy consumption utilising energy efficient
lighting and heating. Our new sites are subjected to an environmental
assessment prior to any construction taking place. This allows solutions
to any identified environmental issues to be incorporated into the
planning process. Recognising that development can be potentially
damaging, we seek to minimise energy consumption during the
construction of new premises and the effects on the environment.
Wherever possible, subject to the operating constraints of the business,
existing trees and vegetation are retained and augmented as necessary.
Existing sites are maintained in a tidy condition to minimise ecological
impact.
We recognise that our business operations will be around for many years,
having an impact on future generations, and to this end we work with
local authorities to design new properties which not only comply with
guidelines but seek to blend in with their surroundings through the
careful use of quality materials, landscaping and design features. We
support the desire to see development take place in sustainable 
locations we work with transport consultants to formulate green travel
plans incorporating car sharing schemes and provision for bicycles when
designing new facilities.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 43 Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Headlam Group plc
We have audited the group and parent company financial statements
(the ''financial statements'') of Headlam Group plc for the year ended
31 December 2008 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the
Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent
Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company
Statements of Recognised Income and Expenses, and the related 
notes. These financial statements have been prepared under the
accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
information in the directors' Remuneration Report that is described 
as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's
members those matters we are required to state to them in an
auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company's members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have
formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the
directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement
of Directors' Responsibilities on page 28.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of
the directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards
on Auditing (UK and Ireland).
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and 
the part of the directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985
and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS
Regulation. We also report to you whether in our opinion the
information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the
financial statements. The information given in the Directors' Report
includes that information presented in the Chairman’s Statement, 
Chief Executive’s Review and Financial Review that is cross referred
from the Review of the Business section of the Directors' Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has 
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and
other transactions is not disclosed. 
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the
company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined
Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial
Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not required 
to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the
group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control
procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report 
and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial
statements. We consider the implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with
the financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any
other information.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 44 ACCOUNTS
Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Headlam Group plc - continued
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the
part of the directors' Remuneration Report to be audited. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments
made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements,
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group's
and company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately
disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance
that the financial statements and the part of the directors'
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error. 
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of 
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the
part of the directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion
In our opinion:
• the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the
group's affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the
year then ended; 
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view,
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the
state of the parent company's affairs as at 31 December 2008;
• the financial statements and the part of the directors'
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group
financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation; and
• the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with
the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc 
Chartered Accountants
Registered Auditor
2 Cornwall Street
Birmingham
B3 2DL
30 March 2009
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 45 Consolidated Income Statement
for the year ended 31 December 2008
2008 2007
Note £000 £000
Revenue 2 557,296 544,718
Cost of sales (382,670) (375,990)
Gross profit 174,626 168,728
Distribution expenses (98,517) (87,711)
Administrative expenses (34,387) (35,004)
Operating profit 2 41,722 46,013
Finance income 6 7,016 6,321
Finance expenses 6 (8,618) (7,162)
Net finance costs (1,602) (841)
Profit before tax 3 40,120 45,172
Taxation 7 (11,433) (13,534)
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders 28,687 31,638
Dividend paid per share 21 23.10p 20.15p
Earnings per share
Basic 9 34.5p 37.1p
Diluted 9 34.5p 36.8p
All group operations during the financial years were continuing operations.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 46 ACCOUNTS
Statements of Recognised Income 
and Expense for the year ended 31 December 2008
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Foreign exchange translation differences 
arising on translation of overseas operations 6,631 1,090 – –
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans (4,245) 5,000 (3,125) 5,302
Effective portion of change in fair values of cash flow hedges (848) – (848) –
Tax recognised on income and expenses 
recognised directly in equity 1,304 (1,660) 868 (1,712)
Net income recognised directly in equity 2,842 4,430 (3,105) 3,590
Profit attributable to the equity shareholders 28,687 31,638 12,680 35,300
Total recognised income and expense attributable 
to the equity shareholders 21 31,529 36,068 9,575 38,890
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 47 Balance Sheets
at 31 December 2008
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 99,741 92,097 75,278 73,596
Investments in subsidiary undertakings 12 – – 86,079 85,781
Intangible assets 11 13,210 13,210 – –
Deferred tax assets 13 5,372 5,942 4,306 4,290
118,323 111,249 165,663 163,667
Current assets
Inventories 14 107,597 101,491 – –
Trade and other receivables 15 105,942 100,830 26,312 20,466
Cash and cash equivalents 16 35,193 16,805 46,048 30,135
248,732 219,126 72,360 50,601
Total assets 367,055 330,375 238,023 214,268
Current liabilities
Bank overdraft 16 – (103) – –
Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings 17 (4,506) – – –
Trade and other payables 18 (143,369) (154,320) (40,153) (38,271)
Employee benefits 19 (2,428) (1,491) (2,428) (1,491)
Income tax payable 8 (9,546) (10,747) (5,752) (5,306)
(159,849) (166,661) (48,333) (45,068)
Non-current liabilities
Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings 17 (30,000) – (30,000) –
Employee benefits 19 (12,216) (9,837) (10,481) (9,364)
Deferred tax liabilities 13 (3,856) (3,836) (2,865) (2,858)
(46,072) (13,673) (43,346) (12,222)
Total liabilities (205,921) (180,334) (91,679) (57,290)
Net assets 161,134 150,041 146,344 156,978
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent
Share capital 21 4,268 4,268 4,268 4,268
Share premium 21 53,512 53,512 53,512 53,512
Other reserves 21 (6,712) (11,042) 6,761 9,062
Retained earnings 21 110,066 103,303 81,803 90,136
Total equity 161,134 150,041 146,344 156,978
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 30 March 2009 and were signed on its behalf by:
Tony Brewer Stephen Wilson
Director Director
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 48 ACCOUNTS
Cash Flow Statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2008
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax for the year 40,120 45,172 4,010 2,700
Adjustments for:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 5,305 6,227 1,279 1,162
Finance income 6 (7,016) (6,321) (8,043) (7,197)
Finance expense 6 8,618 7,162 5,918 4,941
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment (337) (18) (304) –
Share-based payments 19 426 501 128 194
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions 47,116 52,723 2,988 1,800
Change in inventories (1,480) (4,781) – –
Change in trade and other receivables 876 (6,849) 379 1,120
Change in trade and other payables (19,096) 1,587 (5,068) (798)
Cash generated from the operations 27,416 42,680 (1,701) 2,122
Interest paid (4,552) (3,325) (1,200) (486)
Tax (paid)/received (11,012) (11,729) 606 2,563
Additional contributions to defined benefit plan (1,147) (1,098) (887) (790)
Net cash from operating activities 10,705 26,528 (3,182) 3,409
Cash flows from investing activities
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1,309 159 959 –
Interest received 2,997 2,757 2,801 2,572
Dividends received – – 9,586 33,629
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 23 (726) (3,190) – (2,698)
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (10,664) (10,980) (3,616) (7,685)
Net cash from investing activities (7,084) (11,254) 9,730 25,818
Cash flows from financing activities
Proceeds from the issue of share capital – 86 – 86
Proceeds from the issue of treasury shares 21 751 10 751 10
Proceeds from borrowings 33,726 – 30,000 –
Payment to acquire own shares 21 (2,204) (21,687) (2,204) (21,687)
Repayment of borrowings – (246) – –
Payment of finance lease liabilities – (363) – (267)
Dividends paid 21 (19,182) (17,455) (19,182) (17,455)
Net cash from financing activities 13,091 (39,655) 9,365 (39,313)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 16,712 (24,381) 15,913 (10,086)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 16,702 40,851 30,135 40,221
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations of cash held 1,779 232 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 16 35,193 16,702 46,048 30,135
The company’s profit before tax excludes dividends received from subsidiaries.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 49 Notes to the Financial Statements
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Headlam Group plc (the “company”) is a company incorporated in the UK.
The group Financial Statements consolidate those of the company 
and its subsidiaries which together are referred to as the “group”. 
The company’s Financial Statements present information about the
company as a separate entity and not about the group.
Both the company’s Financial Statements and the group’s Financial
Statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted
by the EU (“adopted IFRS”). On publishing the company’s Financial
Statements here together with the group Financial Statements, the
company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of the Companies
Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related
notes that form a part of these approved Financial Statements.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the
Financial Statements of the company and the Financial Statements of 
the group are set out below. These policies have been applied
consistently to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these
accounting policies that have significant effect on the Financial
Statements and estimates with a significant risk of material
adjustment in the next year are discussed below.
IFRS not yet applied
The following relevant standards and interpretations were issued and
available for early application but have not been applied for the year
ended 31 December 2008:
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ requires operating segments to be
identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the
group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision
Maker, as defined in the standard, to allocate resources to the segments
and to assess their performance. This standard becomes mandatory for
the group’s 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements, the effect of this
standard on group disclosures is still to be fully determined.
IFRIC14 IAS19 ‘The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding
Requirements and their Interaction’ clarifies when refunds or reductions
in future contributions in relation to defined benefit assets should be
regarded as available and provides guidance on the impact of minimum
funding requirements (MFR) on such assets. It also addresses when a
MFR might give rise to a liability. IFRIC14 will become mandatory for
the group’s 2009 Consolidated Financial Statements, with retrospective
application required. Following a review of the effect of adopting
IFRIC14, its adoption in 2009 is not expected to have any effect on
the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revised IAS23 ‘Borrowing Costs’ removes the option to expense
borrowing costs and requires that an entity capitalise borrowing costs
directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a
qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset. The revised IAS23
will become mandatory for the group’s 2009 Consolidated Financial
Statements and will constitute a change in accounting policy for the
group. In accordance with the transitional provisions, the group will
apply the revised IAS23 to qualifying assets for which capitalisation 
of borrowing costs commences on or after the effective date. Therefore
there will be no impact on prior periods in the group’s 2009
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revised IAS1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements (2007)’ introduces
the term total comprehensive income, which represents changes in
equity during a period other than those changes resulting from
transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. Total
comprehensive income may be presented in either a single statement
of comprehensive income (effectively combining both the income
statement and all non-owner changes in equity in a single statement),
or in an income statement and a separate statement of comprehensive
income. Revised IAS1 becomes mandatory for the group’s 2009
Consolidated Financial Statements.
Amended IAS27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements
(2008)’ requires accounting for changes in ownership interests by 
the group in a subsidiary, while maintaining control, to be recognised
as an equity transaction. When the group loses control of a subsidiary,
any interest retained in the former subsidiary will be measured at 
fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The
amendments to IAS27, which become mandatory for the group’s 2010
Consolidated Financial Statements, are not expected to have a
significant impact on the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Amendment to IFRS2 ‘Share-based Payments’ – Vesting Conditions 
and Cancellations’ clarifies the definition of vesting conditions,
introduces the concept of non-vesting conditions, requires non-vesting
conditions to be reflected in grant-date fair value and provides the
accounting treatment for non-vesting conditions and cancellations.
The amendments to IFRS2 will become mandatory for the group’s 2009
Consolidated Financial Statements, with retrospective application. 
The adoption of this amendment is not expected to have any material
effect on the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
The annual improvements to International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) project provides a vehicle for making non-urgent 
but necessary amendments to IFRSs. The 2008 annual improvements
project makes amendments to a number of standards, these
amendments were issued but not effective for the year ended 
31 December 2008. These amendments are not expected to have 
a material impact on the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Measurement convention
The company and group Financial Statements are prepared on the
historical cost basis. Non-current assets held for sale are stated at 
the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group. Control exists when
the group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its
activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are
currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the group’s
Consolidated Financial Statements from the date that control
commences until the date that control ceases. 
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 50 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the
acquisition of subsidiaries by the group. 
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses
on transactions between group companies are eliminated in the
group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Accounting estimates and judgements
The board are responsible for the development, selection and disclosure
of the group’s critical accounting policies and estimates and the
application of these policies and estimates. In applying the accounting
policies, appropriate estimates have been made in a number of areas
and the actual outcome may differ from the position described in the
company’s and group’s Balance Sheet at 31 December 2008. The key
sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that may
give rise to a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and
liabilities within the next financial year are as follows:
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and impairment losses. The group is committed to
investing in new facilities where existing facilities fail to provide
satisfactory customer service in a cost effective manner. When
construction on a new facility is initiated, the existing facility is
marketed for sale and this action can on occasions give rise to an
adverse difference between cost and fair value. It has been assumed
that at the balance sheet date, fair value exceeds cost. This is formally
assessed for all properties on a triennial basis. At the latest review,
carried out at 31 December 2007, the fair value of UK freehold and
long leasehold land and buildings exceeded cost by £12,100,000.
Goodwill impairment
The outcome of the group’s annual impairment test for goodwill is
dependent on the forecast cash flows of each cash generating unit
together with key management assumptions including profit growth
and discount rates. No impairment resulted from the annual
impairment test for 2008.
Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised at the balance sheet date based on
the assumption that there is a high expectation that the asset will be
realised in due course. This assumption is dependent on the group’s
ability to generate sufficient future taxable profits.
Employee benefits
The deficit relating to the group’s defined benefit plans is assessed
annually in accordance with IAS 19 and after taking independent
actuarial advice. The principle assumptions are set out in note 19. The
amount of the deficit is dependent on plan asset and liability values and
the actuarial assumptions used to determine the deficit. The assumptions
include asset growth rates, pension and salary increases, price inflation,
discount rate used to measure actuarial liabilities and mortality rates.
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet
date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in
the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are
translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Financial statements of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, including goodwill
and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at
foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. 
The revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated at an
average rate for the period where this rate approximates to the foreign
exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign
subsidiaries are taken directly to the translation reserve and reflected
as a movement in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Foreign currency exposure
Note 22 contains information about the foreign currency exposure of
the group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the group
Financial instruments issued by the group are treated as equity, i.e.
forming part of shareholders’ funds, only to the extent that they meet
the following two conditions:
(a) they include no contractual obligations upon the company, or
group as the case may be, to deliver cash or other financial assets
or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another
party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the
company or group; and
(b) where the instrument will or may be settled in the company’s own
equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no
obligation to deliver a variable number of the company’s own
equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the
company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial
assets for a fixed number or its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue 
are classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified
takes the legal form of the company’s own shares, the amounts
presented in these Financial Statements for called up share capital and
share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as
part of financial expenses. Finance payments associated with financial
instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded
directly in equity.
Investments in debt and equity securities
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less impairment losses.
Where the consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking
includes shares in the company to which the provisions of Section 131
of the Companies Act 1985 apply, cost represents the nominal 
value of shares issued, together with the fair value of any additional
consideration given and costs. In the Consolidated Financial
Statements, the excess of the fair value of the consideration of shares
issued over the nominal value is credited to the special reserve.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 51 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Derivative financial instruments
The group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign
currency and interest rate risk exposures. Derivatives are recognised
initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in
the income statement when incurred. Subsequent to initial
recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes
therein are accounted for as described below. 
Cash flow hedges
Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument
designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to
the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge 
is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in the income
statement. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for
hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then
hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain
or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast
transaction occurs. When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the
amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of
the asset when it is recognised. In other cases the amount recognised
in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same period
that the hedged item affects profit or loss. 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on broker quotes. Those
quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting estimated future
cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using
market interest rates for a similar instrument at the measurement date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price
at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward
price. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value of forward
exchange contracts is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of self-constructed assets
includes the costs of materials, direct labour and any other costs
directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for
its intended use.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different
useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property,
plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line
basis over their estimated useful lives. Land is not depreciated. The
annual rates applicable are:
Freehold and long 
leasehold properties – 2%
Short leasehold properties – period of lease
Motor vehicles – 25%
Office and computer 
equipment – 10% - 33.3%
Warehouse and production 
equipment – 10%-20%
Intangible assets
Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase
method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of
subsidiaries. In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred
since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the
cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised
but, tested annually for impairment. 
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is included
on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded
under UK GAAP which was broadly comparable save that only separable
intangibles were recognised and goodwill was amortised. This is in
accordance with IFRS 1.
Other intangibles
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the group are stated at
cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible
assets recognised as a result of a business combination are stated at
fair value at the date of acquisition less cumulative amortisation and
impairment losses.
Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such
lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and
goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance
sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they
are available for use. The estimated useful lives of customer lists are
deemed to be between 1 – 24 months. 
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are stated at their nominal amount,
discounted if material, less impairment losses. Debts are provided for,
the credit loss allowance, on specific receivables in full as soon as they
are known to be ‘bad’ or it becomes apparent that payment is ‘doubtful’. 
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Cost is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes
expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to
their existing location and condition. Net realisable value represents
the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and
costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution. 
Inventory provisions are determined by reference to each individual
product and are calculated by assessing the age, condition and
quantity of each individual product.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral
part of cash management of both the company and group are included
as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of
the Cash Flow Statement.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 52 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the group’s assets other than inventories 
and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such
indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet available for use,
the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of 
an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated
to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying amount of
the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. A cash generating
unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash
inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other
assets or groups of assets.
Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of the group’s receivables carried at amortised
cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows,
discounted at the original effective interest rate, i.e., the effective
interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair
value less cost to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments
of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an
asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the
recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to
which the asset belongs.
Reversals of impairment
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there
is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist and
there had been a change in the estimates used to determine the
recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have
been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment
loss had been recognised. 
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less
attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition,
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in 
the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an
effective interest basis.
Employee benefits
The company and the group operate both defined benefit and defined
contribution plans, the assets of which are held in independent trustee
administered funds. The pension cost is assessed in accordance with
the advice of a qualified actuary.
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are
recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans
is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that
employees have earned in return for their service in the current and
prior periods. That benefit is discounted to determine its present
value, and the fair value of any plan assets, at bid price, is deducted.
The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date using
AA rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to
the terms of the group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by 
a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased
benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised as an
expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the
average period until the benefits become vested. To the extent that
the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately
in the income statement.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the group’s
obligation in respect of a scheme are recognised immediately in reserves
and reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the group, the asset
recognised is limited to the present value of any future refunds from
the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The group operates a UK defined benefit pension plan and a defined
benefit plan in Switzerland. In the UK as there is no contractual
agreement or stated group policy for allocating the net defined benefit
liability between the participating subsidiaries and as such the full 
deficit is recognised by the company, which is the sponsoring
employer. The participating subsidiary companies have recognised 
a cost equal to contributions payable for the period as advised by 
a professionally qualified actuary.
Share-based payment transactions
The company and group operate various equity settled share option
schemes under the approved and unapproved executive schemes and
savings related schemes.
For executive share option schemes, the option price may not be less
than the mid market value of the group’s shares at the time when the
options were granted or the nominal value.
Approved
These share option awards are subject to the movement of the group’s
earnings per share exceeding RPI over the relevant period.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 53 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Unapproved
These share option awards are subject to the movement of the group
earnings per share exceeding RPI between 3% and 5% per annum.
The performance is assessed by reference to the group’s published results.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee
expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is
measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the
employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair
value of the options granted is measured using an option valuation
model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the
options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense is
adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest 
except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving 
the threshold for vesting.
When options are granted to employees of subsidiaries of the company,
the fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense
in the financial statements of the subsidiary undertaking together with
the capital contribution received. In the financial statements of the
company, the options granted are recognised as an investment in
subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding increase in equity.
Repurchase of share capital
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount 
of the consideration paid, net of any tax effects is recognised as a
deduction from equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury
shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. When
treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the amount received
is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or
deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from retained earnings.
Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the
consideration, net of trade discounts and excludes intra-group sales
and value added and similar taxes. Revenue from the sale of goods 
is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of
the goods are transferred to the buyer, the amount of revenue can be
reliably measured and it is probable that the economic benefits
associated with the transaction will flow to the group.
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Lease
incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an
integral part of the total lease expense.
Finance lease payments
Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge
and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is
allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a
constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, finance charges on
shares classified as liabilities, finance leases, interest receivable on
funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses
on hedging instruments as outlined in the accounting policy relating
to derivative financial instruments and hedging described above.
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in the income
statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Dividend
income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entity’s
right to receive payments is established.
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefits pension
plans, less administration expenses of pension plans are recognised 
in financial income. The interest accruing on defined benefit pension
plan liabilities are recognised in financial expenses.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred
tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it
is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the
year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous
years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and
the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised
for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of
assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination
and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences
relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable
that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. In addition,
deferred tax is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising
on the initial recognition of goodwill.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner
of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and
liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 54 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
2. SEGMENT REPORTING
The group’s activities are wholly aligned to the sales, marketing, supply and distribution of floorcovering products. These activities are carried out
from business centres located in both the UK and Continental Europe. The group’s internal management structure and financial reporting systems
treat the UK and Continental Europe as two separate segments because of the difference in reward arising from these two markets and this forms
the basis for the geographical presentation of the primary segment information given below.
UK Continental Europe Total
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
External sales 458,572 463,671 98,724 81,047 557,296 544,718
Result
Segment result 39,164 46,092 3,324 2,916 42,488 49,008
Unallocated corporate expenses (766) (2,995)
Operating profit 41,722 46,013
Finance income 7,016 6,321
Finance expense (8,618) (7,162)
Taxation (11,433) (13,534)
Profit for the year 28,687 31,638
Other information
Segment assets 302,805 287,552 58,878 36,881 361,683 324,433
Unallocated assets 5,372 5,942
Consolidated total assets 367,055 330,375
Segment liabilities (146,327) (135,868) (31,548) (18,555) (177,875) (154,423)
Unallocated liabilities (28,046) (25,911)
Consolidated total liabilities (205,921) (180,334)
Capital expenditure 5,949 10,617 4,715 663 10,664 11,280
Depreciation 4,218 4,044 786 666 5,004 4,710
Amortisation 44 1,517 257 – 301 1,517
Each segment is a continuing operation.
Unallocated assets comprise deferred tax assets. Unallocated liabilities comprise income tax, deferred tax liabilities and employee benefits.
Management has access to information that provides details on sales and gross margin by principal product group and across the five principal
business sectors which comprise Regional multi-product, National multi-product, Commercial regional, Residential specialist and Commercial
specialist. However, this information is not provided as a secondary segment since the group’s operations are not managed by reference to these
sub classifications and the presentation would require an arbitrary allocation of overheads, assets and liabilities undermining the presentation’s
validity and usefulness.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 55 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
3. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
The following are included in profit before tax:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 5,004 4,710
Amortisation of intangible assets 301 1,517
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 337 18
Share-based payment expenses 426 501
Operating lease rentals
Plant and machinery 8,992 8,237
Land and buildings 2,209 2,021
Auditor’s remuneration:
2008 2007
£000 £000
Audit of these financial statements 60 57
Amounts received by the auditors and their associates in respect of:
Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 145 124
All other services 16 40
221 221
Amounts paid to the company’s auditor in respect of services to the company, other than the audit of the company’s Financial Statements, have
not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 56 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
4. STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS
The average number of people employed, including directors, during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of employees Number of employees
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
By sector:
Floorcoverings 2,178 2,129 – –
Central operations 9 9 9 9
2,187 2,138 9 9
By function:
Sales and distribution 2,011 1,960 – –
Administration 176 178 9 9
2,187 2,138 9 9
The aggregate payroll costs were as follows:
£000 £000 £000 £000
Wages and salaries 59,879 56,561 2,437 2,595
Equity settled transactions 426 501 128 194
Social security costs 7,705 7,067 302 325
Pension costs 3,195 3,164 494 349
71,205 67,293 3,361 3,463
5. DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
2008 2007
£000 £000
Directors’ emoluments 1,515 2,305
Gains made on share options 33 –
Further details of directors’ emoluments, share options and pension entitlement are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 40.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 57 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
6. FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE
2008 2007
£000 £000
Interest income:
Bank interest 2,902 2,641
Other 209 46
Return on defined benefit plan assets 3,905 3,634
Finance income 7,016 6,321
Interest expense:
Bank loans, overdrafts and other financial expenses (4,543) (3,328)
Interest on defined benefit plan obligation (4,075) (3,827)
Finance leases and similar hire purchase contracts – (3)
Other – (4)
Finance expenses (8,618) (7,162)
7. TAXATION
Recognised in the income statement
2008 2007
£000 £000
Current tax expense:
Current year 11,388 13,333
Adjustments for prior years (1,411) (1,130)
9,977 12,203
Deferred tax expense:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (229) 1,276
Effect of change in UK tax law 7 (178)
Adjustments for prior years 1,678 233
1,456 1,331
Total tax in income statement 11,433 13,534
2008 2007
£000 £000
Tax relating to items credited/(charged) to equity
Current tax:
Current tax on income and expenses recognised directly in equity 211 (74)
Deferred tax:
Deferred tax on share options (227) (494)
Deferred tax on income and expenses recognised directly in equity 1,093 (1,586)
Total tax reported directly in reserves 1,077 (2,154)
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 58 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
7. TAXATION - CONTINUED
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
2008 2007
% £000 % £000
Profit before tax 40,120 45,172
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate 28.5% 11,433 30% 13,552
Effect of change in UK tax law –7 (0.4%) (178)
Non-deductible expenses 0.3% 126 3.1% 1,392
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (1.0%) (400) (0.7%) (335)
Under/(over) provided in prior years 0.7% 267 (2.0%) (897)
Total tax in income statement 28.5% 11,433 30% 13,534
On 1 April 2008 the current tax rate reduced from 30% to 28%. Therefore the current tax rate applying to the year ended 31 December 2008 is a
blended rate of 28.5%.
8. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES
The group current tax liability of £9,546,000 (2007: £10,747,000) represents the amount of income tax payable in respect of current and prior
year periods which exceed any amounts recoverable. The company current tax liability of £5,752,000 (2007: £5,306,000) represents the amount 
of income tax payable in respect of current and prior year periods which exceed any amounts recoverable.
9. EARNINGS PER SHARE
2008 2007
£000 £000
Earnings
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 28,687 31,638
2008 2007
Number of shares
Issued ordinary shares at 1 January 85,363,743 87,079,521
Effect of share movement during the period (2,223,206) (1,709,414)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 83,140,537 85,370,107
Effect of diluted potential ordinary shares:
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December 83,140,537 85,370,107
Share options 433,308 2,114,930
Number of shares that would have been issued at fair value (401,137) (1,471,286)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 83,172,708 86,013,751
At 31 December 2008, the company held 2,248,647 shares in treasury and these are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 59 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT – GROUP AND COMPANY
Land & Plant & Under
buildings equipment construction Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2007 77,267 21,070 722 99,059
Acquisition 27 239 – 266
Additions 6,487 3,265 1,528 11,280
Disposals (246) (1,162) – (1,408)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 437 375 – 812
Reclassification (52) 52 – –
Balance at 31 December 2007 83,920 23,839 2,250 110,009
Balance at 1 January 2008 83,920 23,839 2,250 110,009
Additions 181 2,686 7,797 10,664
Disposals (637) (2,353) (6) (2,996)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 2,765 1,791 906 5,462
Transfer to use 5,546 165 (5,711) –
Balance at 31 December 2008 91,775 26,128 5,236 123,139
Depreciation
Balance at 1 January 2007 6,757 7,270 – 14,027
Depreciation charge for the year 1,433 3,277 – 4,710
Disposals (211) (1,057) – (1,268)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 160 283 – 443
Reclassification (7) 7 – –
Balance at 31 December 2007 8,132 9,780 – 17,912
Balance at 1 January 2008 8,132 9,780 – 17,912
Depreciation charge for the year 1,570 3,434 – 5,004
Disposals (63) (1,960) – (2,023)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 1,150 1,355 – 2,505
Balance at 31 December 2008 10,789 12,609 – 23,398
Net book value
At 1 January 2007 70,510 13,800 722 85,032
At 31 December 2007 and 1 January 2008 75,788 14,059 2,250 92,097
At 31 December 2008 80,986 13,519 5,236 99,741
Property, plant and equipment under construction
During the year ended 31 December 2008, a group subsidiary company acquired land in Zutphen, in the Netherlands and has now completed 
the construction of a new warehouse and distribution facility on the site. The costs incurred by 31 December 2008 in respect of this new facility
were £5,236,000. The group completed various property projects which included extensions and re-modifications during the year ended 
31 December 2008 and these have been transferred into use.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 60 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT – GROUP AND COMPANY - CONTINUED
Land & Plant & Under
buildings equipment construction Total
Company £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2007 70,720 559 722 72,001
Additions 6,462 – 1,523 7,985
Disposals (197) – – (197)
Balance at 31 December 2007 76,985 559 2,245 79,789
Balance at 1 January 2008 76,985 559 2,245 79,789
Additions 112 38 3,466 3,616
Disposals (516) (3) – (519)
Transfer to group company – – (165) (165)
Transfer to use 5,546 – (5,546) –
Balance at 31 December 2008 82,127 594 – 82,721
Depreciation
Balance at 1 January 2007 4,756 472 – 5,228
Depreciation charge for the year 1,133 29 – 1,162
Disposals (197) – – (197)
Balance at 31 December 2007 5,692 501 – 6,193
Balance at 1 January 2008 5,692 501 – 6,193
Depreciation charge for the year 1,249 30 – 1,279
Disposals (26) (3) – (29)
Balance at 31 December 2008 6,915 528 – 7,443
Net book value
At 1 January 2007 65,964 87 722 66,773
At 31 December 2007 and 1 January 2008 71,293 58 2,245 73,596
At 31 December 2008 75,212 66 – 75,278
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 61 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GROUP
Customer
Goodwill lists Total
£000 £000 £000
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2007 13,210 2,362 15,572
Addition (note 23) – 1,517 1,517
Balance at 31 December 2007 13,210 3,879 17,089
Balance at 1 January 2008 13,210 3,879 17,089
Addition (note 23) – 263 263
Balance at 31 December 2008 13,210 4,142 17,352
Amortisation
Balance at 1 January 2007 – 2,362 2,362
Amortisation for the year – 1,517 1,517
Balance at 31 December 2007 – 3,879 3,879
Balance at 1 January 2008 – 3,879 3,879
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – (38) (38)
Amortisation for the year – 301 301
Balance at 31 December 2008 – 4,142 4,142
Net book value
At 1 January 2007 13,210 – 13,210
At 31 December 2007 and 1 January 2008 13,210 – 13,210
At 31 December 2008 13,210 – 13,210
Cumulative impairment recognised in relation to goodwill is £nil.
Amortisation
The amortisation charge is recognised in administration expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment tests for cash-generating units containing goodwill
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is attributable to the group’s geographical segments being the UK and Continental Europe, which
represent the lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill is attributable to the geographical segments as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
UK 6,671 6,671
Continental Europe 6,539 6,539
13,210 13,210
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 62 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GROUP - CONTINUED
Impairment
An impairment test is a comparison of the carrying value of the assets of a business or cash generating unit (“CGU”) to their recoverable
amount. Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment results. During the year, all goodwill was tested for
impairment, with no impairment charge resulting.
The carrying value of goodwill has been assessed by reference to value in use which has been estimated using cash flow forecasts based on the
approved planned operating objective for 2009. For the purpose of testing for impairment, the forecast cash flows for 2010 have assumed no
growth, and then a growth rate of 16% has been applied to profit before tax for periods 2011 to 2013. 
Key assumptions 
The main assumptions within the operating cash flows used for 2009 include the achievement of future sales volumes and prices for all key
product lines, control of purchase prices, achievement of budgeted operating costs and no significant adverse foreign exchange rate movements.
Management have estimated the discount rate by reference to the group’s cost of capital and have included an appropriate risk factor to reflect
current economic circumstances and the risk profile of the CGU’s. A post tax weighted average cost of capital of 10.1% has been used for
impairment testing, pre-tax 15.00%, adjusted to 11.1% for Continental Europe to reflect the differing risk profile of that operating segment. 
The value of goodwill is recovered for each CGU within six years.
Sensitivity analysis
The group’s estimate of impairments are most sensitive to increases in the discount rate and forecast cash flows. Sensitivity analysis has been
carried out by reference to both of these assumptions and neither a 1% increase in the discount rate or 5% reduction in forecast cash flows
would result in any impairment being required.
It is not considered possible, other than disclosed above that any reasonable change to the key assumptions would generate a different
impairment test outcome to the one included in these Financial Statements.
12. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Summary information on investments in subsidiary undertakings is as follows:
£000
Cost
Balance at 1 January 2007 84,937
Share options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings 306
Additions during the period 2,698
Balance at 31 December 2007 87,941
Balance at 1 January 2008 87,941
Share options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings 298
Balance at 31 December 2008 88,239
Provisions
Balance at 1 January 2007 690
Impairment during the period 1,470
Balance at 31 December 2007 2,160
Balance at 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2008 2,160
Carrying value
At 1 January 2007 84,247
At 31 December 2007 85,781
At 31 December 2008 86,079
The principal trading subsidiaries are listed on page 91.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 63 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
13. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES - GROUP
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment – – (3,698) (3,836) (3,698) (3,836)
Intangible assets – 496 (158) – (158) 496
Employee benefits 4,009 4,155 – – 4,009 4,155
Provisions 1,321 841 – – 1,321 841
Other items 42 450 – – 42 450
Tax assets/(liabilities) 5,372 5,942 (3,856) (3,836) 1,516 2,106
Movement in deferred tax during the year
1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
2008 in income in equity 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment (3,836) 138 – (3,698)
Intangible assets 496 (654) – (158)
Employee benefits 4,155 (1,012) 866 4,009
Provisions 841 480 – 1,321
Other 450 (408) – 42
2,106 (1,456) 866 1,516
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
2007 in income in equity 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment (3,665) (171) – (3,836)
Intangible assets 551 (55) – 496
Employee benefits 6,640 (405) (2,080) 4,155
Provisions 1,265 (424) – 841
Other 726 (276) – 450
5,517 (1,331) (2,080) 2,106
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At the balance sheet date the group has unused capital losses of £9,266,000 (2007: £9,804,000) available for offset against future chargeable
gains. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount as the group does not anticipate the generation of significant
chargeable gains in the foreseeable future.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 64 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
13. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES - COMPANY
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment – – (2,865) (2,858) (2,865) (2,858)
Employee benefits 3,594 3,614 – – 3,594 3,614
Provisions 712 676 – – 712 676
Tax assets/(liabilities) 4,306 4,290 (2,865) (2,858) 1,441 1,432
Movement in deferred tax during the year
1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
2008 in income in equity 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment (2,858) (7) – (2,865)
Employee benefits 3,614 (873) 853 3,594
Provisions 676 36 – 712
1,432 (844) 853 1,441
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
2007 in income in equity 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment (2,627) (231) – (2,858)
Employee benefits 5,898 (569) (1,715) 3,614
Provisions 582 94 – 676
3,853 (706) (1,715) 1,432
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At the balance sheet date the company has unused capital losses of £9,266,000 (2007: £9,804,000) available for offset against future chargeable
gains. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount as the company does not anticipate the generation of significant
chargeable gains in the foreseeable future.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 65 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
14. INVENTORIES
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Finished goods and goods held for resale 107,597 101,491 – –
Cost of sales consists of the following:
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Material cost 375,955 368,672 – –
Processing cost 4,133 4,666 – –
Other 2,582 2,652 – –
382,670 375,990 – –
15. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables 81,696 77,468 – 1
Prepayments and accrued income 4,559 3,613 132 123
Other receivables 19,687 19,749 144 433
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings – – 26,036 19,909
105,942 100,830 26,312 20,466
£2,359,000 (2007: £1,088,000) was recognised as an impairment loss in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of trade receivables. 
The impairment loss is attributable to the geographical segments as follows:
2008 2007
£000 £000
UK 2,022 850
Continental Europe 337 238
2,359 1,088
16. CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND BANK OVERDRAFTS
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet 35,193 16,805 46,048 30,135
Bank overdrafts – (103) – –
Cash and cash equivalents per cash flow statements 35,193 16,702 46,048 30,135
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 66 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
17. OTHER INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the group’s and company’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more
information about the group’s and company’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 22.
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Current liabilities
Interest bearing loan 4,506 – – –
4,506 – – –
Non-current liabilities
Interest bearing loan 30,000 – 30,000 –
30,000 – 30,000 –
The group has undrawn borrowing facilities expiring in one year or less which, at 31 December 2008, amounted to £55,010,000 (2007:
£81,877,000). The facility conditions for drawdown had been met during the period. The borrowing is unsecured and there is a cross guarantee 
in place between the company and its UK subsidiaries. There is a downstream guarantee from the company in relation to its borrowing facility 
in the Netherlands.
The undrawn borrowing facilities are as follows:
Interest Interest
rate 2008 rate 2007
% £000 % £000
UK 1.5 45,000 6.2 76,000
Netherlands 3.75 2,262 5.3 367
France 3.25 4,350 4.3 3,203
Switzerland 1.75 3,398 3.7 2,307
55,010 81,877
All the borrowing facilities above bear interest at floating rates. The Swiss facility may be drawn as an overdraft or fixed rate loan with different
terms depending on length of time and amount.
18. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
Current £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade payables 106,228 117,316 198 159
Taxation and social security 10,466 10,941 1,416 749
Derivatives used for hedging 848 - 848 -
Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 25,827 26,063 5,167 5,078
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings - - 32,524 32,285
143,369 154,320 40,153 38,271
The group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 22.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 67 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
19. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Pension plans
During the year, the group operated a UK and Swiss defined benefit plan and defined contribution plans in the UK, France and the Netherlands.
The Headlam Group plc Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme is the principal defined benefit plan which provides benefits to group employees that
have been admitted into the scheme. The scheme is self-administered and its assets are held independently of the company’s finances. The
scheme is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from the company at rates advised by professionally qualified
actuaries. The latest actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2008 using the projected unit method. The main annual rate assumptions
used by the actuary were, increase in salaries 4.7%, increase of pensions in payment 3.2%, discount rate before retirement 6.5%, discount rate
after retirement 4.75% and inflation 3.2%. Assets were taken at their audited market value at the valuation date. This valuation also used
revised mortality assumptions. These revised assumptions have been derived to take account of the characteristics of plan members and include 
a greater allowance for future increases in longevity compared with the assumptions previously adopted.
The total group cost of operating the plans during the year was £3,195,000 (2007: £3,164,000) and, at 31 December 2008, there was an amount
of £290,000 (2007: £423,000) owed to the plans, being employer and employee contributions due for December 2008, which was paid in January
2009.
Included within the total staff costs as disclosed in note 4 are costs relating to the group’s defined contribution plans. The pension cost for the
year represents contributions payable by the group to the plans and amounted to £1,564,000 (2007: £1,361,000). Contributions amounting to
£108,000 (2007: £95,000) in respect of December 2008 payroll were paid in January 2009.
In the UK there is no contractual agreement or stated group policy for allocating the net defined benefit liability between the participating
subsidiaries and as such the full deficit is recognised by the company, which is the sponsoring employer. The participating subsidiary companies
have recognised a cost equal to contributions payable for the period as advised by a professionally qualified actuary. The company recognises a
cost equal to its contributions payable for the period net of amounts recharged in relation to the group deficit to the participating subsidiary
companies.
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (69,441) (71,350) (62,443) (66,953)
Fair value of plan assets 55,139 60,308 49,534 56,098
Net obligations (14,302) (11,042) (12,909) (10,855)
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations (14,302) (11,042) (12,909) (10,855)
Other long term employee benefits (note 20) (342) (286) – –
Total employee benefits (14,644) (11,328) (12,909) (10,855)
Split:
Current liabilities (2,428) (1,491) (2,428) (1,491)
Non-current liabilities (12,216) (9,837) (10,481) (9,364)
Total employee benefits (14,644) (11,328) (12,909) (10,855)
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 68 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
19. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - CONTINUED
Pension plans - continued
The employee benefits recognised as a current liability represent committed additional group and company contributions to be payable during
the year ended 31 December 2009.
The group and company expect to contribute approximately £3,988,000 (2007: £2,845,000) to defined benefit plans in the next financial year.
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 71,350 73,160 66,953 69,736
Current service cost 1,461 1,610 1,271 1,477
Interest cost 4,075 3,827 3,925 3,725
Actuarial gains (7,553) (4,493) (7,660) (4,989)
Benefits paid (2,422) (3,315) (2,294) (3,252)
Contributions by members 355 334 248 256
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 2,175 227 – –
At 31 December 69,441 71,350 62,443 66,953
Movements in fair value of plan assets
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January 60,308 56,220 56,098 52,704
Expected return on plan assets 3,905 3,634 3,713 3,494
Actuarial (losses)/gains (11,798) 507 (10,785) 313
Contributions by employer 2,706 2,699 2,554 2,583
Contributions by members 355 334 248 256
Benefits paid (2,422) (3,315) (2,294) (3,252)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange 2,085 229 – –
At 31 December 55,139 60,308 49,534 56,098
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 69 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
19. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - CONTINUED
Pension plans - continued
Expense recognised in the income statement
Group
2008 2007
£000 £000
Current service cost 1,461 1,610
Interest on defined benefit plan obligation 4,075 3,827
Expected return on defined benefit plan assets (3,905) (3,634)
Total 1,631 1,803
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement:
Group
2008 2007
£000 £000
Administrative expenses 1,461 1,610
Net financing costs 170 193
1,631 1,803
Actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense:
Group
2008 2007
£000 £000
Actuarial gains on defined benefit obligation 7,553 7,660
Actuarial loss on plan assets (11,798) (10,785)
(4,245) (3,125)
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses reported in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses since 1 January 2004, the transition date to
IFRS, are £5,743,000 (2007: £1,498,000). Cumulative actuarial gains and losses reported in the company’s Statement of Recognised Income and
Expense are £4,409,000 (2007: £1,284,000).
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Equities 28,202 36,052 27,227 35,269
Government debt 15,438 14,689 15,438 14,689
Corporate bonds 5,782 4,771 2,856 2,670
Annuities 3,909 3,327 3,909 3,327
Other 1,808 1,469 104 143
55,139 60,308 49,534 56,098
Actual return on plan assets (7,837) 4,150 (7,072) 3,807
The expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return is calculated by
weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 70 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
19. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - CONTINUED
Pension plans - continued
Principal actuarial assumptions, expressed as weighted averages, are as follows:
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
% % % %
Discount rate 6.1 5.7 6.5 5.9
Future salary increases 4.2 5.2 4.5 5.4
Future pension increases 2.7 3.2 3.0 3.4
Inflation rate 2.8 3.3 3.0 3.4
Expected rate of return on plan assets 5.5 6.4 5.7 6.6
Mortality table assumptions:
UK pre-retirement AC00 (Ultimate) A92 (Ultimate) AC00 (Ultimate) A92 (Ultimate)
table table table table
UK post-retirement – future-pensioners 103%(M)/110%(F) PA92 C=2020 103%(M)/110%(F) PA92 C=2020
of the PCA00 of the PCA00
tables with medium tables with medium
cohort projections cohort projections
UK post-retirement – current pensioners 103%(M)/110%(F) PA92 C=2010 103%(M)/110%(F) PA92 C=2010
of the PCA00 of the PCA00 
tables with medium tables with medium 
cohort projections cohort projections
Swiss scheme EVK 2000 EVK 2000 – –
The mortality assumption implies the expected future lifetime from age 65 is as follows:
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
Non-pensioner male 23.3 19.9 23.3 19.9
Pensioner male 21.3 19.0 21.3 19.0
Non-pensioner female 25.1 22.8 25.1 22.8
Pensioner female 23.2 22.0 23.2 22.0
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 71 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
19. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS – CONTINUED
Pension plans - continued
History of plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Balance sheet
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (69,441) (71,350) (73,160) (64,750) (54,729)
Fair value of plan assets 55,139 60,308 56,220 44,524 36,815
Deficit (14,302) (11,042) (16,940) (20,226) (17,914)
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (62,443) (66,953) (69,736) (64,750) (54,729)
Fair value of plan assets 49,534 56,098 52,704 44,524 36,815
Deficit (12,909) (10,855) (17,032) (20,226) (17,914)
Experience adjustments
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
On plan liabilities (7,553) (4,493) 1,688 6,711 4,786
On plan assets (11,798) 507 1,518 4,134 1,030
As a percentage of plan liabilities (10.9%) (6.3%) 2.3% 10.4% 8.7%
As a percentage of plan assets (21.4%) 0.8% 2.7% 9.3% 2.8%
2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
On plan liabilities (7,660) (4,989) 1,664 6,711 4,786
On plan assets (10,785) 313 1,403 4,134 1,030
As a percentage of plan liabilities (12.3%) (7.5%) 2.4% 10.4% 8.7%
As a percentage of plan assets (21.8%) 0.6% 2.7% 9.3% 2.8%
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 72 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
19. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - CONTINUED
Share-based payments – group and company
Executive directors and management currently participate in executive share option schemes. The option price may not be less than 
the greater of the mid-market value of the group’s shares at the time when the options were granted or the nominal value. Options granted
under the 1998 Inland Revenue approved scheme are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of their date of grant,
subject to the movement of the group’s basic earnings per share exceeding RPI over the relevant period.
Options granted under the 1998 unapproved scheme are normally exercisable between the third and seventh anniversaries of their date of grant.
Awards are subject to the movement of the group’s basic earnings per share exceeding RPI between 3% and 5% per annum respectively over the
relevant period.
Additionally, the group operates a savings related share option scheme (“sharesave scheme”) which is open to employees subject to eligibility
criteria determined by the directors prior to each option grant. The first grant under the current scheme was made on 28 October 2002 where
employees with over one year’s service were invited to participate. As this sharesave scheme was granted before 7 November 2002, the
recognition and measurement principles in IFRS 2 have not been applied in accordance with the transitional provisions in IFRS 1 and IFRS 2. 
The most recent grant was on 8 May 2008 when employees with over one month’s service were invited to participate. This sharesave scheme 
has been accounted for under IFRS 2.
The issue of the 2008 sharesave scheme has led to 192,812 options under the 2006 sharesave scheme being cancelled as employees have taken
up options under the 2008 scheme.
The group also operates a 2008 HMRC approved scheme, a 2008 unapproved scheme, the Headlam Group Performance Share Plan 2008 and the
Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008. The group has not yet implemented any of these schemes or plans. Further details of these schemes
and plans are given in the Remuneration Report on page 36.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 73 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
19. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - CONTINUED
Share-based payments – group and company - continued
The terms and conditions of the options outstanding are as follows, whereby all options are settled by physical delivery of shares:
Number of instruments Contractual life
Grant date/employees entitled 2008 2007 Vesting Conditions of options
Approved 1998 scheme grant to key 10,000 10,000 Movement of the group’s basic 10/01/04 –
management 10 January 2001 earnings per share exceeding 10/01/11
RPI over the relevant period
Five year sharesave scheme granted – 374,308 Continuous service 01/01/08 –
to other employees 28 October 2002 30/06/08
Approved 1998 scheme grant to key 46,404 46,404 Movement of the group’s basic 14/04/06 –
management 14 April 2003 earnings per share exceeding RPI 14/04/13
over the relevant period
Unapproved 1998 scheme grant to key 2,596 12,596 Movement of the group’s basic 14/04/06 –
management 14 April 2003 earnings per share exceeding RPI 14/04/10
over the relevant period
Unapproved 1998 scheme grant to key 1,242,864 1,242,864 Movement of the group’s basic 22/08/08 –
management 22 August 2005 earnings per share exceeding RPI 22/08/12
by 3%-5% pa over the relevant 
period
Approved 1998 scheme granted to key 57,136 57,136 Movement of the group’s basic 22/08/08 –
management 22 August 2005 earnings per share exceeding that 22/08/15
of RPI by 3% pa over the relevant 
period
Three year sharesave scheme granted 95,278 217,059 Continuous service 01/07/09 –
to other employees 25 May 2006 01/01/10
Five year sharesave scheme granted 83,532 154,563 Continuous service 01/07/11 –
to other employees 25 May 2006 01/01/12
Three year sharesave scheme granted 267,740 – Continuous service 01/07/11 –
to other employees 8 May 2008 01/01/12
Five year sharesave scheme granted 310,305 – Continuous service 01/07/13 –
to other employees 8 May 2008 01/01/14
Total share options 2,115,855 2,114,930
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 74 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
19. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - CONTINUED
Share-based payments – group and company - continued
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
Weighted Weighted
average Number of average Number of
exercise price options exercise price options
2008 2008 2007 2007
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 370.1 2,114,930 366.6 2,209,691
Exercised during the year 197.5 (380,306) 223.3 (43,275)
Granted during the year 303.2 626,609 – –
Lapsed during the year 335.5 (245,378) 342.4 (51,486)
Outstanding at the end of the year 379.5 2,115,855 370.1 2,114,930
Exercisable at the end of the year 410.2 1,362,985 202.4 69,000
The weighted average share price for options exercised during the year was 396.7p (2007: 589.4p).
All of the 380,306 options exercised during the year were issued from treasury, giving a total exercise price of £751,000.
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 128.0p to 420.0p and a weighted average contractual life of 5.4 years.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted. 
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
It is expected that the options will be exercised as soon as they reach maturity. 
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants. 
The expected volatility is based on historic volatility calculated over the weighted average remaining life of the share options.
Details of share options granted during 2008 are shown below:
3 year 5 year
2008 options options
Number of options 288,076 338,533
Fair value at measurement date 117.7p 108.4p
Share price at 31 December 210.5p 210.5p
Exercise price 303.2p 303.2p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used in the modelling under the Black-Scholes model) 47.2 40.4
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the modelling under the Black-Scholes model) 3 years 5 years
Expected dividends 6.2% 6.2%
Risk-free interest rate (based on UK Gilts) 4.3% 4.3%
There were no share options granted during the year ended 31 December 2007.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 75 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
19. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS - CONTINUED
Share-based payments – group and company - continued
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share based payments are as follows:
Group Company Shareholders
2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Share options granted in 2005 under the 
approved 1998 scheme 11 17 4 6 7 11
Share options granted in 2005 under the 
unapproved 1998 scheme 236 369 119 187 117 182
Share options granted in 2006 under the 
SAYE 3 year scheme 38 77 1 1 37 76
Share options granted in 2006 under the 
SAYE 5 year scheme 19 38 – – 19 38
Share options granted in 2008 under the 
SAYE 3 year scheme 74 – 2 – 72 –
Share options granted in 2008 under the 
SAYE 5 year scheme 48 – 2 – 46 –
Total expense recognised 426 501 128 194 298 307
20. OTHER LONG TERM EMPLOYEE BENEFITS – GROUP
During the year, the group operated an employment indemnity scheme in connection with a foreign subsidiary undertaking to provide for lump
sum cash payments due to employees retiring on their normal retirement date. The present retirement indemnity obligation at 31 December 2008
is £342,000 (2007: £286,000).
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 76 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
21. CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Reconciliation of movement in reserves – group
Capital Cash flow
Share Share redemption Special hedging Treasury Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2007 4,345 53,428 – (616) – – 95,846 153,012
Total recognised income 
and expense – – – 1,090 – – 34,978 36,068
Equity-settled share based  
payment transactions –––––– 501 501
Cancellation of own shares (88) – 88–––(10,073) (10,073)
Consideration for purchase of 
own shares ––––– (11,614) – (11,614)
Share options exercised by 
employees 284––– 10 – 96
Deferred tax on Schedule 23 
share options (pre November 2002)–––––– (494) (494)
Dividends ––––––(17,455) (17,455)
Balance at 31 December 2007 4,268 53,512 88 474 – (11,604) 103,303 150,041
Balance at 1 January 2008 4,268 53,512 88 474 – (11,604) 103,303 150,041
Total recognised income 
and expense – – – 6,631 (848) – 25,746 31,529
Equity-settled share based 
payment transactions –––––– 426 426
Consideration for purchase 
of own shares ––––– (2,204) – (2,204)
Share options exercised 
by employees ––––– 751 – 751
Deferred tax on Schedule 23 
share options (pre November 2002)–––––– (227) (227)
Dividends –––––– (19,182) (19,182)
Balance at 31 December 2008 4,268 53,512 88 7,105 (848) (13,057) 110,066 161,134
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 77 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
21. CAPITAL AND RESERVES - CONTINUED
Reconciliation of movement in reserves – company
Capital Cash flow
Share Share redemption Special hedging Treasury Retained Total
capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2007 4,354 53,428 – 20,578 – – 78,347 156,707
Total recognised income 
and expense –––––– 38,890 38,890
Equity-settled share based 
payment transactions –––––– 501 501
Cancellation of own shares (88) – 88––– (10,073) (10,073)
Consideration for purchase 
of own shares –––––(11,614) –(11,614)
Share options exercised by 
employees 284––– 10 – 96
Deferred tax on Schedule 23 
share options (pre November 2002)–––––– (74) (74)
Dividends –––––– (17,455) (17,455)
Balance at 31 December 2007 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 – (11,604) 90,136 156,978
Balance at 1 January 2008 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 – (11,604) 90,136 156,978
Total recognised income 
and expense –––– (848) – 10,423 9,575
Equity-settled share based 
payment transactions –––––– 426 426
Consideration for purchase of 
own shares ––––– (2,204) – (2,204)
Share options exercised by 
employees ––––– 751 – 751
Dividends –––––– (19,182) (19,182)
Balance at 31 December 2008 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 (848) (13,057) 81,803 146,344
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 78 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
21. CAPITAL AND RESERVES - CONTINUED
Share capital
Ordinary Shares
2008 2007
Number of shares
On issue at 1 January 85,363,743 87,079,521
Allotted under share option scheme – 40,700
Cancelled shares – (1,756,478)
On issue at 31 December – fully paid 85,363,743 85,363,743
2008 2007
£000 £000
Authorised
Ordinary shares of 5p each 5,392 5,392
5.6% cumulative preference shares of £1 each 50 50
5,442 5,442
Allotted, called up and fully paid
Ordinary shares of 5p each 4,268 4,268
5.6% cumulative preference shares of £1 each – –
4,268 4,268
Shares classified as liabilities – –
Shares classified in shareholders funds 4,268 4,268
4,268 4,268
During the year the company purchased 550,000 shares with a nominal value of £27,500 representing 0.6% of the issued share capital, for a
consideration that amounted to £2,204,000. These shares are held as treasury shares. At 31 December 2008, there were 2,248,647 shares held in
treasury. Dividends are not payable on these shares and they are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share. During the year 380,306
shares were utilised to satisfy the exercise of unapproved scheme and SAYE share option awards amounting to £751,000. 
During the year, the maximum number of treasury shares held was 2,333,175, representing 2.7% of the issued share capital with a nominal value
of £117,000.
In the period from 31 December 2008 to 30 March 2009 no shares have been purchased by the company.
Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings 
of the company.
Preference shares
The preference shares carry a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at the rate of 5.6% per annum. On a winding up they entitle the holders 
to repayment of the capital paid up on the shares, together with a premium of 7.50p per share and a sum equal to any arrears of the fixed
dividend thereon.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 79 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
21. CAPITAL AND RESERVES - CONTINUED
Preference shares - continued
The dividend will be calculated to the date of the return of capital and will be payable irrespective of whether such dividend has been declared
or earned or not, in priority to any payment to the holders of any other shares. The preference shares do not entitle the holders to any further
participation in the profits or assets of the company. The preference shares have no voting rights unless the fixed cumulative preference dividend
is in arrears for a period of six months or a resolution is to be proposed to alter the provisions of the Memorandum of Association of the
company with respect to its objects, or varying or abrogating any of the special rights or privilege attached to preference shares, or for winding
up the company. There are currently no preference shares in issue.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of shares repurchased and cancelled during 2007. 
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.
Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments
relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Treasury Reserve
The treasury reserve compromises the cost of the company’s shares held by the group. 
Special Reserve
The special reserve arose on the issuance of shares in connection with acquisitions made by the company in earlier years. 
Dividends
2008 2007
£000 £000
Interim dividend for 2007 of 5.35p paid 2 January 2008 4,454 –
Final dividend for 2007 of 17.75p paid 1 July 2008 14,728 –
Interim dividend for 2006 of 4.85p paid 3 January 2007 – 4,218
Final dividend for 2006 of 15.30p paid 3 July 2007 – 13,237
19,182 17,455
The final proposed dividend of 14.10p per share (2007:17.75p per share) will not be provided for until authorised by shareholders at the
forthcoming AGM.
Interim dividends of 5.60p per share (2007: 5.35p per share) are provided for when the dividend is paid.
The total value of dividends proposed but not recognised at 31 December 2008 is £16,354,000 (2007: £19,182,000).
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 80 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The main financial risks arising in the normal course of the group’s business are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks arising from interest
rate risk and foreign currency risk. This note presents information about the group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the group’s objectives,
policies and processes for measuring and managing risks and the group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included
throughout these financial statements.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual
obligations and arises principally from the group’s trade receivables.
The company and group have a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations 
are performed on all new customers requiring credit cover over £1,000 and these are frequently reviewed by management to limit exposure.
Businesses must obtain central approval for credit limits in excess of £10,000. The group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the
carrying amount of each financial asset in the balance sheet. 
The carrying amount of financial assets at the balance sheet date was:
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables (note 15) 105,942 100,830 26,312 20,466
Cash and cash equivalents (note 16) 35,193 16,805 46,048 30,135
141,135 117,635 72,360 50,601
The fair values of the above financial assets at both 31 December 2008 and 2007, are deemed to approximate to carrying value due to the short
term maturity of the instruments.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the balance sheet date by geographic region was:
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
UK 63,774 63,352 – 1
Continental Europe 17,922 14,116 – –
81,696 77,468 – 1
The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date was:
2008 2007
Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
Group £000 £000 £000 £000
Not past due 77,054 – 75,046 –
Past due 0-30 days 3,410 – 2,186 –
Past due 31-120 days 4,310 (3,078) 2,109 (1,873)
84,774 (3,078) 79,341 (1,873)
The company had trade receivables of £nil (2007: £1,000) all of which are not past due.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 81 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - CONTINUED
Credit risk - continued
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 1,873 1,859 – –
Movement in year 1,205 14 – –
Balance at 31 December 3,078 1,873 – –
The movement in the allowance for impairment loss during the year consists of an impairment loss recognised in the Consolidated Income
Statement, net of the utilisation of the credit loss allowance and foreign exchange movements.
Based on historic default rates, the group believes that no general impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables, however,
the group provides fully for specific debts when required. During the year the group’s impairment loss as a percentage of revenue amounted to
0.42% (2007: 0.20%).
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The group’s approach to managing
liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, with sufficient headroom 
to cope with abnormal market conditions. As at 31 December 2008 cash and cash equivalents covered the amounts of borrowings maturing in 
the next twelve months with a net positive liquidity of £30,687,000 (2007: £16,702,000). Details of the total facilities that the group has 
access to are given in note 17.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities:
31 December 2008
Carrying Contractual 1 year or
amount cash flows less 1-2 years 2-5 years
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 34,506 (37,171) (5,388) (713) (31,070)
Trade and other payables 142,521 (142,521) (142,521) – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging 848 (848) (848) – –
177,874 (180,540) (148,757) (713) (31,070)
31 December 2007
Carrying Contractual 1 year or
amount cash flows less 1-2 years 2-5 years
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 154,320 (154,320) (154,320) – –
Bank overdrafts 103 (103) (103) – –
154,423 (154,423) (154,423) – –
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 82 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - CONTINUED
Liquidity risk – continued
31 December 2008
Carrying Contractual 1 year or
amount cash flows less 1-2 years 2-5 years
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Unsecured bank loans 30,000 (32,496) (713) (713) (31,070)
Trade and other payables 39,305 (39,305) (39,305) – –
Derivative financial liabilities
Interest rate swaps used for hedging 848 (848) (848) – –
70,153 (72,649) (40,866) (713) (31,070)
31 December 2007
Carrying Contractual 1 year or
amount cash flows less 1-2 years 2-5 years
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 38,271 (38,271) (38,271) – –
38,271 (38,271) (38,271) – –
The value of the group’s financial liabilities as detailed above at 31 December 2008 and 2007 were not materially different to the carrying 
value. Fair values were calculated using market rates, where available. Where market values are not available, fair values have been estimated 
by discounting expected future cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves. Amounts denominated in foreign currencies are valued at the
exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Interest rate risk
The company and group are exposed to interest rate fluctuations on their borrowings and cash deposits. Borrowings are principally in sterling
and euros at both fixed and floating rates, deposits are in sterling, euros and Swiss francs at floating rates. During the year the group has drawn
down in full a £30,000,000 floating rate term loan which is repayable in 2012. In order to manage the group’s exposure to interest rates risk,
interest rate swaps have been used to fix the interest rate on the term loan. The cash flow hedge relating to these swaps was 100% effective
during the year to 31 December 2008 and therefore hedge accounting has been applied. Accordingly, the fair value of the interest rate swaps
included in the balance sheet at 31 December 2008 is £848,000 (2007: Nil).
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was:
Group Company
Carrying amount Carrying amount
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Variable rate instruments
Financial assets 35,193 16,805 46,048 30,135
Financial liabilities (34,506) (103) (30,000) –
687 16,702 16,048 30,135
There were no fixed rate instruments held by the group at 31 December 2008 (2007: £nil).
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 83 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - CONTINUED
Sensitivity analysis
Based on net debt balances that are not subject to an interest rate swap, a change of 100 basis points in the interest rates at the reporting date
would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in
particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2007.
Group Company
Profit or loss Equity Profit or loss Equity
100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp
increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
31 December 2008
Variable rate instruments 307 (307) – – 460 (460) – –
31 December 2007
Variable rate instruments 167 (167) – – 301 (301) – –
Foreign currency risk
The company and group are exposed to movements in currency exchange rates arising from transaction currency cash flows and the translation 
of the results and net assets of overseas subsidiary operations. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily the euro and Swiss franc.
The company and group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge their foreign currency transactional risk. A future foreign currency contract
would be entered into where there was a known requirement for the currency due to planned imports that are not invoiced in sterling. These
forward exchange contracts would have a maturity of less than one year after the balance sheet date. The group also enters into foreign currency
contracts at spot rate where the amounts are not frequent or material. Gains and losses on currency contracts recognised as a liability as at 
31 December 2008 amounted to £79,000 (2007: £23,000).
For the year ended 31 December 2008, 8.0% (2007: 6.3%) of the group’s operating profit was derived from overseas subsidiaries and at 31
December 2008, 14.8% (2007: 10.8%) of the group’s operating assets related to overseas subsidiary operations. The company and group do not
use derivatives other than as described above.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 84 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - CONTINUED
Foreign currency risk - continued
The group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
Group Company
Euro Other Euro Other
amount amount Total amount amount Total
2008 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables 57 19 76 88 19 107
Cash and cash equivalents 262 452 714 182 1 183
Trade and other payables (1,837) (282) (2,119) – – –
(1,518) 189 (1,329) 270 20 290
Group Company
Euro Other Euro Other
amount amount Total amount amount Total
2007 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables – – – 86 19 105
Cash and cash equivalents 586 26 612 417 1 418
Trade and other payables (1,304) (185) (1,489) – – –
(718) (159) (877) 503 20 523
Sensitivity analysis
A 10 percent strengthening of sterling against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased /(decreased) profit or loss by the
amounts shown below, there is no equity effect. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. The
analysis is performed on the same basis for 2007.
Group Company
2008 2007 2008 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Euro (152) (72) 27 50
Other 19 (16) 2 2
A 10 percent weakening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 December would have had an equal but opposite effect on the above
currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 85 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - CONTINUED
Capital management
The board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future
development of the business. The board closely monitors its shareholder base, dividend yield and earnings per share.
The board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and the advantages
and security afforded by a sound capital position.
The board encourages employees of the group to hold the company’s ordinary shares. The group operates a number of employee share option
schemes. The company has acquired a number of its own shares under a share buy-back programme, some of these shares have been used for
issuing shares under the group’s various share option incentive schemes.
There were no changes to the group’s approach to capital management in the year.
23. ACQUISITIONS OF SUBSIDIARIES
On 5 November 2008, a group subsidiary company acquired the trade and assets of Silvester, a supplier of residential products to independent
retailers throughout the Netherlands for a cash consideration of £577,000. Since its acquisition the business has contributed profit of £60,000 
to the consolidated profit for the year ended 31 December 2008 attributable to the equity shareholders. If the acquisition had occurred on 
1 January 2008 group revenue would have been an estimated £559,760,000 and profit would have been an estimated £28,859,000.
On 18 March 2008, a group subsidiary company acquired the inventory and intellectual property rights of I-Floor for a cash consideration of
£94,000.
Acquiree’s book Fair value Acquisition
value adjustments amounts
£000 £000 £000
Acquiree’s net assets at the acquisition date:
Intangible assets – 263 263
Inventories 412 – 412
Trade and other receivables 318 – 318
Trade and other payables (267) – (267)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 463 263 726
Goodwill on acquisition –
Consideration paid (726)
Satisfied by:
Cash 667
Acquisition costs capitalised 59
726
Analysis of cash flows:
On completion (667)
Costs of acquisition (59)
(726)
No goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of the trade and assets of Silvester or I Floor. The intangible assets on acquisition were attributed to
customer lists.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 86 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
23. ACQUISITIONS OF SUBSIDIARIES - CONTINUED
On March 30 2007, the company acquired 3D Flooring Supplies Limited, a regional commercial floorcovering distributor located in South Wales
and south west England, for a cash consideration of £1,377,500. On 27 April 2007, the company acquired Florprotec Limited for a cash
consideration of £1,249,600. Florprotec is a leading supplier, throughout the UK, of floor protection products for the construction industry 
and refurbishment projects. On 27 July 2007, a group subsidiary company acquired the trade and assets of Plantation Rug Company for a cash
consideration of £490,700. Plantation Rug Company is a supplier of rugs to independent retailers throughout the UK. Since their acquisition 
the businesses have contributed profit of £287,000 to the consolidated profit for the year ended 31 December 2007 attributable to the equity
shareholders. If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2007 group revenue would have been an estimated £548,535,000 and profit would
have been an estimated £31,971,000.
Acquiree’s book Fair value Acquisition
value adjustments amounts
£000 £000 £000
Acquiree’s net assets at the acquisition date:
Intangible assets – 1,517 1,517
Property, plant and equipment 293 (27) 266
Inventories 1,682 (8) 1,674
Trade and other receivables 1,756 – 1,756
Cash and cash equivalents 9–9
Short-term funding (246) – (246)
Trade and other payables (1,706) – (1,706)
Income tax payable (67) – (67)
Deferred tax liabilities (4) – (4)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 1,717 1,482 3,199
Goodwill on acquisition –
Consideration paid (3,199)
Satisfied by:
Cash 3,118
Acquisition costs capitalised 81
3,199
Analysis of cash flows:
On completion (3,118)
Costs of acquisition (81)
Cash and cash equivalents 9
(3,190)
No goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of 3D Flooring Supplies Limited, Florprotec Limited or on the acquisition of the trade and assets of
Plantation Rug Company. The intangible assets on acquisition were attributed to customer lists.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 87 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
23. ACQUISITIONS OF SUBSIDIARIES – CONTINUED
Following acquisition, it is the group’s normal practice to implement its operational and financial procedures and standard IT systems.
Furthermore, acquired businesses gain access to the group’s extensive product ranges and benefit from enhanced sales and marketing investment.
These changes typically enable acquired businesses to enhance the service provided to their customers and ultimately, develop and grow.
Whilst acquired customer order books are a key component at the point of acquisition, this position quickly dissipates during the post
acquisition period. The dynamic and renewable nature of this class of asset is the reason the group elects to amortise it over a period of one to
twenty four months, the precise period being dependant upon the size of the acquired business.
During 2008, the intangible assets amounting to £301,000 were amortised in full.
24. OPERATING LEASES
The aggregate payments, for which there are commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as at the end of the year, fall due as follows:
2008 2007
Land and Plant and Land and Plant and
buildings machinery Total buildings machinery Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Less than one year 893 7,614 8,507 1,630 7,947 9,577
Between one and five years 3,427 13,634 17,061 4,965 9,833 14,798
More than five years 2,135 258 2,393 3,061 – 3,061
6,455 21,506 27,961 9,656 17,780 27,436
2008 2007
Land and Plant and Land and Plant and
buildings machinery Total buildings machinery Total
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Less than one year 16 7 23 16 15 31
Between one and five years 65 13 78 65 1 66
More than five years 1,259 – 1,259 1,276 – 1,276
1,341 20 1,360 1,357 16 1,373
The group leases the majority of its motor and commercial vehicles on terms that range between three and five years.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, £11,201,000 was recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of
operating leases (2007: £10,258,000).
25. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the group entered into contracts to purchase property, plant and equipment for £629,000 (2007:
£1,906,000). These commitments are expected to be settled in the following financial year.
Company
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the company entered into contracts to purchase property, plant and equipment for £16,000 (2007:
£1,541,000). These commitments are expected to be settled in the following financial year.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 88 ACCOUNTS
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
26. RELATED PARTIES
Group
Identity of related parties
The group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors and executive officers.
Transactions with key management personnel
As at 31 December 2008, directors of the company and their immediate relatives controlled 1.6 per cent of the voting shares of the company
(2007:1.3 per cent).
The remuneration of the board of directors, who are the key managing personnel of the group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the
categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’.
2008 2007
£000 £000
Short-term employee benefits 1,515 2,305
Share based payment 116 179
1,697 2,484
Details of the directors remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration Report on page 38.
Company
Identity of related parties
The company has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors and executive officers.
Transactions with key management personnel
As at 31 December 2008, directors of the company and their immediate relatives control 1.6 per cent of the voting shares of the company
(2007:1.3 per cent).
The remuneration of the directors of the company is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 ‘Related Party
Disclosures’.
2008 2007
£000 £000
Short-term employee benefits 1,515 2,305
Share based payment 116 179
1,697 2,484
The directors and their remuneration is fully disclosed within the Remuneration Report on page 38.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 89 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
26. RELATED PARTIES - CONTINUED
Transactions with other group companies
Highest Balance at Highest Balance at
during 31 December during 31 December
the year 2008 the year 2007
£000 £000 £000 £000
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 26,036 26,036 19,909 19,909
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings (32,524) (32,524) (32,285) (32,285)
The disclosure of the year end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered to provide a meaningful representation of
transactions between the company and its subsidiaries in the year. The highest balance is generally at the start or close of the financial period
since this is the time when the company levies its management charge.
Transactions reported in the income statement
2008 2007
£000 £000
Rental income 5,453 5,265
Dividends received 9,586 33,629
Management charges 2,375 2,352
Interest income 790 483
Pension recharge 260 307
27. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
There have been no events after the balance sheet date that require disclosure.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 90 ACCOUNTS
Principal Trading Subsidiaries
Place of 
incorporation
* HFD Limited Great Britain
* MCD Group Limited Great Britain
Headlam BV Netherlands
DFA SA France
* Belcolor AG Switzerland
All of these subsidiaries are wholly owned and are principally engaged as a distributor of floorcoverings and associated products.
* These subsidiaries are owned directly by Headlam Group plc. The investment in subsidiaries comprises ordinary share capital.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 91 Financial Record
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trading results
Revenue 464,789 486,653 509,899 544,718 557,296
Operating profit 38,924 41,498 43,941 46,013 41,722
Profit before net financing costs 38,924 41,498 43,941 46,013 41,722
Net financing costs (440) (658) (383) (841) (1,602)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 38,484 40,840 43,558 45,172 40,120
Taxation (11,738) (12,352) (13,067) (13,534) (11,433)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 26,746 28,488 30,491 31,638 28,687
Shareholder value
Paid dividend per share 13.85p 16.25p 18.00p 20.15p 23.10p
Proposed dividend per share 16.25p 18.00p 20.15p 23.10p 19.70p
Earnings per share 31.3p 33.1p 35.1p 37.1p 34.5p
Net assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 71,754 74,640 85,032 92,097 99,741
Intangible assets 14,046 13,210 13,210 13,210 13,210
Deferred tax assets 8,167 8,199 9,182 5,942 5,372
93,967 96,049 107,424 111,249 118,323
Current assets
Inventories 79,692 91,160 94,217 101,491 107,597
Trade and other receivables 85,550 84,275 91,284 100,830 105,942
Cash and cash equivalents 37,747 36,193 41,861 16,805 35,193
202,989 211,628 227,362 219,126 248,732
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 203 3,471 –– –
Total assets 297,159 311,148 334,786 330,375 367,055
Current liabilities
Bank overdraft (279) – (1,010) (103) –
Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings (1,124) (471) (267) – (4,506)
Trade and other payables (142,028) (141,529) (149,422) (154,320) (143,370)
Employee benefits (722) (1,080) (1,102) (1,491) (2,428)
Income tax payable (11,053) (11,139) (10,184) (10,747) (9,546)
(155,206) (154,219) (161,985) (166,661) (159,849)
Non-current liabilities
Other interest-bearing loans and borrowings (738) (267) –– (30,000)
Employee benefits (17,643) (19,432) (16,124) (9,837) (12,216)
Deferred tax liabilities (1,212) (1,403) (3,665) (3,836) (3,856)
(19,593) (21,102) (19,789) (13,673) (46,072)
Total liabilities (174,799) (175,321) (181,774) (180,334) (205,921)
Net assets 122,360 135,827 153,012 150,041 161,134
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 92 ACCOUNTS
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Headlam Group plc will be held at the group’s distribution facility located at
Gorsey Lane, Coleshill, Birmingham, B46 1LW on Friday 26 June 2009 at 10.00 a.m. for the following purposes.
As ordinary business
1. To receive, consider and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors’ Report and the Auditor’s Report for the year ended 
31 December 2008.
2. To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 14.10 pence per ordinary share.
3. To re-elect as a director Steve Wilson who is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles.
4. To re-elect as a director Mike O’Leary who is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles.
5. To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the company from the conclusion of the meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting
at which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
6. To authorise the directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration.
7. To approve the director’s Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2008.
As special business
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolution 8 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 
9 to 11 will be proposed as special resolutions:-
8. Authority to allot shares
That (in substitution for all subsisting authorities) the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise
all powers of the company to allot relevant securities (within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985) up to an aggregate
nominal amount of £1,122,500 for the period expiring on 30 June 2010 or at the conclusion of the next AGM of the company after the
passing of this resolution, whichever first occurs (unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the company in general meeting) but so
that the company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after
such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this
resolution had not expired.
9. Dis-application of pre-emption rights
That, subject to the passing of resolution 8, the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act
1985 (the “Act”) to allot equity securities (within the meaning of section 94(2) to section 94 (3A) of the Act) for cash pursuant to the
authority conferred by resolution 8 as if section 89(1) of the Act did not apply to the allotment. This power is limited to:- 
(a) the allotment of equity securities where such securities have been offered (whether by way of a rights issue, open offer or otherwise) to
holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the company (excluding holders of treasury shares) in proportion (as nearly as may be) to
their existing holdings of ordinary shares but subject in either case to the directors having a right to make such exclusions or other
arrangements in connection with the offering as they deem necessary or expedient:-
(i) to deal with equity securities representing fractional entitlements; and
(ii) to deal with legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange;
and
(b) the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph (a) up to an aggregate nominal amount of £213,000
and will expire on 30 June 2010 or at the conclusion of the next AGM of the company after the passing of this resolution, whichever
first occurs, but the company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be
allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if the power conferred
by this resolution had not expired.
This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94(3A) of the Act as if in the
first paragraph of this resolution the words “pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8” were omitted.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 93 Notice of Annual General Meeting
continued
10. Authority to purchase own shares
That the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 
(the “Act”) to make market purchases (within the meaning of Section 163(3) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 5 pence each in the company
provided that:- 
(a) the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 12,467,000;
(b) the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each ordinary share is 5 pence;
(c) the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the
middle market quotations of an ordinary share of the company taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five
business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased;
(d) this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the company to be held in 2010 or on 30 June 2010, whichever is earlier,
(unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the company in general meeting); and
(e) the company may, before such expiry, enter into one or more contracts to purchase ordinary shares under which such purchases may be
completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of 
any such contract or contracts.
11. Shareholder rights directive
That the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to hold general meetings (other than annual general meetings)
on 14 days’ clear notice from the date of the passing of this resolution, provided that the authority shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM
of the company to be held in 2010 or 30 June 2010, whichever is the earlier.
By order of the board
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
30 March 2009
Registered office: 
Gorsey Lane
Coleshill
Birmingham
B46 1LW
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 94 ACCOUNTS
Notice of Annual General Meeting
continued
Notes
1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of 
him. A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights
attached to a different share or shares held by that member. A proxy need not be a member of the company. Appointment of a proxy will 
not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting. To appoint more than one proxy, complete a photocopy of the
enclosed proxy card or obtain additional forms from Capita Registrars, tel 0871 6640300 (call cost 10p per minute plus network charges).
Please also indicate by ticking the relevant box if the proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made. Multiple proxy
appointments should be returned together in the same envelope. Enter in the box provided the number of shares in relation to which 
your proxy is authorised or leave box blank to authorise your proxy to act in relation to your full voting entitlement. 
2. To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is executed (or a notarially
certified copy of such power or authority) must reach Capita Registrars, Proxies Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham,
Kent, BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting. A form of proxy is enclosed with this Notice.
3. CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the
procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who 
have appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) who will be able to take the
appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST Proxy
Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s (“Euroclear UK & Ireland”) specifications
and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual. The message, regardless of whether it
constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be
valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA10) by the latest time for the receipt of proxy appointments specified
in note 2 above. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by the timestamp applied to the message
by CREST application host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by
CREST. After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through
other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and Ireland does not
make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timing and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation
to the input of CREST proxy instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST
personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service
provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any
particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in
particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST systems and timing.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertified Securities
Regulations 2001.
4. In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the
exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders. For this purpose seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the holders
stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
5. Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of
members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the AGM is 6.00 p.m. on 24 June 2009 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.00 p.m.
on the date two days before the date for the adjourned meeting. Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be
disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
6. If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy nomination rights (a “Nominated
Person”) you may, under an agreement between you and the member of the company who has nominated you, have a right to be appointed
(or have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the meeting. If you do not have such a proxy appointment right, or you do but do not wish
to exercise it, you may have a right to give instructions to the member who has appointed you as to the exercise of voting rights.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 95 Notice of Annual General Meeting
continued
7. If you are a Nominated Person, the statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies above does not apply. Such
rights can only be exercised by registered member of the company.
8. As at 30 April 2009 the company’s issued share capital, including treasury shares, consisted of 85,363,743 ordinary shares of 5p (“shares”).
Of these 2,248,647 shares were held in treasury, the voting rights and entitlement to dividend of which were automatically suspended.
Accordingly, the total number of voting rights in the company as at that date was 83,115,096.
9. In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that (i) if a
corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in
accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those
corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote (or withhold a vote) as corporate
representative in accordance with those directions; and (ii) if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder
attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a
designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the
other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative. Corporate shareholders are referred to
the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives - www.icsa.org.uk -
for further details of this procedure. The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as
described in (i) above.
10. Under section 527 Companies Act 2006, members of the company representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the company or at
least 100 members who have a right to vote and hold shares in the company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member
of at least £100, may require the company to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the
company’s accounts or any circumstances connected with KPMG Audit Plc ceasing to hold office since the last AGM that the members propose
to raise at the meeting. Where the company is required to publish such a statement on its website, it may not require the members making
the request to pay its expenses in complying with the request. The company must forward the statement to the company’s auditor not later
than the time when it makes the statement available on its website. The business of the meeting includes any such statement that the
company has been required to publish on its website.
11. Persons who are not shareholders in the company will not be admitted to the meeting unless prior arrangements are made with the company.
12. Should any shareholder with special needs wish to attend the meeting, please contact the company so that appropriate arrangements can be
made.
13. You may not use any electronic address provided within this notice or any related documents (including the form of proxy) to communicate
with the company other than as expressly stated.
14. Copies of the directors’ service contracts and, where appropriate, letters of appointment, a summary of the directors’ transactions in the
company’s shares during the year and the written terms of reference for each of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination committees will be
available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday (Saturday, Sundays and public
holidays excluded) from the date of this Notice until the close of business on the business day preceding the AGM and will also be available
for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and throughout the meeting. There are no service agreements between any
director and any subsidiary of the company.
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 96 ACCOUNTS
Shareholder Information
Shareholder helpline
Headlam’s shareholder register is maintained by Capita Registrars (“Capita”), who are responsible for making dividend payments and updating the register,
including details of changes to shareholders’ addresses and purchases or sales of Headlam shares. If you have a question about your shareholding in
Headlam you should contact: Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, HD8 0LA, telephone +44 (0)871 664 0300 (calls
cost 10p plus network extras), email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com
Frequent shareholder enquiries
If you change your address
Please notify Capita in writing. If shares are held in joint names, the notification must be signed by all named shareholders.
If you change your name
Please notify Capita in writing and enclose a copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed as evidence.
Lost Headlam share certificate
If your share certificate is lost or stolen, you should call Capita immediately. A letter of indemnity will be sent to you to sign. Capita will charge for this
service.
Duplicate shareholder accounts
If you receive more than one copy of Headlam communications you may have your shares registered inadvertently in at least two accounts. This happens
when the registration details of separate transactions differ slightly. If you wish to consolidate such multiple accounts, call Capita to request the accounts
are consolidated.
Buying and selling shares in the UK
If you wish to trade in Headlam shares, you can do so at Capita’s website, www.capitadeal.com or alternatively use a stockbroker or high street bank which
trades on the London Stock Exchange.There are many telephone and online services available. If you are selling, you will need to present your share
certificate at the time of sale.
Transferring Headlam shares
Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form. This form, and details of the procedure you need to follow, is available
from Capita’s website. Stamp duty is not normally payable if the transfer is to a relative or if there is no money being paid in exchange for the shares.
Share prices information
Shareholders can find share prices listed in most national newspapers. Ceefax and Teletext pages also display share prices that are updated regularly
throughout the trading day. For a real-time buying or selling price, you should contact a stockbroker. Additionally there is a link to the London Stock
Exchange on the Headlam website.
The Headlam website
The Headlam website at www.headlam.com provides news and details of the company’s activities, plus information on the share price. The investor
information section of the website contains up-to-date information for shareholders including the company’s latest results and key dates such as dividend
payment dates.
ShareGift
ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes. It may be especially useful for
those who wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares which would cost more to sell than they are worth. There are no capital gains tax implications (i.e. 
no gain or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief. Further information can be obtained at www.sharegift.org
The Unclaimed Assets Register
The Unclaimed Assets Register is a unique search service that helps individuals to find their lost assets and re-establish contact with financial institutions.
It has a database of unclaimed life policies, pensions, unit trust holdings, and share dividends drawn from many companies and can search for lost assets
and entitlements.The Unclaimed Assets Register charges a small fixed fee for each search, 10% of which goes to charity. For further information, visit
www.uar.co.uk
Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 97 Headlam Group plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 98 Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk Registered office
Headlam Group plc
PO Box 1
Gorsey Lane
Coleshill
Birmingham
B46 1LW
Tel: 01675 433000 
Fax: 01675 433030
Website
www.headlam.com
E-mail
headlamgroup@headlam.com
Registration
Registered in England and Wales
Number 460129
