 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Europe’s leading floorcovering distributor Headlam markets, supplies and distributes an extensive 
range of floorcovering products to independent flooring 
retailers and contractors throughout the UK, France, 
Switzerland and the Netherlands.
Our operational strategy is focused 
on providing our customers with an 
up to date comprehensive range of 
competitively priced floorcovering 
products with the support of a next 
day delivery. 
As part of this strategy, Headlam 
offers its suppliers the opportunity 
to achieve wide market penetration 
backed by cost effective distribution.
In implementing this strategy, 
Headlam has developed a diverse 
and autonomous structure with  
49 businesses in the UK and a 
further five in Continental Europe.
Highlights 1
Market Presence 2
The Year in Review
Chairman’s Statement 10
Chief Executive’s Review 12
Financial Review 20
Directors, Officers and Advisers 22
Accounts
Financial Calendar 23
Directors’ Report 24
Statement of Directors’ 
Responsibilities in respect  
of the Annual Report and  
Financial Statements 28
Corporate Governance 29
Remuneration Report 36
Corporate and Social Responsibility 43
Independent Auditor’s Report to 
the Members of Headlam Group plc 46
Consolidated Income Statement 47
Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income 48
Statement of Changes in Equity 49
Balance Sheets 51
Cash Flow Statements 52
Notes to the Financial Statements 53
Principal Trading Subsidiaries 97
Financial Record 98
Notice of Annual General Meeting 99
Explanatory Notes 105
Shareholder Information 113
A key factor contributing to the 
group’s success is the individuality 
of experienced management 
teams who are responsible for the 
market presence, development 
and ultimate profitability of their 
business.
Each business is supported by 
the commitment to continued 
investment in people, product, 
facilities and IT. This commitment 
has provided the basis for the 
group’s growth and performance 
enabling it to develop into Europe’s 
leading floorcovering distributor.
www.crucial-trading.com www.plantationrug.co.uk Financial Highlights
Financial Highlights
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1
Sales (£m) Operating Profit (£m)
Earnings Per Share (p)
2004
464.8
31.3
38.9
16.25
2004
2004
2004
2009
533.8
19.1
24.8
11.00
2009
2009
2009
2005
486.7
33.1
41.5
18.00
2005
2005
2005
2007
544.7
37.1
46.0
23.10
2007
2007
2007
2008
557.3
34.5
41.7
19.70
2008
2008
2008
2006
509.9
35.1
43.9
20.15
2006
2006
2006
Proposed Dividends (p) Market Presence
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2
The UK operating structure is based  
on five business sectors each aimed  
at maximising market penetration  
and supporting different aspects of  
the floorcovering market. 
Our Regional and National multi-product 
businesses provide a comprehensive 
residential and commercial product 
range and extensive geographical 
coverage. 
The Regional commercial businesses 
focus on strong relationships with 
suppliers and a high level of localised 
service for their customers. 
Our Residential specialist businesses 
supply medium to premium residential 
carpet on a national basis and the 
Commercial specialist businesses, which 
have a national presence, provide a range 
of products servicing various aspects of 
the commercial market. Market Presence
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Our business in France operates from two 
distribution centres and 21 service centres 
and the businesses in Switzerland and the 
Netherlands each operate from a single 
distribution centre. All five businesses on 
the Continent offer an extensive range of  
products providing full national coverage 
across their respective countries.
3 Market Presence continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 4
Regional Multi-product Distribution
Distribution Centre
Service Centre Market Presence
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5
National Multi-product Distribution
Distribution Hub
Distribution Centre
Trans-shipping Location Market Presence continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 6
Regional Commercial Distribution
Distribution Centre
Shared Distribution Centre
Service Centre Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
National Multi-product Distribution
Distribution Centre
National
Carpets
Orientalweavers@bmk
Market Presence Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 8
National Commercial Specialist Products
Distribution Centre
Market Presence continued Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9
European Multi-product Distribution
Distribution Centre
Service Centre
Market Presence As anticipated, 2009 proved to be a challenging 
year following the downturn in market conditions 
that prevailed in the second half of 2008 and into 
the first half of 2009. More encouragingly, we 
experienced an improving trading trend in the 
second half of 2009, particularly the final quarter, 
as contraction in the floorcovering market 
appeared to cease, albeit at a level reduced on 
the previous year.
Total sales revenue for 2009 amounted to £533.8 million, 
a decline of 4.2% on the previous year . Profit before tax 
declined by 45.0% to £22.1 million. Notwithstanding 
the decline in revenue, we believe the group has out-
performed the floorcovering market and by retaining our 
fundamental operating structure, we are well positioned 
to take advantage as conditions improve.
Earnings and dividend
The board has elected to maintain a dividend cover ratio 
in line with 2008 and is therefore recommending a final 
Chairman’s Statement
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
dividend of 7.3p per share. Total dividend for the year will 
decrease by 44.2% from 19.7p to 11.0p per share.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 1 July 2010, to 
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
4 June 2010.
Strategy
Of significant importance to the group’s strategy are  
the autonomous activities and initiatives of our  
individual businesses. Whilst we implemented limited 
re-structuring in the autumn of 2008, we have essentially 
retained the same operational structure throughout 
2009 in order to preserve our service levels and maintain 
operating capacity. Based on our trading experience 
towards the end of 2009, which has broadly continued 
into 2010, it is our intention to retain the current business 
structure for the foreseeable future.
The separate management teams are focused on the 
responsibilities specific to their business, covering 
activity with suppliers, product and customers, whilst 
complying with defined operating and financial policies. 
The performance measurement of our management 
teams and their subsequent reward is based on the 
achievement of their individual business objectives. The group strategy for senior and operational 
management is to maintain our concentration on 
floorcovering distribution and enlarge our activities 
in the UK and Continental Europe. This will allow us 
to develop further the business as markets improve, 
through a combination of organic growth and appropriate 
floorcovering acquisitions as opportunities are assessed 
and concluded.
Operations
We believe the group has benefited significantly, in 
difficult markets, from the autonomous initiatives of our 
49 businesses, operating from 18 principal distribution 
centres in the UK, each one focused on maximising 
activity in their target geographical areas and various 
product categories.
We very much appreciate the ongoing support from both 
our suppliers, in creating and launching new products 
and our customers, principally the independent flooring 
retailers and contractors. The ongoing success of our 
customers creates the opportunity to out-perform the 
market.
Through a constant process of development, we have 
launched 2,900 new products across our core residential 
activities of carpet, vinyl and laminate. During the year, 
648,000 point of sale items, principally display stands and 
pattern books, were positioned into independent flooring 
retailers and flooring contractors by our 347 external 
sales people.
All three businesses in Continental Europe have made 
a positive contribution. Our operations in France and 
Switzerland performed well and in the Netherlands, 
progress was made despite a more challenging market.
Management and employees
Andrew Simpson, who has been instrumental in the 
development of Headlam, in his position as Managing 
Director of UK Operations since 1991, has informed the 
board of his intention to retire. We thank Andrew for 
his major contribution to the development of individual 
managers and the group as a whole.
David Grove, after three years as a non-executive 
director, has decided to step down from the board to 
The core dynamics of the group are 
well developed and we are confident of 
producing a positive outcome for the year.
concentrate on his other business interests. We would 
like to thank David for his positive contribution.
With the benefit of our group structure, we have 
continued with our policy of internal promotion 
and career progression where possible. This 
enables employees to progress their career to sales 
representatives, sales and general management and in 
certain cases, senior management positions.
We wish to thank all of our management and employees 
for their contribution to the group’s performance in 2009.
Outlook
With market conditions continuing to be challenging 
and whilst uncertainty prevails, we have taken a prudent 
approach to our financial and operating plan for 2010 and 
set realistic growth targets for sales representatives and 
management teams.
The core dynamics of the group are well developed and 
with our autonomous management teams focused on the 
objectives before them, we are confident of producing a 
positive outcome for the year .
Graham Waldron Chairman
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11
The Year in Review During 2009, revenue from the UK businesses 
collectively declined by 6.1% on a like for like 
basis. As reported previously, the decline in 
revenue was 10.7% in the first half. A generally 
improving performance in the second half, 
resulting in a like for like deficit of only 1.8%, 
culminated with the final quarter actually 
producing improved revenue of 1.0% against  
the corresponding period in 2008.
Various market indicators would suggest that 
residential and commercial floorcovering markets 
suffered a substantial decline during the year and 
therefore, we believe our result represents a solid 
performance.
We will continue with our strategy of concentrating on 
floorcovering distribution in the UK and Continental 
Europe. Utilising the business and management 
structure through which we operate, we are confident of 
continuing to out-perform the floorcovering market and 
develop our business, principally by organic growth and 
appropriate strategic acquisitions.
UK operations
The UK operations now incorporate 49 individual 
businesses, operating from 18 distribution centres and 
13 service centres. The management teams of these 
businesses are positioned within five market sectors, 
dependent upon geographical focus and product 
offering.
Whilst we have not undertaken any significant 
restructuring during 2009, we have been extremely 
prudent with staff recruitment and therefore staff 
numbers in the UK, which peaked at 1,874 in 2008, 
have reduced from 1,729 in January 2009, to 1,661 in 
December 2009. Currently, the total number of staff in 
the UK is 1,655.
Following the restructuring in 2008 and the retention of 
that structure into 2009, we have ensured that our high 
service levels are maintained, which incorporates the 
ongoing launch of new products, a comprehensive stock 
holding and distribution infrastructure, to provide an 
efficient next day delivery service to our customers.
The five market sectors are:
Regional multi-product: These 20 businesses, which 
maximise their geographical market position by selling 
both residential and commercial floorcovering, now 
represent 53.8% of UK sales revenue. 
Chief Executive’s Review
Active Customer 
Accounts
2009
41,334
2007
39,033
2008
41,539
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12 National multi-product: The Mercado network of 
businesses, with a presence throughout England, 
Wales and Northern Ireland, selling residential 
and commercial floorcovering produced a robust 
performance.
Regional commercial: The 15 operations in this sector 
increased their revenue during the year. Through 
organic growth, investment and potential acquisitions, 
we believe this is a particular area of growth, with 
regard to the number of locations and revenue.
Residential specialist: The 14 businesses that represent 
our residential specialist activities have also increased 
revenue and now account for 16.5% of total UK 
revenue. The market presence and trade brands of 
our various residential specialist businesses has been 
strengthened through increased point of sale and an 
enhanced product offering, giving this business sector 
a particularly strong opportunity for growth over the 
coming years.
Commercial specialist: During the autumn of 2009, 
we decided to merge the sales and marketing activity 
of two commercial specialist businesses into the main 
commercial JHS brand, providing JHS with a much 
stronger sales and marketing platform for future 
growth.
Customers in the UK, who are 
principally independent flooring 
retailers and contractors, placed 
4,050,577 orders during 2009
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13
The Year in Review Chief Executive’s Review continued
Suppliers
It is encouraging that our suppliers have remained 
stable during this challenging period. We work very 
closely with our principal suppliers, both from a group 
perspective and through our individual management 
teams. This ensures an ongoing process of development 
and new product launches, to ensure that our 
customers in both the residential and commercial 
sectors are at the forefront of all new initiatives 
introduced into the UK market.
Products
Carpet remains our largest product category, 
accounting for 44.7% of UK revenue. We have an 
extremely broad base of products covering all aspects 
of the market and consumer taste, from base grade 
polypropylene to luxury woollen products.
Sales of carpet, which continue to be dominated by plain 
styles, produced an encouraging performance, with a 
revenue decline of 5.9%. This was achieved through the 
activity of our sales representatives positioning 2,112 
new products, through 502,000 point of sale items. 
Our sales representatives also generated an increased 
proportion of sales from full rolls, which amounted to 
27.5% of our carpet revenue.
14 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
UK Warehouse 
Storage
48
million cubic feet Residential vinyl benefits from an ongoing improvement 
in production techniques, creating attractive cost-
effective flooring. We were able to introduce 470 new 
products, marketed with 102,000 point of sale items into 
independent retailers.
Wood and laminate experienced the same market 
challenges as our other residential product categories, 
however, through a continual process of product 
launches, we were able to maintain our market position.
Rugs are an increasing presence through both 
independent and national retailers. The acquisition of 
Oriental Weavers’ UK distribution activities in the spring 
of 2009 further enhanced our position as we develop 
into a leading UK supplier of both traditional and 
contemporary rugs.
Commercial flooring activities target various aspects 
of the commercial flooring market through flooring 
contractors. Products are supplied into a variety of 
sectors including education, healthcare, offices and 
retail stores and whilst sales revenue declined by 6.3%, 
this again would suggest an out performance of the 
general commercial market.
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15
Immediate order processing, 
comprehensive product ranges and 
high stock levels allow us to respond 
quickly to customer demand
Sales of carpet produced an encouraging 
performance, achieved by positioning  
2,112 new products, through 502,000  
point of sale items.
The Year in Review Chief Executive’s Review continued
Market presence
We have increased the market presence of our various 
businesses, through sales representatives positioning 
new point of sale on a daily basis, into independent 
flooring retailers. This is achieved through our 
traditional multi-product distribution businesses  
and the specialist residential activities.
With the involvement and support of our suppliers, 
we are launching a new initiative under the Lifestyle 
Floors brand, to enable our multi-product distribution 
businesses to further strengthen their market presence 
within independent retailers.
Customers
The number of active accounts was stable at 41,334 
(2008: 41,539.) Whilst debtor days moved marginally 
from 44.3 to 45.4 days, the widespread activity of our 
customers and payment in accordance with terms 
reflects the underlying strength of the independent 
floorcovering retailer and contractor.
16 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
UK Cut 
lengths
871
per hour
Carpet 45%
Rugs 3%
Underlay 3%
Vinyl 11%
Commercial  31%
Laminate 
& Wood 7%
Commercial 
specialist  5%
Residential 
specialist  17%
National 
multi-product  14%
Regional 
Commercial  10%
Regional 
multi-product  54%
Revenue Percentage 
by Product
Revenue Percentage 
by Market Sector Continental Europe
Our businesses in France, Switzerland and the 
Netherlands, produced a solid performance during 
the year. Market conditions in France and Switzerland 
enabled our businesses to further develop their 
activities in both residential and commercial flooring.
The Netherlands proved to be a more difficult 
marketplace. However, with the benefit of the new 
65,000 square feet distribution centre, which became 
operational in the spring of 2009, both Lethem Vergeer 
and Silvester were able to produce a satisfactory 
performance.
Acquisitions
We are currently assessing a number of opportunities, 
particularly in the UK, and would be hopeful that 
during the course of 2010 we will be able to complete 
acquisitions to enhance our market position in both 
residential and commercial floorcovering.
We will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, 
to enlarge our core business activities in the UK and 
Continental Europe.
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17
Investment in material processing and 
handling equipment enables us to 
increase efficiency and reduce waste
The Year in Review Chief Executive’s Review continued
Investments
We are continuing with the project to relocate Faithfulls, 
our regional multi-product business in the south 
east of England, to a development site in Hadleigh, 
near Ipswich. We would anticipate finalising the 
purchase of land during the course of this year, with 
the construction of a 127,500 square feet purpose built 
freehold distribution centre completing in the summer 
of 2011.
We have since 2004, occupied on a leasehold basis, 
50% of a distribution centre in Rochdale, from which 
National Carpets operate. We are currently concluding 
the purchase of the 110,000 square feet freehold 
distribution centre which will give us ownership of the 
total site and provide National Carpets with increased 
capacity and an opportunity to enlarge its activities.
With the growth of our regional commercial businesses, 
it is still the group’s intention to increase the number of 
service centres in key geographical locations.
18 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
UK 
Deliveries
22,600
per week Outlook
Following a more positive end to 2009, we are optimistic 
about a return to growth in 2010. However, market 
conditions, particularly in the UK, continue to be 
challenging, which has made normal seasonal trends 
and predictability difficult to establish.
Notwithstanding the current uncertainty, we believe the 
management and structure is in place to enable us to 
continue out-performing the market and take advantage 
of any improvement in the economy.
Tony Brewer Group Chief Executive
The management and structure is in place 
to enable us to continue out-performing 
the market and take advantage of any 
improvement in the economy.
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19
Orders, which are received on a daily 
basis, are processed immediately and 
subject to customers requirements 
delivered the following day
The Year in Review TRAdING
Revenue
Group revenues declined during the year by 
4.2% from £557.3 million to £533.8 million.
In the UK, like for like revenue decreased 
by 6.1% and revenue from the Continental 
European businesses, reduced on a like 
for like basis by 8.3%. However, group 
revenue has benefited from currency gains 
amounting to £11.6 million.
Gross margin
Gross margin, expressed as a percentage 
of revenue, decreased from 31.3% to 30.4%, 
the reduction occurring because of a change 
in product mix and the absence of any 
significant price increases during the year . 
The change in product mix was attributable 
to the higher proportion of roll sales during 
the year .
Inflationary pressures still remain a concern 
because of the continuing weakness of 
Sterling and in particular, the affect on cost 
of goods sourced from Continental Europe. 
Expenses
Distribution and administration expenses, 
collectively representing 25.8% (2008: 
23.8%) of revenue, increased by 3.5% 
compared with the previous year .
Distribution expenses amounting to  
£100.7 million (2008: £98.5 million) have 
increased by 2.2% compared with last year, 
the increase being wholly attributable to the 
currency effects arising from the translation 
of the Continental European businesses. 
Underlying this overall position is a decrease 
in expense associated with the contraction 
in the number of commercial vehicles and 
fuel which has been offset by pay increases 
introduced at the start of the year .
Financial Review
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 20
dividends
Dividend cover has been maintained at a 
level which is consistent with the prior year 
ratio of 1.7 times. Therefore, total dividends 
for 2009, amounting to 11.0p per share, have 
decreased by 44.2% on the previous year . 
During the year, the board has taken the 
opportunity to rebase the weighting between 
the interim and final dividend increasing 
the interim to approximately one third of 
the total dividend for the year . The board 
anticipate maintaining this balance for the 
future.
Cash flows and net funds
Cash generated from operations
Cash flows from operations before net 
movement in working capital, declined by 
33.2% during the year from £47.1 million to 
£31.5 million due primarily to the decrease 
in profit before tax for the year .
Investment in net working capital reduced 
substantially compared with last year 
moving from a net cash outflow of  
£19.7 million in 2008 to a net cash inflow of 
£12.2 million during the year as the group 
rebalanced its requirements to service the 
reduction in revenue activity. As a result 
cash generated from operations increased 
from £27.4 million to £43.7 million.
Investment in inventories and trade 
receivables decreased by £6.6 million and 
£3.0 million respectively, and following the 
change in purchasing activity during the 
second half of 2008, which occurred because 
of the reduction in revenue, purchasing 
resumed during the year but at levels 
supporting the group’s current need.  
This resulted in a cash inflow from  
trade and other payables amounting  
to £2.5 million.
Administration expenses increased by 7.0% 
from £34.4 million to £36.8 million due to a 
combination of currency translation and the 
charge associated with impairment of assets 
held for sale. The underlying position reveals 
an offset with pay increases generally 
equating to reductions in property related 
expenses.
Impairment of assets held for sale
During early 2010, we disposed of two  
vacant properties. In both instances, the 
selling price was less than book value.  
The impairment, amounting to £1.2 million, 
has been recognised in the 2009 results by 
transferring the properties to assets held for 
sale at their market value and recognising 
the loss in the Income Statement.
We now have two vacant properties 
remaining in the freehold property portfolio, 
which are currently being marketed for 
disposal. However, given the limited interest, 
it is unlikely that these properties will be 
sold in the foreseeable future.
Net finance costs
Net finance costs increased by 68.2% from 
£1.6 million to £2.7 million as a result of 
a significant change in the income and 
expense associated with the defined  
benefit plan. During the year, the return  
on plan assets reduced from £3.9 million  
to £3.1 million whilst interest on the  
plan’s obligations increased from  
£4.1 million to £4.2 million. The net finance 
costs associated with funding the group’s 
operations were largely unchanged.
Taxation
The effective tax rate for the year was 28.0%. 
Going forward, we anticipate a progressive 
increase in the group’s underlying rate, 
which over the medium term, is likely to rise 
to just over 30.0%. Cash flows from investing and financing 
activities
Net cash outflows from investing activities 
totalled £5.8 million compared with  
£7.1 million during 2008. Investment in 
property, plant and equipment amounted 
to £7.3 million compared with £10.7 million 
for 2008. The two main areas of expenditure 
related to completing the Dutch property, 
£2.4 million, and acquiring the freehold 
interest, £3.1 million, of the site located in 
Kidderminster which was formerly occupied 
on a leasehold basis.
Net cash flow from financing activities 
moved from a cash inflow of £13.1 million 
during 2008 to a cash outflow of £15.2 
million in 2009, the principal differences 
between the two years being the proceeds 
from borrowings amounting to £33.7 million 
in 2008, an absence of share buy-back 
activity in 2009 and a reduction in dividends 
paid.
Changes in net funds
Group net funds increased from £0.7 million 
to £9.7 million during the year as detailed in 
the table below
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21
Employee benefits
During the year, the employee benefits 
net deficit, as measured under IAS 19, 
increased by £8.2 million from £14.6 million 
to £22.8 million. The adverse movement on 
the UK defined benefit pension plan was the 
principal cause with the deficit increasing 
from £12.9 million to £21.8 million as  
a result of a significant increase in the 
defined benefit obligation brought about  
by a decline in bond yields.
As at 31 December 2009, membership of 
the UK plan totalled 870 and consisted 
of 103 active, 460 deferred and 307 
pensioners. Given the increase in the 
defined benefit obligation, the company 
has elected to offer deferred members 
the opportunity to transfer out of the plan. 
The cost of funding the offer, if all deferred 
members, included in the offer, elect  
to accept, based on the position as at  
31 December 2009, would be approximately 
£12.0 million. This would be expected 
to reduce the defined benefit obligation 
by approximately £22.6 million from 
£88.3 million to £65.7 million, leading to 
significant reduction in the group’s exposure 
to the funding risks associated with defined 
benefit pension plans.
Facilities and going concern
The group’s total bank facilities amount  
to £80.5 million. The UK facilities of  
£65.0 million are comprised of £35.0 million 
relating to on demand facilities, which  
are renewed on an annual basis and a  
five-year term loan amounting to  
£30.0 million that matures in July 2012. 
The group’s two principal UK banks have 
indicated that it is their intention to renew 
the on demand facilities for a further twelve 
months.
The facilities relating to the Continental 
European businesses amount to  
£15.5 million and include a facility 
amounting to £5.3 million, which is 
repayable over a ten year term ending 
November 2019. The remaining facilities 
are renewed annually. The group’s banking 
partners in Continental Europe have also 
signalled their intent to provide continued 
support.
Having reviewed the group’s resources 
and a range of likely trading out-turns, 
the directors believe they have reasonable 
grounds for stating that the group has 
adequate resources to continue in 
operational existence for the foreseeable 
future and that it is appropriate to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the 
group’s financial statements.
Stephen Wilson Group Finance Director
The Year in Review
 At   At 
 1 January  Cash  Translation 31 December
 2009  flows  differences  2009
 £000  £000  £000  £000
Cash at bank and in hand 35,193 11,102 (558) 45,737
Bank overdraft – (758) – (758)
 35,193 10,344 (558) 44,979
Debt due within one year (4,506) 3,244 362 (900)
Debt due after one year (30,000) (4,396) 4 (34,392)
 687 9,192 (192) 9,687
Changes in net funds dIRECTORS
G Waldron 
Chairman i
Graham was appointed an executive director 
in June 1991 becoming Chairman later 
that year until 31 December 1999. On the 
resignation of Trevor Larman on 1 June 
2006 he was re-appointed Chairman. He 
has 57 years experience in the floorcovering 
industry. He is the non-executive Chairman 
of Tandem Group plc.
A J Brewer 
Group Chief Executive n
Tony was appointed an executive director in 
June 1991, becoming Managing Director of 
the Floorcoverings Division in January 1992, 
and was appointed Group Chief Executive in 
November 2000. He has 32 years experience 
in the floorcovering industry. 
S G Wilson
Group Finance director
Steve was appointed Group Finance Director 
in December 1991. He is the non-executive 
Chairman of Synergy Health plc and 
is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants. 
R W Peters
Non-executive director u l n
Dick was appointed a non-executive director 
in December 2005. He was formerly Senior 
Partner for the East Midlands practice of 
Deloitte & Touche in Nottingham. He is 
a BSc in Mathematics and Statistics and 
is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants. He has considerable 
experience of auditing large companies, 
both UK and overseas, transactional support 
and project management activities. He is a 
director and chairman of Headlam Pension 
Trustees Limited. 
M K O’Leary
Senior Independent director u l n 
Mike was appointed a non-executive 
director in March 2006. He was formerly a 
director of MISYS plc and chief executive of 
Marlborough Stirling plc. Mike has worked 
in domestic and international markets and 
brings a wealth of general management 
experience to the company. He is currently 
Directors, Officers and Advisers
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 22
K R Yates
Managing Director, Mercado
Keith joined Mercado in April 1983 and 
was subsequently appointed its Managing 
Director in 1996. Keith has 27 years 
experience in the floorcovering industry. 
u Audit committee
l Remuneration committee
n Nomination committee 
i Charities committee
Adv ISERS
Auditors
KPMG Audit Plc
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham, B4 6GH
Taxation Advisers
Deloitte LLP
Four Brindleyplace
Birmingham B1 2HZ
Principal Bankers
Barclays Bank PLC
PO Box 3333
One Snowhill 
Snow Hill Queensway 
Birmingham, B3 2WN
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
Corporate and Institutional Banking
5th Floor, 2 St Philips Place
Birmingham B3 2RB
Solicitors
Pinsent Masons LLP
3 Colmore Circus
Birmingham
B4 6BH
Stockbrokers
Arden Partners plc
Arden House
17 Highfield Road, Edgbaston
Birmingham B15 3DU
Registrars
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield HD8 0GA
a non-executive director of Psion Teklogix 
plc, the Stroud & Swindon Building Society 
and Digital Healthcare Limited, where he is 
Chairman. 
d L Grove
Non-executive director u l n
David was appointed a non-executive 
director in October 2007. He retired from 
the Board of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC 
in December 2009 after 10 years as Chief 
Executive and Chairman. David is Chairman 
of Key Technologies PLC and a non-
executive director of a number of private 
manufacturing, distribution and investment 
companies. David resigned as a non-
executive director on 18 March 2010. 
COMPANY SECRETARY
G M duggan
Geoff was appointed Company Secretary in 
April 1998. He is a Fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators 
and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.  
ExECUTIvE MANAGEMENT
A J W Simpson
Managing director UK Operations 
Andrew joined the company in September 
1991 and is the Managing Director of UK 
Operations. Andrew has 37 years experience 
in the floorcovering industry. Andrew is to 
retire from the business in early 2010. 
G B Phillips
Finance director Operations
Gary joined the company in June 1992 and 
is the Finance Director of floorcovering 
operations. He is an associate of the 
Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants. 
A R Judge
Managing director, 
Coleshill and Tamworth businesses
Tony joined the company in May 1992 and 
is Managing Director of all businesses 
operating from the Coleshill and Tamworth 
distribution centres. Tony has 29 years 
experience in the floorcovering industry.  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23
Financial Calendar
Announcements
Interim Management Statement  18 May 2010
Annual General Meeting  25 June 2010
Interim results announced  27 August 2010 
Interim Management Statement  18 November 2010
Full year results announced  March 2011
Dividend Dates
Final dividend for 2009, if approved, payable to qualifying 
  shareholders on the register as at 4 June 2010 1 July 2010
Interim dividend for 2010 announced  27 August 2010
Interim dividend for 2010 payable  January 2011 Directors’ Report
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 24
The directors present their annual report to shareholders on the 
affairs of the group and the company together with the audited 
financial statements and independent auditor’s report, for the year 
ended 31 December 2009.
Principal activity
The group’s activities are wholly aligned to the sales, marketing, 
supply and distribution of floorcovering and certain other ancillary 
products. The principal trading subsidiaries are listed on page 97.
Review of the business
A detailed review of the group’s activities and future plans is 
contained within the Chairman’s Statement on page 10 and the  
Chief Executive’s Review and the Financial Review on pages 12 to 21. 
The information contained in these sections fulfils the requirements 
of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies 
Act 2006 and should be treated as part of this report. The reports on 
Corporate Governance on pages 29 to 35 and Corporate and Social 
Responsibility on pages 43 to 45 are also incorporated into this report 
by reference. A description of the group’s financial risk management 
objectives and policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity and 
cash flow risk is contained in note 23 to the Financial Statements on 
page 85.
Financial results and dividends
The profit attributable to equity holders of the company for the 
financial year was £15.9 million as shown in the Consolidated 
Income Statement set out on page 47.
The directors are proposing a final dividend for the current year of 
7.3p per share (2008: 14.1p), making a total dividend of 11.0p per 
share for the year (2008: 19.7p).The final dividend, if approved by 
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), will be payable 
on 1 July 2010 to shareholders whose names appear on the register 
at the close of business on 4 June 2010. The associated ex-dividend 
date is 2 June 2010. An interim dividend of 3.7p per share (2008: 5.6p) 
was paid on 4 January 2010 to shareholders on the register  
at the close of business on 4 December 2009.
Directors and their interests
The following were directors of the company during the financial  
year ended 31 December 2009: Graham Waldron, Tony Brewer,  
Steve Wilson, Dick Peters, Mike O’Leary and David Grove, 
biographical details of the directors currently serving on the board 
being set out on page 22. No other person has acted as a director of 
the company during the financial year ended 31 December 2009.  
The company’s Articles of Association (“articles”) give directors 
power to appoint and replace directors. The articles also require 
directors to retire and submit themselves for election to the first 
AGM following appointment, that directors retire at the AGM held  
in the third calendar year after election or last re-election and that 
one third of the directors retire by rotation each year . Accordingly 
Graham Waldron and Dick Peters retire by rotation and being 
eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.  
In proposing their re-election, the board confirms to shareholders 
that following a formal performance evaluation, each of these 
individual’s performance continues to be effective and they have 
expressed a willingness to continue in their roles.
Details of directors’ remuneration and service contracts are set out 
on pages 39 and 40. The beneficial interests of the directors and their 
immediate families in the company’s shares and their interests in 
share options are detailed on page 41. 
Directors’ interests in contracts
No director had, at any time during the period under review, any 
interests in any contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries.
Directors’ indemnity
The company maintains directors and officers liability insurance 
and indemnity cover (as defined in sections 233 and 234 of the 
Companies Act 2006) which is provided for the benefit of the 
company’s directors and officers. No indemnity is provided for the 
company’s auditors.
Management changes
With effect from 18 March 2010, David Grove resigned his non-
executive directorship to pursue other interests. The board thanks 
him for his contribution to the group. Additionally, the company was 
advised during the latter part of 2009 that Andrew Simpson was 
to retire, further comment in respect of which is included in the 
Chairman’s Statement. 
Principal risks and uncertainties
The group’s business, results and financial condition are influenced 
by a range of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond the 
control of the board. Whilst the following highlights some of these 
risks it is not intended to provide an exhaustive analysis of the risks 
affecting the business. For instance, there are some risks which 
are as yet not known and others which whilst not presently material 
could become a significant factor in the future.
Market demand
Approximately 94% of the group’s sales are to independent retailers 
and flooring contractors. The activity levels within this customer base 
are determined by consumer demand created through residential 
property refurbishment or moves, new residential housing 
developments and a wide range of commercial refurbishment 
and new building projects. Periods of recession, low consumer 
confidence or changes in trends and preferences have the potential 
to affect market activity and therefore demand for products supplied 
by the group. However, market activity is monitored in each individual 
business and at group level on a daily basis which enables a rapid 
response to any factors adversely affecting trading. Furthermore, 
since the group’s principal activities are supply and distribution, it 
has the ability to quickly respond to market changes. This, coupled 
with the development of broad market penetration through the 
establishment of a range of diverse regional, national and specialist  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25
businesses provides the group with a degree of resilience and 
protection.
 
Competitor risk
The group operates in four different geographical markets which 
generally share similar trading characteristics. Within each 
market, the group competes with a variety of regional and national 
distributors, with manufacturers selling directly to our customer 
base and indirectly with multiple retail chains. The group seeks to 
sustain its competitive position by maintaining close relationships 
with its supplier and customer base. Substantial and continued 
investment in: 
• 	 m a n a g e m e n t
• 	 a n 	 e x t e n s i v e 	 p r o d u c t 	 o f f e r i n g
• 	 a 	 k n o w l e d g e a b l e 	 s a l e s 	 r e s o u r c e
• 	 s t o c k 	 a v a i l a b i l i t y
• 	 I T
• 	 e f fi c i e n t 	 m a t e r i a l 	 h a n d l i n g , 	 a n d
• 	 l o g i s t i c s
removes the need to compete strictly on price and allows the group 
to enhance its overall market position through its commitment to 
service. The distribution competition in Continental Europe is diverse 
and very fragmented. The group has deliberately adopted a cautious 
acquisition policy in these markets, searching for opportunities that 
provide good growth opportunities but at sensible valuations. Given 
the number of opportunities it is possible that a competitor, following 
a more aggressive acquisition strategy in continental Europe, could 
challenge the group’s position as Europe’s leading floorcovering 
distributor .
Credit risk
The group trades with the majority of its customers on credit 
terms and therefore there is always the risk that customers are 
unable to pay outstanding balances. The group has standardised 
credit checking and debt collection procedures at each individual 
business. Businesses are encouraged to share credit information 
with other group businesses on a regular basis in order to prevent 
the escalation of small credit risks. All open accounts are subject to 
credit limits and businesses must obtain central approval for credit 
limits in excess of £10,000. These procedures, combined with the 
local knowledge of the credit control teams, not only reduce the risk 
of default, but also, in a number of instances, provide opportunities to 
assist the customer to trade out of their default position. The group 
does not use credit insurance since the level of default is generally 
low. Appropriate impairment provisions are made on a regular basis 
whenever the likelihood of default is high.
Infrastructure
An important element of the group’s ability to service its customer 
base is its network of distribution and service centres. The group’s 
policy of improvement through continued investment in new or 
extended facilities has been one of the principal drivers behind the 
group’s historic growth rates. In order to support growth rates in 
the future, the group will continue to invest in new centres. There is 
a risk that future growth will be constrained if these development 
projects are unduly delayed through either land availability, planning 
consent or prohibitive building cost.
Systems
The group is highly reliant on its IT systems to deliver its operational 
objectives and maintain financial control. As a consequence, any 
prolonged IT failure has the potential to adversely affect business 
activity. However, each business has its own dedicated computer 
system and failure in one will not interrupt another . Furthermore, 
the group operates well defined back up procedures and has 
contingency plans in place to enable swift recovery from a failure  
of this nature.
Transport
The majority of customer orders result in deliveries within twenty 
four hours on vehicles operated by the group. Any interruption to 
this service, for example, major disruption to road networks or the 
prolonged reduced availability of vehicle fuel could have an adverse 
affect on activity.
People
The group’s ability to deliver continued success is very dependant 
upon its people. The group is committed to providing a workplace 
that is safe and environmentally sound and creating opportunities 
for individuals to progress their careers. Recruitment, training and 
development are aimed at ensuring that the group has suitably 
skilled and qualified people to meet the operational needs of the 
business. 
Pension
The cost of funding the group’s defined benefit plans may increase 
due to a decline in investment returns, movement in interest rates 
and longer life expectancy. As a result of the triennial actuarial 
valuation of the UK plan, undertaken at 31 March 2008, the group 
agreed to make an additional payments every year until 2018, details 
of which are provided in note 20. The results of future scheme 
valuations, the next being 31 March 2011, could result in this 
commitment increasing. 
Government legislation
The group’s operations are regulated by a variety of laws, which 
relate, amongst others, to health and safety, the environment, 
employment, commercial, corporate, financial and tax. The group 
is committed to complying with these requirements in each of the 
markets in which it operates and achieves this by managing its 
obligations at the group level and within individual businesses. 
Where appropriate, the group engages the services of competent 
third party advisers. Changes in regulations are incorporated into  
the group’s polices and procedures on a timely basis.
 
AGM
This year’s AGM will be held at the group’s distribution facility in 
Coleshill, Birmingham on Friday 25 June 2010 at 10.00am. The 
Directors’ Report continued Directors’ Report continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 26
notice convening this meeting is set out within this Annual Report 
and Accounts at page 99, along with explanatory notes regarding the 
resolutions that will be proposed at the meeting at pages 105 to 112.
Recommendation
The directors consider that each of the resolutions to be proposed at 
the AGM is in the best interests of the company and the shareholders 
as a whole. Accordingly, the directors unanimously recommend that 
all shareholders vote in favour of all resolutions, as the directors 
intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Takeovers directive
The following provides the additional information required to be 
provided for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the 
Takeovers Directive into English law.
As at 31 December 2009, the company’s issued share capital 
comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares. 
Details of the ordinary share capital can be found in note 22 to the 
financial statements which should be treated as forming part of this 
report.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every 
holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall 
have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or 
by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary 
share held. The notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising 
voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to 
resolutions to be passed at the AGM. All proxy votes are counted and 
the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution 
are announced at the AGM and published on the company’s website 
after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 
company other than:
• 	 	 c e r t a i n 	 r e s t r i c t i o n s 	 m a y 	 f r o m 	 t i m e 	 t o 	 t i m e 	 b e 	 i m p o s e d 	 b y 	 l a w s	
and regulations (for example, insider trading laws).
• 	 	 p u r s u a n t 	 t o 	 t h e 	 L i s t i n g 	 R u l e s 	 o f 	 t h e 	 F i n a n c i a l 	 S e r v i c e s 	 A u t h o r i t y	
whereby certain directors, officers and employees of the 
company require the approval of the company to deal in the 
company’s ordinary shares.
Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2009 AGM to permit the 
directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 
£1,122,500. This authority will expire at the earlier of the 2010 AGM 
or 30 June 2010. No shares have been allotted by the company 
during the year .
Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2009 AGM to permit the 
directors to undertake market purchases of up to 12,467,000 of the 
company’s shares. This authority will expire at the earlier of the 
2010 AGM or 30 June 2010. No shares have been purchased by the 
company during the year .
The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders 
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or 
voting rights.
There are no agreements between the company and its directors 
or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or 
employment (whether through resignation, purported redundancy 
or otherwise) that occurs because of a takeover bid. The company’s 
banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of 
the company. 
The company’s articles may only be amended by a special resolution 
at a general meeting of shareholders. At the 2010 AGM a special 
resolution will be put to shareholders proposing the adoption of new 
articles as described under the above AGM section and in the Notice 
of AGM.
Substantial shareholdings
As at the last date prior to posting the Annual Report and Accounts, 
in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the 
company had been notified of the following substantial interests  
in the share capital of the company.
Ordinary shares of 5p each 
   Nature of  
Shareholder Number Per cent holding
Aberdeen Asset 
 Management PLC  3,998,034 4.81% Indirect
Aberforth Partners LLP 4,057,374 4.88% Indirect
   Direct and  
Aviva plc 5,831,244 7.02% Indirect
   Direct and 
AXA S.A. 4,573,109 3.39% Indirect
Blackrock Inc 5,168,931 6.22% Indirect
Legal & General 
 Investment Management 
 Limited 3,317,829 3.99% Indirect
Liverpool Victoria 
 Friendly Society Limited 2,644,912 3.18% Direct
   Direct and  
Lloyds TSB Group Plc 4,074,786 4.90% Indirect
Schroders plc 4,119,581 4.96% Indirect
Standard Life    Direct and 
 Investments Limited 4,111,119 4.95% Indirect
Tweedy, Browne 
 Company LLC 4,523,274 5.44% Direct Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27
Contributions for political and charitable purposes
The group’s Charities Committee considers requests for 
charitable donations within set criteria. During 2009, in addition 
to donations made to overseas charities, the group contributed 
charitable donations to UK charitable organisations, principally to 
local organisations serving the communities in which we operate, 
of £29,280 (2008: £9,528).
The group’s policy is not to make any donations for political 
purposes in the UK or to donate to EU political parties or incur 
EU political expenditure. Accordingly neither the company nor 
its subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred political 
expenditure in the financial period under review (2008: £nil).
Financial instruments
Details of the use by the company and its subsidiaries of financial 
instruments can be found in note 23 to the financial statements.
Supplier payment policy
It is the group’s policy that payments to suppliers are made in 
accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the 
company and its suppliers. The group seeks to strictly comply 
with these payment terms whenever it is satisfied that the 
supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with 
the agreed terms and conditions. The payment policy has been 
and will continue to be developed to meet the group’s specific 
requirements and is not based on any particular code or standard 
relating to payment practice. The number of creditor days of the 
company at 31 December 2009 was 46 days (2008: 45 days).
The environment
The group regards compliance with relevant environmental 
laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral 
to its business operation. It is also committed to introducing 
measures to limit any adverse effects its business may have on 
the environment and will promote continuous improvement in 
accordance with best available techniques.
Employee involvement
The total number of employees at the end of the period was 
1,989. The group recognises the value of its employees and seeks 
to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment in 
which to work. The company maintains a policy of employing the 
best candidates available in every position, regardless of gender, 
ethnic group or background. It places considerable importance on 
communications with employees which take place at many levels 
through the organisation on both a formal and informal level. 
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the company and 
the group operates an HMRC Approved Savings Related Share 
Option Scheme (SAYE). Those employees who choose to take up 
the option to purchase shares in the company may enter into a 
savings arrangement for either a three or five year period, with 
the option price determined by reference to the share price at 
the date of grant. On exercise the shares are purchased by the 
employee free of income tax and national insurance, although 
capital gains tax rules apply. 
Disabled employees
The group gives full consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be 
adequately fulfilled by handicapped or disabled persons. Where 
existing employees become disabled, it is the group’s policy 
wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under 
normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career 
development and promotion wherever appropriate. Further 
details of arrangements relating to employees are described in 
the Corporate and Social Responsibility report on pages 43 to 45.
Disclosure of information to the auditor
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this 
Directors’ Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 
there is no relevant audit information of which the company’s 
auditor is unaware, and each of the directors has taken all steps 
that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware 
of any relevant audit information, as defined, and to establish that 
the company’s auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in 
office as auditor of the company and in accordance with the 
provisions of section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution 
for its re-appointment and to authorise the directors to agree its 
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM. Auditor 
remuneration and fees paid during the year to 31 December 2009 
are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
This directors report has been approved by the board and signed 
on its behalf by
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
19 March 2010
Directors’ Report continued Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 28
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
Accounts and the group and parent company financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent 
company financial statements for each financial year . Under that 
law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in 
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on 
the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 
view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of 
their profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the group and 
parent company financial statements, the directors are required to:
• 	 	 s e l e c t 	 s u i t a b l e 	 a c c o u n t i n g 	 p o l i c i e s 	 a n d 	 t h e n 	 a p p l y 	 t h e m	
consistently;
• 	 	 m a k e 	 j u d g m e n t s 	 a n d 	 e s t i m a t e s 	 t h a t 	 a r e 	 r e a s o n a b l e 	 a n d 	 p r u d e n t ;
• 	 	 s t a t e 	 w h e t h e r 	 t h e y 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h 	 I F R S s	
as adopted by the EU; and
• 	 	 p r e p a r e 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 o n 	 t h e 	 g o i n g 	 c o n c e r n 	 b a s i s	
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the 
parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 
the financial position of the parent company and enable them to 
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 
2006. They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are 
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and  
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also 
responsible for preparing a Directors’ Report, Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance statement that 
complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 
the corporate and financial information included on the company’s 
website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement in respect of the annual 
financial report:
The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge:
• 	 	 T h e 	 g r o u p 	 a n d 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 i n	
this report, which have been prepared in accordance with 
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by  
the EU (adopted IFRSs), including interpretations issued by  
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and those 
sections of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies 
reporting under IFRSs as adopted in the EU, give a true and fair 
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 
company and group taken as a whole; and 
• 	 	 T h e 	 m a n a g e m e n t 	 r e p o r t 	 ( w h i c h 	 c o m p r i s e s 	 t h e 	 C h a i r m a n ’ s	
Statement, Chief Executive’s Review, Financial Review and 
Directors’ Report) includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the company 
and the group taken as a whole, together with a description of 
the principle risks and uncertainties they face.
Signed on behalf of the board
Steve Wilson
Group Finance Director
19 March 2010 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance (“the Code”) 
issued by the Financial Reporting Council (“FRC”) in June 2008 
sets out guidance in the form of principles and provisions on 
how companies should be directed and controlled to follow good 
governance practice. Companies listed in the UK are required to 
disclose how they have applied its principles and whether they 
have complied with its provisions throughout the year. Companies 
must provide an explanation where the provisions have not been 
complied with. 
The directors consider that the company has been in compliance 
with the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 
31 December 2009 and up to the date of this report.
This report sets out how the principles of the Code, which is 
publicly available on the FRC website www.frc.org.uk, are applied 
and reports on the company’s compliance with the Code’s 
provisions. The company is committed to high standards of 
corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in 
the Code. 
Directors’ and board effectiveness
The board of directors (“board”) is collectively responsible to 
shareholders for the proper management and success of the 
group. Its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership within a 
framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk 
to be assessed and managed; to set strategic aims, ensure that 
the necessary financial and human resources are in place to meet 
its objectives and review management performance; to set the 
group’s values and standards; and to ensure that its obligations to 
its shareholders and others are understood and met. 
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief 
Executive are clearly divided, set out in writing and periodically 
reviewed by the board. Whilst collectively they are responsible for 
the leadership of the group, the Chairman’s primary responsibility 
is for leading the board and ensuring its effectiveness and the 
Group Chief Executive is responsible for implementing strategy, 
running the businesses in accordance with the objectives and 
policies agreed by the board and for the executive management 
of the group. The Chairman communicates frequently with the 
non-executive and executive directors and directors have the 
opportunity to discuss any issues or concerns with the Chairman 
at any time throughout the year. Matters that are not specifically 
reserved for the board and its committees under their terms of 
reference or for shareholders in general meeting are delegated  
to the Group Chief Executive.
The other significant current commitments of the Chairman are 
listed in his biography on page 22 and the board is satisfied that 
his existing commitments do not unduly restrict his availability to 
the group.
To help ensure the effective control of the group, the board has 
a schedule of items reserved for its sole consideration, most 
recently updated in October 2009, including but not limited to:
•		 gr oup	s tr at egy,	busines s	objectiv es	and	annual	plans
•		 major	c apit al	e xpenditur e,	acquisitions	and	div es tments
•		 mat erial	agr eements	and	major	c apit al	c ommitments
•		 changes	t o	the	gr oup’ s	c apit al	s tructur e	and	dividend	policy
•		 c ons titution	and	t erms	of	r ef er enc e	of	the	boar d	c ommitt ees,	
including the receiving of committee reports
•		 audit or	r emuner ation	and	r ec ommendations	f or	appointment	
or removal of auditors
•		 appointments	t o	the	boar d	and	t o	the	position	of	Company	
Secretary and approving policies relating to directors’ 
remuneration and the severance of directors’ service 
contracts
•		 ensuring	that	appr opriat e	management	de v el opment	and	
succession plans are in place
•		 r e vie wing	the	health	and	saf ety	and	envir onment al	
performance of the group
•		 ensuring	that	a	satisf act ory	dial ogue	t ak es	plac e	with	
shareholders
•		 financial	r eporting	and	c ontr ols
•		 appr o ving	and	r e vie wing	the	gr oup’ s	tr easury	policy
•		 c orpor at e	go v ernanc e	arr angements
Further details of the board’s role in relation to the group’s 
systems of internal control and risk management are given on 
pages 34 and 35 . A description of the specific responsibilities 
delegated to the principal board committees is given on pages 31 
to 33.
The effectiveness of the board is vital to the success of the group. 
In line with agreed procedures, using an in-house process, the 
board has conducted an evaluation of its own performance and 
that of its committees and individual directors, including the 
Chairman, involving the completion of a questionnaire. No actions 
were considered necessary as a result of the evaluations. The 
board intends to conduct a further evaluation of its performance 
during 2010 with the aim of continually improving processes, 
procedures and performance. The evaluation process is designed 
to cover board processes, the structure and capability of the 
board, strategic alignment, board dynamics and the skills brought 
to the board by each director.
Board of directors
During the year the board consisted of six members, three 
executive directors comprising Graham Waldron, Chairman,  
Tony Brewer, Group Chief Executive and Steve Wilson, Group 
Finance Director and three independent non-executive directors, 
Dick Peters, Mike O’Leary and David Grove. With effect from  
18 March 2010, David Grove resigned his non-executive 
directorship. Mike O’Leary was the Senior Independent Director 
throughout the year. All of the directors bring strong judgement 
Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 30
to the board’s deliberations and the board is of sufficient size and 
diversity that the balance of skills and experience is considered 
to be appropriate for the requirements of the business. The 
non-executive directors are all independent of management 
and free from any business or other relationship, including 
those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision 
A.3.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the 
exercise of independent and objective judgement. In making this 
determination the board has considered whether each director 
is independent in character and judgement and whether there 
are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or 
could affect, the director’s judgement. The board believes that it 
is evident from the consideration of the non-executive directors’ 
biographies on page 22 that they are of the integrity and stature 
to perform their roles of independent non-executive directors. 
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if 
they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal 
channels of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group 
Finance Director; or for which such contact is inappropriate.  
The board will keep under review the size and structure of the 
board to ensure it is appropriate for the ongoing business.
 
The biographical details of the current directors are given on page 22.
The procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board 
is described in the section on the nominations committee below. 
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three-year 
term and, subject to review and re-election, can serve up to a 
maximum of three such terms.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first 
AGM following their appointment by the board. Under the Articles 
of Association of the company, each of the directors is required 
to retire by rotation at least once every three years. Details of the 
directors retiring and seeking re-election at an AGM are given to 
shareholders in the Directors’ Report and also in the Notice of 
AGM. 
Board information, induction, training and professional 
development
All directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship 
of the group’s affairs. The non-executive directors have a 
particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by 
the executive directors are fully discussed and critically examined 
to ensure that they take proper account of the best long term 
interests of the shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers 
and the community.
To enable them to do this, the board has a forward rolling business 
agenda which is regularly updated to include specific topics that 
directors have requested for review at future meetings. The board 
reviews the key activities of the business receiving papers and 
presentations from senior management and external advisers, 
generally a week in advance of the meeting, to enable it to do so 
effectively. There is an established procedure for the preparation 
and review, at least annually, by the board of medium term plans 
and the annual budget. The board receives regular reports from  
the executive management covering a broad range of issues 
including health, safety and environmental matters, finance and 
operational performance, risk management, business development 
initiatives, special projects, legal and regulatory developments, 
governance and best practice guidelines that affect the group.  
The Company Secretary is responsible to the board, and is  
available to individual directors, in respect of board procedures.  
In conjunction with the Chairman, the Company Secretary ensures 
that information distributed to the board is sufficient, clear and 
accurate, that it is circulated in a timely manner and is appropriate 
to enable the board to discharge its duties.
On joining the board, a director receives a comprehensive 
induction pack which includes background information about 
the group and its directors, details of board meeting procedures, 
directors’ responsibilities, procedures for dealing in company 
shares and a number of other governance-related issues. The 
director meets with the Group Chief Executive to be briefed on the 
general group strategy encompassing visits to group businesses. 
External training, particularly on matters relating to the role of 
a director and the role and responsibilities of board committees, 
is arranged as appropriate. Ongoing training is provided as and 
when necessary and may be identified in annual performance 
reviews or on an ad hoc basis. The suitability of external courses 
is kept under review by the Company Secretary. Training and 
development of directors in the year took various forms, including 
visits to group businesses with the Group Chief Executive, 
attendance by certain directors at courses run by professional 
bodies on various commercial and regulatory matters. Directors 
receive regular updates appropriate to the business throughout 
the year and the company provides resources for directors to 
develop and refresh their knowledge and capabilities as required. 
All directors are suitably qualified, trained and experienced so as 
to be able to participate fully in the work of the board.
To assist with the independent conduct of their function and 
if required in connection with their duties, the non-executive 
directors are able to obtain professional advice at the company’s 
expense, and a process is in place to facilitate this. The company 
provides directors’ and officers’ insurance cover, in line with 
normal market practice, for the benefit of directors in respect of 
claims arising in the performance of their duties.
Accountability and audit
The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the 
Annual Report and Financial Statements under adopted IFRS is 
set out on page 28. The director’s confirmation that they consider 
it appropriate to prepare the accounts for 2009 on a going concern 
basis is given on page 21.
  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
 Board Committee meetings
 meetings Remuneration Audit Nominations
Total number of meetings 9 3 3 1
Graham Waldron 9 * * *
Tony Brewer 9 * * 1
Stephen Wilson 9 * * *
Dick Peters 9 3 3 1
Mike O’Leary 9 3 3 1
David Grove 9 3 3 1
* Executive directors do not attend these meetings unless invited to do so by the committee Chairman.
Corporate Governance continued
Board committees
The board has established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 
committees to oversee and debate important issues of policy and 
assist in attending to its responsibilities, the terms of reference 
of which each comply with the provisions of the Code and are 
available on written request from the Company Secretary at the 
registered office. The audit and remuneration committees are 
entirely composed of independent non-executive directors. 
Audit committee
The Audit committee comprised Dick Peters (Chairman),  
Mike O’Leary and David Grove. The board has determined that 
Dick Peters has recent and relevant financial experience. Only 
members of the committee are entitled to be present at meetings 
however the auditor, Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group 
Finance Director attend meetings by invitation. The company 
does not have a formal internal audit function, considering that 
one is not appropriate. However detailed monthly reviews are 
carried out by the Finance Director for Operations and Financial 
Controller. The Finance Director for Operations reports to the 
Group Finance Director and has access to the Chairman of the 
committee. The committee members, all other directors and 
senior management have direct access to the external auditor 
throughout the year, to seek advice or raise any issues or 
concerns. The committee monitors the integrity of the company’s 
financial statements and the effectiveness of the external audit 
process. It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate 
relationship between the company and the external auditor is 
maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees, 
and makes recommendations to the board on the appointment, 
re-appointment or dismissal of the external auditor. It also 
reviews the group’s systems of internal control and the processes 
for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the group on an 
ongoing basis. The committee periodically reviews its terms of 
reference and its effectiveness and recommends to the board any 
changes required as a result of such review. 
The committee has an agenda linked to events in the group’s 
financial calendar, normally meeting at least twice a year, 
including meetings before the annual and interim results 
announcements. The committee met three times in the year, 
members’ attendance record being given above, during which it 
discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference 
and schedule of business for the year. All of the committee 
members attended the meetings that they were eligible to attend. 
The committee has authority to investigate any matters within its 
terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information 
and to obtain external professional advice at the cost of the 
company.
At each meeting there is an opportunity for the external auditor 
to discuss matters with the committee without any executive 
management being present. The committee has independent 
access to the external auditor who has direct access to the 
Chairman of the committee outside formal committee meetings. 
The Audit committee has the specific task of keeping under 
review the nature and extent of non-audit services provided 
by the external auditor in order to ensure that objectivity and 
independence are maintained. The external auditor has in place 
processes to ensure its independence is maintained including 
safeguards to ensure that, where it does provide non-audit 
services, its independence is not compromised. It has written 
Board meetings and attendance
The board usually meets eight or nine times a year and 
normally includes at least one meeting at an operating 
business. During the year there are sufficient opportunities for 
the Chairman to meet with the non-executive directors without 
the executive directors being present should this be deemed 
appropriate. In addition, directors have frequent contact 
between meetings and directors visit trading locations in order 
to maintain close contact with the group’s business. 
The attendance of directors at relevant meetings of the board and 
of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations committees held 
during 2009 was as follows: Corporate Governance continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 32
to the Audit committee confirming that, in its opinion, it is 
independent. 
During the 2009 financial period, the Audit committee discharged 
its responsibilities by:
•		 r e vie wing	the	gr oup’ s	dr aft	2008	pr eliminary	annual	r esults	
announcement and financial statements and 2009 interim 
results statement prior to board approval, including 
consideration of the significant accounting judgments 
contained therein, and reviewing the external auditors’ 
detailed reports thereon
•		 r e vie wing	the	c onsis t ency	of	and	any	changes	t o	the	gr oup’ s	
accounting policies, the application of appropriate accounting 
standards and methods used to account for significant or 
unusual transactions.
•		 r e vie wing	r egularl y	the	pot ential	impact	on	the	gr oup’ s	
financial statements of certain matters such as impairment  
of asset values and employee benefits
•		 r e vie wing	the	eff ectiv enes s	of	the	2008	e xt ernal	audit	pr oc es s	
and recommending to the board, after due consideration, the 
re-appointment of the incumbent external auditor at the AGM
•		 r e vie wing	the	applic ation	of	the	boar d’ s	policy	on	non-audit	
work  performed by the group’s external auditor together with 
the non-audit fees payable to the external auditor in 2008 
•		 r e vie wing	the	e xt ernal	audit or s ’	plan	f or	the	audit	of	the	
group’s 2009 accounts, which included key areas of focus, key 
risks on the accounts, confirmations of auditor independence 
and the proposed audit fee and approving the terms of 
engagement for the audit 
•		 r e vie wing	r eports	fr om	the	e xt ernal	audit or	on	the	gr oup’ s	
systems of internal control in advance of the announcement 
of the group’s results for 2008 (the internal report included 
a summary of and commentary on the business risks and 
internal control processes) and reporting to the board on the 
results of this review and reviewing interim updates prior to 
the interim results 
•		 r ec eiving	r egular	updat es	fr om	management	on	k e y	financial	
control matters arising in the group
•		 c onsidering	the	appr opriat enes s	of	an	int ernal	audit	function	
During the year the committee reviewed the scope and 
programme of work to be undertaken by the external auditor, 
considered the independence and objectivity of services provided 
and reviewed the level of fees paid for those services. Whilst 
KPMG have been an external auditor to the group since 1991, 
there is a procedure in place for the audit partner to change every 
five years, so maintaining objectivity and independence without 
the need to change firms, the last such change taking place 
during 2008.
Resolution 5 set out in the Notice of AGM recommends that 
shareholders re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the group’s auditor 
and resolution 6 authorises the directors to determine their 
remuneration.
When appointing advisers for non-audit work, the group considers 
the value for money, experience and objectivity required and in 
this respect it has used Deloitte to conduct non-audit tax work. 
The committee recognises that there are occasions when it is 
advantageous to use the external auditor to undertake non-audit 
services, when they are best placed to do so. The committee 
operates under a formal policy approved by the board to help 
ensure the independence and objectivity of the external auditor 
is not compromised. The policy states that non-audit fees paid 
to the principal external auditor should not exceed 250% of the 
audit fee, except in the case of significant events. The Chairman 
of the committee is required to authorise non-audit work above 
a pre-agreed threshold. Note 3 to the group accounts provides a 
breakdown of 2008 and 2009 audit and non-audit fees. In 2009, the 
non-audit services provided by the external auditor predominantly 
in respect of P11D software amounting to £2,000 was below the 
pre-agreed threshold.
Remuneration committee
The Remuneration committee comprises Mike O’Leary 
(Chairman), Dick Peters and David Grove. It met three times in 
the period. The committee determines, on behalf of the board, 
service contract terms, remuneration and benefits, including 
bonuses, for executive directors and senior managers. It is also 
responsible for the granting of share based incentive awards. 
Further information on the activities of the committee is given 
in the directors’ Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 42 which 
should be read in conjunction with this report. The directors’ 
Remuneration Report also describes how the principles of the 
Code are applied in respect of remuneration matters and includes 
a statement on the company’s policy on directors’ and senior 
managers’ remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements 
and pension arrangements.
A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed 
at the AGM.
Nominations committee
During the year the Nominations committee consisted of the 
non-executive directors, Mike O’Leary, Dick Peters and David 
Grove, and the Group Chief Executive, Tony Brewer, under the 
Chairmanship of Mike O’Leary. Appointments to the committee 
are made by the board. The committee leads the process 
for identifying and makes recommendations to the board on 
candidates for appointment as directors of the company and  
as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to succession  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33
planning and the leadership needs of the group. It also makes 
recommendations to the board on the composition and 
Chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration committees.  
It keeps under review the structure, size and composition of  
the board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and 
experience and the independence of the non-executive directors, 
and makes recommendations to the board with regard to any 
changes. The committee meets periodically when required. 
The Nominations committee met once in the year, as reflected in 
the attendance record during 2009 given above. Only members of 
the committee are entitled to be present at meetings but others 
may be invited by the committee to attend. The board has agreed 
the procedures to be followed by the Nominations committee 
in making appointments to the various positions on the board 
and as Company Secretary. The committee has access to such 
information and advice both from within the group and externally, 
at the cost of the company, as it deems necessary. This may 
include the appointment of external executive search consultants, 
where appropriate. No director is involved in any decisions 
regarding their appointment.
All non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three 
year term pursuant to a standard letter of appointment, which 
is available for viewing at the company’s registered office during 
normal business hours or at the AGM.
 
The committee ensures that newly appointed directors receive 
a full induction and when considering the re-appointment of 
directors ensures that the board has an appropriate balance 
of skills, knowledge and experience. Items discussed by the 
committee during the year to enable it to discharge its duties in 
accordance with its terms of reference included:
•		 the	size,	s tructur e,	c omposition	and	skills	of	the	boar d	
membership
•	 the	pr oposal	t o	r e-el ect	Gr aham	W aldr on	and	Dick	P et er s	
under the retirement by rotation provisions
•		 the	boar d	and	boar d	c ommitt ee	e v aluation	pr oc es s	
The committee, in conjunction with the board, receives updates 
from the Group Chief Executive on succession and development 
planning for senior positions within the group. Changes to 
directors’ commitments are reported to the committee as they 
arise and are considered on their individual merits. There were no 
significant changes to any of the directors’ external commitments 
during the year.
Communication with shareholders
The company places considerable importance on communication 
with shareholders and engages with them on a wide range of 
issues. The board aims to present a balanced and understandable 
assessment of the group’s financial position and prospects in its 
reporting to shareholders and this is outlined in the Financial 
Review. The company reports formally to shareholders twice a 
year when its half year and full year results are announced and  
an interim and a full year report is issued to shareholders. 
The company has an ongoing programme of dialogue and 
meetings between the executive directors and institutional 
investors and analysts which cover strategy, trading and market 
conditions. The company seeks to present an accurate and 
objective view in a manner appropriate for the intended audience. 
Contact with the major shareholders is principally maintained 
by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director. 
The Chairman ensures that the views of shareholders are 
communicated to the board as a whole.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have met 
with the company’s brokers during the year to ensure they are 
aware of the current views of major shareholders and of any 
material issues they may have. These reports include summaries 
on the market’s reaction to results announcements and the 
subsequent meetings between management and investors. 
External brokers’ reports on the company are circulated to all 
directors. 
The Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive 
directors are invited to attend presentations to analysts and 
institutional shareholders, in particular the annual and interim 
results presentations. No specific meetings were requested by 
shareholders with the non-executive directors during the year.
The company’s AGM provides a valuable opportunity for the  
board to communicate with private investors. At the meeting,  
the company complies with the Code as it relates to voting,  
the separation of resolutions and the attendance of committee 
chairmen. Wherever possible directors attend the AGM and 
shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting  
and to have the opportunity to meet with the directors following 
the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting. The group  
seeks to present an accurate, objective and balanced picture  
in its annual and interim reports, trading statements, results 
presentations and city announcements in a style and format  
which is appropriate to the intended audience. Copies of annual 
and interim reports, along with other published information  
and press releases, are available on the company’s website at 
www.headlam.com. The notice of the AGM and related papers  
are sent to shareholders at least twenty-one clear days before  
the AGM and separate resolutions are proposed on each 
substantial issue. Shareholders at the meeting are advised as to 
the level of proxy votes received, including the percentage for and 
against each resolution together with the level of abstentions, 
Corporate Governance continued Corporate Governance continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 34
following each vote on a show of hands. In line with the Code, 
details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, 
are made available on request and are placed on the company’s 
website following the AGM.
Details of the 2010 AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM which 
forms part of these Annual Report and Accounts along with 
details of the facilities available for proxy votes to be cast 
electronically. The company offers shareholders the right to 
withhold their vote, if they so wish, in line with best practice. 
Risk management and internal controls
The Code requires directors to review and report annually to 
shareholders on the effectiveness of the company’s systems 
of internal control which include financial, operational and 
compliance controls and risk management. The board has 
overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the group’s 
systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness 
whilst the implementation of internal control systems is the 
responsibility of management. The board continues to apply the 
internal control provisions of the Code through a continuous 
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant 
risks the group faces. This process has been in place throughout 
the year and up to the date of approval of this report, and the 
group has been in compliance with the provisions set out in 
section 1 of the Code. This includes consideration of corporate 
social responsibility matters.
The systems are designed to meet the group’s particular needs 
and to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks to which the 
businesses are exposed. By their nature, they provide only 
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. The board considers that the measures 
taken, including physical controls, segregation of duties and 
reviews by management, provide sufficient and objective 
assurance.
During the year the board maintained its process of hierarchical 
reporting and review in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the 
group’s systems of financial and non-financial controls. The group 
has developed a comprehensive series of operating and financial 
control procedures which are applied at all businesses and the 
group finance team performs monthly reviews to verify that the 
businesses are complying with the prescribed operating and 
financial control procedures. In addition, the board reviews risk 
management arrangements. Furthermore, the Audit committee 
receives reports from the external auditor on matters identified in 
the course of its statutory audit work.
These procedures provide a documented and auditable trail of 
accountability, the results of which are periodically reviewed by 
management for completeness and accuracy. These procedures 
allow for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher 
levels of management through to the board. Planned corrective 
actions are monitored for timely completion. Having reviewed 
its effectiveness, the directors are not aware of anything in the 
group’s systems of control during the period covered by this 
Annual Report and Accounts which could render them ineffective. 
There were no changes in the group’s internal controls or 
financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably 
likely to affect, the group’s systems of internal control.
The group operates a comprehensive planning system, including 
detailed reviews at all subsidiary undertakings, together with 
formal reviews and approval of annual plans by the board. 
Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis measured 
against plan and prior year including a detailed explanation of 
major variances and on a daily basis, sales, margin and cash 
flow, measured against plan and prior year are reported. The 
company and its subsidiary undertakings have implemented 
control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate 
accounting for financial transactions and to limit the potential 
exposure to fraud. The group has clearly defined guidelines for 
capital expenditure and investment appraisal. These include 
annual plans, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of 
authority and due diligence requirements when businesses are 
acquired. Any acquisition or disposal of a business needs formal 
board approval. The board reports that full procedures are in 
place to achieve compliance with the internal control aspects of 
the Code for the next financial period.
The output of these reviews form an important element of 
management reporting and a process is in place for monitoring 
the achievement of action plans together with the identification  
of new and emerging risks. An ongoing process of risk 
management and internal control in accordance with the Code 
has been in place for the financial year under review and up to 
the date of this report. The group views the careful management 
of risk as a key managerial activity in delivering business 
opportunities. The ethos of the group, delegation of responsibility 
and other control procedures together with accounting policies 
and procedures are communicated through the group and laid  
out in the group procedures manual, which is periodically 
updated, and the employee handbook. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35
The objective of the group’s risk management processes is to 
ensure sustainable development throughout the conduct of its 
business in a way which:
•		 satisfies	its	cus t omer s
•		 maint ains	pr oper	r elationships	with	supplier s	and	c ontr act or s
•		 pr ot ects	agains t	l os ses	fr om	unf or eseen	c auses
•		 pr o vides	a	saf e	and	healthy	w orkplac e
•		 de v el ops	envir onment all y	friendl y	pr oc es ses
•		 minimises	the	c os t	and	c onsumption	of	incr easingl y	sc ar c e	
resources
•		 pr e v ents	pollution	and	was t e
•		 maint ains	a	positiv e	r elationship	with	the	c ommunities	in	
which it does business
A high standard of health and safety management is promoted at 
all levels within the group. The group’s health and safety approach 
is supported by training programmes at operating businesses, 
group health and safety rules and monitoring and auditing to 
promote a high level of awareness and commitment. Individual 
businesses are assessed on a periodic basis, and remedial 
solutions implemented where necessary. Line management retain 
the responsibility for completion of action plans with progress 
being monitored and reported.
The Audit committee meets at least twice a year and in 
accordance with its terms of reference, reviews the effectiveness 
of the group’s systems of internal control. In accordance with the 
Code the board has undertaken an assessment of the need for a 
group internal audit function. The board considers that the control 
systems and procedures undertaken by the group are adequately 
performed by management and therefore does not currently 
propose to introduce a group internal audit function but will keep 
the matter under review.
The integrity and competence of personnel is assessed during 
the recruitment process and monitored throughout employment. 
Ethical standards expected of personnel are laid out in the group 
procedures manual and in the employee handbook.
The system for monitoring risks is continuous and an ongoing 
process throughout the year. Principal risks and uncertainties are 
set out on pages 24 and 25 of the Directors’ Report.
This process has identified a number of risks where action plans 
have been developed to eliminate, minimise or mitigate these 
risks (including the use of insurance where appropriate).The 
board has not identified or been advised of any significant failings 
or weaknesses where action has not been taken which might have 
a material impact on the business.
The Corporate Governance Report and the Audit Committee 
Report contained in it have been approved by the board and are 
signed on its behalf by 
Geoff Duggan 
Company Secretary
19 March 2010
Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Report
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 36
Introduction
This report, which has been approved by the board, has been 
prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Listing Rules of the 
Financial Services Authority and the relevant schedules of the 
Companies Acts. 
The purpose of this report is to inform shareholders how the 
company has applied the principles of the Combined Code on 
Corporate Governance that relate to directors’ remuneration during 
the period. The report describes the group’s remuneration policy as 
it applies to directors and senior executives and provides detailed 
disclosures in relation to directors’ remuneration in current and  
prior years and so far as practicable, for subsequent years as well. 
The report is divided into two parts. The first part, which is not 
required to be audited, details the role of the committee and 
commentary on remuneration policy. The second part contains 
the remuneration review detailing directors’ and former directors’ 
emoluments, share awards and options and pension arrangements 
that have been audited in accordance with the relevant statutory 
requirements.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a resolution will be 
submitted to the forthcoming AGM, to be held on Friday 25 June 
2010, seeking shareholder approval for the directors’ Remuneration 
Report.
Composition and role of the Remuneration committee
The Remuneration committee is appointed by the board and 
comprised three non-executive directors, Mike O’Leary (Chairman), 
Dick Peters and David Grove during the year under review. All the 
committee members served throughout both the period under 
review and the prior period. The three committee members have no 
personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in matters 
to be decided, no potential conflicts of interest and, as independent 
non-executive directors, no day to day involvement in running the 
business. The biographical details and qualifications for each of the 
committee members are shown on page 22. Details of members 
attendance at the meetings of this committee, which meets not 
less than three times a year, are shown in the report on Corporate 
Governance on page 31 and directors’ shareholdings are shown later 
in this report on page 39. The Group Chief Executive, by invitation, 
may attend meetings of the committee in an advisory capacity. 
Meetings are attended by the Company Secretary who acts as 
secretary to the committee. Nobody attends any part of a meeting 
at which their own remuneration is discussed. The remuneration of 
the non-executive directors is the responsibility of the other board 
members.
The committee is responsible for setting the framework and policy 
for the remuneration of the executive directors which it reviews 
annually for appropriateness and relevance. It is also responsible 
for determining the specific elements of the executive directors’ 
and executive managements’ remuneration, performance targets, 
their contractual terms and compensation arrangements. This is 
to ensure that on termination, contractual terms and payments are 
fair both to the company and to the individual so that failure is not 
rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is recognised. In addition, 
the committee oversees any major changes in employee benefit 
structures throughout the group.
The terms of reference of the committee are available from the 
company on request. In setting policy and compensation levels, the 
committee has due regard to the Combined Code. The committee 
has access to advice provided by the Group Chief Executive, Company 
Secretary and external consultants, agreeing the terms of reference 
of any remuneration consultants it may appoint. During 2009 the 
committee sought information from a wide variety of published 
sources, and members attended seminars on the subject, to assist in 
the formulation of the committee’s recommendations and in respect 
of retirement benefits and executive remuneration. Similar to prior 
year, the committee did not make any specific appointments in 
sourcing such information.
Remuneration policy
The group’s remuneration policy seeks to ensure that the 
remuneration of executive directors and executive management is 
sufficiently competitive to enable the group to retain and motivate 
existing directors and attract high quality individuals in the future. 
It has the objective of providing remuneration packages that are 
challenging and competitive in both commercial and human terms 
and facilitate effective succession planning.
In setting its policies, the committee has regard to several factors 
including the benefits arrangements which apply below senior 
management level and competitor benchmarking. 
The committee aims to achieve a balanced package for each 
executive director, reviewing executive directors’ remuneration 
annually. The company believes that in order to meet its 
remuneration objectives, the remuneration of executive directors 
should comprise a balance between fixed and variable performance 
related pay elements with a significant proportion of the potential 
remuneration dependent on the attainment of performance 
objectives, both through the annual bonus scheme and through 
participation in share incentive schemes. 
The committee constantly reviews remuneration policy to ensure that 
it is sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in business 
operations and environment and recognises key developments in 
remuneration practice and alignment to shareholder interests. 
Participation in share incentive schemes is designed to align the 
interests of executive directors and other senior executives with 
the longer-term interests of shareholders by rewarding them for 
delivering increased shareholder value which provide opportunities 
to build shareholdings in the company. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37
The Remuneration committee, through the executive directors and 
Company Secretary, seeks the views of the company’s principal 
shareholders as necessary. In determining the level of base salaries 
and the annual performance related bonus scheme, the committee 
takes into consideration the potential maximum remuneration that 
executives could receive.
In implementing this policy, the Remuneration committee takes 
account of information and surveys from internal and independent 
sources and the remuneration paid for comparable positions in other 
companies. It reviews data and surveys provided by a wide variety 
of published sources with reference to the scale and composition 
of the total remuneration packages payable to people with like 
responsibilities, qualifications, skills and experience in businesses 
of similar size and structure. In setting the remuneration of the 
directors and executive management, the committee takes into 
account the economic environment and financial performance of 
the group, along with pay and employment conditions of employees 
elsewhere in the group. 
The group’s remuneration policy in respect of non-executive 
directors is to pay annual fees, which reflect the responsibilities 
and duties placed upon them, whilst also having regard to market 
practice.
The total emoluments of the executive directors are disclosed on 
page 40. 
No director is involved in the determination of, or votes on any matter 
relating to their remuneration.
For the financial year 2010 the committee has approved a decision 
to increase the pay of UK employees by an average 1.5% except 
that in exceptional circumstances pay increases may be provided 
to individuals whose base salary is behind the market, for example, 
due to promotion, or to those individuals who are performing above 
expectation. This policy has not been applied to the directors and 
other executive management whose pay was not increased in 2010.
The committee is satisfied that the incentive structure for executive 
management does not raise governance risks by inadvertently 
motivating irresponsible or reckless behaviour .
Components of remuneration
Base salaries
The committee reviews base salary, which is the only element of 
remuneration that is pensionable, annually with any change taking 
effect from 1 January. As a general policy, base salaries reflect 
the committee’s assessment of the appropriate market rate for 
comparable positions and levels of responsibility and the individual 
executive’s experience, performance and value to the business. 
The committee also assesses pay and employment conditions of 
employees of the group when determining the executive directors’ 
remuneration. 
The base salary of the executive directors remained unchanged in 
2009 and will continue to do so for 2010. The base salary of executive 
management remained unchanged in 2010.
Annual performance bonus
The committee reviews the annual performance related bonus 
scheme to ensure that it remains competitive in the marketplace 
and continues to offer an incentive to the executive directors and 
executive management. The scheme focuses on annual objectives 
and links individual performance with business financial targets.  
The financial targets are calculated by reference to the extent to 
which the group’s operating profit meets the planned target.  
The committee establishes the objectives that must be attained  
for each financial year if a bonus is to be paid. 
When awarding the bonus the committee takes account of the 
relative success of the group’s performance and the extent to which 
strategic objectives are being attained. The performance related 
scheme for 2009, as reported last year, provided for a bonus award 
of 77% of base salary on achievement of financial target with a 
maximum of 150% of base salary payable for over achievement of 
performance related targets. 
For 2009, the performance target was met and accordingly 
performance-related bonuses were awarded to the executive 
directors and executive management. The performance related 
components of remuneration for executive directors and executive 
management are paid in March following the completion of the 
annual audit. Details of the payments to directors are included in  
the directors’ remuneration for the year on page 40.
The performance related scheme for 2010 is similar to that 
applicable to 2009 in that it provides for a bonus award of 75% of 
base salary on achievement of financial target with a maximum of 
150% of base salary payable for over achievement of performance 
related targets. In the event of under performance of performance 
target no bonus will be awarded. Furthermore, the committee will 
not use discretion to make bonus awards for under performance.
Share incentive arrangements
The committee is keen to encourage directors and key employees to 
build up or increase their shareholdings in the company, so aligning 
their interests with the company’s shareholders. The committee 
recognises the importance of share incentives in recruiting and 
retaining directors and key employees on whose performance the 
success of the company depends. 
At the 2008 AGM shareholders authorised the adoption of a new 
HMRC approved discretionary share option scheme, the Headlam 
Group Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2008 and a new 
non-HMRC approved discretionary share option scheme, the 
Headlam Group Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 
2008 (together the “New Share Option Schemes”), which replaced 
the Headlam Group Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 
Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Report continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38
1998 and the Headlam Group Unapproved Executive Share Option 
Scheme 1998 that expired in 2008 (together the “1998 Share Option 
Schemes”). Shareholders also authorised the adoption of the 
Headlam Group Performance Share Plan 2008 (the “PSP”) and the 
Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 (the “CIP”). 
The committee has not yet implemented either of the PSP or the CIP .
A summary of the main terms of the 1998 Share Option Schemes, 
the New Share Option Schemes, the PSP and the CIP is set out 
below.
The 1998 approved scheme is a standard HMRC approved share 
option scheme under which a participant receives a right to acquire 
shares at a price equal to the market value of the shares at the grant 
date which will normally vest after three years, subject generally to 
continued employment and achievement of performance targets. No 
new options can be granted under this scheme following its expiry in 
2008, however current options remain capable of exercise until their 
normal lapse date. 
The 1998 unapproved scheme is a non-HMRC approved share option 
scheme under which a participant receives a right to acquire shares 
at a price equal to the market value of the shares at the grant date 
which will normally vest after three years, subject generally to 
continued employment and achievement of performance targets. 
Prior to its expiry in 2008, the unapproved scheme would have 
allowed the committee to grant awards in excess of the levels 
permitted by relevant tax legislation for the purposes of the 1998 
approved scheme, although such awards would not have been tax-
efficient. No new options can be granted under this scheme following 
its expiry however current options remain capable of exercise until 
their normal lapse date.
The 2008 approved scheme is a standard HMRC approved share 
option scheme under which a participant receives a right to acquire 
shares at a price equal to the market value of the shares at the grant 
date which will normally vest after three years, subject generally to 
continued employment and achievement of performance targets.
The 2008 unapproved scheme is a non-HMRC approved share option 
scheme under which a participant receives a right to acquire shares 
at a price equal to the market value of the shares at the grant date 
which will normally vest after three years, subject generally to 
continued employment and achievement of performance targets. 
The 2008 unapproved scheme allows the committee to grant awards 
in excess of the levels permitted by relevant tax legislation for the 
purposes of the 2008 approved scheme, although such awards will 
not be tax-efficient. 
The PSP is a discretionary non-HMRC approved plan under which 
a participant receives a right to acquire shares for no cost which 
will normally vest after three years, subject generally to continued 
employment and the achievement of performance targets.
The CIP is a discretionary non-HMRC approved plan under which a 
participant invests the whole or part of any annual bonus in ordinary 
shares of the company and receives a right to acquire matching 
shares for no cost which will normally vest after three years, 
subject generally to continued employment and the achievement of 
performance targets.
The performance targets for options granted under the 1998 Share 
Option Schemes are based on the extent to which growth in the 
group’s earnings per share (“EPS”) exceeds growth in the Retail 
Prices Index (“RPI”) over a three-year performance period, EPS 
being calculated as fully diluted earnings per share. In respect of  
the approved scheme EPS growth must exceed RPI growth by 3%  
pa or more over the three year performance period. In respect of the 
unapproved scheme, for options up to one times eligible earnings, 
EPS growth must exceed RPI growth by 3% pa or more over the 
three year performance period and by 5% or more over the three 
year performance period for options granted of between one times 
and two times eligible earnings. The committee felt that these 
performance conditions were appropriate at the time the options 
were granted.
Details of subsisting share options and shares issued under the 
various schemes summarised above are set out on page 41. 
No new executive share options were granted in 2009, the most 
recent grant of options made under the 1998 Option Schemes being 
in 2005.
Retirement benefits
The executive directors currently participate in the Headlam Group 
Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme, the defined benefit plan operated 
by the group, on a non-contributory basis. Details regarding the 
executive directors’ participation in the defined benefit pension plan 
are given on page 42. 
Other employment benefits
Executive directors receive taxable benefits including a company  
car, private fuel, lump sum life assurance for death-in-service cover 
and non-contributory private medical insurance, which provides 
benefits similar to those applicable in comparable companies.  
They are also eligible to participate in the company’s Inland Revenue-
approved sharesave scheme which is open to all eligible employees 
on the same basis, providing a long-term savings and investment 
opportunity. The exercise of options under the sharesave scheme is 
not subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions as this is an 
all employee arrangement. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39
Service contracts
The current policy is for executive directors’ service contract 
notice periods to be normally no longer than twelve months. The 
service contracts of the executive directors’ have no fixed term but 
provide that either the director or the company may terminate the 
employment by giving twelve months’ written notice and that the 
company may pay compensation in lieu of notice. The company 
recognises however that it may be necessary in the case of new 
executive appointments to offer an initial longer notice period,  
which would subsequently reduce to one year after the expiry of  
that period. All future appointments to the board will comply with 
this requirement. 
Service agreements contain neither a liquidated damages nor a 
change of control clause. It is the company’s policy to ensure that 
any payments made to a director in the event of the early termination 
of a service agreement reflect the circumstances giving rise to 
termination and, where considered appropriate, the obligation of 
the outgoing director to mitigate his loss. Accordingly, consideration 
is given to making compensation payments in instalments and is 
conditional on the leaver’s employment and earnings status. The 
service agreements of the executive directors who served during  
the financial period were entered into on 11 October 2005.
The Chairman does not hold a service contract and does not 
participate in the company’s executive share schemes, incentive 
plans or pension schemes. Additionally, he is not a member of the 
various committees of the board.
The service agreements of the continuing directors are available for 
inspection at the registered office of the company during normal 
business hours on each business day.
External appointments of executive directors
The board believes that experience of other companies’ practices 
and challenges is valuable both for the personal development of its 
executive directors and for the company. It is therefore the company’s 
policy to allow each executive director to accept one non-executive 
directorship of another company, although the board retains the 
discretion to vary this policy. Fees received by executive directors 
in respect of external non-executive appointments are retained by 
the individual director . In 2009 Graham Waldron and Steve Wilson 
received fees of £50,000 and £44,000 respectively.
Non-executive directors
The non-executive directors do not have service agreements but 
instead are appointed for an initial period of three years by letter 
of appointment which is terminable by either party subject to one 
month’s notice, for which no compensation is payable. At the end 
of the initial period, the company discusses with the non-executive 
director whether they wish to renew their appointment and whether 
it is in the best interests of the company for their appointment to 
be renewed. Such renewal would normally be for a further period 
of three years (subject to termination as aforesaid). Non-executive 
directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms, 
although the board may invite them to serve for an additional period. 
All appointments and subsequent re-appointment is subject to 
approval by shareholders.
Non-executive directors’ fees are reviewed by the board annually 
by reference to prevailing market conditions and at a level which 
will attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to 
make a positive contribution to the group’s affairs. The annual fees 
were reviewed with effect from 1 January and remained unchanged 
at £35,000, with an additional £5,000 being paid to the respective 
chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration committees. Non-executive 
directors are not involved in any discussion or decision about their 
own remuneration nor do they participate in any of the company’s 
share schemes, incentive plans or pension schemes. The aggregate 
limit for fees paid to non-executive directors is laid down in the 
articles. Mike O’Leary has been designated Senior Independent 
Director for which he receives no additional fees.
Non-executive directors’ appointment dates are shown on page 22.
Directors’ interests in shares
In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R, the two tables set out below 
show the beneficial interests of the directors, and their connected 
persons, who held office at the end of the year in the ordinary shares 
of the company and the interests in the company’s share schemes.
 Shareholdings at Shareholdings at 
 31 December 2009 31 December 2008
Executive Directors  
Graham Waldron 360,638 360,638
Tony Brewer 519,942 519,942
Steve Wilson 400,770 400,770
Non-executive Directors  
Dick Peters 5,000 5,000
David Grove 30,000 30,000
Mike O’Leary – –
The interests in shares of the directors were unchanged at 19 March 
2010 from those at 31 December 2009. It is the company’s policy 
that executive directors are required to hold ordinary shares of 5p in 
the company equivalent in value to once time’s base salary, newly 
appointed directors being expected to build their holding over a five 
year period.
Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Report continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 40
Performance graph
The above graph has been included to meet the requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 
(Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008. It shows the group’s performance on a holding of £100 in the company’s shares for the 
five year period to 31 December 2009 measured by total shareholder return (“TSR”), compared with the performance of the FTSE 
250 Excluding Investment Trusts index also measured by TSR, which is defined as share price growth, plus re-invested dividends. 
The FTSE Excluding Investment Trusts 250 index has been chosen because it provides a basis for comparison against companies in a 
relevant broad based equity index in which the group has predominantly over a number of years been a constituent member. The FTSE 
SmallCap Index, of which the company is currently a constituent member, is believed to be a less meaningful index for comparison 
purposes. The TSR indices used in the chart have been calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 
2002 relative to a base date at the end of December 2004. The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Audited information
The Remuneration Report from page 36 to page 40 up to this statement has not been audited. From this point until the end of the report 
on page 42 the disclosures have been audited by the company’s auditor, KPMG.
Directors’ emoluments
The emoluments of the directors for their services as directors of the group for the year ended 31 December 2009 were:
   Performance 
 Salary and fees Benefits related pay Total
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive directors        
Tony Brewer 520 520 35 36 392 168 947 724
Steve Wilson 376 376 28 39 291 125 695 540
Graham Waldron 115 115 26 21 – – 141 136
        
Non–executive directors        
David Grove 35 35 – – – – 35 35
Mike O’Leary 40 40 – – – – 40 40
Dick Peters 40 40 – – – – 40 40
 1,126 1,126 89 96 683 293 1,898 1,515
5 Year Return Index for FTSE 250 Index as at 31 December 2009
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200
 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December
 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
Source: Thomson Financial
Headlam Group plc
FTSE MID 250 Ex Investment Trust Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41
Remuneration Report continued
Benefits are in respect of all taxable benefits arising from employment by the company including the provision of a company car, 
private fuel, life assurance cover and private medical insurance. Pension benefits and gains made by executive directors in respect of 
share options are excluded from the table above. The aggregate amount of gains made by executive directors on the exercise of share 
options was £nil (2008: £33,973).
Directors’ interests in share option schemes
Details of options held by executive directors are set out below, a description of which is given on pages 37 and 38:
 Options Options Options Options Options
 held at granted cancelled exercised held at Exercise Date
 1 January during during during 31 December price from which Expiry
 2009 the year the year the year 2009 (pence) exercisable date
Tony Brewer        
1998 USOS (i) 342,858 – – – 342,858 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2012
1998 ESOS (ii) 7,142 – – – 7,142 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2015
Sharesave (iii) 5,367 – 5,367 – – 303.20 Jul 2013 Jan 2014
Sharesave (iii) – 7,043 – – 7,043 222.20 Jul 2014 Jan 2015
Steve Wilson        
1998 USOS (i) 242,858 – – – 242,858 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2012
1998 ESOS (ii) 7,142 – – – 7,142 420.00 Aug 2008 Aug 2015
Sharesave (iii) 5,367 – 5,367 – – 303.20 Jul 2013 Jan 2014
Sharesave (iii) – 7,043 – – 7,043 222.20 Jul 2014 Jan 2015
Graham Waldron        
Sharesave (iii) 3,100 – 3,100 – – 303.20 Jul 2011 Jan 2012
Sharesave (iii) – 4,117 – – 4,117 222.20 Jul 2012 Jan 2013
(i)  Headlam Group Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 (1998 USOS)
 Details of the operation of the scheme including the performance conditions attaching to options are provided on page 38.
(ii)  Headlam Group Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 1998 (1998 ESOS)
 Details of the operation of the scheme including the performance conditions attaching to options are provided on page 38.
(iii)  Headlam Group Sharesave Scheme 2002 (Sharesave)
 The company operates an Inland Revenue-approved all-employee savings-related share option scheme in the UK. The scheme is designed to provide a long-term savings and 
investment opportunity for employees and is described on page 38. 
On 19 May 2009, the company granted options under its savings related share option scheme for terms of between three and five 
years at an option price of 222.20 pence per share.
The mid-market ordinary share price range during the year was 200.00 pence to 327.00 pence with an average price of 268.78 pence. 
The mid market closing price of a Headlam Group plc ordinary share on 31 December 2009, the last trading day of the financial 
period, was 300.25 pence. Remuneration Report continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 42
Pension benefits
Tony Brewer and Steve Wilson participate in the group’s defined benefit pension scheme which provides benefits at a normal 
retirement age of fifty five based upon pensionable service. The maximum pension payable under the scheme is equivalent to an 
amount that would not result in any additional tax charge being payable under HM Revenue & Customs’ rules. There are lump sum 
death-in-service benefits and pension provisions for members’ dependents. Benefit accrual in respect of Steve Wilson ceased on  
20 August 2009 on reaching normal retirement age.
Details of executive directors’ pension benefits for the year ended 31 December 2009 are shown below:
 Increase in  Accumulated Change in 
 accrued Transfer accrued pension accrued Accumulated
 pension during value of at 31 December pension over 31 December
 the year increase 2009 the year 2008
 £000pa £000 £000pa £000pa £000pa
Tony Brewer 4 88 68 8 60
Steve Wilson 2 46 81 4 77
The increase in accrued pension entitlement is the difference between the accrued benefit at the year end and that at the previous 
year end. Transfer values have been calculated on the Trustees’ cash equivalent transfer value basis. The increase in the transfer 
value is the increase in the value of accrued benefits during the year. The transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits, required 
by the listing rules, discloses the current value of the increase in accrued benefits that the director has earned in the period, whereas 
the change in the transfer value, required by the Companies Act, discloses the absolute increase or decrease in the transfer value 
and includes the change in value of the accrued benefits that result from market volatility affecting the transfer value at the beginning 
of the year, as well as the additional value earned in the year.
   Transfer value of Change in Transfer value of
   accrued pension at transfer value accrued pension at
   31 December 2009 over the year 31 December 2008
   £000 £000pa £000pa
Tony Brewer   1,380 230 1,150
Steve Wilson   2,204 129 2,075
This report has been approved by the board and signed on its behalf by
Mike O’Leary
Chairman of the Remuneration committee
19 March 2010 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43
The company is committed to managing its business in a socially 
responsible manner . We have a duty to our shareholders to consider 
social and environmental issues that could affect our business. 
Our aim is to continually improve our management of the social, 
environmental and economic issues within our control or influence 
throughout the business and our supply network. Our corporate and 
social responsibility (“CSR”) programme is designed to address the 
importance of CSR issues that we face, to encourage and facilitate 
appropriate management behaviour and be aligned with the group’s 
business strategy taking proper account of the morale and welfare of 
our employees, the satisfaction of our customers and our impact on 
the environment. The proper management of CSR also makes good 
business sense resulting in strategic, commercial and reputational 
benefits. 
The group has reviewed its ongoing CSR policy to ensure that 
it meets the needs of the markets and communities in which it 
operates. We communicate our commitment to CSR through the 
employee handbook and through our group procedures manual. 
These both include the requirement for employees to undertake 
to act ethically and responsibly in all of our business dealings with 
stakeholders and include our ethics, fraud and whistle blowing 
policies, which are communicated to employees. We do not permit 
bribery, anti-competition or corrupt practices in any dealings.  
We are committed to continuous improvements in all aspects of  
CSR – our policies, our systems, our performance and our reporting. 
Our management structure allows the consideration of social 
and environmental factors by individual businesses within the 
group and at a group level. Our links with external stakeholders 
continue to grow including improved customer liaison and 
community involvement. We aim to manage our relationships with 
our stakeholders and communicate with them professionally and 
responsibly. The board has identified its principal stakeholders 
as shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and local 
communities, also recognising its responsibility to the environment.
We monitor our performance against objectives with the aim of 
continual improvement. In addition to improvements in respect 
of environmental performance, we have continued to make 
positive moves in our use of natural resources, waste and energy 
management, health and safety and staff development and welfare.
Health and safety
The group has a health and safety policy which is endorsed by the 
board and used throughout the group. The board receives an annual 
presentation on health and safety matters including detailed facts 
on health and safety issues and the progress made in improving our 
performance where required. These reports also outline planned 
health and safety initiatives and comment on potential future 
developments and challenges.
The policy seeks to ensure that group operations are carried out at 
all times in such a manner as to ensure, so far as it is reasonably 
practicable, compliance with the relevant health and safety 
legislation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. It also seeks to 
ensure the health and safety at work of employees and all persons 
likely to be affected, including contractors, customers, staff and 
members of the public where appropriate. 
All businesses undergo health and safety audits by an external 
contractor and the measures by which we judge satisfactory 
outcome are continually reviewed and the standards raised. Each 
business receives a comprehensive health and safety manual for  
use as a source of information, guidance and training together with  
a set of compliance documentation which is reviewed, and updated 
as necessary, on not less than an annual basis.
Relevant health and safety information and guidance forms part 
of our induction process and managers are guided and supported 
in risk assessment techniques. We actively promote health and 
safety committees at all sites with representation from the various 
business departments, meeting on a periodic basis and co-ordinated 
by the health and safety manager on site.
The value of employee participation in delivering this commitment 
is recognised and management teams are encouraged to create a 
supportive culture. To achieve this we endeavour to ensure that we:
• 	 	 c o n t i n u e 	 t o 	 i m p r o v e 	 h e a l t h 	 a n d 	 s a f e t y 	 s y s t e m s , 	 p r o c e d u r e s 	 a n d	
guidance
• 	 	 m a k e 	 p e r s o n n e l 	 a w a r e 	 o f 	 t h i s 	 p o l i c y
• 	 	 m a i n t a i n 	 h i g h 	 s t a n d a r d s 	 o f 	 h e a l t h 	 a n d 	 s a f e t y
• 	 	 m a i n t a i n 	 a 	 c o n s i s t e n t 	 r e p o r t i n g 	 s t r u c t u r e
• 	 	 p r o v i d e 	 a d e q u a t e 	 r e s o u r c e s
Training in health and safety includes an awareness of impending 
changes in relevant legislation and other specialist subjects. The 
consistent approach taken throughout the group, with the group 
policy being introduced into recently acquired businesses, improves 
our governance. In compliance with recently introduced regulations 
for continuing professional competence, in 2010 and subsequent 
years, all commercial vehicle drivers are to receive a full days 
training covering a variety of health and safety and driver related 
subjects. 
Good relationships are maintained with Health and Safety and 
Environmental Health regulators in the areas in which we operate 
with positive and prompt responses to any findings and/ or 
observations following compliance inspections.
As part of the continual development of our policies and procedures, 
we have during the year reviewed our machinery control procedures 
and racking inspection processes making some minor modifications. 
We have also introduced new equipment and procedures in relation 
to working at height. Whilst we continue to aim for lower levels, the 
current low frequency of accidents experienced reflects the success 
of our health and safety policies. 
Corporate and Social Responsibility Corporate and Social Responsibility continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 44
Whilst management is committed to providing a safe working 
environment with the appropriate working practices and training, 
this can only be achieved if employees equally give their commitment 
to a rigorous health and safety culture. Periodic refresher training is 
undertaken to ensure that this is kept at the forefront. Investment in 
automated dispatch sortation equipment has significantly reduced 
manual handling in those businesses where they have been installed. 
Audit, inspection and accident report findings are reviewed 
with action plans produced as necessary to ensure continual 
improvement in our management of health and safety. All reportable 
accidents are investigated and, where improvement is required, 
changes are implemented in a timely manner . There have been no 
HSE prosecutions in 2009, however the business was subject to the 
issuance of prohibition and improvement notices as a result of a 
notifiable accident.
 
Our people
The importance of good relations and communications with 
employees is important to the continued success of our business 
and we seek to provide an environment in which our people can 
flourish and succeed. Our employees’ wellbeing and professional 
development is central to recruiting and retaining high performing 
individuals. Our people seek to deliver their best for the business, 
which combined with a fair and responsive way of doing business, 
generates a common ambition to add value.
The group remains committed to providing a workplace that is safe 
and environmentally sound and which complies with applicable 
laws and regulations. The group expects employees to respect 
confidential information and company time and assets and believes 
in open and honest communication, fair treatment and equal 
opportunities. The group supports the fundamental principles of 
good governance.
The board values two-way communication between the business  
unit management and employees on all matters affecting the welfare 
of the business including regular senior management visits to 
operating units.
The group’s Annual Report and Accounts is available to staff which 
provides employees with a greater awareness of the group’s 
performance as well as the financial and economic factors that affect 
it. In addition, those employees who are eligible are also encouraged 
to become involved in the group’s performance through participation 
in share schemes, including a savings related share scheme. 
It is the group’s policy that employment opportunities, training, 
career development and promotion should be available to all, 
irrespective of age, gender, ethnic origin, religion or disability.  
Due consideration is given to applications for employment, having 
regard to the particular aptitudes and abilities of the applicants.  
Any employee who develops a disability during employment is 
given the opportunity to retrain for alternative employment where 
practicable, given the nature of the group’s activities.
The group places considerable value on the involvement of its 
employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters 
affecting them and on the various factors affecting the performance 
of the group. It is the group’s continued practice to maintain 
employee participation and involvement in matters which affect their 
interests through formal and informal meetings.
Recruitment, training and development is designed to ensure the 
group has suitably skilled and qualified employees to meet the 
operational needs of the business and offer the opportunity for 
employees to develop and grow. The group is firmly committed 
to developing the potential of its people and regularly reviews its 
succession planning processes. Training is delivered primarily 
through internal resources with assistance from external providers 
as and when required. Employee turnover remains low resulting in  
a stable employee base.
The group considers it important that its employees provide for 
their retirement and accordingly provides opportunities for them 
to participate in retirement plans. A group life assurance scheme 
provides death in service benefits.
Environmental
We continue to reduce each of CO
2
 emissions, fuel consumption and 
vehicle emissions, the amount of waste sent to landfill, the amount 
of packaging and water consumption. We have continued to improve 
recycling rates and encourage the use of whole life cost assessments 
and pollution prevention initiatives.
As a wholesale distributor of floorcoverings and associated products, 
we operate a number of distribution facilities in the United Kingdom, 
France, Switzerland and the Netherlands. Whilst we operate 
specialist tables for the cutting of up to five metre broadloom 
carpets, we process rather than manufacture. We are therefore not 
a significant consumer of electricity, gas or water, the consumption 
of which we seek to reduce through the introduction on repair, 
renewal or installation of energy or water efficient techniques and 
equipment. Our electrical requirement is predominantly in respect 
of fork lift truck battery charging, the operation of the cutting tables 
and associated mechanical handling and compressed air equipment, 
office and warehouse lighting and office equipment. Our requirement 
for gas is predominantly in respect of office heating and limited 
localised radiant heating within the warehouse. Water consumption 
is predominantly is respect of employee welfare and commercial 
vehicle washing. The majority of our water charges are in respect of 
fixed water rates relating to water discharge from business locations. 
Actual cost of electricity, gas and water charges in 2009 amounted 
to 0.25% of sales. Group electricity consumption, where supplied 
through half hourly meters, will require registration under the carbon 
reduction commitment scheme due to come into effect later in 2010.  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45
When we invest in new facilities, into which to relocate our 
businesses, we incorporate modern energy efficient construction 
techniques and products. It is expected that future projects will 
incorporate renewable energy solutions and intelligent lighting 
systems. Due to the nature of our business and with our proactive 
approach when planning and developing new facilities, we believe 
that our activities generally have a low impact on the environment, 
with no environmental legal or compliance issues arising during the 
year . 
The group has a policy to replace the commercial and motor vehicles 
it operates every five and three years respectively, so improving 
operational efficiencies and reducing operating costs and vehicle 
emissions. In line with European Emissions Directives, Euro 4 
emission standards for commercial vehicles were introduced in 
October 2006. This aims to improve the levels of Carbon Monoxide, 
Hydrocarbon, Nitrogen Oxide and particulate emissions that cause 
harm to the environment. All of our commercial vehicle fleet 
complies with Euro 3 emissions standard (introduced in October 
2003) and new vehicles delivered from September 2006 conform to 
the new Euro 4 standards. 
Training provided to commercial vehicle drivers during the year, and 
in respect of obligations imposed by the requirement for continued 
professional competence in 2010 and subsequent years, includes the 
necessity of daily vehicle checks and guidance on smooth efficient 
driving. Our fleet requirements are evaluated on a continual basis so 
as to ensure the optimum design of transport to maximise capacity 
and improve aerodynamics.
Our operations predominantly create waste materials in the form 
of protective plastic wrapping, cardboard and wooden pallets. We 
continue to sort the plastic and cardboard in discreet types and, 
with the use of baler units that we have invested in over the last few 
years, dispatch these to specialist re-processing agents. This has 
allowed us to reduce the amount of our waste going to landfill and 
the number of vehicles on the road to collect our waste.
Wooden pallets are recycled where possible or sent to specialist 
re-processors. In addition we recycle the cardboard poles that are 
used in the centre of rolls of carpet and vinyl until they are no longer 
capable of being re-used. In these ways we have further reduced 
the amount of waste that is sent to landfill sites. Guidance on waste 
management is issued to the managers of the individual businesses 
to increase awareness of the need to control waste.
Where appropriate, wrapping and packing materials are sourced 
from manufacturers where a high proportion of recycled materials 
are used. 
Whilst we have containment and inspection regimes which meet 
legislative requirements in higher risk areas of the facilities, such  
as fuel and lubrication stores, compressors and fork lift truck battery 
charging areas, following a review of these arrangements during the 
year, we shall be improving fire risk protection in 2010.
We seek to maintain good relationships with national and local 
regulatory organisations such as the Environment Agency and 
Environmental Health Departments in the UK. We regularly review 
regulatory issues and processes are in place to keep up to date.  
Staff training in health, safety and environmental matters, the 
frequency and cost associated with which is growing, is important 
and is reviewed annually as part of normal appraisal processes. 
The group continues to use paper recycling and shredding initiatives 
and has introduced recycling bins for the segregation of aluminium 
cans, plastics and general waste, having a beneficial impact on the 
amount recycled.
Achieving sustained growth and profitability
There are a number of key areas whilst seeking to achieve the 
group’s goal of sustained growth and profitability in future years, 
which will assist in attaining the financial objectives at the same  
time as meeting our corporate social responsibility obligations.
Through improving our understanding and control of our supply 
chain, we shall continue to investigate the benefits from using green 
specification guides and modify our strategy accordingly. We shall 
continue to work with suppliers to ensure products are supplied 
from renewable sources, including recycled products, and that their 
manufacturing processes fairly reward employees and do not seek 
to exploit. 
We place great importance on effectively managing our operations 
to minimise the likelihood of adverse impact. We proactively 
manage our facilities to minimise energy consumption utilising 
energy efficient lighting and heating. Our new sites are subjected 
to an environmental assessment prior to any construction taking 
place. This allows solutions to any identified environmental issues 
to be incorporated into the planning process. Recognising that 
development can be potentially damaging, we seek to minimise 
energy consumption during the construction of new premises and 
the effects on the environment. Wherever possible, subject to the 
operating constraints of the business, existing trees and vegetation 
are retained and augmented as necessary. Existing sites are 
maintained in a tidy condition to minimise ecological impact.
We recognise that our business operations will be around for many 
years, having an impact on future generations, and to this end we 
work with local authorities to design new properties which not only 
comply with guidelines but seek to blend in with their surroundings 
through the careful use of quality materials, landscaping and design 
features. We support the desire to see development take place in 
sustainable locations and we work with transport consultants to 
formulate green travel plans incorporating car sharing schemes  
and provision for bicycles when designing new facilities.
Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Independent Auditor’s Report 
to the members of Headlam Group plc
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
We have audited the financial statements of Headlam Group plc 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 set out on pages 47 to 96. 
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent 
company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body,  
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
company’s members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent 
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the company and the company’s members, as a 
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have 
formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement 
set out on page 28, the directors are responsible for the preparation 
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give 
a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require 
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB’s) Ethical 
Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is 
provided on the APB’s web-site at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKP . 
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
• 	 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 g i v e 	 a 	 t r u e 	 a n d 	 f a i r 	 v i e w 	 o f 	 t h e	 
state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at  
31 December 2009 and of the group’s profit for the year then 
ended;
• 	 	 t h e 	 g r o u p 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n	
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU; and
• 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r o p e r l y	
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as 
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 
2006; and
• 	 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 p r e p a r e d 	 i n 	 a c c o r d a n c e 	 w i t h	
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and as regards the 
group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion:
• 	 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r ’ s 	 R e m u n e r a t i o n 	 R e p o r t 	 t o 	 b e 	 a u d i t e d 	 h a s	
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 
2006; and
• 	 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 g i v e n 	 i n 	 t h e 	 D i r e c t o r s ’ 	 R e p o r t 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 fi n a n c i a l	
year for which the financial statements are prepared is 
consistent with the financial statements; and
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,  
in our opinion:
• 	 	 a d e q u a t e 	 a c c o u n t i n g 	 r e c o r d s 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 b e e n 	 k e p t 	 b y 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t	
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
• 	 	 t h e 	 p a r e n t 	 c o m p a n y 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s t a t e m e n t s 	 a n d 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f	
the director’s Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
• 	 	 c e r t a i n 	 d i s c l o s u r e s 	 o f 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 r e m u n e r a t i o n 	 s p e c i fi e d 	 b y 	 l a w	
are not made; or
• 	 	 w e 	 h a v e 	 n o t 	 r e c e i v e d 	 a l l 	 t h e 	 i n f o r m a t i o n 	 a n d 	 e x p l a n a t i o n s 	 w e	
require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
• 	 	 t h e 	 d i r e c t o r s ’ 	 s t a t e m e n t , 	 s e t 	 o u t 	 o n 	 p a g e 	 2 1 , 	 i n 	 r e l a t i o n 	 t o 	 g o i n g	
concern; and
• 	 	 t h e 	 p a r t 	 o f 	 t h e 	 C o r p o r a t e 	 G o v e r n a n c e 	 s t a t e m e n t 	 o n 	 p a g e s 	 2 9 	 t o	
35 relating to the company’s compliance with the nine provisions  
of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
D Turner 
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
One Snow Hill 
Snow Hill Queensway
Birmingham 
B4 6GH
19 March 2010
46 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47
Consolidated Income Statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2009
    2009 2008
   Note £000 £000
Revenue   2 533,793 557,296
Cost of sales    (371,533) (382,670)
Gross profit    162,260 174,626
   
Distribution expenses    (100,698) (98,517)
Administrative expenses    (36,804) (34,387)
Operating profit   2 24,758 41,722
   
Finance income   6 3,764 7,016
Finance expenses   6 (6,458) (8,618)
Net finance costs    (2,694) (1,602)
Profit before tax   3 22,064 40,120
Taxation   7 (6,168) (11,433)
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders    15,896 28,687
   
Dividend paid per share   22 19.70p 23.10p
   
Earnings per share   
Basic   9 19.1p 34.5p
Diluted   9 19.1p 34.5p
All group operations during the financial years were continuing operations. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 
for the year ended 31 December 2009
48
  Group
    2009 2008
   Note £000 £000
Profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders    15,896 28,687
   
Other comprehensive income:   
Foreign exchange translation differences arising on translation of overseas operations   (1,808) 6,631
Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans   20 (10,042) (4,245)
Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges    (157) (800)
Transfers to profit or loss on cash flow hedges    781 (48)
Income tax on other comprehensive income    2,854 1,304
Other comprehensive (expenses)/income for the year    (8,372) 2,842
Total comprehensive income attributable to the equity shareholders for the year   7,524 31,529 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 49
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2009
   Capital  Cash flow
 Share Share redemption Translation hedging Treasury Retained Total
 capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 
  1 January 2008 4,268 53,512 88 474 – (11,604) 103,303 150,041
Total comprehensive 
  income for the year – – – 6,631 (848) – 25,746 31,529
Transactions with 
  equity shareholders, 
  recorded directly in 
  equity        
Share–based payments – – – – – – 426 426
Consideration for 
  purchase of own shares – – – – – (2,204) – (2,204)
Share options exercised 
  by employees  – – – – – 751 – 751
Deferred tax on share 
  options  – – – – – – (227) (227)
Dividends to equity 
  holders – – – – – – (19,182) (19,182)
Total contributions by 
  and distributions to 
  equity shareholders – – – – – (1,453) (18,983) (20,436)
Balance at 
  31 December 2008 4,268 53,512 88 7,105 (848) (13,057) 110,066 161,134
Balance at 
  1 January 2009 4,268 53,512 88 7,105 (848) (13,057) 110,066 161,134
Total comprehensive 
  income for the year – – – (1,808) 624 – 8,708 7,524
Transactions with 
  equity shareholders, 
  recorded directly 
  in equity        
Share–based payments – – – – – – 316 316
Deferred tax on share 
  options – – – – – – 9 9
Dividends to equity 
  holders – – – – – – (16,354) (16,354)
Total contributions by 
  and distributions to 
  equity shareholders – – – – – – (16,029) (16,029)
Balance at 
  31 December 2009 4,268 53,512 88 5,297 (224) (13,057) 102,745 152,629 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2009
50
   Capital  Cash flow
 Share Share redemption Special hedging Treasury Retained Total
 capital premium reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 
  1 January 2008 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 – (11,604) 90,136 156,978
Total comprehensive 
  income for the year – – – – (848) – 10,423 9,575
Transactions with 
  equity shareholders, 
  recorded directly in 
  equity        
Share–based payments – – – – – – 426 426
Consideration for 
  purchase of own shares – – – – – (2,204) – (2,204)
Share options exercised 
  by employees  – – – – – 751 – 751
Dividends to equity 
  holders – – – – – – (19,182) (19,182)
Total contributions by 
  and distributions to 
  equity shareholders – – – – – (1,453) (18,756) (20,209)
Balance at 
  31 December 2008 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 (848) (13,057) 81,803 146,344
Balance at 
  1 January 2009 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 (848) (13,057) 81,803 146,344
Total comprehensive 
  income for the year – – – – 624 – (5,890) (5,266)
Transactions with 
  equity shareholders, 
  recorded directly 
  in equity        
Share–based payments – – – – – – 316 316
Dividends to equity 
  holders – – – – – – (16,354) (16,354)
Total contributions by 
  and distributions to 
  equity shareholders – – – – – – (16,038) (16,038)
Balance at 
  31 December 2009 4,268 53,512 88 20,578 (224) (13,057) 59,875 125,040 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51
Balance Sheets 
at 31 December 2009
 Group Company
   Restated*  Restated*
  2009 2008 2009 2008
 Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets     
Non–current assets     
  Property, plant and equipment 10 96,530 99,741 75,082 75,278
  Intangible assets 11 13,210 13,210 – –
  Investments in subsidiary undertakings 12 – – 86,392 86,079
  Deferred tax assets 13 4,731 1,516 3,769 1,441
  114,471 114,467 165,243 162,798
Current assets     
  Inventories 14 99,637 107,597 – –
  Trade and other receivables 15 101,149 105,942 27,153 26,312
  Cash and cash equivalents 16 45,737 35,193 27,473 46,048
  Assets held for sale 17 2,275 – 1,387 –
  248,798 248,732 56,013 72,360
Total assets  363,269 363,199 221,256 235,158
Liabilities     
Current liabilities     
  Bank overdraft 16 (758) – – –
  Other interest–bearing loans and borrowings 18 (900) (4,506) – –
  Trade and other payables 19 (143,216) (143,369) (41,405) (40,153)
  Employee benefits 20 (2,506) (2,428) (2,506) (2,428)
  Income tax payable 8 (8,615) (9,546) (2,982) (5,752)
  (155,995) (159,849) (46,893) (48,333)
Non–current liabilities     
  Other interest–bearing loans and borrowings 18 (34,392) (30,000) (30,000) (30,000)
  Employee benefits 20 (20,253) (12,216) (19,323) (10,481)
  (54,645) (42,216) (49,323) (40,481)
Total liabilities  (210,640) (202,065) (96,216) (88,814)
Net assets  152,629 161,134 125,040 146,344
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent     
  Share capital 22 4,268 4,268 4,268 4,268
  Share premium  53,512 53,512 53,512 53,512
  Other reserves 22 (7,896) (6,712) 7,385 6,761
  Retained earnings  102,745 110,066 59,875 81,803
Total equity  152,629 161,134 125,040 146,344
* See note 1.
These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 19 March 2010 and were signed on its behalf by:
Tony Brewer  Steve Wilson
Director  Director
Company Number: 460129 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 52
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
 Note £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities     
Profit before tax for the year  22,064 40,120 218 4,010
  Adjustments for:     
  Depreciation, amortisation and impairment  6,524 5,305 1,783 1,279
  Finance income 6 (3,764) (7,016) (3,850) (8,043)
  Finance expense 6 6,458 8,618 5,656 5,918
  Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment  (102) (337) (71) (304)
  Share–based payments 20 316 426 3 128
Operating profit before changes in working      
capital and other payables  31,496 47,116 3,739 2,988
  Change in inventories  6,618 (1,480) – –
  Change in trade and other receivables  3,028 876 (148) 379
  Change in trade and other payables  2,511 (19,096) 530 (5,068)
Cash generated/(utilised) from the operations  43,653 27,416 4,121 (1,701)
  Interest paid  (2,272) (4,552) (1,458) (1,200)
  Tax (paid)/received  (7,425) (11,012) (1,568) 606
  Additional contributions to defined benefit plan  (2,607) (1,147) (2,407) (887)
Net cash flow from operating activities  31,349 10,705 (1,312) (3,182)
Cash flows from investing activities     
  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment  664 1,309 508 959
  Interest received  846 2,997 613 2,801
  Dividends received  – – 1,375 9,586
  Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 24 – (726) – –
  Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 10 (7,313) (10,664) (3,405) (3,616)
Net cash flow from investing activities  (5,803) (7,084) (909) 9,730
Cash flows from financing activities     
  Proceeds from the issue of treasury shares  – 751 – 751
  Proceeds from borrowings  1,152 33,726 – 30,000
  Payment to acquire own shares  – (2,204) – (2,204)
  Dividends paid 22 (16,354) (19,182) (16,354) (19,182)
Net cash flow from financing activities  (15,202) 13,091 (16,354) 9,365
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents  10,344 16,712 (18,575) 15,913
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January  35,193 16,702 46,048 30,135
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held  (558) 1,779 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 16 44,979 35,193 27,473 46,048
The company’s profit before tax excludes dividends received from subsidiaries.
Cash Flow Statements 
for the year ended 31 December 2009 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53
Notes to the Financial Statements
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Headlam Group plc (the “company”) is a company incorporated in  
the UK.
The group Financial Statements consolidate those of the company 
and its subsidiaries which together are referred to as the “group”. 
The company’s Financial Statements present information about the 
company as a separate entity and not about its group.
Both the company’s Financial Statements and the group’s Financial 
Statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 
adopted by the EU (“adopted IFRS”). On publishing the company’s 
Financial Statements here together with the group Financial 
Statements, the company is taking advantage of the exemption in 
s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income 
statement and related notes that form a part  
of these approved Financial Statements.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the 
Financial Statements of the company and the Financial Statements 
of the group are set out below. These policies have been applied 
consistently to all years presented, unless otherwise stated. 
Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these 
accounting policies that have significant effect on the Financial 
Statements and estimates with a significant risk of material 
adjustment in the next year are discussed below.
Restatement
Deferred tax balances in the 2008 Consolidated Balance Sheet have 
been reclassified to disclose deferred tax balances as a net amount, 
being an asset of £1,516,000 as required by IAS 12. Previously these 
amounts were shown as separate deferred tax assets of £5,372,000 
and deferred tax liabilities of £3,856,000.
Impact of newly adopted accounting standards
During the year the group has adopted the following new standards 
and interpretations:
The adoption of IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ requires operating 
segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports used to 
assess performance and allocate resources by the Group Chief 
Executive, the group’s chief operating decision maker . The adoption 
of this standard has not resulted in any change to the segments 
previously reported. 
The adoption of IAS 1 (Revised) ‘Presentation of Financial 
Statements’ means that all owner and non-owner changes in equity 
are now presented within the Consolidated Statement of Changes 
in Equity and all non-owner changes in equity are presented within 
the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Since 
the changes are presentational only, there is no impact on profit, 
earnings per share or net assets. Comparative information has been 
re-presented accordingly.
Revised IAS 23 ‘Borrowing Costs’ requires the group to capitalise 
borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost 
of the asset. Previously, group subsidiaries immediately recognised 
all borrowing costs as an expense. Revised IAS 23 has been applied 
prospectively from 1 January 2009. The impact on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 has 
been that £113,000 of directly attributable borrowing costs have been 
capitalised in respect of the group’s property development in the 
Netherlands, see note 18.
IFRIC 14 ‘ The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding 
requirements and their interaction’ limits the amount of defined 
benefit pension assets which can be recognised on certain schemes 
where the group does not have an unconditional right to a refund 
of any surplus which may exist. This results in a de-recognition 
of any surplus and the recognition of a liability for deficit funding 
arrangements. The adoption of IFRIC 14 has had no impact on  
the profit, earnings per share or net assets for the year ended  
31 December 2009 or from its retrospective application.
 
The amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment - Vesting 
Conditions and Cancellations’ clarifies the definition of vesting 
conditions, introduces the concept of non-vesting conditions, 
requires non-vesting conditions to be reflected in grant date fair 
value and provides the accounting treatment for non-vesting 
conditions and cancellations. The amendment has had no effect  
on the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
The amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Improving disclosures about financial 
instruments’ requires enhanced disclosures about fair value 
measurements of financial instruments, including using a three-
level fair value hierarchy that prioritises the inputs to valuation 
techniques used in fair value calculations. The amended standard 
also requires improved disclosures relating to liquidity risk.  
The adoption of this amendment has had no impact on the profit, 
earnings per share or net assets for the year ended 31 December 
2009.
IFRS not yet applied
The following relevant standards and interpretations have been 
published, endorsed by the EU, and are available for early adoption 
but have not yet been applied by the group in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Revised IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations (2008)’ incorporates certain 
changes that amend the group’s current accounting policies in 
respect of business combinations, the main change being that 
transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, will be 
expensed as incurred. Revised IFRS 3 becomes mandatory for the 
group’s 2010 Consolidated Financial Statements and will be applied 
prospectively.
Amended IAS 27 ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 
(2008)’ requires accounting for changes in ownership interests by the  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 54
group in a subsidiary, while maintaining control, to be recognised as 
an equity transaction. When the group loses control of a subsidiary, 
any interest retained in the former subsidiary will be measured 
at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss. The 
amendments to IAS 27, which becomes mandatory for the group’s 
2010 Consolidated Financial Statements, are not expected to have a 
significant impact on the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
IFRIC 16 ‘Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation’,  
IFRIC 17 ‘Distributions of Non Cash Assets to Owners’ and  
IFRIC 18 ‘Transfers of Assets from Customers’. There will be no 
impact upon the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements from 
these interpretations.
The following have been published but not yet been endorsed by the 
EU:
Amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Group Cash Settled Share-based Payment 
Transactions’, IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’, Amendment to  
IFRIC 14 ‘Prepayments of Minimum Funding Requirement’,  
IFRIC 19 ‘Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments’ 
and IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’. Management is currently 
assessing the impact of these standards and interpretations on  
the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
The annual improvements to International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRSs) project provides a vehicle for making non-
urgent but necessary amendments to IFRSs. The 2009 annual 
improvements project makes amendments to a number of 
standards. These amendments were issued but not effective for 
the year ended 31 December 2009 and are not expected to have a 
material impact on the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Measurement convention
The company and group Financial Statements are prepared on 
the historical cost basis with the exception of derivative financial 
instruments which are stated at fair value. Non-current assets held 
for sale are stated at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell.
Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the group. Control exists when 
the group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial 
and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from 
its activities. In assessing control, potential voting rights that are 
currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account. 
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the group’s 
Consolidated Financial Statements from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases. 
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the 
acquisition of subsidiaries by the group. 
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains and 
losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated  
in the group’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Accounting estimates and judgements
The board are responsible for the development, selection and 
disclosure of the group’s critical accounting policies and estimates 
and the application of these policies and estimates. In applying 
the accounting policies, appropriate estimates have been made 
in a number of areas and the actual outcome may differ from the 
position described in the company’s and group’s Balance Sheet at 
31 December 2009. The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the 
balance sheet date that may give rise to a material adjustment to the 
carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year 
are as follows:
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses.
The group is committed to investing in new facilities where existing 
facilities fail to provide satisfactory customer service in a cost 
effective manner . When construction on a new facility commences, 
the existing facility is marketed for sale and this action can on 
occasions give rise to an adverse difference between cost and fair 
value. It has been assumed that at the balance sheet date, fair 
value exceeds cost. This is formally assessed for all properties on a 
triennial basis. At the latest review, carried out at 31 December 2007, 
the fair value of UK freehold and long leasehold land and buildings 
exceeded cost by £12,100,000.
Goodwill impairment
The outcome of the group’s annual impairment test for goodwill 
is dependent on the forecast cash flows of each cash-generating 
unit together with key management assumptions including profit 
growth and discount rates. No impairment resulted from the annual 
impairment test for 2009.
Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised at the balance sheet date based 
on the assumption that there is a high expectation that the asset 
will be realised in due course. This assumption is dependent on the 
group’s ability to generate sufficient future taxable profits.
Employee benefits
The deficit relating to the group’s defined benefit plans is assessed 
annually in accordance with IAS 19 and after taking independent 
actuarial advice. The principle assumptions are set out in note 19. 
The amount of the deficit is dependent on plan asset and liability 
values and the actuarial assumptions used to determine the deficit. 
The assumptions include asset growth rates, pension and salary 
increases, price inflation, discount rate used to measure actuarial 
liabilities and mortality rates.
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Foreign currency
Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign 
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets 
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet 
date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. 
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised 
in the income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that 
are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Financial statements of overseas operations
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill 
and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated  
at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. 
The revenues and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated  
at an average rate for the period where this rate approximates to  
the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign 
subsidiaries are taken directly to the translation reserve and 
reflected as a movement in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Foreign currency exposure
Note 23 contains information about the foreign currency exposure  
of the group and risks in relation to foreign exchange movements.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the group
Financial instruments issued by the group are treated as equity, i.e. 
forming part of shareholders’ funds, only to the extent that they meet 
the following two conditions:
(a) they include no contractual obligations upon the company, or 
group as the case may be, to deliver cash or other financial 
assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with 
another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable 
to the company or group; and
(b) where the instrument will or may be settled in the company’s 
own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes 
no obligation to deliver a variable number of the company’s own 
equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the 
company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial 
assets for a fixed number or its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are 
classified as a financial liability. Where the instrument so classified 
takes the legal form of the company’s own shares, the amounts 
presented in these Financial Statements for called up share capital 
and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those 
shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with 
as part of financial expenses. Finance payments associated with 
financial instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and 
are recorded directly in equity.
Derivative financial instruments
The group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign 
currency and interest rate risk exposures. Derivatives are recognised 
initially at fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised 
in the income statement when incurred. Subsequent to initial 
recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes 
therein are accounted for as described below. 
Cash flow hedges
Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument 
designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to 
the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge 
is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in the income 
statement. If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria 
for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, 
then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative 
gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the 
forecast transaction occurs. When the hedged item is a non-financial 
asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying 
amount of the asset when it is recognised. In other cases the amount 
recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the 
same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss. 
The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on broker quotes. 
Those quotes are tested for reasonableness by discounting 
estimated future cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each 
contract and using market interest rates for a similar instrument at 
the measurement date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market 
price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted 
forward price. The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value of 
forward exchange contracts is recognised immediately in the income 
statement. 
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment losses. The cost of self-constructed 
assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and any other 
costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition 
for its intended use.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have 
different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of 
property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives. Land is not depreciated. The 
annual rates applicable are:
Freehold and long leasehold properties  – 2%
Short leasehold properties  – period of lease
Motor vehicles  – 25%
Office and computer equipment  – 10%-33.3%
Warehouse and production equipment  – 10%-20% Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 56
Goodwill and other intangible assets
Goodwill
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the 
purchase method. Goodwill represents amounts arising on 
acquisition of subsidiaries. In respect of business acquisitions 
that have occurred since 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the 
difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of 
the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. 
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised 
but, tested annually for impairment. 
 
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, goodwill is 
included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the 
amount recorded under UK GAAP which was broadly comparable 
save that only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill 
was amortised. This is in accordance with IFRS 1.
Other intangibles
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the group are stated 
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. 
Intangible assets recognised as a result of a business combination 
are stated at fair value at the date of acquisition less cumulative 
amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line 
basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such 
lives are indefinite. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and 
goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each balance 
sheet date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they 
are available for use. The estimated useful lives of customer lists are 
deemed to be between 1 – 24 months. 
Non-current assets held for sale
A non-current asset is classified as held for sale if its carrying 
amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than 
through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is 
highly probable within one year .
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and 
disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken 
to the Income Statement. The same applies to gains and losses on 
subsequent remeasurement.
Trade and other receivables 
Trade and other receivables are initially stated at fair value and 
subsequently at amortised cost less impairment losses. Debts are 
provided for, the credit loss allowance, on specific receivables in full 
as soon as they are known to be ‘bad’ or it becomes apparent that 
payment is ‘doubtful’. 
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost is based on the first-in first-out principle and includes 
expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing 
them to their existing location and condition. Net realisable value 
represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs 
of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and 
distribution. 
Inventory provisions are determined by reference to each individual 
product and are calculated by assessing the age, condition and 
quantity of each individual product.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call 
deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form 
an integral part of cash management of both the company and group 
are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the 
purpose only of the Cash Flow Statement.
Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and then are 
stated at amortised cost.
Impairment
The carrying amounts of the group’s assets other than inventories 
and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to 
determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such 
indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, 
the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of 
an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units 
are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill 
allocated to cash-generating units and then to reduce the carrying 
amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. A cash 
generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that 
generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash 
inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Calculation of recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of the group’s receivables carried at 
amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated 
future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate, 
i.e., the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of 
these financial assets. Receivables with a short duration are not 
discounted. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 57
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair 
value less cost to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, 
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present 
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market 
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to 
the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent 
cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-
generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of impairment
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when 
there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist 
and there had been a change in the estimates used to determine  
the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no 
impairment loss had been recognised. 
Interest-bearing borrowings
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value 
less attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, 
interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any 
difference between cost and redemption value being recognised 
in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an 
effective interest basis.
Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are capitalised where the group constructs 
qualifying assets. All other borrowing costs are written off to the 
income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs are charged to the income statement using the 
effective interest rate method.
Employee benefits
The company and the group operate both defined benefit and defined 
contribution plans, the assets of which are held in independent 
trustee administered funds. The pension cost is assessed in 
accordance with the advice of a qualified actuary.
Defined contribution plans
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans 
are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans
The group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension 
plans is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that 
employees have earned in return for their service in the current and 
prior periods. That benefit is discounted to determine its present 
value, and the fair value of any plan assets, at bid price, is deducted. 
The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date using 
AA rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to 
the terms of the group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by 
a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the 
increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised 
as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over 
the average period until the benefits become vested. 
To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is 
recognised immediately in the income statement.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the group’s 
obligation in respect of a scheme are recognised immediately in 
reserves and reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the group, the asset 
recognised is limited to the present value of any future refunds from 
the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The group operates a UK defined benefit pension plan and a defined 
benefit plan in Switzerland. In the UK as there is no contractual 
agreement or stated group policy for allocating the net defined 
benefit liability between the participating subsidiaries and as such 
the full deficit is recognised by the company, which is the sponsoring 
employer . The participating subsidiary companies have recognised 
a cost equal to contributions payable for the period as advised by a 
professionally qualified actuary.
Share-based payment transactions
The company and group operate various equity settled share option 
schemes under the approved and unapproved executive schemes 
and savings related schemes.
For executive share option schemes, the option price may not be less 
than the mid market value of the group’s shares at the time when the 
options were granted or the nominal value.
Approved
These share option awards are subject to the movement of the 
group’s earnings per share exceeding RPI over the relevant period.
Unapproved
These share option awards are subject to the movement of the group 
earnings per share exceeding RPI between 3% and 5% per annum.
The performance is assessed by reference to the group’s published 
results.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee 
expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The fair value is 
measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the 
employees become unconditionally entitled to the options. The fair  Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 58
value of the options granted is measured using an option valuation 
model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which 
the options were granted. The amount recognised as an expense 
is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest 
except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the 
threshold for vesting.
When options are granted to employees of subsidiaries of the 
company, the fair value of options granted is recognised as an 
employee expense in the financial statements of the subsidiary 
undertaking together with the capital contribution received. In 
the financial statements of the company, the options granted are 
recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a 
corresponding increase in equity.
Repurchase of share capital
When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount 
of the consideration paid, net of any tax effects is recognised as a 
deduction from equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury 
shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. When 
treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the amount 
received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting 
surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from 
retained earnings.
Revenue
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the 
consideration, net of trade discounts and excludes intra-group sales 
and value added and similar taxes. Revenue from the sale of goods 
is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of 
the goods are transferred to the buyer (which is ordinarily the date at 
which goods are despatched from a distribution facility), the amount 
of revenue can be reliably measured and it is probable that the 
economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to  
the group.
Operating lease payments
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the 
income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. 
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement  
as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Net financing costs
Net financing costs comprise interest payable, finance charges on 
shares classified as liabilities, finance leases, interest receivable on 
funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and 
losses on hedging instruments as outlined in the accounting policy 
relating to derivative financial instruments and hedging described 
above.
Interest income and interest payable is recognised in the income 
statement as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Dividend 
income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entity’s 
right to receive payments is established.
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefits pension 
plans, less administration expenses of pension plans are recognised 
in financial income. The interest accruing on defined benefit pension 
plan liabilities are recognised in financial expenses.
Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred 
tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent 
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it  
is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the 
year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance 
sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous 
years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred 
tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the 
initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a 
business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable 
profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the 
extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable 
future. In addition, deferred tax is not recognised for taxable 
temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected 
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets 
and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the 
balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is 
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which 
the asset can be utilised. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 59
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
2 SEGMENT REPORTING
The group has 54 operating segments which represent the individual trading operations throughout the UK (49 segments) and 
Continental Europe (5 segments). Each of the operations is principally aligned to the sales, marketing, supply and distribution of 
floorcovering products. The operating results of each are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, which is deemed 
to be the Group Chief Executive. Discrete financial information is available for each segment and used by the Group Chief Executive for 
decisions on resource allocation and to assess performance. 
The operating segments have been aggregated to the extent that they have similar economic characteristics, with relevance to 
products/services, type and class of customer, methods of sale and distribution and the regulatory environment in which they operate. 
The group’s internal management structure and financial reporting systems differentiate the operating segments on the basis of 
the differing regulatory and economic environment in the UK and Continental Europe and accordingly report these as two separate 
reportable segments. This distinction is embedded in the construction of operating reports reviewed by the Group Chief Executive,  
the board and the executive management team and forms the basis for the presentation of operating segment information given below.
 UK Continental Europe Total
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue      
External revenues 429,646 458,572 104,147 98,724 533,793 557,296
Depreciation 2,834 2,929 733 537 3,567 3,466
Amortisation – 44 – 257 – 301
      
Reportable segment result 23,106 39,174 2,487 3,574 25,593 42,748
      
Reportable segment assets 223,044 220,832 49,636 54,701 272,680 275,533
      
Capital expenditure 926 2,295 2,197 384 3,123 2,679
      
Reportable segment liabilities (123,088) (117,052) (20,662) (25,470) (143,750) (142,522)
During the year there have been no inter segment revenues (2008: £nil).
Reconciliations of reportable segment profit, assets and liabilities and other material items:
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
Profit for the year   
Total profit for reportable segments 25,593 42,748
Impairment of assets (1,211) –
Unallocated income/(expense) 376 (1,026)
Operating profit 24,758 41,722
   
Finance income 3,764 7,016
Finance expense (6,458) (8,618)
Profit before taxation 22,064 40,120
Taxation (6,168) (11,433)
Profit for the year 15,896 28,687 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 60
2 SEGMENT REPORTING continued
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
Assets   
Total assets for reportable segments 272,680 275,533
Unallocated assets:   
  Properties, plant and equipment 83,583 86,150
  Deferred tax assets 4,731 1,516
  Assets held for sale 2,275 –
Total assets 363,269 363,199
Liabilities   
Total liabilities for reportable segments (143,750) (142,522)
Unallocated liabilities:   
  Employee benefits (22,759) (14,643)
  Net borrowings (35,292) (34,506)
  Income tax payable (8,615) (9,546)
  Derivative liabilities (224) (848)
Total liabilities (210,640) (202,065)
 Reportable
 segment Group Consolidated
 totals items totals
 £000 £000 £000
Other material items 2009
Capital expenditure 3,123 4,190 7,313
Depreciation 3,567 1,746 5,313
Impairment of assets – 1,211 1,211
 6,690 7,147 13,837
Other material items 2008   
Capital expenditure 2,679 7,985 10,664
Depreciation 3,466 1,538 5,004
 6,145 9,523 15,668
Each segment is a continuing operation. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 61
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
2 SEGMENT REPORTING continued
The Group Chief Executive, the board and the executive management team has access to information that provides details on revenue 
by principal product group for the two reportable segments, as set out in the following table.
Revenue by principal product group is summarised below:
 UK Continental Europe Total
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Revenue
Carpet 185,805 197,572 13,897 14,110 199,702 211,682
Rugs 11,496 10,758 – – 11,496 10,758
Commercial 133,686 142,613 44,190 41,926 177,876 184,539
Underlay 14,849 16,384 381 344 15,230 16,728
Domestic vinyl 47,743 56,147 13,509 11,456 61,252 67,603
Wood & laminate 29,829 28,500 23,909 22,189 53,738 50,689
Miscellaneous 6,238 6,598 8,261 8,699 14,499 15,297
 429,646 458,572 104,147 98,724 533,793 557,296
3 PROFIT BEFORE TAX
The following are included in profit before tax:
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 5,313 5,004
Amortisation of intangible assets – 301
Impairment of assets 1,211 –
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 102 337
Operating lease rentals  
  Plant and machinery 9,001 8,992
  Land and buildings 1,951 2,209
Auditor’s remuneration:
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
Audit of these financial statements 60 60
Amounts received by the auditors and their associates in respect of:  
  Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 156 145
  All other services 2 16
 218 221
Amounts paid to the company’s auditor in respect of services to the company, other than the audit of the company’s Financial 
Statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis. Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 62
4 STAFF NUMBERS AND COSTS
The average number of people employed, including directors, during the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
   Number of 
   employees
   Group
     2009 2008
By sector:  
Floorcoverings     2,023 2,178
Central operations     9 9
     2,032 2,187
By function:  
Sales and distribution     1,865 2,011
Administration     167 176
     2,032 2,187
The aggregate payroll costs were as follows:
 £000 £000
Wages and salaries 63,012 59,879
Equity settled transactions 316 426
Social security costs 8,375 7,705
Pension costs 2,817 3,195
 74,520 71,205
5 DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
Directors emoluments 1,898 1,515
Gains made on share options – 33
Share based payment 2 116
  
Further details of directors’ emoluments, share options and pension entitlement are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 42. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 63
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
6 FINANCE INCOME AND EXPENSE
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
Interest income:  
Bank interest 641 2,902
Other 62 209
Return on defined benefit plan assets 3,061 3,905
Finance income 3,764 7,016
Interest expense:  
Bank loans, overdrafts and other financial expenses (2,256) (4,543)
Interest on defined benefit plan obligation (4,202) (4,075)
Finance expenses (6,458) (8,618)
7 TAXATION
Recognised in the income statement
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
Current tax expense:  
Current year 7,121 11,388
Adjustments for prior years (601) (1,411)
 6,520 9,977
Deferred tax expense:  
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (360) (229)
Effect of change in UK tax law – 7
Adjustments for prior years 8 1,678
 (352) 1,456
Total tax in income statement 6,168 11,433
Tax relating to items credited/(charged) to equity
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
Current tax on:  
  Income and expenses recognised directly in equity – 211
  
Deferred tax on:  
  Share options 9 (227)
Deferred tax on other comprehensive income:  
  Defined benefit plans 2,791 1,093
  Cash flow hedge 63 –
Total tax reported directly in reserves 2,863 1,077
Current tax on income and expenses recognised directly in equity of £nil (2008: £211) represents the current tax on share based payments. Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 64
7 TAXATION continued
Reconciliation of effective tax rate
 2009 2008
  % £000 % £000
Profit before tax   22,064  40,120
    
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate  28% 6,178 28.5% 11,433
Effect of change in UK tax law  – – – 7
Non-deductible expenses  3.0% 658 0.3% 126
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions  (0.3%) (75) (1.0%) (400)
(Over)/under provided in prior years  (2.7%) (593) 0.7% 267
Total tax in income statement  28% 6,168 28.5% 11,433
8 CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES
The group’s current tax liability of £8,615,000 (2008: £9,546,000) represents the amount of income tax payable in respect of current 
and prior year periods which exceed any amounts recoverable. The company’s current tax liability of £2,982,000 (2008: £5,752,000) 
represents the amount of income tax payable in respect of current and prior year periods which exceed any amounts recoverable.
9 EARNINGS PER SHARE
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
Earnings  
Earnings for the purposes of basic earnings per share being profit attributable 
  to equity holders of the parent 15,896 28,687
 
 2009 2008
Number of shares  
Issued ordinary shares at 1 January 85,363,743 85,363,743
Effect of shares held in treasury (2,248,647) (2,223,206)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share 83,115,096 83,140,537
Effect of diluted potential ordinary shares:  
  Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December 83,115,096 83,140,537
  Share options 595,162 433,308
  Number of shares that would have been issued at fair value (500,540) (401,137)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share 83,209,718 83,172,708
At 31 December 2009, the company held 2,248,647 shares in treasury and these are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 65
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
  Land & Plant & Under
  buildings equipment construction Total
Group  £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost    
Balance at 1 January 2008  83,920 23,839 2,250 110,009
Additions  181 2,686 7,797 10,664
Disposals  (637) (2,353) (6) (2,996)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  2,765 1,791 906 5,462
Transfer to use  5,546 165 (5,711) –
Balance at 31 December 2008  91,775 26,128 5,236 123,139
Balance at 1 January 2009  91,775 26,128 5,236 123,139
Additions  4,126 3,187 – 7,313
Disposals  (536) (1,816) – (2,352)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  (778) (563) (420) (1,761)
Transfer to use  4,816 – (4,816) –
Transfer to assets held for sale  (3,961) – – (3,961)
Balance at 31 December 2009  95,442 26,936 – 122,378
Depreciation    
Balance at 1 January 2008  8,132 9,780 – 17,912
Depreciation charge for the year  1,570 3,434 – 5,004
Disposals  (63) (1,960) – (2,023)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  1,150 1,355 – 2,505
Balance at 31 December 2008  10,789 12,609 – 23,398
Balance at 1 January 2009  10,789 12,609 – 23,398
Depreciation charge for the year  1,736 3,577 – 5,313
Disposals  (104) (1,686) – (1,790)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  (321) (437) – (758)
Transfer to assets held for sale  (315) – – (315)
Balance at 31 December 2009  11,785 14,063 – 25,848
Net book value
At 1 January 2008  75,788 14,059 2,250 92,097
At 31 December 2008 and 1 January 2009  80,986 13,519 5,236 99,741
At 31 December 2009  83,657 12,873 – 96,530 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 66
10 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued
  Land & Plant & Under
  buildings equipment construction Total
Company  £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost    
Balance at 1 January 2008  76,985 559 2,245 79,789
Additions  112 38 3,466 3,616
Disposals  (516) (3) – (519)
Transfer to group company  – – (165) (165)
Transfer to use  5,546 – (5,546) –
Balance at 31 December 2008  82,127 594 – 82,721
Balance at 1 January 2009  82,127 594 – 82,721
Additions  3,290 115 – 3,405
Disposals  (516) (64) – (580)
Transfer to group company  – (44) – (44)
Transfer to assets held for sale  (1,890) – – (1,890)
Balance at 31 December 2009  83,011 601 – 83,612
Depreciation    
Balance at 1 January 2008  5,692 501 – 6,193
Depreciation charge for the year  1,249 30 – 1,279
Disposals  (26) (3) – (29)
Balance at 31 December 2008  6,915 528 – 7,443
Balance at 1 January 2009  6,915 528 – 7,443
Depreciation charge for the year  1,392 38 – 1,430
Disposals  (88) (61) – (149)
Transfer to group company  – (36) – (36)
Transfer to assets held for sale  (158) – – (158)
Balance at 31 December 2009  8,061 469 – 8,530
Net book value
At 1 January 2008  71,293 58 2,245 73,596
At 31 December 2008 and 1 January 2009  75,212 66 – 75,278
At 31 December 2009  74,950 132 – 75,082 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 67
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
11 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GROUP
  Customer
 Goodwill lists Total
 £000 £000 £000
Cost   
Balance at 1 January 2008 13,210 3,879 17,089
Addition (note 24) – 263 263
Balance at 31 December 2008 13,210 4,142 17,352
Balance at 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009 13,210 4,142 17,352
Amortisation   
Balance at 1 January 2008 – 3,879 3,879
Amortisation for the year – 301 301
Effect of movements in foreign exchange – (38) (38)
Balance at 31 December 2008  – 4,142 4,142
Balance at 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009 – 4,142 4,142
Net book value   
At 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2008 13,210 – 13,210
At 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009 13,210 – 13,210
Cumulative impairment recognised in relation to goodwill is £nil.
Amortisation
The amortisation charge is recognised in administration expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment tests for cash–generating units containing goodwill
Goodwill is attributed to the businesses identified below for the purpose of testing impairment. These businesses are the lowest level 
at which goodwill is monitored and are a sub-classification of the group’s operating segments.
The aggregate carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each unit are as follows:
 Reported 2009 2008
 Segment £000 £000
Joseph, Hamilton & Seaton UK 4,348 4,348
Crucial Trading UK 1,369 1,369
Belcolor AG Continental Europe 3,342 3,342
LMS SA Continental Europe 3,197 3,197
Other UK 954 954
  13,210 13,210 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 68
11 INTANGIBLE ASSETS – GROUP continued
Impairment
Each year, whenever events or a change in the economic environment indicates a risk of impairment, the group reviews the value of 
goodwill balances allocated to its cash generating units. In the absence of any identified impairment risks, tests are performed based 
on internal valuations of each cash generating unit.
An impairment test is a comparison of the carrying value of the assets of a business or cash generating unit (“CGU”) to their 
recoverable amount. Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment results. During the year, all 
goodwill was tested for impairment, with no impairment charge resulting and the value of goodwill being recovered for each CGU 
within a six year period.
Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the CGU on a basis consistent 
with 2008.
Cash flows were projected based on past experience, actual operating results and the approved forecasts for 2010. For the purpose  
of impairment testing the forecast cash flows for the period 2011 – 2014 assumed a 1% growth rate. Cash flows for a further  
20 year period were extrapolated using a constant growth rate of 1% which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate  
obtained from relevant industrial comparisons.
Key assumptions
The main assumptions within the operating cash flows used for 2010 include the achievement of future sales volumes and prices 
for all key product lines, control of purchase prices, achievement of budgeted operating costs and no significant adverse foreign 
exchange rate movements. These assumptions have been reviewed in light of the current economic environment which has resulted 
in more conservative estimates about the future.
Management has estimated the discount rate by reference to past experience and an industry average weighted average cost of 
capital. This has been adjusted to include an appropriate risk factor to reflect current economic circumstances and the risk profile 
of the CGU’s. A post tax weighted average cost of capital of 9.5% (2008: 10.1%) has been used for impairment testing, pre-tax 12.3% 
(2008: 15%), adjusted to 10.5% (2008: 11.1%) for Continental Europe to reflect the differing risk profile of that operating segment.
The CGU’s in the UK have similar characteristics, and risk profiles, and therefore a single discount rate has been applied to each UK 
CGU. Similarly, the directors view the CGU’s in Continental Europe as having consistent risk profiles and therefore a single risk factor 
has been applied. The CGU’s in Continental Europe operate under a different regulatory environment and this is therefore reflected in 
the risk factor used to determine the discount rates in the UK and Continental Europe.
Sensitivity analysis
The group’s estimate of impairments are most sensitive to increases in the discount rate and forecast cash flows. Sensitivity analysis 
has been carried out by reference to both of these assumptions and neither a 1% increase in the discount rate or a 5% reduction in 
forecast cash flows would result in any impairment..
Other than disclosed above, any reasonable change to the key assumptions would be unlikely to generate a different impairment test 
outcome to the one that is included in these Financial Statements.
  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 69
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
12 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Summary information on investments in subsidiary undertakings is as follows:
 £000
Cost 
Balance at 1 January 2008 87,941
Share options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings 298
Balance at 31 December 2008 88,239
Balance at 1 January 2009 88,239
Share options granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings 313
Balance at 31 December 2009 88,552
Provisions 
Balance at 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2008 2,160
Balance at 1 January 2009 and 31 December 2009 2,160
Carrying value 
At 1 January 2008  85,781
At 31 December 2008 86,079
At 31 December 2009 86,392
The principal trading subsidiaries are listed on page 97. Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 70
13 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES – GROUP
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets Liabilities Net
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment – – (3,976) (3,698) (3,976) (3,698)
Intangible assets 52 46 (241) (204) (189) (158)
Employee benefits 6,350 4,009 – – 6,350 4,009
Other items 2,546 1,363 – – 2,546 1,363
Tax assets/(liabilities) 8,948 5,418 (4,217) (3,902) 4,731 1,516
Set–off of tax (4,217) (3,902) 4,217 3,902 – –
 4,731 1,516 – – 4,731 1,516
Movement in deferred tax during the year
  1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
  2009 in income in equity 2009
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment  (3,698) (278) – (3,976)
Intangible assets  (158) (31) – (189)
Employee benefits  4,009 (450) 2,791 6,350
Other items  1,363 1,111 72 2,546
  1,516 352 2,863 4,731
    
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
  1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
  2008 in income in equity 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment  (3,836) 138 – (3,698)
Intangible assets  496 (654) – (158)
Employee benefits  4,155 (1,012) 866 4,009
Other items  1,291 72 – 1,363
  2,106 (1,456) 866 1,516
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At the balance sheet date the group has unused capital losses of £9,266,000 (2008: £9,266,000) available for offset against future 
chargeable gains. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount as the group does not anticipate incurring 
significant chargeable gains in the foreseeable future.
     Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 71
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
13 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES – COMPANY
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
 Assets Liabilities Net
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment – – (3,348) (2,865) (3,348) (2,865)
Employee benefits 6,067 3,594 – – 6,067 3,594
Cash flow hedge 63 – – – 63 –
Other items 987 712 – – 987 712
Tax assets/(liabilities) 7,117 4,306 (3,348) (2,865) 3,769 1,441
Set–off of tax (3,348) (2,865) 3,348 2,865 – –
 3,769 1,441 – – 3,769 1,441
Movement in deferred tax during the year
  1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
  2009 in income in equity 2009
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment  (2,865) (483) – (3,348)
Employee benefits  3,594 (540) 3,013 6,067
Cash flow hedge  – – 63 63
Other items  712 275 – 987
  1,441 (748) 3,076 3,769
Movement in deferred tax during the prior year
  1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December
  2008 in income in equity 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Property, plant and equipment  (2,858) (7) – (2,865)
Employee benefits  3,614 (873) 853 3,594
Other items  676 36 – 712
  1,432 (844) 853 1,441
Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
At the balance sheet date the company has unused capital losses of 9,266,000 (2008: £9,266,000) available for offset against future 
chargeable gains. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of this amount as the company does not anticipate incurring 
significant chargeable gains in the foreseeable future. Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 72
14 INVENTORIES
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Finished goods and goods held for resale  99,637 107,597 – –
Cost of sales consists of the following:
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Material cost  366,761 375,955 – –
Processing cost  3,450 4,133 – –
Other  1,322 2,582 – –
  371,533 382,670 – –
15 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade receivables  79,104 81,696 – –
Prepayments and accrued income  3,869 4,559 66 132
Other receivables  18,176 19,687 267 144
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings  – – 26,820 26,036
  101,149 105,942 27,153 26,312
£2,493,000 (2008: £2,359,000) was recognised as an impairment loss in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of trade 
receivables. 
The impairment loss is attributable to the geographical segments as follows:
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
UK 2,107 2,022
Continental Europe 386 337
 2,493 2,359 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 73
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
16 CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND BANK OVERDRAFTS
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents per balance sheet  45,737 35,193 27,473 46,048
Bank overdrafts  (758) – – –
Cash and cash equivalents per cash flow statements  44,979 35,193 27,473 46,048
17 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Assets classified as held for sale:    
Property, plant and equipment  2,275 – 1,387 –
At the year end the group held freehold properties in Leeds, UK, and Zutphen, the Netherlands, that were being actively marketed for 
sale and were expected to be disposed of during 2010. These properties became surplus to the group’s requirements following the 
occupying businesses relocation to new purpose built facilities in 2008 and 2009 respectively.
During the year impairment losses of £1,211,000 were recognised on the remeasurement of these assets to the lower of their carrying 
amount and their fair value less costs to sell. These impairment losses are included in the income statement within administrative 
expenses (2008: £nil). Both properties were disposed of for their revised carrying value subsequent to the year end.
The Leeds and Zutphen property form part of the properties, plant and equipment reported under unallocated assets in note 2 as it is 
primarily a group activity to hold and maintain the properties.
18 OTHER INTEREST–BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS
This note provides information about the contractual terms of the group’s and company’s interest–bearing loans and borrowings.  
For more information about the group’s and company’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 23.
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Current liabilities
Interest bearing loan  900 4,506 – –
  900 4,506 – –
Non–current liabilities    
Interest bearing loans  34,392 30,000 30,000 30,000
  34,392 30,000 30,000 30,000 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 74
18 OTHER INTEREST–BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS continued
Included within the interest bearing loans is an amount directly attributable to borrowing costs of £113,000 (2008: £nil).
The group has undrawn borrowing facilities expiring in one year or less which, at 31 December 2009, amounted to £44,465,000  
(2008: £55,010,000). The facility conditions for drawdown had been met during the period. The borrowing is unsecured and there is 
a cross guarantee in place between the company and its UK subsidiaries. There is a downstream guarantee from the company in 
relation to its borrowing facility in the Netherlands.
The undrawn borrowing facilities are as follows:
  Interest  Interest
  rate 2009 rate 2008
  % £000 % £000
UK  2.48 35,000 1.50 45,000
Netherlands  1.78 1,333 3.75 2,262
France  1.31 5,017 3.25 4,350
Switzerland  1.70 3,115 1.75 3,398
   44,465  55,010
All the borrowing facilities above bear interest at floating rates. The Swiss facility may be drawn as an overdraft or fixed rate loan with 
different terms depending on length of time and amount.
19 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade payables  106,494 106,228 52 198
Taxation and social security  10,717 10,466 1,718 1,416
Non–trade payables and accrued expenses  25,761 25,748 6,008 5,167
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings  – – 33,403 32,524
Derivative liabilities used for hedging:     
Other derivatives at fair value  20 79 – –
Designated hedges  224 848 224 848
  143,216 143,369 41,405 40,153
Included within non-trade payables and accrued expenses is an amount of £131,000 for accrued interest on unsecured bank loans 
(2008: £151,000).
The group’s exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 23.
     Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 75
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Pension plans
During the year, the group operated a UK and Swiss defined benefit plan and defined contribution plans in the UK, France and the 
Netherlands. The Headlam Group plc Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme is the principal defined benefit plan which provides benefits 
to UK employees that have been admitted into the scheme. The scheme is self–administered and its assets are held independently of 
the company’s finances. The scheme is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from the company 
at rates advised by professionally qualified actuaries. The latest actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2008 using the 
projected unit method. The main annual rate assumptions used by the actuary were, increase in salaries 4.7%, increase of pensions 
in payment 3.2%, discount rate before retirement 6.5%, discount rate after retirement 4.75% and inflation 3.2%. Assets were taken 
at their audited market value at the valuation date. This valuation also used revised mortality assumptions which, take account of the 
characteristics of plan members and include a greater allowance for future increases in longevity compared with the assumptions 
previously adopted.
Included within the total staff costs as disclosed in note 4 are costs relating to the group’s defined contribution plans. The pension 
cost for the year represents contributions payable by the group to the plans and amounted to £1,524,000 (2008: £1,564,000). 
Contributions amounting to £118,000 (2008: £108,000) in respect of December 2009 payroll were paid in January 2010.
The total group cost of operating the plans during the year was £2,817,000 (2008: £3,195,000) and, at 31 December 2009, there was an 
amount of £336,000 (2008: £290,000) owed to the plans, being employer and employee contributions due for December 2009, which 
was paid in January 2010.
In the UK there is no contractual agreement or stated group policy for allocating the net defined benefit liability between the 
participating subsidiaries and as such the full deficit is recognised by the company, which is the sponsoring employer. The 
participating subsidiary companies have recognised a cost equal to contributions payable for the period as advised by a professionally 
qualified actuary. The company recognises a cost equal to its contributions payable for the period net of amounts recharged in 
relation to the group deficit to the participating subsidiary companies.
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations  (88,253) (69,441) (81,412) (62,443)
Fair value of plan assets  65,803 55,139 59,583 49,534
Net obligations  (22,450) (14,302) (21,829) (12,909)
Recognised liability for defined benefit obligations  (22,450) (14,302) (21,829) (12,909)
Other long term employee benefits (note 21)  (309) (342) – –
Total employee benefits  (22,759) (14,644) (21,829) (12,909)
Split:    
Current liabilities  (2,506) (2,428) (2,506) (2,428)
Non–current liabilities  (20,253) (12,216) (19,323) (10,481)
Total employee benefits  (22,759) (14,644) (21,829) (12,909) Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 76
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Pension plans continued
Following the actuarial valuation of the Headlam Group plc Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme as at 31 March 2008, a recovery plan 
was agreed between the Trustees of the scheme and the company to fund the deficit. In accordance with the recovery plan, payments 
were made to the scheme during 2009 of £2,419,000 which, in accordance with the recovery plan, increase to £2,506,000 in 2010.  
It was agreed that recovery payments, which commenced on 1 January 2009 and will cease on 31 March 2018, were to increase by 
3.2% each year. The next actuarial valuation is due at 31 March 2011 for the UK plan.
In addition to the recovery payments, company contributions as at the date of the last valuation have been fixed at 24.7% of 
pensionable salaries at that date, with no allowance made in respect of subsequent leavers. This represented an additional 
contribution amounting to £188,000 during 2009.
The group and company expect to pay regular ongoing contributions of approximately £3,994,000 (2008: £3,988,000) to defined benefit 
plans in the next financial year. 
Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January  69,441 71,350 62,443 66,953
Current service cost  1,268 1,461 868 1,271
Interest cost  4,202 4,075 4,013 3,925
Actuarial losses/(gains)  16,125 (7,553) 16,320 (7,660)
Benefits paid  (2,457) (2,422) (2,480) (2,294)
Contributions by members  357 355 223 248
Past service costs  25 – 25 –
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  (708) 2,175 – –
At 31 December  88,253 69,441 81,412 62,443
Movements in fair value of plan assets
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 January  55,139 60,308 49,534 56,098
Expected return on plan assets  3,061 3,905 2,859 3,713
Actuarial gains/(losses)  6,083 (11,798) 5,559 (10,785)
Contributions by employer  4,078 2,706 3,888 2,554
Contributions by members  357 355 223 248
Benefits paid  (2,457) (2,422) (2,480) (2,294)
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  (458) 2,085 – –
At 31 December  65,803 55,139 59,583 49,534 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 77
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Pension plans continued
Expense recognised in the income statement
   Group
     2009 2008
     £000 £000
Current service cost     1,268 1,461
Past service cost     25 –
Interest on defined benefit plan obligation     4,202 4,075
Expected return on defined benefit plan assets     (3,061) (3,905)
Total     2,434 1,631
The expense is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Income Statement:
   Group
     2009 2008
     £000 £000
Administrative expenses     1,293 1,461
Net financing costs     1,141 170
     2,434 1,631
Actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of Comprehensive Income:
   Group
     2009 2008
     £000 £000
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit obligation     (16,125) 7,553
Actuarial gain/(losses) on plan assets     6,083 (11,798)
     (10,042) (4,245)
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income (formerly known as the Statement of 
Recognised Income and Expense) since 1 January 2004, the transition date to IFRS, are £15,785,000 (2008: £5,743,000). Cumulative 
actuarial gains and losses reported in the company’s Statement of Comprehensive Income are £15,170,000 (2008: £4,409,000). Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 78
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Pension plans continued
The fair value of the plan assets and the return on those assets were as follows:
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Equities  36,107 28,202 34,844 27,227
Government debt  15,995 15,438 15,995 15,438
Corporate bonds  7,171 5,782 4,198 2,856
Annuities  4,371 3,909 4,371 3,909
Other  2,159 1,808 175 104
  65,803 55,139 59,583 49,534
Actual return on plan assets  9,144 (7,837) 8,418 (7,072)
The expected rates of return on plan assets are determined by reference to relevant indices. The overall expected rate of return is 
calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the plan’s investment portfolio.
 Group Company
 2009 2008 2009 2008
 % % % %
Discount rate 5.6 6.1 5.8 6.5
Future salary increases 5.0 4.2 5.3 4.5
Future pension increases 3.5 2.7 3.8 3.0
Inflation rate 3.6 2.8 3.8 3.0
Expected rate of return on plan assets 6.1 5.5 6.3 5.7
Mortality table assumptions:    
  UK pre-retirement AC00 (Ultimate)  AC00 (Ultimate) AC00 (Ultimate) AC00(Ultimate) 
 table table table table
  UK post-retirement -  103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F)
  future-pensioners of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00
 tables with tables with tables with tables with
 medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort
 projections projections projections projections
  UK post-retirement -  103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F) 103%(M)/110%(F)
  current pensioners of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00 of the PCA00
 tables with tables with tables with tables with
 medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort medium cohort
 projections projections projections projections
  Swiss scheme EVK 2000 EVK 2000 – –
  
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
Non-pensioner male  23.3 23.3 23.3 23.3
Pensioner male  21.3 21.3 21.3 21.3
Non-pensioner female  25.2 25.1 25.2 25.1
Pensioner female  23.3 23.2 23.3 23.2 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 79
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Pension plans continued
History of plans
The history of the plans for the current and prior periods is as follows:
Balance sheet
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (88,253) (69,441) (71,350) (73,160) (64,750)
Fair value of plan assets 65,803 55,139 60,308 56,220 44,524
Deficit (22,450) (14,302) (11,042) (16,940) (20,226)
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Present value of defined benefit obligation (81,412) (62,443) (66,953) (69,736) (64,750)
Fair value of plan assets 59,583 49,534 56,098 52,704 44,524
Deficit (21,829) (12,909) (10,855) (17,032) (20,226)
Experience adjustments
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
On plan liabilities 16,121 (7,553) (4,493) 1,688 6,711
On plan assets 6,083 (11,798) 507 1,518 4,134
As a percentage of plan liabilities 18.3% (10.9%) (6.3%) 2.3% 10.4%
As a percentage of plan assets 9.2% (21.4%) 0.8% 2.7% 9.3%
 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
On plan liabilities 16,320 (7,660) (4,989) 1,664 6,711
On plan assets 5,559 (10,785) 313 1,403 4,134
As a percentage of plan liabilities 20.0% (12.3%) (7.5%) 2.4% 10.4%
As a percentage of plan assets 9.3% (21.8%) 0.6% 2.7% 9.3% Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 80
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Share-based payments – Group and company
Executive directors and executive management currently participate in executive share option schemes. The option price may not be 
less than the greater of the mid-market value of the group’s shares at the time when the options were granted or the nominal value. 
Options granted under the 1998 Inland Revenue approved scheme are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries 
of their date of grant, subject to the movement of the group’s basic earnings per share exceeding RPI over the relevant period.
Options granted under the 1998 unapproved scheme are normally exercisable between the third and seventh anniversaries of their 
date of grant. Awards are subject to the movement of the group’s basic earnings per share exceeding RPI between 3% and 5% per 
annum respectively over the relevant period.
Additionally, the group operates a savings related share option scheme (“sharesave scheme”) which is open to employees subject to 
eligibility criteria determined by the directors prior to each option grant. The most recent grant was on 19 May 2009 when employees 
with over one month’s service were invited to participate. 
The group also operates a 2008 HMRC approved scheme, a 2008 unapproved scheme, the Headlam Group Performance Share Plan 
2008 and the Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008. The group has not yet implemented any of these schemes or plans. Further 
details of these schemes and plans are given in the Remuneration Report on page 38. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 81
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Share-based payments – Group and company continued
The terms and conditions of the grants are as follows, whereby all options are settled by physical delivery of shares:
 Number of
 instruments  Contractual life
Grant date/employees entitled 2009 2008 Vesting conditions of options
Approved 1998 scheme grant to key  – 10,000 Movement of the group’s basic  10/01/04 –
management 10 January 2001   earnings per share exceeding  10/01/11
   RPI over the relevant period
Approved 1998 scheme grant to key  46,404 46,404 Movement of the group’s basic  14/04/06 –
management 14 April 2003   earnings per share exceeding  14/04/13
   RPI over the relevant period
Unapproved 1998 scheme grant to key  2,596 2,596 Movement of the group’s basic  14/04/06 –
management 14 April 2003   earnings per share exceeding  14/04/10
   RPI over the relevant period
Unapproved 1998 scheme grant to key  1,242,864 1,242,864 Movement of the group’s basic  22/08/08 –
management 22 August 2005   earnings per share exceeding  22/08/12
   RPI by 3%-5% pa over the relevant 
   period
Approved 1998 scheme granted to key  57,136 57,136 Movement of the group’s basic  22/08/08 –
management 22 August 2005   earnings per share exceeding that  22/08/15
   of RPI by 3% pa over the relevant 
   period
Three year sharesave scheme granted  – 95,278 Continuous service 01/07/09 –
to other employees 25 May 2006    01/01/10
Five year sharesave scheme granted  45,152 83,532 Continuous service 01/07/11 –
to other employees 25 May 2006    01/01/12
Three year sharesave scheme granted  73,098 267,740 Continuous service 01/07/11 –
to other employees 8 May 2008    01/01/12
Five year sharesave scheme granted  57,740 310,305 Continuous service 01/07/13 –
to other employees 8 May 2008    01/01/14
Three year sharesave scheme granted  481,635 – Continuous service 01/07/12 –
to other employees 19 May 2009    01/01/13
Five year sharesave scheme granted  400,441 – Continuous service 01/07/14 –
to other employees 19 May 2009    01/01/15
Total share options 2,407,066 2,115,855   Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 82
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Share-based payments – Group and company continued
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows:
  Weighted  Weighted 
  average  average
  exercise  Number of exercise Number of
  price options  price options
  2009 2009 2008 2008
Outstanding at the beginning of the year  379.5 2,115,855 370.1 2,114,930
Exercised during the year  – – 197.5 (380,306)
Granted during the year  222.2 895,909 303.2 626,609
Lapsed during the year  320.1 (604,698) 335.5 (245,378)
Outstanding at the end of the year  336.6 2,407,066 379.5 2,115,855
Exercisable at the end of the year  411.4 1,357,234 410.2 1,362,985
There were no options exercised during the year, the weighted average share price for options exercised during 2008 was 396.7p.
The options outstanding at the year end have an exercise price in the range of 215.0p to 420.0p and a weighted average contractual 
life of 4.7 years.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options 
granted. The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
It is expected that the options will be exercised as soon as they reach maturity. 
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants. 
The expected volatility is based on historic volatility calculated over the weighted average remaining life of the share options.
Details of share options granted during 2009 are shown below:
    3 year 5 year
2009    options options
Number of options    495,468 400,441
Fair value at measurement date    76.2p 67.4p
Share price at 31 December    300.3p 300.3p
Exercise price    222.2p 222.2p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used 
  in the modelling under the Black-Scholes model)    48.6% 42.2%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the 
  modelling under the Black-Scholes model)    3 years 5 years
Expected dividends    7.6% 7.6%
Risk-free interest rate (based on UK Gilts)    2.1% 2.8% Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 83
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
20 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continued
Share–based payments – Group and company continued
Details of share options granted during 2008 are shown below:
    3 year 5 year
2008    options options
Fair value at measurement date    117.7p 108.4p
Share price at 31 December    210.5p 210.5p
Exercise price    303.2p 303.2p
Expected volatility (expressed as weighted average volatility used 
  in the modelling under the Black–Scholes model)    47.2% 40.4%
Option life (expressed as weighted average life used in the 
  modelling under the Black–Scholes model)    3 years 5 years
Expected dividends    6.2% 6.2%
Risk–free interest rate (based on UK Gilts)    4.3% 4.3%
The total expenses recognised for the year arising from share based payments are as follows:
 Group Company Subsidiaries
 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Share options granted in 2005 under 
  the approved 1998 scheme – 11 – 4 – 7
Share options granted in 2005 under 
  the unapproved 1998 scheme – 236 – 119 – 117
Share options granted in 2006 under 
  the SAYE 3 year scheme 30 38 1 1 29 37
Share options granted in 2006 under 
  the SAYE 5 year scheme 36 19 – – 36 19
Share options granted in 2008 under 
  the SAYE 3 year scheme 101 74 – 2 101 72
Share options granted in 2008 under 
  the SAYE 5 year scheme 67 48 – 2 67 46
Share options granted in 2009 under 
  the SAYE 3 year scheme 63 – 1 – 62 –
Share options granted in 2009 under 
  the SAYE 5 year scheme 19 – 1 – 18 –
Total expense recognised 316 426 3 128 313 298 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 84
21 OTHER LONG TERM EMPLOYEE BENEFITS – GROUP
During the year, the group operated an employment indemnity scheme in connection with a foreign subsidiary undertaking to provide 
for lump sum cash payments due to employees retiring on their normal retirement date. The present retirement indemnity obligation  
at 31 December 2009 is £309,000 (2008: £342,000).
22 CAPITAL AND RESERVES – GROUP AND COMPANY
Share capital
   Ordinary shares
     2009 2008
Number of shares    
On issue at 1 January and 31 December – fully paid     85,363,743 85,363,743
     2009 2008
     £000 £000
Allotted, called up and fully paid    
Ordinary shares of 5p each     4,268 4,268
     4,268 4,268
Shares classified as liabilities     – –
Shares classified in shareholders funds     4,268 4,268
     4,268 4,268
At 31 December 2009, there were 2,248,647 shares held in treasury. Dividends are not payable on these shares and they are excluded 
from the calculation of earnings per share. The shares held in treasury represent 2.6% of the issued share capital with a nominal 
value of £112,000.
In the period from 31 December 2009 to 19 March 2010 no shares have been purchased by the company.
Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share 
at meetings of the company.
Dividends
     2009 2008
     £000 £000
Interim dividend for 2008 of 5.60p paid 2 January 2009     4,649 –
Final dividend for 2008 of 14.10p paid 1 July 2009     11,705 –
Interim dividend for 2007 of 5.35p paid 2 January 2008     – 4,454
Final dividend for 2007 of 17.75p paid 1 July 2008     – 14,728
     16,354 19,182
The final proposed dividend of 7.30p per share (2008:14.10p per share) will not be provided for until authorised by shareholders at the 
forthcoming AGM.
Interim dividends of 3.70p per share (2008: 5.60p per share) are provided for when the dividend is paid. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 85
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
22 CAPITAL AND RESERVES – GROUP AND COMPANY continued
The total value of dividends proposed but not recognised at 31 December 2009 is £9,132,000 (2008: £16,354,000).
Reserves
Other reserves
Other reserves as disclosed on the balance sheet comprise the capital redemption reserve, translation reserve, cash flow hedging 
reserve and treasury reserve. For the company this also includes a special reserve.
Capital redemption reserve
The capital redemption reserve represents the nominal value of shares repurchased and cancelled during 2007.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign 
subsidiaries.
Cash flow hedging reserve
The cash flow hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging 
instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Treasury Reserve
The treasury reserve compromises the cost of the company’s shares held by the group.
Special Reserve
The special reserve arose on the issuance of shares in connection with acquisitions made by the company in earlier years.
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The main financial risks arising in the normal course of the group’s business are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks arising 
from interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. This note presents information about the group’s exposure to each of the above risks, 
the group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risks and the group’s management of capital. Further 
quantitative disclosures are included throughout these financial statements.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual 
obligations and arises principally from the group’s trade receivables.
The company and group have a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit 
evaluations are performed on all new customers requiring credit cover over £1,000 and these are frequently reviewed by management 
to limit exposure. Businesses must obtain central approval for credit limits in excess of £10,000. The group does not require collateral 
in respect of financial assets.
At the balance sheet date, there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented 
by the carrying amount of each financial asset in the balance sheet.  Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 86
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Credit risk continued
The carrying amount of financial assets at the balance sheet date was:
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables (note 15)  101,149 105,942 27,153 26,312
Cash and cash equivalents (note 16)  45,737 35,193 27,473 46,048
  146,886 141,135 54,626 72,360
The fair values of the above financial assets at both 31 December 2009 and 2008, are deemed to approximate to carrying value due to 
the short term maturity of the instruments.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the balance sheet date by geographic region was:
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
UK  63,231 63,774 – –
Continental Europe  15,873 17,922 – –
  79,104 81,696 – –
The ageing of trade receivables at the balance sheet date was:
 2009 2008
  Gross Impairment Gross Impairment
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Not past due  74,760 – 77,054 –
Past due 0–30 days  3,718 (505) 3,410 –
Past due 31–120 days  3,427 (2,296) 4,310 (3,078)
  81,905 (2,801) 84,774 (3,078)
The company had trade receivables of £nil (2008:£nil).
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows:
 Group Company
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January  3,078 1,873 – –
Impairment loss  2,493 2,359 – –
Amounts provided  (2,690) (1,446) – –
Effect of movements in foreign exchange  (80) 292 – –
Balance at 31 December  2,801 3,078 – – Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 87
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Credit risk continued
Based on historic default rates, the group believes that no general impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables, 
however, the group provides fully for specific debts when required. During the year the group’s impairment loss as a percentage of 
revenue amounted to 0.47% (2008: 0.42%).
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The group’s approach to 
managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, with 
sufficient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions. As at 31 December 2009 cash and cash equivalents covered the 
amounts of borrowings maturing in the next twelve months with a net positive liquidity of £44,079,000 (2008: £30,687,000). Details  
of the total facilities that the group has access to are given in note 18.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities:
 Carrying Contractual 1 year or 1–2 2–5 More than
31 December 2009 amount cash flows less years years 5 years
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non–derivative financial liabilities      
Bank overdraft 758 (768) (768) – – –
Unsecured bank loans 35,292 (37,166) (1,404) (714) (31,588) (3,460)
Trade and other payables 142,972 (142,972) (142,972) – – –
      
Derivative financial liabilities      
Interest rate swaps used for hedging 224 (224) (224) – – –
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 20 (20) (20) – – –
 179,266 (181,150) (145,388) (714) (31,588) (3,460)
  Carrying Contractual 1 year or 1–2 2-5
31 December 2008  amount cash flows less years  years
Group  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non–derivative financial liabilities     
Unsecured bank loans  34,506 (37,171) (5,388) (713) (31,070)
Trade and other payables  142,442 (142,442) (142,442) – –
     
Derivative financial liabilities     
Interest rate swaps used for hedging  848 (848) (848) – –
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging  79 (79) (79) – –
  177,874 (180,540) (148,757) (713) (31,070) Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 88
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Liquidity risk continued
  Carrying Contractual 1 year or 1–2 2–5
31 December 2009  amount cash flows less years years
Company  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non–derivative financial liabilities     
Unsecured bank loans  30,000 (30,913) (365) (365) (30,182)
Trade and other payables  41,181 (41,181) (41,181) – –
     
Derivative financial liabilities     
Interest rate swaps used for hedging  224 (224) (224) – –
  71,405 (72,318) (41,770) (365) (30,182)
  Carrying Contractual 1 year or 1–2 2–5
31 December 2008  amount cash flows less years years
Company  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non–derivative financial liabilities     
Unsecured bank loans  30,000 (32,496) (713) (713) (31,070)
Trade and other payables  39,305 (39,305) (39,305) – –
     
Derivative financial liabilities     
Interest rate swaps used for hedging  848 (848) (848) – –
  70,153 (72,649) (40,866) (713) (31,070)
     
The value of the group’s financial liabilities as detailed above at 31 December 2009 and 2008 were not materially different to the 
carrying value. Fair values were calculated using market rates, where available. Where market values are not available, fair values 
have been estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using prevailing interest rate curves. Amounts denominated in foreign 
currencies are valued at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 89
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Liquidity risk continued
The table below sets out the group’s accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2009 and 
2008.
    Other
    derivatives  Total
  Available Designated at fair Amortised carrying
  for sale hedges value cost value
31 December 2009  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents  45,737 – – – 45,737
Bank overdrafts  – – – (758) (758)
Borrowings due within one year  – – – (900) (900)
Borrowings due after one year  – – – (34,392) (34,392)
Trade payables  – – – (106,494) (106,494)
Trade receivables  – – – 79,104 79,104
Derivative liabilities  – (224) (20) – (244)
  45,737 (224) (20) (63,440) (17,947)
    Other
    derivatives  Total
  Available Designated at fair Amortised carrying
  for sale hedges value cost value
31 December 2008  £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents  35,193 – – – 35,193
Borrowings due within one year  – – – (4,506) (4,506)
Borrowings due after one year  – – – (30,000) (30,000)
Trade payables  – – – (106,228) (106,228)
Trade receivables  – – – 81,696 81,696
Derivative liability  – (848) (79) – (927)
  35,193 (848) (79) (59,038) (24,772)
Under IAS 39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are derivatives at fair value through the consolidated 
Income Statement. The group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes. All transactions in derivative financial instruments  
are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities. Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 90
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Interest rate risk
The company and group are exposed to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and cash deposits. Borrowings are principally held 
in sterling and euro’s at both fixed and floating rates, deposits are in sterling, euro’s and Swiss francs at floating rates.
Floating rate borrowings are linked to the London Interbank Offered Rate. The group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of  
its borrowings at fixed interest rate and reviewing the balance of the floating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise  
the effect on the group’s income statement is manageable. In accordance with this policy, and in order to manage it’s exposure  
to interest rates, the group entered into two interest rate swaps in 2008 to fix £30 million of its sterling denominated borrowings.  
The first interest rate swap matured in October 2009 and the second is due to mature in April 2010. These interest rate swaps have 
been designated as a hedging instrument and accounted for as a cash flow hedge in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39.
The fair values of these interest rate swaps are included in the balance sheet as a £224,000 derivative liability (2008: £848,000).
At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the group’s interest–bearing financial instruments was:
 Group Company
 Carrying amount Carrying amount
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Variable rate instruments    
Financial assets  45,737 35,193 27,473 46,048
Financial liabilities  (36,050) (34,506) (30,000) (30,000)
  9,687 687 (2,527) 16,048
There were no fixed rate instruments held by the group at 31 December 2009 (2008 : £nil).
Sensitivity analysis
A change of 100 basis points in the interest rates at the reporting date would have increased/(decreased) equity and profit or loss by 
the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant. The 
analysis is performed on the same basis as that used for 2008.
 Group  Group
 Profit or loss Equity Profit or loss Equity
 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp 100bp
 increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
31 December 2009        
Variable rate 
  instruments 197 (197) – – 75 (75) – –
        
31 December 2008        
Variable rate 
  instruments 307 (307) – – 460 (460) – – Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 91
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Foreign currency risk
The group and company are exposed to movements in currency exchange rates arising from transaction currency cash flows and the 
translation of the results and net assets of overseas subsidiary operations. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily the 
euro and Swiss franc.
The group and company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency transactional risk. A future foreign currency 
contract would be entered into where there was a known requirement for the currency due to planned imports that are not invoiced in 
sterling. These forward exchange contracts would have a maturity of less than one year after the balance sheet date. The group also 
enters into foreign currency contracts at spot rate where the amounts are not frequent or material. Gains and losses on currency 
contracts recognised as a liability as at 31 December 2009 amounted to £20,000 (2008: £79,000).
For the twelve month period to 31 December 2009, 10.0% (2008: 8.6%) of the group’s operating profit was derived from overseas 
subsidiaries and at 31 December 2009, 22.5% (2008: 22.0%) of the group’s operating assets related to overseas subsidiary operations. 
Hedge accounting, following the adoption of IFRS, has not been applied to these operations.
The group and company do not use derivatives other than as described above.
The group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:
 Group Company
 Euro Other  Euro Other
 amount amount Total amount amount Total
2009 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables 279 144 423 56 12 68
Cash and cash equivalents 319 387 706 234 1 235
Trade and other payables (1,064) (666) (1,730) – – –
 (466) (135) (601) 290 13 303
 Group Company
 Euro Other  Euro Other
 amount amount Total amount amount Total
2008 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trade and other receivables 57 19 76 88 19 107
Cash and cash equivalents 262 452 714 182 1 183
Trade and other payables (1,837) (282) (2,119) – – –
 (1,518) 189 (1,329) 270 20 290 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 92
23 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued
Sensitivity analysis
A 10 per cent weakening of sterling against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased /(decreased) profit or loss  
by the amounts shown below. There is no equity effect. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, 
remain constant. The analysis is performed on the same basis as that used for 2008.
 Group Company
  Equity Equity Equity Equity
  2009 2008 2009 2008
  £000 £000 £000 £000
Euro  (47) (152) 29 27
Other  (14) 19 1 2
A 10 per cent strengthening of sterling against the above currencies at 31 December would have had the equal but opposite effect on  
the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Fair values hierarchy
The financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised according to their valuation method. The different levels have been 
defined below:
•	 	 Level	 1:	 quoted	 prices	 (unadjusted)	 in	 active	 markets	 for	 identical	 assets	 or	 liabilities
•	 	 Level	 2:	 inputs	 other	 than	 quoted	 prices	 included	 within	 Level	 1	 that	 are	 observable	 for	 the	 asset	 or	 liability,	 either	 directly	 
(i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived from prices)
•	 	 Level	 3:	 inputs	 for	 the	 asset	 or	 liability	 that	 are	 not	 based	 on	 observable	 market	 data	 (unobservable	 inputs).
The group has an interest rate swap used for hedging which was fair valued in accordance with level 2 for the year ended  
31 December 2009 (2008: level 2) and forward currency contracts which are fair valued in accordance with level 3 (2008: level 3).
Fair values
The carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet for financial instruments are a reasonable approximation to fair value.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents – Fair values are assumed to approximate to cost due to the short term 
maturity of the instrument.
Borrowings, other financial assets and other financial liabilities – Where available, market values have been used to determine fair 
values. Where market values are not available, fair values have been estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using 
prevailing interest rate curves. Amounts denominated in foreign currencies are valued at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance 
sheet date.
Capital management
The board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain 
future development of the business. The board closely monitors its shareholder base, dividend yield and earnings per share.
The board encourages employees of the group to hold the company’s ordinary shares. The group operates a number of employee 
share option schemes. The company has acquired a number of its own shares under a share buy-back programme, some of which,  
have been used for issuing shares under the group’s various share option incentive schemes.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may vary dividends payable, return capital to shareholders, issue new 
shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 93
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
24 ACQUISITIONS OF SUBSIDIARIES
No acquisitions were made during the year ended 31 December 2009.
On 5 November 2008, a group subsidiary company acquired the trade and assets of Silvester, a supplier of residential products 
to independent retailers throughout the Netherlands for a cash consideration of £577,000. Since its acquisition the business has 
contributed profit of £60,000 to the consolidated profit for the year ended 31 December 2008 attributable to the equity shareholders. 
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2008 group revenue would have been an estimated £559,760,000 and profit would have 
been an estimated £28,859,000.
On 18 March 2008, a group subsidiary company acquired the inventory and intellectual property rights of I–Floor for a cash 
consideration of £94,000.
   Acquiree’s book Fair value Acquisition
   value adjustments amounts
   £000 £000 £000
Acquiree’s net assets at the acquisition date:   
   
Intangible assets   – 263 263
Property, plant and equipment   
Inventories   412 – 412
Trade and other receivables   318 – 318
Trade and other payables   (267) – (267)
Net identifiable assets and liabilities   463 263 726
Goodwill on acquisition     –
Consideration paid     (726)
Satisfied by:   
Cash     667
Acquisition costs capitalised     59
     726
Analysis of cash flows:   
On completion     (667)
Costs of acquisition     (59)
     (726)
No goodwill has arisen on the acquisition of the trade and assets of Silvester or I Floor. The intangible assets on acquisition were 
attributed to customer order books.
Following acquisition, it is the group’s normal practice to implement its operational and financial procedures and standard IT 
systems.
Furthermore, acquired businesses gain access to the group’s extensive product ranges and benefit from enhanced sales and 
marketing investment. These changes typically enable acquired businesses to enhance the service provided to their customers and 
ultimately, develop and grow.
Whilst acquired customer order books are a key component at the point of acquisition, this position quickly dissipates during the post 
acquisition period. The dynamic and renewable nature of this class of asset is the reason the group elects to amortise it over a period 
of one to twenty four months, the precise period being dependant upon the size of the acquired business. Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 94
25 OPERATING LEASES
The aggregate payments, for which there are commitments under non–cancellable operating leases as at the end of the year, fall due 
as follows:
 2009 2008
 Land and Plant and  Land and Plant and
 buildings machinery Total buildings machinery Total
Group £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Less than one year 423 1,153 1,576 893 7,614 8,507
Between one and five years 2,738 16,546 19,284 3,427 13,634 17,061
More than five years 3,406 17 3,423 2,135 258 2,393
 6,567 17,716 24,283 6,455 21,506 27,961
 2009 2008
 Land and Plant and  Land and Plant and
 buildings machinery Total buildings machinery Total
Company £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Less than one year 18 7 25 16 7 23
Between one and five years 74 6 80 65 13 78
More than five years 1,414 – 1,414 1,259 – 1,259
 1,506 13 1,519 1,341 20 1,360
      
The group leases the majority of its motor and commercial vehicles on terms that range between three and five years.
During the year ended 31 December 2009, £10,952,000 was recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement in 
respect of operating leases (2008: £11,201,000).
26 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the group entered into contracts to purchase property, plant and equipment for £225,000 
(2008: £629,000). These commitments are expected to be settled in the following financial year.
Company
During the year ended 31 December 2009, the company entered into contracts to purchase property, plant and equipment for £nil 
(2008: £16,000).  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 95
Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
27 RELATED PARTIES
Group and Company
Identity of related parties
The group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its directors and executive officers.
Transactions with key management personnel
The group’s key management personnel are the executive and non-executive directors as indentified in the Remuneration Report  
on page 40.
As at 31 December 2009, directors of the company and their immediate relatives controlled 1.6 per cent of the voting shares of the 
company (2008:1.6 per cent).
In addition to their salaries, the group also contributes to a post-employment defined benefit plan on behalf of the executive directors. 
Executive directors also participate in the group’s share option schemes.
Non-executive directors receive a fee for their services to the board.
Other than disclosed in the Remuneration Report, there were no other transactions with key management personnel in either 
the current or preceeding year. The IFRS 2 cost charged to administrative expenses relating to share options of key management 
personnel amounted to £2,000 (2008:£116,000). 
Company only
In addition to the transactions with key management personnel the company has the following transactions:
Transactions with other group companies
   
   Highest Balance at Highest Balance at
   during 31 December during 31 December
   the year 2009 the year 2008
   £000 £000 £000 £000
Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings   26,820 26,820 26,036 26,036
Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings   (33,403) (33,403) (32,524) (32,524)
The disclosure of the year end balance and the highest balance during the year is considered to provide a meaningful representation 
of transactions between the company and its subsidiaries in the year. The highest balance is generally at the start or close of the 
financial period since this is the time when the company levies its management charge.
Transactions reported in the income statement
 For year For year
 ended ended
 31 December 31 December
 2009 2008
 £000 £000
Rental income  5,942 5,453
Dividends received 1,375 9,586
Management charges 1,659 2,375
Interest income 259 790
Pension recharge 236 260 Notes to the Financial Statements
continued
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 96
28 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
At the year end the group held freehold properties in Leeds, UK, and Zutphen, the Netherlands, that were surplus to the group’s 
requirements and were being actively marketed for sale. These properties were subsequently sold on 28 January 2010 and  
2 March 2010 respectively.
Cash received on completion of the property in Leeds was £444,000 with a further £943,000 to be received during the next two years. 
Cash received on the sale of the property in Zutphen was e1,000,000. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 97
Principal Trading Subsidiaries
  Place of 
  incorporation
 
•	 HFD	 Limited	 Great	 Britain
•	 MCD	 Group	 Limited	 Great	 Britain
 Headlam BV Netherlands
 LMS SA France
•	 Belcolor	 AG	 Switzerland
All of these subsidiaries are wholly owned and are principally engaged as a distributor of floorcoverings and associated products.
•	 These	 subsidiaries	 are	 owned	 directly	 by	 Headlam	 Group	 plc.	 The	 investment	 in	 subsidiaries	 comprises	 ordinary	 share	 capital. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 98
Financial Record
 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Trading results     
Revenue 486,653 509,899 544,718 557,296 533,793
Operating profit 41,498 43,941 46,013 41,722 24,758
Profit before net financing costs 41,498 43,941 46,013 41,722 24,758
Net financing costs (658) (383) (841) (1,602) (2,694)
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 40,840 43,558 45,172 40,120 22,064
Taxation (12,352) (13,067) (13,534) (11,433) (6,168)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 28,488 30,491 31,638 28,687 15,896
Shareholder value     
Paid dividend per share 16.25p 18.00p 20.15p 23.10p 19.70p
Proposed dividend per share 18.00p 20.15p 23.10p 19.70p 11.00p
     
Earnings per share  33.1p 35.1p 37.1p 34.5p 19.1p
Net assets
Non–current assets     
Property, plant and equipment 74,640 85,032 92,097 99,741 96,530
Intangible assets 13,210 13,210 13,210 13,210 13,210
Deferred tax assets 6,796 5,517 2,106 1,516 4,731
 94,646 103,759 107,413 114,467 114,471
     
Current assets     
Inventories 91,160 94,217 101,491 107,597 99,637
Trade and other receivables 84,275 91,284 100,830 105,942 101,149
Cash and cash equivalents 36,193 41,861 16,805 35,193 45,737
Assets held for sale 3,471 – – – 2,275
 215,099 227,362 219,126 248,732 248,798
Total assets 309,745 331,121 326,539 363,199 363,269
     
Current liabilities     
Bank overdraft – (1,010) (103) – (758)
Other interest–bearing loans and borrowings (471) (267) – (4,506) (900)
Trade and other payables (141,529) (149,422) (154,320) (143,369) (143,216)
Employee benefits (1,080) (1,102) (1,491) (2,428) (2,506)
Income tax payable (11,139) (10,184) (10,747) (9,546) (8,615)
     
 (154,219) (161,985) (166,661) (159,849) (155,995)
Non–current liabilities     
Other interest–bearing loans and borrowings (267) – – (30,000) (34,392)
Employee benefits (19,432) (16,124) (9,837) (12,216) (20,253)
 (19,699) (16,124) (9,837) (42,216) (54,645)
     
Total liabilities (173,918) (178,109) (176,498) (202,065) (210,640)
Net assets 135,827 153,012 150,041 161,134 152,629 Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 99
Notice of AGM
Notice is hereby given that the sixty second Annual General Meeting of Headlam Group plc will be held at the group’s distribution 
facility located at Gorsey Lane, Coleshill, Birmingham, B46 1LW on Friday 25 June 2010 at 10.00 a.m. for the following purposes.
As ordinary business
1.  To receive, consider and adopt the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors’ Report and the Independent Auditor’s Report for 
the year ended 31 December 2009.
2.  To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 7.30 pence per ordinary share.
3.  To re-elect as a director Graham Waldron who is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles.
4.  To re-elect as a director Dick Peters who is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles.
5.  To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Independent Auditor of the company from the conclusion of the meeting until the conclusion of 
the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
6.  To authorise the directors to determine the Independent Auditor’s remuneration.
7.  To approve the director’s Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2009.
As special business
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolution 8 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and 
resolutions 9 to 14 will be proposed as special resolutions:-
8.  Authority to allot shares
(a)  THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act
 2006 (the “Act”) to allot shares in the company, and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares
 in the company, up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,122,500 for a period expiring (unless previously renewed,
 varied or revoked by the company in general meeting) at the end of the 2011 AGM (or, if earlier, at the close of business
 on 30 June 2011), and save that the company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might 
require shares to be allotted, or rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares to be granted, after expiry of this 
authority and the directors may allot shares and grant rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if this authority 
had not expired; 
(b)  THAT, subject to paragraph (c), all existing authorities given to the directors pursuant to section 80 of the Companies
 Act 1985 (the “1985 Act”) be revoked by this resolution; and 
(c)  THAT paragraph (b) shall be without prejudice to the continuing authority of the directors to allot shares (or relevant
 securities, as that term is defined in the 1985 Act) or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares (or
 relevant securities), pursuant to an offer or agreement made by the company before the expiry of the authority pursuant to 
which such offer or agreement was made.
9.  Dis-application of pre-emption rights
 THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 8 in this Notice of AGM (“Notice”) and in place of all existing powers given to the 
directors pursuant to section 95 of the 1985 Act, the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of 
the Act to allot equity securities (as defined in section 560 of the Act) for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 11 
in this Notice, as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to the allotment. This power:
(a)  expires (unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the company in general meeting) at the end of the 2011 AGM if 
passed (or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2011), save that the company may, before such expiry, make an offer 
or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity 
securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if this power had not expired; and Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 100
Notice of AGM
continued
(b) shall be limited to: 
(i)  the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue to holders of ordinary shares of 5 pence in the capital of the 
company in proportion (as nearly as may be practicable) to their existing holdings and to people who hold  other equity 
securities, if this is required by the rights of those securities or, if the directors consider it necessary, as permitted by 
the rights of those securities and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements 
which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, 
regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter; and
(ii)  the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph 12(b)(i) up to an aggregate nominal 
amount of £213,000.
 This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560(3) of the Act 
as if, in the first paragraph of this resolution, the words “pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8 in this Notice” were 
omitted.
10. Authority to purchase own shares
 THAT the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act to make 
market purchases (within the meaning of section 693(4) of the Act) of ordinary shares of 5 pence in the capital of the company, 
subject to the following conditions: 
(a)  the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 8,536,000;
(b)  the minimum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for an ordinary share is 5 pence;
(c)  the maximum price (exclusive of expenses) which may be paid for each ordinary share is the higher of: (i) an amount equal 
to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of an ordinary share of the company as derived from the London 
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted 
to be purchased; and (ii) an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the 
highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System; and
(d)  the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the 2011 AGM or, if earlier, at the close
 of business on 30 June 2011 (except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was made before the expiry of 
this authority and which might be concluded wholly or partly after such expiry).
11. Shareholder rights directive
 That the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to hold general meetings (other than annual general 
meetings) on 14 days’ clear notice from the date of the passing of this resolution, provided that the authority shall expire at the 
conclusion of the AGM of the company to be held in 2011 or 30 June 2011, whichever is the earlier.
12. Amendment of Articles
 THAT with effect from the conclusion of the AGM:
(a) the Articles of Association of the company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the company’s Memorandum of 
Association (“Memorandum”) which, by virtue of section 28 of the Act, are to be treated as provisions of the company’s  
Articles of Association; and
(b) the Articles of Association produced to the AGM, and initialled by the Chairman of the AGM for the purposes of identification, 
be and hereby are adopted as the Articles of Association of the company (the “New Articles”) in substitution for, and to the 
exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association (the “Current Articles”). Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 101
Notice of AGM
continued
13. Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008
 That the Remuneration committee be and it is hereby authorised to adopt the amendments to the Headlam Group Co-Investment 
Plan 2008 (the “Co-Investment Plan”) shown in the version of the Co-Investment Plan rules which has been produced to the 
meeting and initialled by the Chairman (for the purposes of identification) and a summary of the main provisions of which 
amendments is set out in the explanatory notes on page 111 and to do all such acts and things as may be necessary or expedient 
to give effect to the same. 
14. Headlam Group Performance Share Plan 2008
 That the Remuneration committee be and it is hereby authorised to adopt the amendments to the Headlam Group Performance 
Share Plan 2008 (the “Performance Share Plan”) shown in the version of the Performance Share Plan rules which has been 
produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman (for the purposes of identification) and a summary of the main provisions 
of which amendments is set out in the explanatory notes on page 111 and to do all such acts and things as may be necessary or 
expedient to give effect to the same.
By order of the board
Geoff Duggan
Company Secretary
19 March 2010
Headlam Group plc
Registered No. 460129, England
Registered office:
Gorsey Lane
Coleshill
Birmingham
B46 1LW Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 102
Notice of AGM
continued
Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Meeting
Notes 1 to 16 below give further explanation as to the proxy, voting and attendance procedures at the AGM. 
1. Entitlement to appoint proxies.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of
him. A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the 
rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member. A proxy need not be a member of the company. Appointment of 
a proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting. To appoint more than one proxy, a member 
must complete a photocopy of the enclosed proxy card or obtain additional forms from Capita Registrars, tel 0871 6640300 (calls cost 
10p per minute plus network charges). Lines are open 8.30am – 5.30pm Monday to Friday. Please also indicate by ticking the relevant 
box if the proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made. Multiple proxy appointments should be returned together 
in the same envelope. Enter in the box provided the number of shares in relation to which your proxy is authorised or leave the box 
blank to authorise your proxy to act in relation to your full voting entitlement.
2. Appointing proxies 
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any power of attorney or other authority under which it is executed (or a notarially 
certified copy of such power or authority) must reach Capita Registrars, Proxies Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, 
Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting. A form of proxy is enclosed with this Notice.
3. Electronic proxy appointment through Crest 
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using 
the procedures described in the CREST Manual. CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST 
members who have appointed a voting service provider(s), should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) who will 
be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message (a “CREST 
Proxy Instruction”) must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited’s (“Euroclear UK & Ireland”) 
specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST manual. The message, 
regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed 
proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer’s agent (ID RA10) by the latest time for the receipt 
of proxy appointments specified in note 2 above. For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time (as determined by 
the timestamp applied to the message by CREST application host) from which the issuer’s agent is able to retrieve the message by 
enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST. After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST 
should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and 
Ireland does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message. Normal system timing and limitations 
will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions. It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to 
take (or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to 
procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider(s) take(s)) such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is 
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time. In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their 
CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical 
limitations of the CREST systems and timing.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35(5)(a) of the Uncertified 
Securities Regulations 2001.
4. Joint holders 
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to 
the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders. For this purpose seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the 
holders stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding. Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 103
Notice of AGM
continued
5. Entitlement to attend and vote 
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered on the 
register of members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the AGM is 6.00 p.m. on 23 June 2010 or, if the meeting is 
adjourned, 6.00 p.m. on the date two days before the date for the adjourned meeting. Changes to entries on the register of members 
after that time will be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
6. Nominated person
If you are a person who has been nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy nomination rights (a “Nominated
Person”) you may, under an agreement between you and the member of the company who has nominated you, have a right to be 
appointed (or have someone else appointed) as a proxy for the meeting. If you do not have such a proxy appointment right, or you do 
but do not wish to exercise it, you may have a right to give instructions to the member who has appointed you as to the exercise of 
voting rights. If you are a Nominated Person, the statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies above 
does not apply. Such rights can only be exercised by registered member of the company.
7. Issued share capital
As at 19 March 2010 the company’s issued share capital, including treasury shares, consisted of 85,363,743 ordinary shares of 5p 
(“shares”). Of these 2,248,647 shares were held in treasury, the voting rights and entitlement to dividend of which were automatically 
suspended. Accordingly, the total number of voting rights in the company as at that date was 83,115,096.
8. Right to ask questions
A shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting in 
accordance with section 319A of the Act. In certain circumstances prescribed by section 319A of the Act, the company need not 
answer a question.
9. Shareholder requests under section 527 of the Act
Under section 527 Companies Act 2006, members of the company representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the company 
or at least 100 members who have a right to vote and hold shares in the company on which there has been paid up an average sum 
per member of at least £100, may require the company to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the 
audit of the company’s accounts or any circumstances connected with KPMG Audit Plc ceasing to hold office since the last AGM that 
the members propose to raise at the meeting. Where the company is required to publish such a statement on its website, it may 
not require the members making the request to pay its expenses in complying with the request. The company must forward the 
statement to the company’s auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on its website. The business of  
the meeting includes any such statement that the company has been required to publish on its website.
10. Non shareholder attendance
Persons who are not shareholders in the company will not be admitted to the meeting unless prior arrangements are made with the 
company.
11. Access arrangements
Should any shareholder with special needs wish to attend the meeting, please contact the company so that appropriate arrangements 
can be made.
12. Communicating with the company in relation to the AGM
Except as provided above, members who wish to communicate with the company in relation to the AGM should do so using the 
following means:
(a) by writing to the Company Secretary at the company’s registered office address at Gorsey Lane, Coleshill, Birmingham, B46 1LW; 
or 
(b) by writing to : Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, HD8 0LA.
No other methods of communication will be accepted. In particular, you may not use any electronic address provided either in this 
notice or in any related documents (including, without limitation, the Annual Report and Accounts 2009 and the form(s) of proxy) to 
communicate with the company for any purpose other than those expressly stated in this notice or in such other related documents. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 104
Notice of AGM
continued
13. Inspection of documents
Copies of the directors’ service contracts and, where appropriate, letters of appointment, a summary of the directors’ transactions 
in the company’s shares during the year and the written terms of reference for each of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination 
committees will be available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours on any weekday 
(Saturday, Sundays and public holidays excluded) from the date of this Notice until the close of business on the business day 
preceding the AGM and will also be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and throughout the meeting. 
There are no service agreements between any director and any subsidiary of the company.
In addition, a copy of the current Articles of Association of the company, and the Articles of Association of the company proposed  
to be adopted by Resolution 12(b) along with the rules of the Plans marked to show the proposed amendments to be adopted by 
resolutions 13 and 14 will be available for inspection at Pinsent Masons LLP, CityPoint, One Ropemaker Street, London EC2Y 9AH 
during normal business hours until the conclusion of the meeting and at the place of the meeting on 25 June 2010 for at least 15 
minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
14. Voting Results
The results of the voting at the AGM will be announced through a Regulatory Information Service and will appear on our website  
www.headlam.com.
15. Website
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.headlam.com.
16. Data protection statement
Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name 
and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number (attributed to you by the company). The company determines 
the purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is to be processed. The company and any third party to which it 
discloses the data (including the company’s Registrars) may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating 
the company’s records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise.  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 105
Explanatory Notes
EXPLANATORY NOTES
This year’s AGM will be held at the group’s distribution facility in Coleshill, Birmingham on Friday 25 June 2010 at 10.00 a.m.  
A description of the resolutions that will be proposed at the meeting is set out below. 
Resolutions 1 to 8 (inclusive) are proposed as ordinary resolutions, which means that for each of these resolutions to be passed, more 
than half the votes cast must be cast in favour of the resolution. Resolutions 9 to 14 (inclusive) are proposed as special resolutions, 
which means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, at least three quarters of the votes cast must be cast in favour of the 
resolution. 
Resolution 1 – Annual report and accounts
The company is required by law to present to shareholders at the AGM its audited accounts and the directors and independent 
auditors’ reports for the financial year ended 31 December 2009. Shareholders are invited to vote to receive and adopt the Annual 
Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Resolution 2 – Declaration of dividend
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 7.30p on each of the ordinary shares entitled thereto, which together 
with the interim dividend of 3.70p, gives a total dividend of 11.00p for the year ended 31 December 2009. Subject to approval of the 
declaration of the final dividend at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2010 to the holders of ordinary shares whose 
names are recorded on the register of members at the close of business on 4 June 2010.
Resolution 3 – Re-election of Graham Waldron as a director 
Graham Waldron is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles and is offering himself for re-election by 
shareholders. Under the current articles, one-third of the directors are required to retire by rotation each year and, in addition,  
no director may serve for more than three years without being re-elected by shareholders. Graham was appointed to the board in 
June 1991 most recently being appointed Chairman in June 2006.
Resolution 4 – Re-election of Dick Peters as a director 
Dick Peters is retiring by rotation in accordance with the company’s articles and is offering himself for re-election by shareholders. 
Under the current articles, one-third of the directors are required to retire by rotation each year and, in addition, no director may serve 
for more than three years without being re-elected by shareholders. Dick was appointed a non-executive director in December 2005. 
He was formerly senior partner for the East Midlands practice of Deloitte & Touche in Nottingham.
Resolution 5 – Re-appointment of Auditor
The company is required to appoint an auditor at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before the company, to hold office 
until the end of the next such meeting. This resolution proposes the appointment of an auditor. KPMG has expressed its willingness 
to continue in office. 
Resolution 6 – Agreement of Auditor remuneration
In addition to the company’s requirement to appoint an auditor, shareholder authority is sought for the directors to determine the 
remuneration to be paid to the auditor for the period of appointment. 
Resolution 7 – Directors’ Remuneration Report
Shareholders are being asked to approve the 2009 director’s Remuneration Report, which is set out on pages 36 to 42 of the 
company’s Annual Report and Accounts. Whilst the payment of remuneration to the directors is not dependent on the passing of 
the resolution, the board will take the vote into account when considering the future development and operation of the company’s 
remuneration policy and practice.
Special Business – Resolutions 8 to 14
Resolution 8 – Authority to allot shares 
Shareholders are being asked to pass the necessary resolution to grant to the directors a general authority, for the purpose of 
section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, to allot relevant securities. On this occasion the proposed general authority is to allot up to 
an aggregate nominal amount of £1,122,500 representing 22,450,000 ordinary shares (27% of the company’s ordinary share capital  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 106
Explanatory Notes
continued
(excluding treasury shares) in issue at 19 March 2010 (the latest practical date prior to the publication of this report)). As at  
19 March 2010, the company held 2,248,647 treasury shares, which represented approximately 2.71% of the company’s issued 
share capital (excluding treasury shares), which the company can cancel or hold for sale or use to meet the obligations under the 
company’s employee share schemes.
This authority will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2011, or, if earlier, on 30 June 2011. Your directors have no current 
intention of exercising this authority except in connection with the company’s employee share schemes.
Resolution 9 – Dis-application of pre-emption rights
Shareholders are being asked to pass a resolution to empower the directors to allot equity securities, or sell treasury shares, for 
cash as if section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 (which gives shareholders certain pre-emption rights on the issue of shares or 
rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares) did not apply to any such allotment. The authority allows the issue or sale of 
shares of up to an aggregate nominal amount of £1,122,500 representing 22,450,000 ordinary shares in respect of rights issues and 
other issues pro-rata to existing entitlements, and also allows issues or sales for cash (other than in relation to a rights issue) limited 
to shares having an aggregate nominal amount of £213,000 (5% of the company’s ordinary share capital in issue at 19 March 2010). 
The authority will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2011 or, if earlier, on 30 June 2011. 
The directors confirm that they have no present intention of exercising this authority.
In accordance with The Pre-Emption Group’s Statement of Principles available at www.pre-emptiongroup.org.uk, the directors also 
confirm their intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the company (excluding treasury shares) will be issued 
for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis during any rolling three-year period. 
Resolution 10 – Purchase of own shares
The directors believe that it is in the interests of the company and its members to continue to have the flexibility to purchase its 
own shares and this resolution seeks authority from members to do so. The directors intend only to exercise this authority where, 
after considering market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such exercise would be to increase the 
earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally. The effect of such purchases would either be to cancel the 
number of shares in issue or the directors may elect to hold them in treasury pursuant to the Companies (Acquisition of Own Shares) 
(Treasury Shares) Regulations 2003 (the “Regulations”), which came into force on 1 December 2003. The Regulations enable certain 
listed companies to hold shares in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of own shares by a company 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy 
share options and share awards under a company’s employee share scheme. Once held in treasury, a company is not entitled 
to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings in respect of the shares. Further, no dividend or other 
distribution of the company’s assets may be made to the company in respect of the treasury shares.
This resolution renews the authority given at the AGM held on 26 June 2009. The authority is in respect of 10% of the company’s 
issued ordinary share capital as at 19 March 2010 and will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2011 or, if earlier, on  
30 June 2011. The resolution specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be bought. If the company buys 
any of its shares under the authority proposed by resolution 10, the board will decide at the time whether to cancel them immediately 
or hold them in treasury. The purchase of shares will be dependent on market conditions and will also take into account the cash 
generated in the business and other investment opportunities that may arise over time. During the year the company made no 
purchases of its own shares.
Details of share options outstanding and treasury share movements including details of own shares acquired by the company are 
shown respectively in notes 20 and 22 to the financial statements.
Resolution 11 – Shareholder rights directive
This will be proposed as a special resolution to approve the holding of general meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 days’ notice. 
Although the company’s articles currently permit this, regulations came into force on 3 August 2009 to implement the Shareholder 
Rights Directive in the UK. These regulations require a shareholder resolution to be passed to authorise general meetings to be 
held on 14 days’ notice. Without the passing of resolution 11, the minimum notice period under the regulations would be 21 days. 
If resolution 11 is passed by the shareholders, the regulations as currently drafted would only allow the company to call a general  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 107
Explanatory Notes
continued
meeting on 14 days’ notice if it were to make a system of electronic voting available to its shareholders in respect of the meeting 
in question. The directors consider it to be in the best interest of shareholders to pass resolution 11, which is a repeat of the same 
resolution passed at last year’s AGM, in order to prevent being constrained by the regulations implementing the directive. It will be 
necessary for a similar resolution to be put to shareholders at each subsequent AGM.
Resolution 12 – Articles
It is proposed that the company adopt the new articles in order to update the current articles, primarily to reflect the implementation 
of the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”) which the company has not incorporated into its current articles, 
the changes required as a result of the coming into force of the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations and the Uncertificated Securities 
Regulations 2001. It is proposed that the new articles will take effect immediately following the conclusion of the AGM. 
Set out below is a summary of the principal differences between the current articles of association of the company (the “Current 
Articles”) and the new articles of association (the “New Articles”) proposed to be adopted at the forthcoming AGM. Generally, the 
opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles, to reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006,  
the Companies (Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009 (the “Shareholders’ Rights Regulations”) and to conform the language of the 
New Articles with that used in the model articles for Public Companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and 
Skills. Other than as set out below, the differences between the Current Articles and New Articles are of a minor or technical nature.
Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended to bring 
them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
The article numbers set out below are the numbers under the New Articles.
Article 4 – Change of name
Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only change its name by special resolution. Under the Companies Act 2006,  
a company will be able to change its name by other means provided for by its articles. To take advantage of this provision, the  
New Articles enable the directors to pass a resolution to change the company’s name.
Article 9 – Redeemable shares
Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and 
manner of redemption. The Companies Act 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead, provided they are so 
authorised by the articles. The New Articles contain such an authorisation. The company has no plans to issue redeemable shares  
but if it did so the directors would need shareholders’ authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Articles 13 to 17 – Uncertificated Shares
The Current Articles contain only summary provisions regarding holding shares in an uncertificated form. These New Articles set 
out detailed provisions giving effect to the Uncertificated Securities Regulation 2001, and expressly deal with the holding of shares in 
uncertificated form and their transfer by means of the CREST system. These articles also set out arrangements whereby the holders 
of shares in uncertificated form may change such holdings into certificated form (and vice versa). 
Article 18 – Right to share certificate
The provisions in the Current Articles which enable shareholders to request more than one share certificate in respect of different 
shares of the same class have been removed. 
Articles 39 to 45 – Transfer of shares
The New Articles contain specific references to the fact that shares may be transferred in uncertificated form, and also make 
reference to the fact that shares may be admitted to the Official List of the UKLA.
Article 41 – Refusal to register a transfer of shares
The Companies Act 2006 has introduced a new requirement for companies to provide a transferee with reasons for the refusal where 
the directors refuse to register a transfer of shares. A company is also now under an obligation to register a transfer as soon as is 
practicable, rather than within two months as was the case under previous legislation. These requirements are reflected in the New 
Articles. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 108
Explanatory Notes
continued
Article 45 – Renunciation deemed to be a transfer
This article gives the board the same powers to refuse to give effect to a renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment as if it 
would have in the case of a transfer of shares.
Article 50 – Untraceable shareholders
The article has been updated to specifically state that, upon the sale of shares belonging to untraceable shareholders, the company 
becomes indebted to the former holder for an amount equal to the net proceeds of sale, but that no interest will accrue and be 
payable to that former holder. 
Article 51 – Disclosure of interests
This article has been updated to refer to the new provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which now govern disclosure of interests 
in shares. In addition, the article has also been updated to reflect current Listing Rule requirements on the sanctions which can be 
imposed on any shareholder failing to comply with a notice requiring disclosure of interests in shares. The article has also been 
extended to deal specifically with the circumstances in which restrictions on shares must be lifted and the provision of dividends and 
shares issued during any restricted period. Where the relevant shares represent less than 0.25 per cent of the issued shares of the 
same class, the only sanction which can be imposed is the withdrawal of the right to attend or vote at any general meeting.
Article 52 – Alteration of Share Capital
Previously, if a company wanted to purchase its own shares, consolidate or sub-divide its shares or reduce its share capital or other 
undistributable reserves, in addition to shareholder authority, specific enabling provisions in its articles authorising it to undertake 
the relevant action were required. Under the Companies Act 2006, a company only requires shareholder authority to do any of these 
things and it will no longer be necessary for the articles of a company to contain enabling provisions. Accordingly, the relevant 
enabling provisions are being removed from the Current Articles. 
The remaining articles regarding the alteration of share capital have been amended to make it clear that, where fractional 
entitlements arise on a consolidation of shares, the directors may sell the shares representing such entitlements on the market or 
otherwise to such person at such time and at such price as they think fit. This is provided that the net proceeds of the disposal are 
distributed to the member in question, unless such proceeds are £5 or less, in which case they may be retained by the company.
Articles 53 to 54 – General meetings
These articles have been updated to remove references to extraordinary general meetings, which are now termed ‘general meetings’ 
under the Companies Act 2006. Also, to reflect the Companies Act 2006, this article has been amended to allow a general meeting 
(other than an annual general meeting) to consider a special resolution to be convened on 14 days’ notice whereas previously 21 days’ 
notice was required. In accordance with the Shareholder Rights Directive 2009, the company intends to apply annually for shareholder 
approval to hold general meetings (other than annual general meetings) on 14 days notice.
Article 61 – Security arrangements of general meetings
In line with current market practice, the New Articles contain provisions which allow the board to eject any attendees who cause the 
proceedings to become disorderly. 
Article 60 – Procedure if quorum not present
Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum 
must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting. The Current Articles have been changed to reflect this requirement.
Article 66 – Amendments to resolutions
The New Articles reflect the common law position that no amendments to special resolutions (other than an amendment to correct 
an obvious error) may be considered or voted upon. The New Articles further state that an amendment to an ordinary resolution may 
be considered at a meeting of the company if notice of the amendment has been received by the company at least 48 hours before the 
meeting or if the chairman decides to accept or propose an amendment of a minor or formal nature or to correct a manifest error 
or one which he considers fit for consideration. The New Articles also provide that if the chairman consents, an amendment may be 
withdrawn by its proposer before it is put to the vote.  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 109
Explanatory Notes
continued
Article 67 – Method of voting
To reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, this article specifically includes the right of a single shareholder to demand a 
poll on a resolution to authorise an off-market purchase of its own shares by the company.
Articles 74 to 79 – Votes of members
Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only 
entitled to vote on a poll. Additionally the Shareholders’ Rights Regulations have amended the Companies Act 2006 in order to enable 
proxies appointed by more than one member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been 
instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution. The New 
Articles reflect this new legal position. 
Articles 80 to 85 – Appointment of Proxies
The New Articles make it clear that multiple proxies may be appointed in respect of one member’s shareholding in the company, 
provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member. In addition 
to the amendments made to allow proxies to vote on a show of hands as well as a poll, the New Articles allow for the appointment of 
proxies in electronic as well as hard copy form. 
Article 85 – Determination of proxy’s authority
The New Articles provide that determination of the authority of a proxy or corporate representative is effective only if notice of 
determination is received by the company at least two hours prior to the time of the meeting (no time period is provided in the  
Current Articles). The New Articles also extend the ability of a shareholder to determine the authority of an appointed proxy or 
corporate representative up to two hours prior to the time of any poll taken after the date of the meeting at which it is demanded.
Article 86 – Representatives of corporations 
The New Articles entitle the company to appoint multiple corporate representatives, in line with the Companies Act 2006.
Article 87 – Class meetings
The New Articles specifically allow a poll to be called at a class meeting.
Article 89 – Appointment and retirement of directors
Under the Current Articles, one third of the directors are required to retire annually at each AGM, regardless of the length of time 
served on the board by the director in question. The New Articles provide that, in line with current recommended best practice for 
listed companies, each director shall retire and be eligible for reappointment at the third AGM after the general meeting at which  
he was appointed or last reappointed. 
Article 96 – Vacation of Director’s office
The New Articles allow for the removal of a director from office if he is convicted of a criminal offence (other than a motoring offence 
or series of offences not resulting in disqualification) and the directors resolve that his office is vacated.
Article 98 – Alternate directors 
This article has been extended so that, in addition to the provisions within the Current Articles, the appointment of an alternate 
director will also be revoked where the individual is not a director and the board revokes its approval of him by resolution. 
Article 140 – Notice of Board meetings
Under the Current Articles, it is not necessary to give notice of meetings of directors to any director who is absent from the UK. This 
provision has been amended, as modern communications mean that there may be no particular obstacle to giving notice to a director 
who is abroad. It has been replaced with a more general provision that a director is treated as having waived his entitlement to notice, 
unless he supplies the company with the information necessary to ensure that he receives notice of a meeting before it takes place. 
The New Articles also provide that notice of directors’ meetings may also be served electronically. 
Article 167 – Delivery of annual accounts
The Companies Act 2006 enables companies to send to their shareholders a summary of financial statements instead of the present 
full audited accounts. This article permits the company to take advantage of these provisions but this will not affect the rights of 
shareholders to receive the full audited accounts should they so wish. Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 110
Explanatory Notes
continued
Articles 170 to 177 – Notices
The Companies Act 2006 enables companies to communicate with members by electronic and/or website communications. The 
New Articles allow communications to members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the company to take advantage 
of the provisions relating to website communications. Before the company can communicate with a member by means of website 
communication, under the Companies Act 2006, the relevant member must be asked individually by the company to agree that the 
company can send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website. Further, the company must either have received 
a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was 
sent. The company will notify the member (either in writing, or by other permitted means) when a relevant document or information 
is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information. The company has 
no current intention of seeking individual shareholder consent to allow communications with shareholders by means of a website, 
however the board considers it prudent to include the relevant authorities within the New Articles which would be required to allow 
such communication, should the board decide to use website communication in the future. 
Article 175 – Untraced member not entitled to notices
This article allows the company to stop sending notices to a shareholder if the despatch of cheques or warrants to that shareholder 
has been suspended in accordance with the New Articles or if two consecutive notices to the shareholder’s registered address or 
address for service have been returned undelivered. The company will resume sending notices if the shareholder supplies a new 
registered address or address for service.
In addition to the above, the following provisions of the Current Articles have no equivalent in the New Articles:-
General – Extraordinary Resolutions
The Current Articles contain provisions which refer to extraordinary resolutions. These provisions have been amended or removed  
as appropriate, as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the Companies Act 2006. 
Article 5 of the Current Articles – Authorised share capital 
This provision of the Current Articles has been amended to reflect the abolition under the Companies Act 2006 of the concept of 
authorised share capital as from 1 October 2009. Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot 
because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of Employee share schemes.
Article 12 of the Current Articles – Purchase of own shares
Previously, if a company wanted to purchase its own shares, consolidate or sub-divide its shares or reduce its share capital or other 
undistributable reserves, in addition to shareholder authority, it required specific provisions in its Articles authorising it to undertake 
the relevant action. Under the Companies Act 2006 , a company will require only shareholder authority to do any of these things and 
it will no longer be necessary for the Articles to contain enabling provisions. Accordingly, the relevant enabling provisions are being 
removed from the New Articles. 
Article 47 – Suspension of registration of share transfers
The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers. Under the Companies Act 2006 share transfers 
must be registered as soon as practicable. The power in the Current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent 
with this requirement. Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
THE COMPANY’S OBJECTS
The provisions regulating the operations of the company are currently set out in the company’s Memorandum and Articles of 
Association. The company’s Memorandum contains, among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the activities 
the company is authorised to undertake. This is drafted to give a wide scope. 
The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a company’s memorandum. The Companies Act 2006 
provides that a memorandum will record only the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to 
take in the company. Under the Companies Act 2006 the objects clause and all other provisions which are contained in a company’s 
memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in the company’s articles of association but the 
company can remove these provisions by special resolution. Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a company’s articles 
provide otherwise, a company’s objects are unrestricted. This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 111
Explanatory Notes
continued
For this reason the company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by 
virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the company’s Articles of Association as of 1 October 2009. Resolution 12 
confirms the removal of these provisions for the company. As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the 
company’s Memorandum of Association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the 
limited liability of shareholders.
Resolutions 13 and 14 – Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 and the Headlam Group Performance Share Plan 2008
The Headlam Group Co-Investment Plan 2008 (the “Co-Investment Plan”) and the Headlam Group Performance Share Plan 2008  
(the “Performance Share Plan” and together with the Co-Investment Plan, the “Plans”) were approved by the company’s shareholders 
at the AGM on 20 June 2008. No awards under the Plans have yet been made.
Under the Co-Investment Plan, participants may be invited to take up to 100 per cent. of their annual bonus in the form of ordinary 
shares in the company (“Shares”). The net (after tax and national insurance contributions (“NICs”)) amount of the gross figure so 
specified is used to acquire Shares (“Bonus Award Shares”). Subject to the discretion of the Remuneration committee of the board 
of directors of the company (the “Committee”) to determine higher or lower amounts for any financial year (“Year”), an eligible 
employee who wishes to participate will be required to apply not less than 15 per cent of his bonus for the relevant Year in the 
acquisition of Bonus Award Shares. If no annual bonus is paid in a Year, the Committee may permit investment of other funds, but 
subject to a maximum of 50 per cent of any bonus paid in the preceding Year.
As adopted, the Co-Investment Plan provided that for any awards made relating to the Year ended 31 December 2007, the Committee 
could determine that a participant in addition to, or in substitution for, the purchase of Shares out of his net bonus for the Year 
ended 31 December 2007, could deposit for the purposes of the Co-Investment Plan share certificates or other evidence of title to 
Shares which he purchased, already held or which were held under arrangements agreed with the Committee (“Nominated Shares”). 
Nominated Shares were to be subject to a limit of such number of Shares, the market value of which, as at the date of nomination, 
was equal to not less than 15 per cent and not more than 100 per cent of the bonus paid to the participant for the Year ended  
31 December 2007. Nominated Shares were to be treated for all purposes of the Co-Investment Plan as Bonus Award Shares. 
A matching Share award (“Matching Share Award”) may be made to a participant in the Co-Investment Plan, in the form of a nil-cost 
option to acquire shares. Matching Share Awards will be subject to performance targets. If, generally, Bonus Award Shares are 
retained by a participant throughout the performance period (or the participant’s interest in the Bonus Award Shares is so retained); 
the participant remains employed within the group throughout the performance period and the performance target for the Matching 
Share Award is met, the participant will acquire additional shares (“Matching Shares”) under the Matching Share Award. The 
number of Matching Shares which may be so acquired will be in direct proportion to the number of Bonus Award Shares acquired 
or deposited in relation to the relevant award. There is a maximum level of matching ratio, of twice the number of Shares that could 
have been acquired with the pre-tax amount of bonus (or other funds) by reference to which the associated Bonus Award Shares 
were purchased (or, in the case of any awards made relating to the Year ended 31 December 2007, twice the value of the Nominated 
Shares, grossed up for income tax and employees’ NICs). 
The Co-Investment Plan was not operated in respect of the Year ended 31 December 2007, such that the provisions relating to 
“Nominated Shares” were not applied. Accordingly, it is proposed that the rules of the Co-Investment Plan be amended to provide 
that Shares may be deposited as “Nominated Shares” for the purposes of a participant’s first award under the Co-Investment Plan  
(a “First Award”) up to a maximum value of the participant’s annual basic salary prevailing at the date at which the First Award is 
made, the effect of which will be to enable a participating employee to deposit for the purposes of his First Award share certificates 
or other evidence of title to Shares which he purchases, already holds or which are held under such arrangements as are agreed with 
the Committee, up to the specified limit and to be granted a Matching Share Award in respect of such number of Nominated Shares, 
with the level of match being up to two times the value of the Nominated Shares, grossed up for income tax and employees’ NICs. 
It is considered appropriate to amend the Co-Investment Plan in this way in order that it can be operated in a similar manner to that 
which was originally envisaged and so that flexibility in relation to how it can operate is retained and to extend the ability to deposit 
Nominated Shares to all eligible employees in respect of their First Award because this aspect of the Co-Investment Plan will no 
longer be time limited.  Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 112
Explanatory Notes
continued
Awards under the Co-Investment Plan to acquire Matching Shares and awards under the Performance Share Plan can ordinarily be 
exercised in the period of 90 days following their vesting. Vesting is subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition measured 
over a period of three years. In order to give participants in the Plans more flexibility as to when they may exercise awards and take 
benefits, it is proposed that the rules of the Plans be amended to provide that awards can be exercised up to the tenth anniversary of 
the date of the award, which will give participants a longer period within which they can exercise awards. It is also proposed that the 
rules of each of the Plans be amended to permit the grant of awards within the period of 42 days following the 2010 AGM, in order 
that awards can be made on the basis of the amended rules. 
The opportunity is also being taken to make certain other minor amendments to the rules of the Plan.
The rules of the Plans marked to show the proposed amendments will be available for inspection at the registered office of the 
company and also at the offices of Pinsent Masons LLP, CityPoint, One Ropemaker Street, London, EC2Y 9AH from the date of this 
Notice until the close of business on the business day preceding the AGM and will also be available for inspection at the place of the 
AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and throughout the meeting.  Accounts
Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 113
Shareholder Information
Shareholder helpline
Headlam’s shareholder register is maintained by Capita Registrars (“Capita”), who are responsible for making dividend payments and 
updating the register, including details of changes to shareholders’ addresses and purchases or sales of Headlam shares. If you have a 
question about your shareholding in Headlam you should contact: Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, 
Huddersfield, HD8 0LA. email: ssd@capitaregistrars.com, telephone +44 (0)871 664 0300 (calls cost 10p plus network extras). Lines are 
open 8.30am – 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
Frequent shareholder enquiries
If you change your address
Please notify Capita in writing. If shares are held in joint names, the notification must be signed by all named shareholders.
If you change your name
Please notify Capita in writing and enclose a copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed as evidence.
Lost Headlam share certificate
If your share certificate is lost or stolen, you should call Capita immediately. A letter of indemnity will be sent to you to sign. Capita will 
charge for this service.
Duplicate shareholder accounts
If you receive more than one copy of Headlam communications you may have your shares registered inadvertently in at least two 
accounts. This happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ slightly. If you wish to consolidate such multiple 
accounts, call Capita to request the accounts are consolidated.
Buying and selling shares in the UK
If you wish to trade in Headlam shares, you can do so at Capita’s website, www.capitadeal.com or alternatively use a stockbroker 
or high street bank which trades on the London Stock Exchange. There are many telephone and online services available. If you are 
selling, you will need to present your share certificate at the time of sale.
Transferring Headlam shares
Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form. This form, and details of the procedure you need 
to follow, is available from Capita’s website. Stamp duty is not normally payable if the transfer is to a relative or if there is no money 
being paid in exchange for the shares.
Share prices information
Shareholders can find share prices listed in most national newspapers. Ceefax and Teletext pages also display share prices that are 
updated regularly throughout the trading day. For a real-time buying or selling price, you should contact a stockbroker. Additionally 
there is a link to the London Stock Exchange on the Headlam website.
The Headlam website
The Headlam website at www.headlam.com provides news and details of the company’s activities, plus information on the share price. 
The investor information section of the website contains up-to-date information for shareholders including the company’s latest results 
and key dates such as dividend payment dates.
ShareGift
ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is a free service for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes. It may be 
especially useful for those who wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares which would cost more to sell than they are worth. There 
are no capital gains tax implications (i.e. no gain or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief. 
Further information can be obtained at www.sharegift.org
The Unclaimed Assets Register
The Unclaimed Assets Register is a unique search service that helps individuals to find their lost assets and re-establish contact with 
financial institutions. It has a database of unclaimed life policies, pensions, unit trust holdings, and share dividends drawn from many 
companies and can search for lost assets and entitlements. The Unclaimed Assets Register charges a small fixed fee for each search, 
10% of which goes to charity. For further information, visit www.uar.co.uk Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 114 Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London. www.corporateprm.co.uk Registered office
Headlam Group plc
PO Box 1
Gorsey Lane
Coleshill
Birmingham
B46 1LW
Tel: 01675 433000 
Fax: 01675 433030
Website
www.headlam.com
E-mail
headlamgroup@headlam.com
Registration
Registered in England and Wales
Number 460129
